28-12-2021||India||‘Can work 365 days without rest’: CM Bommai rubbishes health rumours||Ruling out health issues, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said that he has the strength to work tirelessly for 365 days without any rest, and his target was to bring BJP back to power after the 2023 polls. The Chief Minister’s statement came amidst speculations that he was suffering from a serious knee ailment and was likely to fly overseas soon for a treatment.“.....I have the strength to work tirelessly for 365 without any rest. I have decided to work a minimum of 15 hours a day. Bringing BJP back to power in the 2023 polls is my target and I will begin preparations for it in 2022,” Bommai said in response to a question.Speaking to reporters here, he said BJP leaders will collectively work as a team for the polls.To a question on BJP National General Secretary in-charge of the state Arun Singh’s recent statement that the party will contest assembly polls under his leadership, Bommai said, “He is a Delhi level leader.. he has kept that confidence in me. I thank him. We in the BJP work as a team together and collectively, it’s team work, as I’m the Chief Minister he has said that.” There is complete coordination and good relationship between the government and the party and we will it carry forward, he added.There have been rumours for some time now about a leadership change in the state and Bommai’s possible exit from the top job.Bommai on Monday had termed speculations about “changes” as a creation of the media. Even the party leadership has rejected such talks.The Chief Minister is in the city to attend the two day BJP state executive meeting, that is also being attended by Singh and a host of party leaders.Stating that the meet will discuss organising the party and political developments in the days to come, Bommai said it is also likely to take some crucial decisions.Asked about cabinet expansion and reshuffle, he said, “I do not want to comment on any of this for now....”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-work-365-days-without-rest-cm-bommai-rubbishes-health-rumours-101640716141653.html
28-12-2021||India||The year that was: Man who was driving force behind people’s movements||At the age of 103, he believed that doctors should not waste a bed on him. While Bengaluru was praying that the centenarian recovers from Covid-19 at the earliest, freedom fighter HS Doreswamy was telling hospital staff that he had lived his life and his bed should be given to someone younger. But the doctors, who were aware of what he had done in life especially his days as a freedom fighter and an activist, refused to listen to him. Who was HS Doreswamy?Harohalli Srinivasaiah Doreswamy was a freedom fighter, journalist and activist. Doreswamy has never held any political position and was the driving force behind several people’s movements in Karnataka, often leading from the front, even at 103. He spoke for the people, regardless of the party in power, and he was the face of most of the people’s movements in the state for decades. His days as a freedom fighter He was 23-year-old when he was arrested. He had just got a new job as a teacher in a high school then. “I started working in June (1942) but by then, the Quit India Movement has begun. I helped organise a 14-day strike at the mills across Mysore state and also blew up government record rooms and post-boxes with very small bombs. Our intention was to disrupt the British government’s daily functioning. By December, I was arrested, and I lost my job as well,” he had told HT in an interview. Arrested again during the Emergency After the Emergency was announced, Doreswamy wrote a letter to Indira Gandhi (then prime minister), saying she was a dictator. In the letter, he threatened to go to villages and mobilise people against her dictatorship. Soon after that, he held the first meeting in Gandhi Bazar (in Bengaluru). He was arrested, and he spent four months in jail. During the trial, the prosecution said that he had criticised the prime minister and that he was an enemy of the state. “But the judge who was hearing my case said that I had every right to criticise the government and there is no proof to say that I am an enemy of the state. The judge then told the prosecution to ask the government under what charge should I be booked, and released me,” recollected Doreswamy in the interview. Activism in later lifeDoreswamy was particularly active in the state’s public life over the last decade, starting with the satyagraha he held to stop dumping of Bengaluru’s garbage in Mandur in 2013. He later led the state government’s initiative to bring left-wing extremists to mainstream. He also took part in the India Against Corruption campaign. Years before his death he was a trenchant critique of the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He took the lead in the recent anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests and farmers’ agitation against the farm laws (now withdrawn). ControversyA controversy broke out in February 2020 after Doreswamy attended a protest event called ‘Save the Constitution’. An enraged BJP MLA had accused the freedom fighter of acting like a Pakistani agent. “There are many fake freedom fighters. There is one in Bengaluru. Now we have to say what Doreswamy is. Where is that old man? He behaves like a Pakistan agent,” Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, BJP MLA from Vijayapura, had said. Though the issue reached the Karnataka assembly and snowballed into a big controversy, Yatnal refused to apologise. Battle with Covid Doreswamy had contracted Covid on May 8 and was admitted to Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research (SJICSR) in Bengaluru and discharged on May 13. However, he was re-admitted due to post-Covid complications after he complained of severe weakness and fatigue. He died on May 26. Though Doreswamy had wanted his body to be donated to a medical college and willed it too, due to Covid, the body could not be donated and was cremated with state honours. 
28-12-2021||India||Spike in Covid cases in Bengaluru||Compared to the first week of November, Bengaluru has reported an increase of 466 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in a week’s time, according to the data released by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). As per the data, between October 10 to November 6, Bengaluru reported 959 new cases, while between December 9 and December 15, the number of new cases reported in the city stood at 1,425. In the eight weeks from October 31 to December 25, Bengaluru reported showed an increase in the number of cases. Similarly, the city’s positivity rate has shown a slight increase from 0.47% in the first week of December to 0.54% on December 25. The positivity rate during November 28 - December 4 was 0.47%, followed by 0.45% during December 5-11, while a further drop was reported during December 12-18 with a 0.41% positivity rate. An increase in positivity rate was reported during December 19-25 with a 0.54% positivity rate. The test positivity rate is the percentage of all coronavirus tests performed that turn out to be positive and detect the presence of the virus. The number of tests conducted remains consistent during this period recording over two lakh tests every day. Talking to the media, BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the increase in positivity rate can definitely be a sign of concern. “We effective containment management so that clusters are managed and contained. We have even been checking on the hospitalisations and the Covid numbers have been low. Currently, the Covid status in the city is well in control. We are maintaining a high number of testings,” he said. Hospitals in the city have not reported a spike in the number of cases, which has been looked at as a positive sign, officials added. Meanwhile, 21 Covid-19 cases have been reported in an apartment in Rajajinagar, creating yet another cluster in Bengaluru. Some of the residents of Sobha Indraprastha, who tested positive, have a travel history. These 21 cases were reported over a period of a week, said BBMP officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spike-in-covid-cases-in-bengaluru-101640715968396.html
28-12-2021||India||HT This Day: Dec 29, 2005 - Terror in Bangalore||Suspected terrorists barged into an auditorium, where some of the country’s best brains had gathered for an international conference, and opened indiscriminate fire on the delegates, killing retired IIT Delhi Professor M.C. Puri on the spot. Among the injured are two more professors from Delhi -- Dr Sangeetha and Dr Sonia. Puri, an Emeritus Professor of Mathematics who had won several awards for his work on the subject, had gone to Bangalore to attend the conference. Dr Sonia has been rushed for treatment of an eye injury. “She’s in a complete state of shock and cannot speak about the incident,” a senior scientist from Indian Institute of Science (IISC) said. Prof Venkatesh, Prof Vijay Chandru, Prof Pankaj Gupta of the IISC were also injured. The police said around 7.30 p.m., a white Ambassador reached the JN Tata auditorium on the IISC campus, the venue for a conference on “Operations Research Applications in Infrastructure Development”. DGP B.S. Sial said two men jumped out of the car and lobbed grenades at the auditorium. While one hit the target, the other hit a tree. A minute later, the duo entered the conference hall and started firing from automatic rifles on the unsuspecting scientists. Bangalore Police Commissioner Ajai Kumar Singh said: “According to witnesses, one of the attackers came out of the car and started firing at random. The attackers escaped from soon after the incident.” “We have sounded a red alert in the city and sealed all the exit points to nab the culprits. It is too early to say whether this is a terror attack or targetted attack,” he said. That attack coincides with the arrival of gangster Abu Salem in the city for a series of tests. The police found three magazines (of automatic weapon) and a grenade at the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthis-day-dec-29-2005-terror-in-bangalore-101640715901401.html
28-12-2021||India||Will contest all BMC seats in next year's elections: Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap||Mumbai: The Congress will contest on all seats in the upcoming Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls, party’s city unit chief Bhai Jagtap said on Tuesday.The Congress is an ally of the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in Maharashtra’s Maha Vikas Aghadi government.“The Mumbai Congress will contest the upcoming BMC elections on all 236 seats on its own and will once again fly the (Congress flag) tricolour over the civic body,” Jagtap said.On the occasion of the 137th foundation day of the Congress, Jagtap said at an event that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will hold a rally during the BMC polls due in early 2022.Gandhi was to address party workers this month, but could not do so due to the surge in Covid-19 cases and fears of the new Omicron variant.Also Read | Congress postpones Rahul Gandhi's proposed Dec 28 Mumbai rally amid Omicron spread“Hum pura ladenge aur jitenge (we will contest on all seats and win),” Jagtap gave an election call on the occasion.The BMC, which is currently ruled by the Shiv Sena, has an annual budget of more than ₹30,000 crore, which is bigger than budget of some of the smaller states in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-contest-all-bmc-seats-in-next-year-s-elections-mumbai-congress-chief-bhai-jagtap-101640715664651.html
28-12-2021||India||Maharashtra assembly hit by Covid, 54 test positive||The winter session of Maharashtra assembly was hit by Covid-19, as at least 54 people, including two ministers, tested positive for the virus since last Saturday, people familiar with the matter said.The session was held from December 22 to December 28.Also Read | 2,172 cases in Maharashtra, no new Omicron caseSchool education minister Varsha Gaikwad and tribal development minister K C Padavi were among those who tested positive for the virus.“I learned today (Tuesday) that I tested positive for Covid-19 after getting symptoms yesterday (Monday) evening. My symptoms are relatively mild. I am fine and have isolated myself. Request those who met me over the past few days to take precautions,” Gaikwad posted on Twitter.
28-12-2021||India||2 Haryana MLAs inducted into cabinet||Chandigarh Two Haryana MLAs, one each from the ruling alliance of BJP and JJP, were sworn in as cabinet ministers on Tuesday. The state now has 14 members in the council of ministers. Tuesday’s induction of Bharatiya Janata Party’s Kamal Gupta and Jannayak Janta Party’s Devender Singh Babli Babli is the second rejig to the cabinet this year. The newly inducted ministers are likely to be allocated portfolios by Wednesday, officials familiar with developments said. Following Tuesday’s inductions, the BJP now has 10 ministers including chief minister ML Khattar while its ally JJP has three ministers, including deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala. Rania MLA, Ranjit Singh is the only Independent MLA in the cabinet. The induction of Gupta, who represents the Hisar consituency, gives representation to the Vaish community as well as Hisar district in the cabinet. The JJP on the other hand has tried to contain dissent among its MLAs by inducting Babli, a prominent dissenting voice along with Narnaund MLA Ram Kumar Gautam. The induction of Babli, a Jat also holds political significance for the JJP since the party wants to strengthen its support base in Fatehabad, a district bordering Dushyant’s home district of Sirsa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-haryana-mlas-inducted-into-cabinet-101640715422393.html
28-12-2021||India||DRDO hands over technology of extreme cold clothing system to 5 Indian firms||Technology for indigenous extreme cold weather clothing system (ECWCS) was handed over to five Indian companies by Secretary, Department of Defence R&D and Chairman Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) Dr G Satheesh Reddy in the national capital on Monday, informed the Ministry of Defence on Tuesday.As per the ministry, the extreme ECWCS is required by the Indian Army for its sustained operations in glacier and Himalayan peaks. The Army, till recently has been importing extreme cold weather clothing and several Special Clothing and Mountaineering Equipment (SCME) items for the troops deployed in high altitude regions.The DRDO designed ECWCS is an ergonomically designed modular technical clothing with improved thermal insulation and physiological comfort based on the insulation required at various ambient climatic conditions in Himalayan regions during different levels of physical activity, said the ministry.According to the ministry, the ECWCS embodies physiological concepts related to the reduction in respiratory heat and water loss, unhindered range of motions and rapid absorption of sweat while providing waterproof, windproof features with adequate breathability and enhanced insulation as well as strength features required for high altitude operations.The three-layered ECWCS is designed to suitably provide thermal insulation over a temperature range of +15 to -50 degrees Celsius with different combinations of layers and intensity of physical work, said the ministry.The ministry further informed that considering the widely fluctuating weather conditions in the Himalayan peaks, the clothing provides an advantage of fewer combinations to meet the required insulation or IREQ for the prevailing climatic conditions, thereby providing a viable import alternative for the Indian Army.Speaking on the occasion, Dr G Satheesh Reddy emphasised on the need for developing an indigenous industrial base for SCME items, not only to cater to the existing requirements of the Army but also to tap its potential for export.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-hands-over-technology-of-extreme-cold-clothing-system-to-5-indian-firms-101640715361792.html
28-12-2021||India||8 new IITs short on all performance, administrative & infra parameters: CAG||New Delhi: The eight new Indian Institutes of Technology established in 2008-09 have fallen short on almost all performance, administrative and infrastructure parameters, an audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General has found.They faced infrastructure challenges, recorded less enrolment against available seats, had an inadequate faculty to student ratio, did not have enough representation of reserved categories in student enrolment, and lagged behind in publishing research papers, the government’s auditor said in a recent report.It looked into the activities of eight IITs in Bhubaneswar, Gandhinagar, Hyderabad, Indore, Jodhpur, Mandi, Patna and Ropar between 2014 and 2019. The report was submitted in Parliament during the winter session, which concluded last week.According to the audit report, which HT has reviewed, none of the IITs attained the stipulated cumulative intake of 2,360 students each at the end of the sixth year (2013-14).“As against the overall targeted intake of 18,880 students, only 6,224 students (33%) were admitted in all the eight IITs during the first six years,” the report said. “Further, it was observed that till 2018-19, only IITH (Hyderabad) was able to achieve the targeted student intake.”As much as 28% seats remained vacant across the IITs in postgraduate courses during 2014-19. Only three of the eight IITs were offering research programmes by fixing annual intake, while others were accepting students without earmarking seats. But enrolment remained low in these three IITs as well. For instance, in Bhubaneswar, 80% of PhD seats remained vacant between 2014-19, 64% seats in Gandhinagar and 17% seats remained vacant in IITH.There was inadequate faculty to student ratio in all the eight institutes in 2014-19. Inadequate faculty to student ratio may adversely affect the quality of education and increase the workload on existing faculty in these premier IITs, the auditor said. “This would also constrain their research activities,” it noted.The auditor also highlighted poor representation of reserved category students. For scheduled tribes, 73% PhD seats remained unfilled in Hyderabad, while 100% went vacant in Jodhpur. for scheduled caste students, the shortfall was significantly higher at more than 50%) in all IITs, except in Hyderabad and Bhubaneswar, where it was 25% and 28%, respectively, the report said. For other backward classes, the shortfall was high in Gandhinagar (37%), Ropar (36%) and Mandi (32%), the report said.The new institutes failed to attract non-governmental sponsored projects, reported large variance between the patents filed and obtained, and lagged behind in the publication of research papers, the CAG report said.It also pointed out that in some of these IITs, including Bhubaneswar, Gandhinagar, Mandi and Ropar, issues in allotment and transfer of land persisted even after a decade of their establishment, and this led to issues with providing planned facilities to the students. The audit also said that some state governments did not make the requisite land available to the IITs.In their responses submitted through the education ministry, most of these IITs cited unavailability of suitable candidates for vacant seats and faculty positions. Some cited “limited infrastructure” as a reason behind not increasing the intake capacity of students, or fixing PhD seats. In terms of low representation of reserved category students, they cited lack of applications as the reason. The IITs said efforts are being made to increase the number of patents and publish more research papers.Responding to low representation of reserved category students, IITGN said, “Despite adopting measures like waiver of tuition fee, peer group assisted learning, lower application fee, relaxations given during shortlisting and admission process, seats remain vacant because enough suitable candidates are not found.”In terms of research papers publication, IITBBS in its response through the ministry said that it is “encouraging the faculty to carry out more research work and publish more research papers and as a result, the number of publications increased from year to year.”HT tried to reach out to all these IITs. While six of them did not respond to the emails, IIT Bhubaneswar director Professor Raja Kumar said, “At IIT Bhubaneswar we had the highest BTech intake this year among all the second generation IITs. We also witnessed a three-fold increase in PHD intake post 2019. In terms of faculty recruitment, the institute is making continuous efforts of filling all the vacancies. We receive a large number of applications for faculty positions but the recruitment cannot be done overnight. We, at IIT, cannot compromise with the quality of faculty.”IIT Hyderabad said, “The institute now has 100% marking in NIRF Ranking for Faculty-Student Ratio.”In its recommendations, CAG asked the ministry to take work with the state governments to ensure land availability to IITs, and take steps to increase the number of courses as well as student intake. The eight IITs were asked to periodically review the availability of faculty, fix targets for enrolment in postgraduate and PhD courses, and focus more on research.“The Ministry of Education has accepted most of the audit recommendations and has circulated these to all the IITs for acting on the recommendations,” the report concluded.Officials at the ministry confirmed that the recommendations were circulated across these IITs.“The ministry will closely monitor that these recommendations are implemented by these IITs,” said a senior official at the higher education department of the ministry.
28-12-2021||India||I-T raids, cash seizures take centrestage as SP, BJP trade barbs||Lucknow/Kanpur: The Bharatiya Janata Party and Samajwadi Party on Tuesday sparred over the issue of income tax raids in Uttar Pradesh, first on SP leaders and later on the premises of Kannauj-based businessman Piyush Jain, from where a substantial amount of cash was unearthed.Addressing different events in UP, where assembly polls are scheduled to be held in 2022, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah took potshots at the SP over the issue. Former chief minister and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, however, said Jain was linked to the BJP itself.Also Read | Their ‘achievement’ is collecting ‘boxes filled with notes’: PM Modi slams SPSpeaking in Kanpur after inaugurating the metro rail project and a pipeline project, Prime Minister Modi said without naming anyone, “Boxes filled with currency notes have tumbled out; I was thinking they will say that this was also done by us,” he said.“Before 2017, the perfume of corruption that they had sprinkled all over UP is there for everyone to see,” he said. Now, the opposition was sitting with its mouth shut, he said. “They are not coming forward to take credit for the mountain of currency notes seen by the entire country. This is their achievement and their reality,” he said.
28-12-2021||India||Key numbers about India’s new vaccination plan||India will start vaccinating children in the 15-18 age group from January 3, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on December 25. A precautionary third dose will also be given from January 10 to health care and front line workers, and people over 60 with co-morbidities, he said. Those who got the second jab 39 weeks (roughly nine months) ago will be eligible for these “precautionary doses”.How many doses will India require to inoculate the new cohorts? Will there be any shortage? Which countries are giving booster shots to most of their population? We answer these questions in four charts.How many people will the next phase of vaccinations cover?India has 137.9 million senior citizens and 74.1 million in the 15-18 age cohort, according to 2021 projections by the National Commission on Population. The number of health and front line workers will vary, depending on who are currently in that group. However, they will not be an insignificant number, given that 28.77 million first doses were administered to them till 26 December, health ministry data shows. This translates into 240.7 million people, or an additional requirement of some 314.8 million doses in 2022 since the children will require two doses. This is likely an overestimate because not all above 60 years suffer from specified co-morbidities.Demand from children will exceed senior citizens initiallyEven though the 15-18 age cohort is smaller than senior citizens, the initial demand from them will likely be higher. Since there will have to be an interval of 39 weeks for the third dose, the cut-off date for full vaccination is April 19 as inoculations for the elderly start on January 10. For those who become eligible on January 31, the cutoff date is May 10, 2021.Assuming all eligible children receive their first jab in January, India will require an additional 104.1 million doses. It is not an insignificant number seen in comparison with the number of doses the country has administered every month. This is in addition to around 54.5 million people who will be eligible for second doses, if we just take the 12-week gap required for Covishield, or around 90% of the people who received first doses between October 16 and November 15.Older people have more co-morbidities, but make up a small shareThat the elderly are more vulnerable to coronavirus and should be given priority is a sound argument. Diseases such as diabetes, asthma, heart ailments and cancer are less prevalent in younger people, the 2015-16 National Family Health Survey showed. While it was limited to those of reproductive age of up to 49 years, the Longitudinal Ageing Study in India survey conducted in 2017-18 specifically for older age groups suggested even higher prevalence of such diseases in people aged 60 years and above. For instance, 35% of senior citizens reported at least one of three cardiovascular diseases, while only 22% in the 45-60 years cohort had such an ailment.India is already behind in booster coverageIndia is not the first country to announce booster doses for its population. In fact, the trend of booster shots is in keeping with the rich country bias in the progress of regular vaccine programmes in the world, as was shown in an HT analysis on December 9 (https://bit.ly/3Er4x5H). At least 92 countries have administered boosters, according to Our World in Data, and not all of them are rich, western nations. The list includes India’s neighbours Sri Lanka (15.7% of the population given boosters) and China (8%), and economic peers such as Brazil (11.5%).If boosters are the only significant way of protection against the Omicron variant, surely everyone will first need to be fully vaccinated. There are significant gaps persisting there as well. As much as 47% of the 18-45 age group, 30% of the 45-60 age cohort, and 33% of the 60 plus years are yet to be fully inoculated. These percentages are likely even worse in a large number of districts, an earlier HT analysis had pointed out. In mid-December, the share of fully vaccinated adults was less than 50% in more than a third of India’s districts (https://bit.ly/3JwxaT0).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-numbers-about-india-s-new-vaccination-plan-101640714280748.html
28-12-2021||India||Former cricketer, 2 Punjab Cong MLAs join BJP||Former cricketer Dinesh Mongia joined the Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday at an event in Delhi, along with Fatehjung Singh Bajwa and Balwinder Singh Laddi, two Punjab Congress lawmakers, months ahead of state assembly polls early next year.Mongia said he wanted to serve the people of Punjab by joining the BJP, which is working for the development of the country.Welcoming the leaders, water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who is BJP’s election strategist in Punjab, said people from the Congress are joining his party because they are upset with infighting. “They have shown faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership,” he said. The latest desertions from the Congress comes a day after the BJP said it will contest the Punjab polls in alliance with former chief minister Amarinder Singh’s newly-formed Punjab Lok Congress party and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt). The allies have decided to form a six-member panel to finalise seat-sharing arrangements. Last week, Punjab leader and former minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi ended his four-decade long association with the Congress and joined the BJP. Sodhi cited infighting in the party as one of the reasons behind his decision. At Tuesday’s event, three-time Shiromani Akali Dal MLA from Baluana, Gurtej Singh Gudhiyana, former Sangrur MP Rajdev Khalsa, United Christian Front Punjab president Kamal Bakshi, Nihal Singh Wala, municipal corporation member Jagdeep Singh Dhaliwal, and advocate in the Punjab and Haryana high court, Madhumeet, also joined BJP ranks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-cricketer-2-punjab-cong-mlas-join-bjp-101640714161470.html
28-12-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh political parties urge poll panel to not delay elections||Major political parties in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday urged the Election Commission to not delay scheduled assembly elections in the state amid calls by some experts to put off the polls amid concerns of a new variant of the coronavirus, Omicron.Also Read | Personnel deployed in poll-bound states eligible for precaution dose: GovtThe election watchdog is on a three-day visit to the poll-bound state to assess the ground situation. Chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra, election commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey and other senior officers of EC held meetings with representatives of national and recognised political parties in Lucknow on Tuesday.Also Read | EC panel to visit UP to review preparedness ahead of pollsThe Bharatiya Janata Party delegation led by JPS Rathore, Samajwadi Party delegation led by Naresh Uttam Patel, Bahujan Samaj Party delegation led by Mewalal Gautam, Congress delegation led by Onkarnath Singh and Rashtriya Lok Dal delegation led Anil Dubey urged the commission to hold the polls as scheduled amid strict Covid-19 protocols.After the meeting, SP state unit president Patel said: “The SP urged the ECI to hold assembly polls as per schedule with strict implementation of Covid appropriate behaviour to check surge of Covid cases. The ECI should clear doubts over the assembly election with the announcement of the poll schedule.”BJP state unit vice-president Rathore said the assembly election should be held as per schedule, but the final decision rests with EC. “The BJP told the poll panel that in view of the possible third wave, adequate arrangements should be made at the polling stations,” he said.On Monday, the commission met Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan to review the Covid-19 situation.
28-12-2021||India||Can’t rule out possibility of any conflict today: Rajnath Singh||New Delhi: The possibility of “any kind of conflict” cannot be ruled out in the existing uncertain environment, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday as he opened roads and bridges in border areas such as Ladakh, where India is locked in a dragging military standoff with China.India has ramped up efforts to create vital infrastructure such as roads and bridges all along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in recent years, mainly to match the dual-use infrastructure built by China on its side. The Indian side’s efforts have gained urgency since the face-off with Chinese troops began in May last year.Singh opened 24 bridges and three roads built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) in four states and two Union territories at a virtual event held in New Delhi. Five of the 24 bridges are in Ladakh, nine in Jammu and Kashmir, five in Himachal Pradesh, three in Uttarakhand and one each in Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. Two of the roads are in Ladakh and one in West Bengal.The highlight of the event was the inauguration of the Chisumle-Demchok road at Umling pass, located at a height of more than 19,000 feet in southern Ladakh, and India’s first indigenous Class 70 double-lane modular bridge, built at a height of 11,000 feet at Flag Hill Dokala in Sikkim. The one in Ladakh holds the Guinness world record for the highest motorable road.“In today’s uncertain environment, the possibility of any kind of conflict cannot be ruled out. Such situations motivate us even more to develop these areas,” Singh said, speaking in Hindi.“The situation we faced recently in the northern sector, and the manner in which we were able to respond strongly to the adversary, would not have been possible without the development of appropriate infrastructure,” he said, referring to the standoff in Ladakh sector of the LAC.“As we move forward in the direction of strengthening our border infrastructure, we have to bolster our surveillance systems as well. The problems of infiltration, skirmishes, illegal trade and smuggling often persist in border areas. In view of this, the government started the Comprehensive Integrated Border Management System sometime back,” he added.Roads in the border areas are required for both strategic purposes and the development of remote areas, Singh said. “In this way, these bridges, roads and tunnels play an important role in our security and in empowering the entire nation,” he said.Referring to the construction of the highest motorable road in southern Ladakh, he said the BRO achieved this “historic feat” despite numerous challenges such as the extreme altitude and sub-zero temperatures.Singh contended that adequate attention was not paid to developing border infrastructure after the country’s independence, and said there has been a major shift in approach in the past few years.“After independence, our policies were such that internal areas of the country developed but the border regions remained relatively deprived of development. This situation continued for a long time,” he said.“The further we moved away from Delhi, the graph of development kept falling in the same proportion. Earlier it was said that people in the border areas may be far from Delhi, but they are not far from our heart. But as the transport sector witnessed major expansion, it became an old saying,” he added.Singh also made a special mention of recent milestones achieved by BRO, including the Atal Tunnel, Kailash Mansarovar road, 54 other bridges built by the organisation and the setting up of centres of excellence on road safety, and roads, bridges, tunnels and airfields.He said the government has several steps in the past six to seven years to strengthen BRO, including increasing its budget by three to four times. He also lauded BRO’s initiatives for the welfare of its personnel, including a special drive to provide quality housing, jackets and rations in high-altitude areas, an increase in the wages of construction workers, improved health care facilities and Covid-19 vaccination for personnel.India and China have massed tens of thousands of troops in Ladakh sector of the LAC for the second consecutive winter after several rounds of diplomatic and military talks failed to result in disengagement at all friction points. India has linked the normalisation of ties in all spheres to disengagement and de-escalation along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-rule-out-possibility-of-any-conflict-today-rajnath-singh-101640714110752.html
28-12-2021||India||Starlink satellite’s near-collision with Chinese station puts focus on space jam||Earlier this month, China informed the United Nations General Assembly that its manned space station had to adjust its orbit in order to avoid collision with satellites launched by SpaceX, calling on the world body to remind the United States “to bear responsibility” as per global treaties.First reported by The Guardian, which cited experts as saying the Chinese action was unusual, the incident spotlights the growing risk in space, where orbital room is being crowded out by an astronomical race in which nation-states as well as private companies are increasingly active.Behind it are projects such as the Elon Musk-owned SpaceX’s Starlink constellation and rival Amazon’s Project Kuiper. Both companies want to create a web of low-earth orbit (LEO) spacecraft that will beam down internet connectivity to anywhere on the planet. And then there are several countries – Russia and India being the most recent – that have carried out tests of satellite-killing missiles, generating millions of pieces of debris.Scientists said such developments not only increase the risk of collisions, but – particularly the satellite constellations -- raise the chances of interference with astronomical research.
28-12-2021||India||Dec 28: What more we know about Omicron||As the second week of December began, the number of new Covid-19 cases began to inch up in Delhi. For the first time in months, the proportion of tests turning up positive remained above 0.1% for several days, crossing 0.2% by the time the third week began.From there, the trajectory of new cases went on a sustained rise: The city has had an average of 256 new cases every day for the last week, compared to mere 29 a month ago. On Tuesday, 496 tests turned positive, the highest since June 4, when over 500 cases were last recorded. As the second week of December began, the number of new Covid-19 cases began to inch up in Delhi. For the first time in months, the proportion of tests turning up positive remained above 0.1% for several days, crossing 0.2% by the time the third week began.From there, the trajectory of new cases went on a sustained rise: The city has had an average of 256 new cases every day for the last week, compared to mere 29 a month ago. On Tuesday, 496 tests turned positive, the highest since June 4, when over 500 cases were last recorded.|#+|A similar spike has been recorded in Mumbai. Both cities have announced curbs such as night curfews and put tighter restrictions on how many people can gather.Do these trends say anything about the Omicron variant of concern (VOC)?They most likely do.For one, Delhi and Maharashtra account for the largest numbers of confirmed Omicron infections found in Covid-19 positive international travellers. These two cities account for the bulk of international arrivals into the country.Among the countries from where foreign arrivals in India most commonly originate is the UK, the second Omicron variant hot spot after South Africa.Circumstantial evidence suggests a high likelihood then that the cases being recorded in Delhi and Mumbai could be driven by the highly transmissible new variant.What now?The experiences of the UK and South Africa suggest if the Omicron variant has indeed taken hold, it will trigger a surge not seen at any point in the pandemic. The average number of new cases in a day, calculated over a week, was over 108,000 in UK, close to double the peak seen in January. By contrast, the number of deaths in a day is roughly only a tenth of what was recorded.Similar trends were seen in South Africa, where experts first concluded the Omicron variant was milder since deaths and hospitalisations did not rise in sync with new cases.And what after?South Africa, the UK and the US have made some major changes to their isolation and quarantine rules to account for the higher transmissibility and potentially lower virulence of the new VOC.On December 24, South Africa’s health ministry issued new Covid-19 guidelines to scrap mandatory isolation and testing for people in close contact with a known positive case unless they have symptoms. Instead, asymptomatic people should monitor their health and avoid large gatherings for 5-7 days and get tested only if they develop any signs that suggest Covid-19. Those with mild symptoms should isolate for eight days and severe cases for 10 days, the government said, according to Reuters.In the UK, the government said on December 22 that people diagnosed with Covid-19 can end their isolation on Day 7 if they have tested negative twice through home rapid tests taken on days 6 and 7. The new approach that was meant to remain protective will minimise the impact on lives and livelihoods, UK Health Security Agency chief Jenny Harries told The Guardian at the time.The US made the most drastic change of all. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on Monday shortened the recommended isolation time for Americans with asymptomatic cases of Covid-19 to five days from 10 days.India may need to confront the possibility and feasibility of some of these steps. But for that to happen, it needs an accurate assessment of the variant causing the infection and whether it is indeed leading to less severe outcomes – which is possible only with more detailed data on hospitalisations and genome sequencing.
28-12-2021||India||2 new vaccines, Covid pill approved for use||New Delhi: India’s drugs regulator on Tuesday approved two more coronavirus vaccines, and a new pill to treat people with mild-to-moderate Covid-19, adding to the country’s tools to fight the pandemic at a time of growing worries that the new Omicron variant of the Sars-CoV-2 may lead to a new wave.Both the doses – Covovax and Corbevax – approved on Tuesday are being produced in India, making it likely for supplies to commence soon, and giving the country more options for booster doses.
28-12-2021||India||Modi advocates tech with a human touch||Lucknow: Young professionals must choose challenges over comfort and remain in touch with their humane side while being immersed in technology, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told graduating students at the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur on Tuesday.“Those who run away from them (challenges) become victims,” Modi said at the 54th convocation of the premier engineering school. “If you are looking for challenges, you are the hunter and the challenges get hunted.”Also Read | 'Conquer technology but don't become robots': PM Modi to students at IIT KanpurElaborating on the significance of humane aspects, the Prime Minister said that while working in the field of artificial intelligence, students must not forget human intelligence. He asked them to become champions of technology, but avoid turning into robotic versions of themselves. “Do work on internet of things, but don’t forget emotions of things. Do coding, but stay connected with people around,” Modi said.The in-person convocation, held after a gap of one year due to the pandemic, was also attended by Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath, among others. Modi exhorted the new graduates to be impatient when it came to Atmanirbhar Bharat. “Self-reliant India is the basic form of complete freedom, where we will not depend on anyone,” he said. “If we do not become self-reliant, how will our country will reach its destination?” He wanted the students to contribute to the global standing of the country.“When the country’s independence completed 25 years, we should have done a lot by then to stand on our feet. Since then, it is too late, the country has lost a lot of time. Two generations have passed in between so we don’t have to lose even two moments,” the PM added.Modi also praised the diversity of Kanpur. “Kanpur is one of the few cities in India that is so diverse, from Satti Chaura Ghat to Madari Pasi, from Nana Saheb to Batukeshwar Dutt. When we visit this city, it seems as if we are travelling to that glorious past, of the glory of the sacrifices of the freedom struggle.”The Prime Minister inaugurated a blockchain-driven system to deliver educational degrees before his convocation address. This is a massive leap in the field of technology, he said.“Even in this decade, technology is going to increase its dominance in different fields. Life without technology would now be incomplete in a way. This is the age of competition of life and technology, and I am sure you will definitely get ahead in this.”The PM advised students to keep their sensitivity, curiosity, imagination and creativity alive and asked them to be aware of the non-technical aspects of life. “From the time of admission and passing out from IIT Kanpur, you must be feeling a huge change in yourself. Before coming here, there must have been a “fear of the unknown”. Now there is no “fear of the unknown”; now you have the courage to explore the whole world,” he said.IIT-K director Abhay Karandikar welcomed the guests and spoke about the achievements of his institute. Adityanath lauded contributions made by IIT-K, IIT-BHU and IIM Lucknow in leading Uttar Pradesh on the path to development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-advocates-tech-with-a-human-touch-101640713860638.html
28-12-2021||India||13 students test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh's Bilaspur district||At least 13 students of a school in Himachal Pradesh tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday.The report came two days after the Himalayan state registered its first case of Omicron variant of Covid-19 in a woman with travel history to Canada.According to an ANI report, the infected children study in Bhakra Senior Secondary School in Bilaspur district. A senior doctor said the Covid-19 positive reports came after rapid antigen test (RAT) was conducted in the district. Of 16 samples that were sent for testing, as many as 13 were found to be positive, said medical officer Parminder Singh.The woman, who tested positive for the Omicron variant in Himachal Pradesh, is aged 45 and had come back to India from Canada on December 3.“The three RT-PCR (tests) of a close relative of the patient came negative,” Hemraj Bherwa, mission director of the National Rural Health Mission, told Hindustan Times.At present, the Omicron-infected woman is isolating at her home in Mandi district. She was found infected with Covid-19 on December 12, and lab results from Delhi following genome sequencing of her test sample revealed Omicron variant's presence on December 18.Meanwhile, one more Covid-19 positive sample of another foreign returnee in Himachal Pradesh was sent to Delhi for genome sequencing on Sunday.Himachal Pradesh is among 21 states and Union territories (UTs) in India where Omicron cases have been confirmed so far, with Maharashtra (167) and Delhi (165) accounting for the majority of the infections. The nationwide tally has now surpassed the 600-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-pradesh-s-bilaspur-district-101640710337446.html
28-12-2021||India||Resident doctors to continue stir over counselling delay, demand apology for cop 'excess'||Protesting resident doctors on Tuesday decided to continue with their days-long agitation against the delay in NEET 2021 counselling hours after holding a meeting with Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya who urged them to take back stir with assurances.President of Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA) that is leading the agitation, Dr Manish, said the agitation will strike after holding a meeting with all RDAs.The doctors’ stir intensified a day after a clash broke out between the protestors and Delhi Police with the former alleging manhandling and brutality by the security forces. The Delhi Police has denied the charges and said some of its personnel suffered injuries in the melee.An ANI report said the doctors have proposed three demands, including a written apology, to end the stir that has severely impacted healthcare services at government hospitals in several parts of the country, particularly Delhi."First, we want the authorities concerned to ensure that we get a date for counselling right after the Supreme Court's hearing on January 6. Secondly, we want an apology from the authorities as the police manhandled the doctors. Also, all FIRs registered against protesters would have to be withdrawn."Meanwhile, AIIMS Delhi Resident Doctors Association (RDA) said it would not go ahead with its planned strike on Wednesday following the meeting with the Union minister. In an official release, the RDA said, "In a meeting with the Union Health Minister assured the resident doctors of holding NEET PG 2021 counselling at the earliest."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/resident-doctors-to-continue-stir-over-neet-pg-counselling-delay-101640710216164.html
28-12-2021||India||Pakistan said will allow Indian wheat for Afghanistan, still blocks it||NEW DELHI: Almost a month after Pakistan said it will allow transportation of humanitarian aid for the Afghan people via the Wagah land border crossing, New Delhi has not been able to ship any wheat as Islamabad has not finalised modalities.The Indian side made the proposal for sending 50,000 tonnes of wheat and medicines via Wagah on October 7 and received a response from Pakistan only on November 24. On December 3, Pakistan said it will allow Indian relief materials to be shipped via the border crossing only in Afghan trucks.“The transportation of wheat via Wagah is yet to begin as we are still waiting to hear from the Pakistani side on all the modalities,” a person familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity on Tuesday.People familiar with the matter said the tardy approach of the Pakistani side was surprising as even the Taliban setup in Kabul raised the issue with the Pakistan government in view of the urgent need for food items amid a humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan. A Taliban delegation led by acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi that visited Islamabad in November specifically discussed the issue of allowing the shipment of wheat from India with top Pakistani leaders.On November 12, well before the formal approvals were conveyed to India, Prime Minister Imran Khan’s office tweeted on his meeting with Muttaqi, announcing the prime minister’s assurance to “favourably consider the request by Afghan brothers for transportation of wheat” from India.The Prime Minister conveyed that in the current context Pakistan would favourably consider the request by Afghan brothers for transportation of wheat offered by India through Pakistan on exceptional basis for humanitarian purposes and as per modalities to be worked out.India has so far sent 1.6 tonnes of life-saving medicines to Afghanistan on a special charter flight to Kabul on December 11. The flight brought 104 people, most of them Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, from Kabul to New Delhi, and returned with 85 Afghan nationals who were stranded in India following the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan in mid-August.The supply of medicines, which were handed over to the World Health Organization (WHO) for use at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health in Kabul, was praised by the Taliban.The Indian side does not recognise the Taliban regime but has repeatedly said it will provide aid for the Afghan people in view of the humanitarian crisis. As there are no direct flights between the two countries, the Indian side proposed that the wheat should be transported via Pakistan.Several conditions were attached by Pakistan to the shipping of wheat via the Wagah land border. Pakistan told the Indian side that the entire consignment of 50,000 tonnes should be transported within the month of December. The people cited above said about 30 to 40 Afghan trucks currently make a daily trip to Wagah and it would be impossible to transport 50,000 tonnes of wheat via the route within a short period of time.
28-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: On doctors' stir, Delhi Police says no force used, protesters seek apology and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Resident doctors' stir: Delhi Police says no force used, protesters seek apologyThe Delhi Police on Tuesday issued a clarification regarding the alleged brutality on resident doctors’ during a protest in the national capital. It said there was no lathi (or baton) charge on protesters. Read moreDiplomatic pressure by Modi govt pays off with SFJ Multani arrest in GermanyThe arrest of banned Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) radical Jaswinder Singh Multani by German police is a culmination of more than 72 hours of hectic diplomacy by the Modi government with Berlin with New Delhi making it clear that it would hold Germany accountable if any bomb blast took place in Mumbai or Delhi. Read moreCome Jan 15, only fully jabbed can enter public places in PunjabThe Punjab government on Tuesday issued an order banning entry of all individuals who are not fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease at public places from January 15, 2022. Read moreOver 30 students of Pune institute fall ill, officials suspect food poisoningAbout 30 girls of a training institute in Pune, Maharashtra, fell ill due to suspected food poisoning after a Christmas dinner following which many of them had to be admitted to a hospital. Read moreAfter backlash, Asim Riaz gives an explanation to Shehnaaz Gill fans: 'Stop targeting’Bigg Boss 13 contestant Asim Riaz has now given an explanation about his previous tweet, in which he said “people get over loved ones so soon.” Read moreIND vs SA: Rishabh Pant smashes MS Dhoni's big record, becomes sixth Indian to complete rare centuryRishabh Pant on Tuesday smashed MS Dhoni's record to become the quickest wicket-keeper to reach 100 dismissals in the longer format of the game. Read moreiPhone 13 most preferred smartphone by Indians on AmazonThe iPhone 13 has nabbed a lot of attention in its short life of three months. And customers seem to prefer it more over any other smartphone this year. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-on-doctors-stir-delhi-police-says-no-force-used-protesters-seek-apology-and-all-the-latest-news-101640703692708.html
28-12-2021||India||4 more teens detained for disrupting Christmas event in Silchar, released: Cops||SILCHAR: Four teenagers were briefly detained on Tuesday in connection with the disruption of Christmas celebrations over the weekend at Silchar’s Presbyterian Church complex demanding that Hindus should not participate in it, an officer of Assam Police said.Two persons, also minors, were detained and released on Sunday on submission of a bond promising to turn up at the police station if required.The six were part of a group that barged into the complex at about 10pm on Saturday, chanted ‘Jai Shri Ram’, slapped a few persons and demanded that Hindus leave the church saying christmas is a “festival of outsiders”. “We have been celebrating Tulsi Diwas since morning and I think these Hindu boys and girls should have been doing the same instead of attending Christmas here,” one of them said, addressing a local TV news crew.The teenagers claimed they were activists of rightwing group Bajrang Dal but the outfit has denied any association with them. Superintendent of police, Cachar district, Ramandeep Kaur, said: “Nobody has lodged a written complaint but we have identified these boys from the video footage available on social media. All of them are juvenile aged between 15 to 17. We have interrogated and allowed them to go home on a PR bond. But they have to come to police station if we call them.”Kaur said the police spoke to Bajrang Dal’s Cachar wing but it has distanced itself from these boys.“We interacted with official members of Bajrang Dal about it, and they categorically denied about any connection between the organisation and these boys. The detained boys also failed to show any proof about their Bajrang Dal membership,” she said. Mithun Nath, president of Bajrang Dal’s wing in Cachar, Dima Hasao and Mizoram wing said: “Last year, we appealed to Hindus not to celebrate Christmas because a group of Christians attacked a temple in Shillong. This year we asked our members not to disturb any celebration.”“We don’t know if these boys are our members or not, but I don’t support these police proceedings against them also,” Mithun Nath added.Among those who was manhandled Senior journalist from Silchar, Anirbanjyoti Gupta, whose son was among those manhandled by the group, recalled his family’s claimed that his son was manhandled by Bajrang Dal youths on December 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-more-teens-detained-for-disrupting-christmas-event-in-silchar-released-cops-101640702520553.html
28-12-2021||India||30 students of Pune institute fall ill, officials suspect food poisoning; probe underway||About 30 girls of a training institute in Pune, Maharashtra, fell ill due to suspected food poisoning after a Christmas dinner following which many of them had to be admitted to a hospital. An investigation is underway.The incident happened at Nav Gurukul training centre of Flora Institute of Technology, Kusegaon in Bhor taluka. Local block development officer Vishal Tanpure said 31 students started complaining of stomach upset and nausea after eating some food items for Christmas.Pune district civil surgeon Dr Ashok Nandapurkar said the girls had consumed food items made from paneer (Indian cottage cheese) for Christmas. “On Monday, some of them complained of stomach ache and nausea. A total of 22 girls have been taken to Bhor sub-district hospital. Of them seven are admitted and the rest are being treated at the OPD level. The remaining students have been taken to Sassoon hospital," he said.Officials said the condition of all 30 girls was stable, adding that necessary samples were being collected for examination. “The local administration has initiated the investigation and sent a team to collect food and water samples from the spot,” Tanpure was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The training institute, located near Khed Shivapur on the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway, is a non-profit organisation and offers a one-year free course in software programming to girls from low-income families, a PTI report said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-30-students-of-pune-institute-fall-ill-officials-suspect-food-poisoning-101640699970451.html
28-12-2021||India||PM Modi to hold Council of Ministers meet tomorrow. Here's what's on agenda||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday hold a meeting of the Council of Ministers amid the spread of the new Omicron variant of coronavirus. According to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Livehindustan, the meeting will take place at 4pm.It further reported that all the ministers are expected to be present in the meeting, and the discussion points include next year’s assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and other states.PM Modi had chaired a review meeting last Thursday where he asked seniors officials to maintain a high level of vigil and alertness.“In view of the new variant, we should be ‘satark’ (alert) and ‘saavdhan’ (take precaution),” the PM added.He said the fight against the pandemic is not over and the need for continued adherence to Covid protocols is of paramount importance even today.PM Modi also gave directions for accelerating the testing to ensure quick identification of cases for timely containment and treatment.India has logged 653 cases of the Omicron variant across 21 states and union territories (UTs) so far, out of which 186 people have recovered or migrated, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday.Maharashtra recorded the maximum number of 167 such cases followed by Delhi at 165, Kerala 57, Telangana 55, Gujarat 49 and Rajasthan 46.The situation in the national capital is particularly worrying as it recorded 331 fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, the highest single-day rise since June 9.The positivity rate in the national capital increased to 0.68 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. Since it breached the 0.5 per cent threshold, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government imposed tight restrictions on gatherings and movement of people under the Graded Action Response Plan (GRAP).The Delhi government has shut down cinema halls, gyms, spas and auditorium halls, and has asked Metro to run with 50 per cent capacity with no standing passenger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-council-of-ministers-meet-tomorrow-here-s-what-s-on-agenda-101640696964278.html
28-12-2021||India||Kejriwal condemns ‘police brutality’ on resident doctors, urges PM to resolve crisis||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi condemning the alleged police brutality on protesting resident doctors in the national capital a day ago and urging him to listen to their demands.The resident doctors from several government-run hospitals across Delhi have intensified their protest over a delay in the NEET-PG counselling process and met Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya earlier in the day.In the letter, Kejriwal said doctors should be in hospitals and not on the streets as he urged the government to find a solution to their demands at the earliest.Also read | Delhi resident doctors' protest continue. Here’s why they are agitating“Amid rising concerns of the Omicron variant, the doctors of the central government hospitals are protesting on roads. It is very disheartening to see that they were being mistreated by the police while protesting,” Kejriwal said in the letter.“The delay in the counselling is affecting the future of the students. Many doctors lost their lives on the line of duty and it's our duty to listen to their demands,” he added.Several resident doctors across Delhi have been protesting since November 27 against the delay in NEET-PG counselling process which has been put on halt due to the outcome of a batch of petitions being heard by the Supreme Court over economic reservations.Also read | Mandaviya says NEET-PG counselling sub judice, urges resident doctors to lift protestThe Federation of All India Medical Association (FAIMA), one of the groups leading the agitation, has called for a complete withdrawal from all healthcare services across the country from 8am on December 29 "in protest against brute force by Delhi Police against doctors."On November 24, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) had written to Modi urging him to resolve the NEET-PG counselling crisis and augment manpower in the wake of a possible third wave of Covid-19 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-condemns-police-brutality-on-resident-doctors-urges-pm-to-resolve-crisis-101640691384689.html
28-12-2021||India||Assam’s Himanta Biswa Sarma goes on overdrive against drunk driving on New Year’s Eve||GUWAHATI: Chief minster Himanta Biswa Sarma is fronting Assam’s campaign against drunk driving ahead of New Year’s Eve, with video appeals on social media and local TV channels to urge motorists not to drive under the influence of liquor and take other steps to stay safe on the roads.“As we approach the New Year, I fervently appeal to the public to create an accident-free atmosphere by driving vehicles with caution and alertness,” the chief minister said in his new message televised from Monday. Till November 30 this year, 2,756 people have died in 6,745 road accidents and another 5252 were injured. That is an average of 8 deaths every day. On two days, December 31 last year and January 1 this year, Assam lost 29 people to road accidents. “We can avoid these accidents by driving within speed limits, following all traffic rules, not driving under influence of alcohol and wearing seat belts in cars and helmets by both riders in two-wheelers,” Sarma said in his message. Like many other states, Assam has also ordered night curfew effective from December 26 to restrict movement of people from 11.30pm to 6am as part of the steps taken to minimise the spread of Covid-19 infection. An exception has been made for December 31 night when this restriction will not apply.Sarma, however, made it clear that he wasn’t only going to rely on his appeal and has ordered strict enforcement of traffic rules.“I have instructed the police and transport departments to ensure that every two-wheeler rider wears helmet, drivers of cars and two-wheelers have not consumed liquor and speed limits. Let’s ensure that no lives are lost on December 31 and January 1. I seek your cooperation for this,” he added. Officials said police and transport officials across Assam have started putting up check points, especially at night to use breathalysers and also keep tab on over speeding. “In Guwahati, we started our campaign five days ago. Till date, 380 people have been found driving under influence of alcohol beyond permissible limits. We have fined each of them ₹10,000 and suspended their driving licenses as per the rules,” said Guwahati commissioner of police Harmeet Singh.“We want people to realise that driving after consuming liquor and without wearing helmets hurts the society as a whole. The chief minister has directed us to ensure no loss of life due to accident during the New Year celebrations. The society and administration should join hands to ensure safety of all,” he added. From December 1, the state government made it mandatory for all pillion-riders in two-wheelers above four years to wear helmets. Police and transport officers have been levying fines of ₹1,000 each on those violating the rule. 
28-12-2021||India||Andhra seals top rank in Good Governance Index, credits farmer welfare schemes||The Andhra Pradesh government has credited farmer welfare schemes for the state’s No. 1 rank in agriculture and allied sectors in the Good Governance Index 2021 by recording 11.3% growth over the last two years. “We have been implementing various welfare activities for the farmers in the last two years and the change is clearly visible,” said state agriculture minister Kurasala Kanna Babu.In a statement, special chief secretary (agriculture) Poonam Malakondaiah said on Monday the growth rate in the agriculture and allied sectors was 6.3% in 2019. “The growth in the horticulture produce went up from 4.7% to 12.3% in the last two years and growth in the dairy sector increased from 1.4% to 11.7%.” The statement said in crop insurance implementation, the state scored 26.1 out of 30 points.Malakondaiah said Andhra Pradesh topped the composite ranking in the agriculture and allied sectors in the index. Union home minister Amit Shah released the Good Governance Index 2021 on Saturday.Malakondaiah said the government has set up the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) as one-point-facilitation centres at 10,778 locations in the state. She added as a result farmers are able to get all the seeds, fertilisers, animal, feed fish feed, and all other inputs that they require in their villages. Malakondaiah said crops are insured free-of-cost and linked to e-crop at the RBKs, where all the farmers get registered and their claims are settled. “The RBKs have received recognition from NITI Aayog and also the agriculture ministry.”
28-12-2021||India||Mandaviya says NEET-PG counselling sub judice, urges resident doctors to lift protest||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday held a meeting with representatives of protesting resident doctors and urged them to call off the same as an intensified agitation over the delay in NEET-PG counselling across the country affected healthcare services at government-run hospitals. The doctors are yet to take a decision on the plea from the government, but said they will hold talks later in the evening to decide on the future course of action. Addressing the media after the meeting with a delegation of the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA), Mandaviya said the government is unable to go ahead with the counselling as the matter is sub judice and being heard by the Supreme Court. The health minister said the government is taking all requisite steps and a suitable reply with respect to the EWS report will be submitted to apex court before the next date of hearing on January 6. “We request the court to expedite the issue so that the counselling can be started at the earliest,” he added.Mandaviya then urged the protesting resident doctors who he said tirelessly served the nation during the coronavirus pandemic to call off their days-long agitation in public interest. #WATCH| I held a meeting with all resident doctors. We're not able to do the counselling because the matter is sub-judice before Supreme Court. The hearing will take place on Jan 6. I hope that NEET PG counselling will start soon: Union Health Minister Dr Mansukh Mandaviya pic.twitter.com/LixcUWWHcxThe meeting at Nirman Bhavan took place in the wake of the doctors threatening to withdraw all healthcare services across the country "in protest against brute force by Delhi Police against” their colleagues a day ago. The doctors have demanded an apology for alleged police brutality.Later, Dr Manish, president of the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association that is leading the agitation a doctor, said the strike is still underway. “We demand a written apology for police brutality during yesterday's protest of resident doctors at ITO. We will hold a meeting with all RDAs at 8pm today to decide the future course of action,” Dr Manish was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.A rally by a large number of resident doctors in Delhi on Monday took a dramatic turn late on Monday with medics and police personnel having a face-off in streets, with both sides claiming several persons suffered injury in the ensuing melee.While doctors across hospitals in Delhi continued their agitation, patients and their family members were seen standing in long queues outside the facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandaviya-says-neet-pg-counselling-sub-judice-urges-resident-docs-to-lift-stir-101640691315267.html
28-12-2021||India||Former cricketer Dinesh Mongia, two Congress leaders from Punjab join BJP||Former ruling Congress lawmakers Fatehjung Singh Bajwa, Balwinder Singh Laddi, and ex-cricketer Dinesh Mongia on Tuesday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of elections in Punjab.“Congress leaders [from Punjab] have joined us as they are upset with the ongoing infighting and tussle between the party and the government. They have shown faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership,” said Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who is the BJP’s Punjab election in charge. He added Modi showed large-heartedness in withdrawing the farm laws and that there is confidence among farmers that the government is committed to their welfare. Mongia said he wants to serve the people of Punjab by joining the BJP. He added that the BJP is working for the country’s development.Former Sangrur Member of Parliament Rajdev Khalsa, United Christian Front Punjab president Kamal Bakshi were among others who also joined the BJP.Last week, former minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi ended his four-decade association with Congress and joined the BJP citing the infighting in the party as one of the main reasons for his decision.The BJP is contesting the polls in alliance with former chief minister Amarinder Singh’s newly-formed Punjab Lok Congress and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt). The three parties will form a six-member panel to finalise the seat-sharing agreement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-cricketer-dinesh-mongia-two-congress-leaders-from-punjab-join-bjp-101640691239421.html
28-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Govt says personnel in poll-bound states can take precaution dose, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.The Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Tuesday personnel to be deployed in election duty in poll-bound states will be included in the category of frontline workers (FLWs) and will be eligible for the precaution dose of vaccine against the coronavirus disease. Read moreThe Congress on Tuesday hit out at the Narendra Modi-led Central government over the alleged non-renewal of registration under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) registration of the Mother Teresa founded-Missionaries of Charity in Kolkata. Read moreSamajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday promised ₹5 lakh compensation for cyclists, who die in roads accident, and those killed in bull attacks if his party is voted back to power in Uttar Pradesh. Read moreThe International Cricket Council (ICC) on Tuesday released the nominations for Men's Test Player of the Year 2021, which features India spinner R Ashwin. Read moreTesla may have had to navigate through some choppy waters in China in recent months but it remains one of the most formidable players in the world's biggest electric vehicle market. Read moreTaapsee Pannu delivered three films this year of which Haseen Dillruba remains one of the most talked about projects for the actor. She starred opposite Vikrant Massey in the romantic mystery thriller. Read moreOptical illusions are mind-boggling but at the same time, they are fun too. In fact, the Internet is filled with various kinds of videos and images of optical illusions that leave people puzzled, as well as, entertained. And this one involving two cubes is a perfect addition to that category. Read moreMaking a small change in your daily diet can go a long way when it comes to weight loss. While there is no dearth of diets that promise to help you shed kilos at a quick pace, the lost weight comes back in no time, leaving you dismayed. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-govt-says-personnel-in-poll-bound-states-can-take-precaution-dose-and-all-the-latest-news-101640689098337.html
28-12-2021||India||India may face intense but short-lived Covid-19 wave as Omicron spreads: Report||India may see a spurt in the Covid-19 growth rate within days and head into an intense but short-lived virus wave as the highly-infectious omicron variant moves through the crowded nation of almost 1.4 billion.“It is likely that India will see a period of explosive growth in daily cases and that the intense growth phase will be relatively short,” Paul Kattuman, professor at the Judge Business School at the University of Cambridge which has developed a Covid-19 India tracker, wrote in an email. “New infections will begin to rise in a few days, possibly within this week,” he said, adding that it was hard to predict how high the daily cases could go.Kattuman and his team of researchers, developers of the India Covid tracker, are seeing a sharp rise in infection rates across India. The tracker spotlighted six states as a “significant concern” in a Dec. 24 note, with adjusted growth rate of new cases exceeding 5%. This had expanded to 11 Indian states by Dec. 26, according to the tracker, which corrects for “day of the week effects” and other variations.India, which has confirmed 34.8 million infections and 480,290 deaths so far, is already gearing up to deal with another massive outbreak even though only 653 cases of the highly-mutated omicron have been identified so far. Last week, it allowed booster shots and included teenagers aged 15 to 18 in the inoculation program. Two more vaccines as well as Merck & Co.’s antiviral pill molnupiravir were approved by the local drug regulator Tuesday. Indian capital New Delhi closed cinemas, schools and gyms and introduced restrictions on public gathering on Tuesday -- a day after it reported the most new cases in more than four months. Night curfew kicks in from 10 p.m to 5 a.m. and bars, restaurants as well as offices will have 50% occupancy.These policy decisions underscore hard lessons India learned after a deadly delta-led virus wave in April and May that pushed infections to a record-beating 400,000-plus each day. It overwhelmed the country’s hospitals and crematoriums and left its citizens pleading for oxygen and other medical resources on social-media platforms.The Cambridge India tracker had correctly called the peak of this devastating second wave in May and also forecast in August that India would see a slow burn in its Covid infections curve until the vaccination coverage was sufficiently high. India crossed 1 billion administered vaccine doses in October and new cases plunged in tandem with that milestone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-face-intense-but-short-lived-covid-19-wave-as-omicron-spreads-report-101640689588574.html
28-12-2021||India||Missionaries of Charity row: Congress says BJP creating fake bogies of communalism||The Congress on Tuesday hit out at the Narendra Modi-led Central government over the alleged non-renewal of registration under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) registration of the Mother Teresa founded-Missionaries of Charity in Kolkata.Taking to Twitter, Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said, "Mother Teresa & her Missionaries of Charity are the latest victims of Modi Govt’s vicious, vengeful & hate driven agenda against minorities.The All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary further accused the BJP of creating “fake bogies of communalism”. “Haridwar to Calcutta - BJP and its hate mongers are creating fake bogies of communalism. This is an affront to India’s Constitutionalism,” he wrote on Twitter.Also read | Mamata's intention mala fide: BJP on Missionaries of Charity's bank account freeze claimSenior Congress leader P Chidambaram said as the year 2021 ends, it was clear that the Modi government “has found another target - Christians - to advance its majoritarian agenda”.Chidambaram asked the Union home ministry to “put to use its Sherlock Holmes-like skills to quell communal violence and terrorist activity, not to suppress Christian charity and humanitarian work”.“Nothing can be more shocking than denying future foreign contributions to the Missionaries of Charity in Kolkata, West Bengal. This is the greatest insult to the memory of Mother Teresa who devoted her life to caring for the ‘poor and wretched’ of India,” he said.The issue came to light on Monday after West Bengal chief minister Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee expressed her shock, stating that bank accounts of Kolkata-headquartered organisation were frozen by the Centre.Also read | Mother Teresa's charity denies bank account freeze after Mamata blames CentreFollowing which, the Union ministry clarified that no request or revision application was received for review of the refusal of renewal. It further said bank accounts of the charity organisation were frozen by the State Bank of India as requested by the group.The Missionaries of Charity later issued a statement saying there has been no freeze order from the Union home ministry nor the charity's Foreign Contribution Regulation Act has been suspended or cancelled.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missionaries-of-charity-row-congress-says-bjp-creating-fake-bogies-of-communalism-101640689283203.html
28-12-2021||India||Personnel deployed in poll-bound states to be eligible for precaution dose: Govt||The Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Tuesday personnel to be deployed in election duty in poll-bound states will be included in the category of frontline workers (FLWs) and will be eligible for the precaution dose of vaccine against the coronavirus disease. Elections are slated to be held in five states – Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab and Manipur.According to an input by from news agency ANI, the ministry said in a statement such persons would have to obtain the advice of their doctors before deciding to avail the precaution dose that the government is set to administer to healthcare workers and senior citizens with comorbidities, besides frontline workers from January next year.Also read | At Covid review with 5 poll-bound states, Centre hands out a 3-point to-do listThe ministry further said all persons aged 60 years and above with comorbidities will not be required to produce or submit any certificate from the doctor at the time of administration of precaution dose.Starting next year, children in the age-group of 15-18 years will also be administered vaccines against the virus. The announcement was made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week in a televised address to the nation.In a fresh set of guidelines issued on Monday, the government said the children’s inoculation drive will begin January 3 and the precaution or third dose will be available from January 10.The government said that for young adults, the vaccination option at the moment would only be Bharat Biotech-made “Covaxin”.It further said the prioritisation and sequencing of the precaution dose would be based on the completion of nine months or 39 weeks from the date of administration of the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/personnel-deployed-in-poll-bound-states-be-eligible-for-precaution-dose-govt-101640687348402.html
28-12-2021||India||2021 in numbers: Infant, child vaccinations dropped 15% in May compared to 2019||Vaccines against the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes the Covid-19 disease, have been at the centre of attention for the last one year. However, this is not the only virus against which human beings need vaccines. There are a host of other viruses which require early childhood immunisation and these likely suffered during 2020. Data shows that while they have recovered in 2021, it is possible that some immunisation doses were delayed.
28-12-2021||India||Missionaries of Charity’s troubles continue||NEW DELHI: West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said the Centre has frozen bank accounts of Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity even as the latter claimed the organisation asked the State Bank of India to freeze them.The Centre earlier on December 25 decided against renewing the organisation’s license under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act. Banerjee expressed shock over the move. “Shocked to hear that on Christmas, Union Ministry froze all bank accounts of Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity! Their 22,000 patients & employees have been left without food & medicines,” she tweeted.The Centre said the licence was not renewed because of “adverse inputs”.The charitable organisation was earlier in the news this month when a case was filed against its Children Home for Girls in Gujarat’s Vadodara for alleged forceful conversions to Christianity. It was also alleged that marriages of some at the home belonging to other religious communities were conducted as per Christian rituals. A nun working at the home rejected the allegations and said children only followed the prayers that the nuns recited.The Centre earlier in July 2018 directed state governments to inspect all childcare homes the charitable organisation runs. This came after the Jharkhand Police arrested a nun and an employee of a Ranchi-based organisation run by the Missionaries of Charity on charges of selling a baby allegedly for ₹1.2 lakh. The Centre also directed the states to ensure that all child care institutions were registered and linked to the country’s apex adoption body within a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missionaries-of-charity-s-troubles-continue-101640686559782.html
28-12-2021||India||Run organised around Chilika Lake to raise funds for kids’ eye cancer treatment||A group of over a dozen people from across the country ran 13km for six days around Odisha’s Chilika Lake as part of a campaign to increase awareness and raise funds for a foundation that supports the treatment of children suffering a form of eye cancer common in developing countries.Named “Mera Terah Run”, or MTR, the group started the daily runs from December 19 at Mangalajodi along the lake. The Indian Navy personnel from the INS Chilka camp also joined them. The group collects funds for social causes annually. It decided to explore the lake this year to raise funds for Iksha Foundation, which identifies children suffering from retinoblastoma and supports their treatment and care. “Like every year, we decided to run for a cause. This year, it was for raising funds for Iksha Foundation through Wildlife for Cancer (website). The runners took an adventurous trail around the lake to explore the biodiversity hotspot coupled with some challenging running pursuits. What began as the runs to raise funds for children suffering from eye cancer grew into much more with our meetings with local communities, researchers, conservationists, and artisans,” said Rajesh Vorkady, 49, a volunteer for MTR.The daily runs began at Mangalajodi, a marshy village on the shores of the lake where thousands of migratory birds arrive annually, on December 19. The next day the runners met Tiasa Adhya, a biologist who works for the conservation of fishing cats in the lake. Over the next five days, the group ran on Rajhans Island, Barkul, and Puri sea beach while trying to raise funds for the Iksha Foundation.Vorkady said the runs were successful as they raised the funds they wanted to. “Wildlife for Cancer was started by Ramki Srinivasan, a wildlife photographer to raise funds for underprivileged children suffering from cancer by selling his stunning pictures of India’s wildlife. The proceeds go to the Iksha Foundation,” said Vorkady.Software engineer Jagdish Damania launched MTR in 2014 with the motto: “run, rail, road, raise”. “All the funds that we raise go directly to the beneficiaries. This collective helps bind like-minded people to participate in events for a cause,” said Vorkady.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/run-organised-around-chilika-lake-to-raise-funds-for-kids-eye-cancer-treatment-101640686379181.html
28-12-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav pledges ₹5 lakh compensation for cyclists who die in roads accident||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday promised ₹5 lakh compensation for cyclists, who die in roads accident, and those killed in bull attacks if his party is voted back to power in Uttar Pradesh. He said bicycle tracks were built when he was the chief minister but the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government ruined them.“Cyclists die in road accidents,” Yadav said in Unnao during his Vijay Rath Yatra ahead of the polls in the state. “Just recently, near here, an elderly woman died after a bull attacked her.”Yadav hit out at the BJP government and called its top leaders liars. He referred to chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s statement that millions got employment under his government. “...we still believe that Yogis and Babas do not lie. So now tell me, did anyone of you get jobs, employment. This government has started distributing smartphones and tablets, did anyone of you get them?” The Samajwadi Party chief accused the government of running away from its responsibility and leaving people to die during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic. “This government is responsible for the Covid deaths. People did not get medicines, beds, or oxygen. Unnao’s people saw dead bodies floating in the Ganga.”Yadav called change is necessary for the state. “...there cannot be a bigger liar than BJP (leaders). They lied to farmers about doubling their income, to youths about jobs.” He called the Kanpur Metro project the previous SP’s gift to the city. “This government continues inaugurating already inaugurated projects and relays foundation for already funded projects. And the Kanpur Metro is one more in the series as the Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) inaugurated it in Kanpur. The project was founded by the SP government. Today, I announce that on return to power, the SP government will extend the Kanpur Metro to Unnao across the Ganga.”He referred to the recovery of cash worth crores from the house of a trader in Kanpur. “There was so much cash that several currency-counting machines were requisitioned and still the counting continues on the fourth day.” He called it the biggest cash discovery ever in the state. “Take out the call details (of the trader) and it will be proven that the cash is related to the BJP. The BJP should also tell us if so much cash was found, then did the demonetisation not fail?”HT has reached out to the BJP for a response and the copy will be updated accordingly.
28-12-2021||India||Pollution increased in some parts of India during pandemic lockdown: New study||Parts of central-western and northern India recorded an increase in pollution even as the reduction in economic activities during the pandemic-induced lockdown in 2020 led to its decrease in most parts of the country, a report by scientists at Nainital’s Aryabhatta Research Institute of Observational Sciences (ARIES) has found.The report is based on satellite observations for 2018, 2019, and 2020. It found the influence of the significant decline in activities on the changes in the distribution of ozone, carbon monoxide, and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) during the lockdown. The study, which was published in the Environmental Science and Pollution Research, found ozone, carbon monoxide, and NO2 showed an increase of about 15% over the central-western part of India. Carbon monoxide showed a consistent increase as high as 31% of concentration at higher altitudes during the lockdown.In a statement on Monday, the Union science and technology ministry said scientists found regions in the country’s central-western part and north India are prone to higher air pollution exposure and hence are exposed to greater risk of respiratory problems.“In 2020, a complete nationwide lockdown was imposed over India to impede the spread of coronavirus disease. This enormously disrupted the economy with a single positive side effect, a short-term improvement in the air quality near the surface,” the ministry said. It cited the satellite-based observation of ozone, NO2 and carbon monoxide near the surface and in the free troposphere and added they mostly showed the reduction of the pollutants over India. But an increase in ozone and other toxic gases was observed in regions such as western-central India, parts of northern India, and remote Himalaya. The ministry said this could have aggravated respiratory health risks around those regions during the pandemic.The study found the long-range transport and downward transport from the stratosphere significantly increased ozone concentrations over north India during the lockdown. It added the Himalayas and coastal cities showed the bare minimum influence of lockdown in air quality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pollution-increased-in-some-parts-of-india-during-pandemic-lockdown-new-study-101640685359255.html
28-12-2021||India||Congress will fight ‘destructive forces’: Sonia on party’s 137th foundation day||The Congress will fight “destructive forces” threatening Indian democracy at a time when divisive ideologies “anchored in hate and prejudice”, which did not have any role to play in India’s freedom struggle, are wreaking havoc on India’s secular fabric, party president Sonia Gandhi said on Tuesday.The Congress president was speaking in a video message to party workers on the 137th foundation day of India’s grand old party.“They are rewriting history to give themselves a role they do not deserve. They inflame passion, instil fear, and spread animosity and the finest traditions of our parliamentary democracy are being deliberately damaged,” she said, in an obvious reference to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), though she did not name India’s ruling party.Gandhi said that electoral victories and defeats were inevitable, and reiterated the Congress’s commitments towards the people of the country. “Today, we rededicate ourselves to the ideals, values, and principles of our organisation that has been shaped, guided, and inspired by some of the greatest, noblest, and most selfless of Indians of the 20th century,” she said.Highlighting the party’s 136-year history with lots of challenges in recent years, Gandhi said they “had confronted several challenges and always demonstrated resilience”.Gandhi said they would counter the forces working against India with all they had. “Let there be no doubt on our steadfast resolve. We have never and we will never compromise on our fundamental beliefs that are part of our glorious legacy. Electoral ups and downs are inevitable but what is enduring and lasting is our commitment to the service of all people of our diverse society,’’ she said.Gandhi said the party “had confronted several challenges and always demonstrated its resilience’’ in the 136 years.When the Congress president was unfurling the national flag at the party’s headquarters in New Delhi, it accidentally fell due to a faulty flag pole. Gandhi, along with Congress treasurer Pawan Bansal and general secretary KC Venugopal, held the flag and displayed it briefly. The pole was later replaced, and the flag was hoisted.
28-12-2021||India||Omicron prompts 5-8% cancellations, but Goa remains booked this New Year’s Eve||PANAJI: Despite the recent Omicron scare resulting in “at least 5-8%” cancellations, Goa Tourism looks to end the year on a strong note as hotel occupancy leading up to New Year’s Eve has been, in some cases, reported to be “better than pre-Covid levels”, people aware of the matter said.New Year’s Eve, considered the high point of Goa’s tourism season in which the young travellers from metros such as Bengaluru, Mumbai and Delhi flock to party hotspots along the state’s coastal belt, saw a minor revival last year as cases began to decrease after the initial wave that peaked in September-October 2020 and showed signs of getting back to pre-Covid levels this year. However, the onset of the Omicron and uptick in cases has seen a raft of cancellations but not enough to dampen the sentiment across the state. “We have seen room occupancy of up to 60-70% of pre covid levels. Others have reported that they are seeing their best season ever. So, the sentiments in the industry has been positive,” said Jack Sukhija, who runs a heritage hotel in the capital city.The ongoing Covid night curfews in cities such as Bengaluru and Delhi was initially expected to drive more tourists to Goa given that venues back home will be closed. But the logistics of reaching Goa, and the uncertainty around air travel if infections soar, have created problems. Last minute bookings have not seen an uptick either.“Planning a last-minute trip to Goa was difficult even in normal times. It is all the more difficult during this time,” Sukhija added. For a different set of reasons.He is, however, sceptical how things will pan out over January, saying much will depend on how the new wave of infections pans out.Despite the cancellations, Goa’s popular beaches including the Calangute-Candolim stretch as well as the Morjim-Arambol stretch further north have seen milling crowds with holidayers almost shoulder to shoulder as they soak in the sun and sea breeze. “It is increasingly apparent that the Omicron variant is more of a scare than an actual threat and that we have to learn to live with the virus,” Nilesh Shah, the president of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa, an industry body that lobbies on behalf of the hospitality industry, said, referring to reports that patients infected with the Omicron patients mostly have mild symptoms. So far.To be sure, scientists and the government have urged caution, but not panic, over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus diease, and have underlined that it has a much higher transmission rate. And a large number getting infected means a large number could end up in hospital.Shah said: “Most hotels are taking adequate precautions and necessarily so. The industry recognises that most verticals are still only in survival mode and the numbers have been a welcome relief.”Goa’s tourism industry initially expected a healthy season with the arrival of European charter tourists for the first time in two years. But with the Omicron variant sweeping across Europe, a majority of the planned charter flights from the UK and Western Europe have been cancelled.Goa has to date only received four charter flights from Kazakhstan with charters from Russia that were initially scheduled to land prior to Christmas and will now arrive only on December 30 onwards leaving Goa dependent on domestic tourists to keep the industry afloat during the new year weekend. Charters from the UK are now tentatively scheduled only from the end of January onwards. Goa’s tourism season usually begins with the receding monsoon and as winter sets in across the northern hemisphere, those seeking to escape the biting cold climes choose to spend time in warmer parts of the world and Goa is among the preferred destinations for those seeking to travel.Goa’s tourism sector is a big source of revenue for the state with the industry directly contributing 16.43% towards the state Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and also provides employment to nearly 35% of the state’s population that is dependent on the sector, according to official estimates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-prompts-5-8-cancellations-but-goa-remains-booked-this-new-year-s-eve-101640684459114.html
28-12-2021||India||Schools, cinemas and gyms shut: Yellow alert in Delhi amid Covid alarm | 10 points||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Tuesday announced new guidelines as part of the “yellow alert” that is being imposed in the national capital with rising Covid-19 cases. The city has witnessed the highest single-day spike in cases in nearly six months.A “yellow alert” is put in place when the positivity rate for two consecutive days rises to more than 0.5% or if the cumulative single-day positive cases for a duration of seven days go beyond 1,500.Following are the key restrictions imposed in Delhi:1. All schools, colleges and other educational institutions will remain shut.2. Cinemas and gyms will be shut.3, Restaurants and bars will function at 50% capacity till 10pm.4. Online food deliveries will continue as usual.5. A night curfew has been imposed in Delhi from 10pm to 5am.6. Malls and shops will be open on an odd-even basis between 10am and 8pm.7. Standalone shops have been permitted to remain open without the odd-even rule.8. Spas, salons and barber shops will operate normally.9. Delhi Metro, public buses will operate at 50% seating capacity with no standing passengers, while other curbs under yellow alert of Covid GRAP are in force.10. All large gatherings - political, social and religious - will remain prohibited for the duration of the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-cinemas-and-gyms-shut-yellow-alert-in-delhi-amid-covid-alarm-101640684163757.html
28-12-2021||India||Delhi resident doctors' protest continue. Here’s why they are agitating||Hundreds of resident doctors from several government-run hospitals across Delhi have been protesting for the past few days over the delay in NEET-PG counselling, demanding that the process must be expedited.A protesting doctor told news agency ANI on Tuesday they were trying to march towards the Supreme Court on Monday when they tried to go to the Delhi Police but were stopped and “beaten up” by them. They are marching towards the top court on Tuesday as well, the doctor added.The protest took a dramatic turn on Monday after the doctors and police personnel had a face-off on the streets of Delhi, with both sides claiming injuries during the scuffle.The Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA), which is leading the stir, has claimed several of its members were "detained" when they tried to hold a protest march from Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) to the Supreme Court on Monday.Also read | Delhi doctors to continue protests over NEET counselling, call for shutdownA PTI report cited FORDA president Manish as saying that, "police force was used and many doctors were injured" during the face-off.On the other hand, the Delhi Police have denied allegations of lathicharge or use of abusive language from their end, and said, 12 protestors were detained and released later, the report further added.Delhi | Resident doctors of various hospitals protest over delay in NEET-PG counselling"Today also we are trying to march towards Supreme Court. Yesterday we tried to go but Police stopped us and beat up our resident doctors," says a protester pic.twitter.com/lUOLrnjszEThe residents' doctors have been demanding that the process for NEET-PG counselling be expedited, which has been put on halt due to the outcome of a batch of petitions being heard by the Supreme Court over economic reservations.The doctors, who have been protesting since November 27, 2021, have said the withheld counselling has resulted in a shortage of 45,000 doctors on the frontline.The Indian Medical Association (IMA) in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 24 urged him to resolve the NEET-PG counselling crisis and augment manpower to face a possible third wave of the coronavirus pandemic.Meanwhile, the doctors' association has said it will continue the protest from Safdarjung Hospital until their demands are met. "As night curfew has been imposed in the city, we returned to Safdarjung and will continue our protest from there," said Dr Kul Saurabh Kaushik, general secretary of FORDA, on Tuesday.The NEET PG exam was scheduled to be held in January 2021 but got postponed in view of the first and second wave of the pandemic. It was finally held on September 12, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-resident-doctors-protest-continue-here-s-why-they-are-agitating-101640676813495.html
28-12-2021||India||Memorable experience, says PM Modi after riding new section of Kanpur Metro||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated the completed section of the ₹11,000 crore Kanpur Metro Rail Project in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh.PM Modi, who was accompanied by UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Union petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri, also took a little over 10 minutes ride on the Metro train from the IIT-Kanpur Metro station to Geeta Nagar in the city.Also Read| PM to inaugurate Kanpur Metro. Here’s all about India's fastest built project“Onboard the state of the art Kanpur metro. Heading to the programme where key development works will be launched,” the Prime Minister tweeted on Tuesday as he also inaugurated the Bina-Panki Multiproduct Pipeline Project.Addressing the inauguration of the Pipeline Project, Modi said, “Today, Kanpur received metro connectivity. I congratulate you and whole of Uttar Pradesh for this achievement.”Stating that the metro ride that he took earlier in the day was a memorable experience, Modi said that before 2014, the total length of metro running in Uttar Pradesh was 9km. “The length of the metro increased to a total of 18 km between 2014-2017. If we include Kanpur Metro today, the length of metro in UP has now exceeded 90 km.”The Prime Minister also pointed out that before 2014 only five cities had metro services. Today Uttar Pradesh alone has metro services in five cities, he added.The completed 9km long section of Kanpur Metro Rail Project stretches from IIT-Kanpur to Moti Jheel. The entire length of the Metro project is 32km and it is being built at ₹11,000 crore.In 2019, chief minister Yogi Adityanath started the construction work and the trial run took place on the 9km IIT-Kanpur to Motijheel Priority Corridor on November 10 this year.“Improving urban mobility has been one of the key focus areas of the Prime Minister. The inauguration of the completed section of the Kanpur Metro Rail Project is yet another step in this direction,” according to a statement by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).Also Read| 'Conquer technology but don't become robots': PM Modi to students at IIT KanpurBefore the Metro project inauguration, PM Modi addressed the 54th convocation ceremony of IIT Kanpur. “Today is a day of double happiness for Kanpur. On one hand, Kanpur is getting a metro rail facility and on the other hand, the world of technology is also getting priceless gifts from IIT Kanpur,” he said.In recent weeks, the Prime Minister has been inaugurating a slew of developmental and welfare projects in Uttar Pradesh, which will go into elections next year. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government is aiming for a second consecutive win in UP.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-completed-section-of-kanpur-metro-rail-project-101640677868513.html
28-12-2021||India||PM Modi launches blockchain-based digital degrees at IIT Kanpur. All you need to know about the technology||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday launched a system to award blockchain-based educational degrees in digital form to students. These digital degrees can be verified globally and are unforgeable, according to IIT Kanpur director.The technology has been developed by the institute under the National Blockchain Project.Later, addressing the convocation, PM Modi said that technology is the future and it is getting priceless gifts from prestigious institutes like IIT Kanpur.Here is everything you need to know about the blockchain-based digital degree and how it will impact the educational sector in the futureDecentralised technologyThe blockchain system works on the principle of decentralisation. This means that the control is not in the hands of a central agency, but to a distributed network of nodes.This will help in keeping the data safe even if any specific node is compromised.Also, the information in a blockchain is recorded and stored sequentially along with an exact timestamp. The previous information can’t be altered, only amended by adding a new block. This makes tampering with a transcript very hard.Maintaining student recordsThe blockchain technology can simplify the tedious task of maintain the records of students by making them digitised. Also, the students will be able to access their records remotely.According to US-based Maryville University, the blockchain technology can simplify the verification process. Any institute can do so with a few clicks instead of going through lots of paper documentation, in cases of transfer students, or sharing records with employers, or issuing degrees.Help in preparing curriculum and gradingThe blockchain technology, through its algorithms, also allows teachers to execute a particular curriculum when certain conditions are met. The teachers can set lessons and courses into a blockchain, including programming the tasks too. The algorithm can then verify the completion of each task and provide students with the next one until all the tasks are complete.The same technology can also assist the teachers in grading. The blockchain technology can grade students based on their responses in exams – the algorithm takes into consideration questions, answers, and scoring parametres.Lowering costsThe blockchain technology can lower costs by opening affordable paths to learning. It will require less manual intervention, thereby reducing the need to hire more staff for processes.The technology is already being used in the financial sector and has been powering currencies like bitcoin.ChallengesIronically, security is one of the primary challenges of using the blockchain technology for any purpose. Increased security doesn’t mean that blockchain is not vulnerable. It also eliminates the possibility of modifying student records for legitimate purposes.There is also a limitation with scaling the system beyond a certain level. Increasing the network means adding more blocks, which will slow down the speed of transaction as each transaction requires peer-to-peer verification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blockchainbased-digital-degrees-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-technology-101640677737420.html
28-12-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi addresses 54th convocation ceremony of IIT Kanpur, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday addressed the 54th Convocation Ceremony of Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur where he said that spending time at the prestigious institute “massively transformed” the students. Read moreGlobal Covid-19 cases hit a daily record on Monday, disrupting the holiday season a year after vaccines first started rolling out and two years after the emergence of the virus that many hoped would be fleeting. Read moreThe Aadhaar card must be linked to your mobile phone number in order to use related Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) services launched by the government. Read moreHyundai and Kia continue to remain under the glaring lens of auto safety regulators in the United States over incidents of engine failures and fires in a number of units offered by both. Read moreActor Sara Ali Khan has revealed that she made her parents--father-actor Saif Ali Khan and mother Amrita Singh, cry with her performance in her latest film Atrangi Re. In a new interview, Sara also spoke about her brother, Ibrahim Ali Khan's reaction to her film. Read moreElon Musk often takes to Twitter to reply to posts concerning him. He did it again and this time he reacted to a post about his ‘doppelganger’ video that went viral a few days ago. Read moreCardamom or elaichi is known as the queen of spices in India thanks to its unmatchable flavour and amazing benefits. Belonging to the ginger family, it has a small green pod with black seeds inside. Read moreIn a viral video, a man declared to assassinate Queen Elizabeth II to avenge the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. The fully masked man with a crossbow in the video that surfaced on social media identified himself as an Indian Sikh. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-addresses-54th-convocation-ceremony-of-iit-kanpur-and-all-the-latest-news-101640673943777.html
28-12-2021||India||'Conquer technology but don't become robots': PM Modi to students at IIT Kanpur||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday addressed the 54th convocation ceremony of Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur where he told the students that spending time at the prestigious institute “massively transformed” them. He also said that IIT Kanpur has given them a massive canvas. He also urged the students to “choose challenges and not comfort”.“Now there is no ‘Fear of Unknown’, now you have the courage to explore the whole world. There is no longer the ‘Query of Unknown’, but ‘Quest for the Best’ and a dream to conquer the whole world,” PM Modi said.The Prime Minister also told the students that the training that they have received, skills and knowledge they have acquired will definitely help them in making a mark of their own in the world.He then lauded the history if Kanpur and its diversity.“Kanpur is one of the few cities in India that is so diverse - from Satti Chaura Ghat to Madari Pasi, from Nana Saheb to Batukeshwar Dutt. When we visit this city, it seems as if we are traveling to that glorious past, of the glory of the sacrifices of the freedom struggle,” said PM Modi.“The Dandi March in 1930 had given a direction to the freedom movement. The youth who were 20–25-year-old then experienced their golden phase in 1947. You are stepping into a similar golden era of your lives,” he added.Just before his address, the Prime Minister inaugurated a blockchain-driven system to deliver educational degrees. This is a massive leap in the field of technology, he said, adding that the 21st century is completely technology driven.“Even in this decade, technology is going to increase its dominance in different fields. Life without technology would now be incomplete in a way. This is the age of competition of life and technology and I am sure you will definitely get ahead in this,” said PM Modi.He, however, asked the students to become champions of technology, conquer it but avoid turning into robotic versions of themselves. “Do work on internet of things, but don't forget emotions of things.”“When the country's independence completed 25 years, we should have done a lot by then to stand on our feet. Since then, it is too late, the country has lost a lot of time. Two generations have passed in between so we don't have to lose even 2 moments,” the Prime Minister further said.He then appealed to the students to be impatient to create an Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India).The event was attended by Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and other leaders. The institute held a physical convocation after a year as it was held virtually last year due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conquer-technology-but-don-t-become-robots-pm-modi-to-students-at-iit-kanpur-101640674457306.html
28-12-2021||India||You must link your phone number to Aadhaar: Here’s a step by step guide||The Aadhaar card must be linked to your mobile phone number in order to use related Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) services launched by the government.Linking the Aadhaar card with a mobile number also serves as means of legitimising a person’s identity as a citizen of India, as provides the government with a way to verify the user's data.The mobile number which is registered with the Aadhaar can then also be used to avail of Aadhaar services by way of SMS or even to retrieve the Aadhaar card in case it is lost.Here is a step by step guide to check if your Aadhar is linked to your phone number:Step 1: Open UIDAI's official webpage with this link: https://uidai.gov.in/Step 2: Click on the MyAadhaar section at the top left corner.Step 3: After this click on verify your email/mobile number under the Aadhaar services section.Step 4: Fill in your details such as your card number, phone number, captcha, and more.Step 5: After completing the fourth step, the website should show you this message: "the phone number you entered has already been validated with our records."In case the Aadhaar number is not linked to your number, you will need to get to the nearest Aadhaar centre and get the due process done. Due to the biometric verification requirement, the phone number cannot be linked online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-must-link-your-phone-number-to-aadhaar-here-s-a-step-by-step-guide-101640672830187.html
28-12-2021||India||Govt gives emergency use approval to 2 Covid vaccines, 1 antiviral drug||The Centre has given an emergency use authorisation approval to two vaccines and one antiviral drug to strengthen its fight against the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Tuesday.“Further strengthening the fight against Covid-19, CDSCO, health ministry has given 3 approvals in a single day for CORBEVAX vaccine, COVOVAX vaccine, anti-viral drug Molnupiravir for restricted use in an emergency situation,” Mansukh Mandaviya posted on Twitter.Also Read| No plans yet to vaccinate kids younger than 15, say officialsThe approval comes a day after the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) recommended granting emergency use authorisation for the above two vaccines and one anti-viral drug.Covovax will be made by the Serum Institute of India (SII) while Biological-E will make the Corbevax vaccine.Health minister Mandaviya said on Tuesday that Corbevax is the country's first indigenously developed RBD protein sub-unit vaccine against Covid-19.The number of vaccines that have received emergency use authorisation has now increased to eight.Till now, Covishield, Covaxin, Sputnik V, Moderna, Johnson and Johnson and ZyCoV-D have so far received the authorisation.Molnupiravir, Merck's Covid-19 pill will be manufactured by 13 companies in India to treat adult patients and who have a high risk of progression of the disease.“Molnupiravir, an antiviral drug, will now be manufactured in the country by 13 companies for restricted use under emergency situations for treatment of adult patients with Covid-19 and who have a high risk of progression of the disease,” Mandaviya also tweeted on Tuesday.Also Read| 60 and above: What you need to get third Covid-19 vaccine jabPeople familiar with developments told news agency PTI that Molnupiravir is not authorised for use in patients less than 18 years of age and for initiation of treatment in patients requiring immediate hospitalisation due to the coronavirus at that stage.The drug is also not authorised for use for longer than five consecutive days and pre-exposure or post-exposure prophylaxis for prevention of Covid-19 for pregnant women.According to the Union health ministry, India has administered 1.43 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses so far and more than 839 million of all adults have received at least one dose.India will begin vaccinating those aged 15-18 from January 3 and start administering Covid-19 booster shots as a precautionary measure to healthcare and frontline workers from January 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-gives-emergency-use-approval-to-2-covid-vaccines-1-anti-viral-drug-101640670859125.html
28-12-2021||India||India's Covid-19 tally rises by 6,358; active caseload below 80k-mark||India's daily Covid-19 tally marginally dropped on Tuesday with 6,358 cases, pushing the overall cumulative number of infections to 34,799,691, according to the Union ministry of health family welfare.The Omicron variant of the coronavirus has now spread to 21 states and Union territories and the nationwide tally now stands at 653 as of Tuesday. Out of this, Maharashtra topped the list with 167 cases followed by Delhi with 165 cases, Kerala with 57 cases and Telangana has confirmed 55 cases.The death toll jumped to 480,290 after 293 people succumbed to the viral disease, the ministry also informed.The active caseload currently stands at 75,456 and accounts for 0.22 per cent of the total caseload. It is the lowest since the coronavirus pandemic began in the country in March last year, according to the ministry’s data.The recovery rate currently is at 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020. As many as 6,450 people have recovered in the last 24 hours from Covid-19. The total recoveries currently stand at 34,243,945, the ministry also said.Meanwhile, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is set to hold a high-level review meeting to review the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the national capital. The chief minister is likely to discuss whether more travel and economic curbs are needed to control the spurt in cases amid the looming threat of the third wave of the pandemic.Besides this, Kejriwal is also expected to decide on sounding the 'Yellow' alert and restrictions according to the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP).The 'yellow' alert is sounded when the Covid positivity rate stays over 0.5 per cent on two consecutive days. It involves restrictions like night curfew, closure of schools and colleges, alternate day opening of shops of non-essential items and halved seating capacity in Metro trains and public transport buses among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-rises-by-6-358-active-caseload-below-80kmark-101640667514587.html
28-12-2021||India||India’s Omicron cases jump to over 650, Maharashtra and Delhi have most of them||India’s Omicron cases have risen to 653, with Maharashtra and Delhi reporting 167 and 165 respectively, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday.After Maharashtra and Delhi, Kerala has 57 cases of the highly infectious variant, Telangana 55, Gujarat 49, Rajasthan 46, Tamil Nadu 34 and Karnataka 31, the health ministry’s release also showed.There were 6,358 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 293 related fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to over 34.8 million and death toll to 480,290, the health ministry’s updated data also showed.India's active caseload currently stands at 75,456 and active cases account for less than 1 per cent of total cases, currently, at 0.22% and the lowest since March last year, the ministry added in the release.The ministry release showed as many as 6,450 Covid-19 patients recovered in the last 24 hours and the country’s recoveries tally rose to 34,243,945. It added the recovery rate is at 98.40 per cent—the highest since March 2020.The daily positivity rate at 0.61 per cent has been less than 2 per cent for the last 85 days and the weekly positivity rate is 0.64 per cent—less than 1 per cent for the last 44 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-omicron-cases-jump-to-over-650-maharashtra-and-delhi-have-most-of-them-101640664734042.html
28-12-2021||India||Diplomatic pressure by Modi govt pays off with SFJ Multani arrest in Germany||The arrest of banned Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) radical Jaswinder Singh Multani by German police is a culmination of more than 72 hours of hectic diplomacy by the Modi government with Berlin with New Delhi making it clear that it would hold Germany accountable if any bomb blast took place in Mumbai or Delhi.According to officials based in Berlin and New Delhi, the Modi government provided actionable intelligence to the German embassy in Delhi and back in Berlin to convince the Federal Police about the urgency of the matter. Indian Embassy officials were recalled from their Christmas holidays by top Ministry of External Affairs officials to ensure that the German authorities understand the seriousness of the matter about an impending terror strike on Mumbai. It is understood that Multani had been able to send explosives to Mumbai with a terror team being assembled for the strike. While the SFJ terrorist is currently being interrogated by the German police, Indian security agencies and the MEA are totally tight-lipped on the matter.The arrest of Multani by German authorities is a huge step in bilateral relations as it will also force countries like the UK and Canada to take action against Sikh separatists, who are being backed by the Pakistani deep state. The inaction on part of the UK and Canada, despite being India’s strategic partners, has convinced Indian security agencies say that these countries with large Sikh populations are trying to fish in troubled waters. Multani recently come to notice of the security agencies for arranging and sending weapons consignments comprising explosives, hand grenades and pistols from across the border with the help of his Pakistan based operatives and arms smugglers. He was planning to carry out terrorist activities in Punjab by using the smuggled consignments.On February 7, 2021, Punjab police initially arrested four local radical criminal module members belonging to the Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Ferozepur districts. Police also recovered 8 country-made pistols along with 8 magazines and 7 cartridges from them. The module members procured the illegal pistols from MP based Sikligar Sikhs and others for carrying out radical/criminal activities in Punjab. Subsequently, Punjab police arrested another radical criminal, Jeevan Singh of Mansa, who was radicalised and motivated by Multani (on social media to target a key farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, president of BKU-Rajewal. Multani also sent funds to Jeevan Singh for arranging locally made weapons for targeting Balbir Singh Rajewal, president of BKU-Rajewal being linked with left-wing communist ideology.In August 2021, Multani motivated and radicalised Saroop Singh from Johal Dhaiwala of the Tarn Taran district. Police arrested Saroop Singh and recovered 2 hand grenades from him. He was contacted on Facebook by a guy from ‘Surrey’, who was in fact Multani. Later, Multani connected with Saroop Singh on WhatsApp. JSM sent money through Western Union and sent two hand grenades (86P) at Amritsar-Harike road (Tarn Taran) from across the border and shared a photo of the location and asked him to collect them.Two FIRs have been registered against Jaswinder Singh Multani in SAS Nagar and Amritsar. He is closely associated with all the core members of SFJ.
28-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: BJP chief JP Nadda to visit poll-bound Uttarakhand today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP chief Nadda to begin 2-day visit to poll-bound Uttarakhand from todayBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda will begin his two-day visit to Uttarakhand on Tuesday, his third trip to the hill state this month, to review preparations for the assembly elections, which are scheduled to be held next year. Read MoreOmicron, looming third wave: EC panel to visit UP to review preparedness ahead of pollsA team of Election Commission officials, including chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra, will visit Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday to take stock of the preparedness ahead of assembly elections in the state scheduled to be held next year. Read MoreDelhi doctors to continue protests over NEET counselling, call for shutdownA doctors association of government-run hospitals in Delhi said on Tuesday it will continue to protest against the delay in NEET-PG counselling until their demands are met even as they called for a complete shutdown of all healthcare institutions. Read MoreJee Le Zaraa: Zoya Akhtar reveals Katrina Kaif, Alia Bhatt called her after Priyanka Chopra reached out to themFilmmaker Zoya Akhtar has revealed that actors Alia Bhatt and Katrina Kaif contacted her wanting to do a film together after Priyanka Chopra had called them. Read More'Had he been soft like MS Dhoni, he wouldn't have scored these many runs': Former India spinner hails 'aggressive' KohliHe may have not won an ICC trophy with India, but there is no doubt that Virat Kohli has taken this team to unprecedented heights in world cricket. Read MoreJanhvi Kapoor is back at her favourite place – the gymJanhvi Kapoor is back to the gym to shed all the extra kilos from the week of heavy indulgence that went back a few days ago. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-chief-jp-nadda-to-visit-poll-bound-uttarakhand-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101640661591948.html
28-12-2021||India||Wet spell likely to weaken soon, mercury to plunge across northwest India||NEW DELHI: The wet spell in northwest India is likely to reduce from Tuesday and minimum temperatures are expected to fall by 3-5 degrees Celsius after two days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The IMD said a western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation was lying over north Haryana and neighbourhood at lower tropospheric levels. A fresh western disturbance as a trough was also affecting the region. A trough (line of low pressure) was running from the northeast Rajasthan to Vidarbha across west Madhya Pradesh at lower tropospheric levels. Under the influence of these systems, light to moderate, isolated to scattered rainfall and snowfall was very likely in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, and Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday and in Uttarakhand till Wednesday.Light isolated rainfall was likely in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan on Tuesday. Scattered rainfall was expected in Uttar Pradesh till Wednesday. Isolated thunderstorm, lightning, and hailstorm were also likely in Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.Light to moderate isolated to scattered rainfall was very likely in Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, and Chhattisgarh. Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall was likely in Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, and West Bengal till Thursday.The IMD said minimum temperatures were 2-5 degrees Celsius above normal in parts of northwest, central India and east India. No significant change was likely in most parts of northwest India and Gujarat during the next two days. A fall by 3-5 degrees C was expected thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wet-spell-likely-to-weaken-soon-mercury-to-plunge-across-northwest-india-101640660397502.html
28-12-2021||NA||Highlights: Doctors' strike against delay in NEET counselling to continue, says FORDA||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Doctors' strike against delay in NEET counselling to continue, says FORDAAs of now, the strike against the delay in NEET 2021 counselling will continue, says President of FORDA, Dr Manish after holding a meeting with all RDAs. Read moreTelangana govt allows restaurants, bars to serve liquor on New Year's till 1amAccording to the order, Telangana govt accorded permission to Director of Prohibition and Excise department to permit license holders of bars, licensees of event permit managements & in-house licensees of Tourism Development Corporation to serve liquor up to 1 am on the intervening night of Decemeber 31 and January 1.Maharashtra assembly passes bill to reduce governor’s powers as chancellor of universitiesMaharashtra assembly on Tuesday passed a bill to reduce governor’s powers as chancellor of universities, and also in appointing vice chancellors.Punjab bans entry of unvaccinated people in public places from January 15Punjab government bans the entry of people who are not full vaccinated from January 15 in public places, an official release of the state govt reads.Earthquake of 4.3 magnitude hits AfghanistanAn earthquake of magnitude 4.3 occurred today at 1831 hours, 76km SSE of Fayzabad, Afghanistan, stated National Center for Seismology (NCS).Resident doctors body at AIIMS Delhi cancel December 29 strikeAIIMS Delhi Resident Doctors' Association (RDA) has decided to take back the December 29 protest in view of the meeting and subsequent statement by Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya assuring NEET PG counselling at the earliest. "Since our demands are met, accordingly the AIIMS, New Delhi RDA has decided to take back the decision of strike on 29th December 2021... All services to be continued as normal.," read the official statement.13 students in Himachal Pradesh's Bilaspur test positive for Covid-1913 students of a school in Bilaspur district found Covid-19 positive, said Medical Officer, Zonal Hospital Bilaspur, as quoted news agency ANI.No force/lathicharge was used: Delhi Police issue clarification after protesting doctors allege ‘police brutality’The doctors claimed mishandling & use of force, I'd like to clarify that no force/lathi charge was used. Delhi Police have the highest regard for doctors. Few policemen got injured, some police vehicles were also damaged: Suman Goyal, Additional Commissioner, Central Range Karnataka hospital to use up Covid-19 vaccine vials within 4hrs of opening: GovtKarnataka government has restricted private hospitals from following the open vial policy, in the recently issued guidelines. As per the notification, private hospitals will not be allowed to reuse vials once opened. Once opened, a vial will have to be used within 4 hours itself.‘Hope NEET PG counselling starts soon’: Mansukh Mandaviya“I held a meeting with all resident doctors. We're not able to do the counselling because the matter is sub-judice before Supreme Court. The hearing will take place on Jan 6. I hope that NEET PG counselling will start soon,” says Union Health Minister Dr Mansukh Mandaviya in a press briefing.DDMA to hold meeting with Delhi LG, CM Kejriwal over Covid-19 situation  DDMA meeting scheduled for Wednesday 4pm to discuss COVID-19 pandemic situation in Delhi through video conferencing. LG, CM Arvind Kejriwal and senior officials along with experts to participate.Kejriwal writes to PM Modi over alleged police brutality during doctors' protestकेंद्र के डॉक्टर कई दिनों से हड़ताल पर हैं। इन्होंने कोरोना में अपनी जान की बाज़ी लगाकर सेवा की। कोरोना फिर बढ़ रहा है। इन्हें अस्पताल में होना चाहिए, ना कि सड़कों पर इन पर जो पुलिस बर्बरता की गई, हम उसकी कड़ी निंदा करते हैं। PM साहिब इनकी माँगे जल्द मानें। PM को मेरा पत्र pic.twitter.com/yE5waHecAzDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal writes to PM Modi and condemns the "police brutality" during yesterday's protest march of resident doctors over their demand to expedite NEET-PG counselling. Kejriwal urged him to find a solution soon.Delhi announces list of curbs for “yellow alert”The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Tuesday announced new guidelines as part of the “yellow alert” that is being imposed in the national capital with rising Covid-19 cases. Read more herePM Modi inaugurates Kanpur Metro, takes ride with CM Yogi, Union minister Hardeep Singh PuriPrime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated Kanpur Metro today. He took the first train ride, along with Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri, as well as with 150 children on board.The metro project was completed in the span of two years. The Phase 1 of the metro line runs on a 9 km stretch from IIT Kanpur to Motijheel.Protesting doctors' body to meet Amit Shah, to seek apology for alleged police brutalityRepresentatives of Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) will meet Union Health Minister at Nirman Bhavan in Delhi today over their demand to expedite NEET-PG counselling and also seek an apology for alleged police brutality during yesterday's protest march.BCCI president Sourav Ganguly tests Covid-19 positive, hospitalisedBCCI President and former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly got admitted at Woodlands Multispeciality Hospital on December 27 with Covid Postive status. He received monoclonal anti-body cocktail therapy and is currently stable, informed Dr Rupali Basu MD & CEO, Woodlands Hospital, Kolkata.‘Yellow alert to be enforced in Delhi amid rising Covid cases': CM KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Tuesday a yellow alert or level 1 of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) will be imposed in the Capital after the positivity rate stayed over 0.5 per cent for two consecutive days. Read MoreDefence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurates 27 infra projectsDefence Minister Rajnath Singh e-inaugurates 27 infra projects constructed by Border Roads Organization (BRO).  “In today's era, distance is not measured in kilometers, but in hours. BRO's roads, tunnels and bridges have reduced the distance and time between places today," he said during the event.‘Today is day of double happiness': PM Modi in Kanpur“Today is a day of double happiness for Kanpur. On one hand, Kanpur is getting metro rail facility and on the other hand, the world of technology is also getting priceless gifts from IIT Kanpur," PM Modi at the 54th convocation of IIT Kanpur3 pedestrians killed, 1 injured after road mishap in MaharashtraThree pedestrians killed, one critical after brakes of a truck fail on Pune-Satara highway near Bhumkar Chowk in Maharashtra. Several vehicles damaged in the incident.PM Modi launches blockchain-based digital degree transmission at IIT-KanpurThe Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch blockchain-based digital degrees. These digital degrees can be verified globally and are unforgeable, director said in his address. TMC MP Derek O'Brien tests positive for Covid-19 with moderate symptomsHave tested positive for #COVID Moderate symptoms. Isolating at home. If you have come into contact with me in the last three days, and have symptoms, please seek medical advice. (Was always ultra-careful. Yet.) #MaskUpIndiaGovt gives emergency approval to Covid-19 vaccines Covovax, Corbevax and Anti-viral drug MolnupiravirCentral Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has given emergency use authorization approval to Covid-19 vaccines Covovax and Corbevax and Anti-viral drug Molnupiravir, says Health Minister Dr Mansukh Mandaviya.Maharashtra minister tests positive for Covid-19I learned today that I tested positive for COVID-19 after first feeling symptoms yesterday evening. My symptoms are relatively mild. I'm fine and have isolated myself. Request those who met me the past few days to take precautions.Maharashtra School Education Minister Varsha Eknath Gaikwad tests positive for Covid-19 with mild symptoms.Delhi: OPD services at Safdarjun hospital resumes amid doctors' strikeAfter a brief suspension, OPD services at Safdarjung Hospital resume with senior doctors and consultants attending to the patients. India's daily Covid-19 tally drops to 6,358 casesIndia's daily Covid-19 tally marginally drops with 6,358 cases. Omicron cases climb to 653.Delhi CM Kejriwal to chair high-level Covid-19 review meetingDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to hold a high-level review meeting today on the prevailing Covid-19 situation, reports news agency ANI.SFJ radical Multani arrested in Germany for Delhi and Mumbai terror plotsPolice in Germany have arrested Jaswinder Singh Multani, a prominent member of the banned outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), for his involvement in a blast in a Ludhiana court last week, and for hatching a conspiracy to target locations in Delhi and Mumbai, people aware of the matter said on Monday.Delhi doctors to continue protests over NEET counselling, call for shutdownA doctors association of government-run hospitals in Delhi said on Tuesday it will continue to protest against the delay in NEET-PG counselling until their demands are met even as they called for a complete shutdown of all healthcare institutions.PM Modi to inaugurate Kanpur Metro stretch, to address students at IITPrime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the completed section of the Kanpur Metro rail project in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur city and attend the convocation ceremony of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) on Tuesday, his office has announced.India’s post-pandemic trade numbersIndia’s trade deficit in November stood at a record $22.9 billion, the commerce ministry said on December 14, in sharp contrast to a trade surplus in June 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-december-28-2021-101640651613288.html
28-12-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Kanpur Metro stretch, to address students at IIT||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the completed section of the Kanpur Metro rail project in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur city and attend the convocation ceremony of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) on Tuesday, his office has announced.The new 9km long section stretches from IIT-Kanpur to Moti Jheel in the city.According to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), PM Modi will also undertake a ride from the IIT Metro station to Geeta Nagar after the inauguration.The entire length of the Kanpur Metro Rail Project is 32km and is being built at a cost of over ₹11,000 crore.At the 54th convocation ceremony of IIT Kanpur, all students will be issued digital degrees through an in-house blockchain-driven technology developed at the Institute under the National Blockchain Project.The Prime Minister will launch the blockchain-based digital degrees, which can be verified globally and are unforgeable.Following this, PM Modi is also scheduled to inaugurate the 356km long Bina-Panki multi product pipeline project. The project has a capacity of around 3.45 million metric tonnes per annum, according to the PMO statement.It will help the region access petroleum products from the Bina refinery, the PMO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-kanpur-metro-stretch-to-address-students-at-iit-101640651940190.html
28-12-2021||India||SFJ radical Multani arrested in Germany for Delhi and Mumbai terror plots||Police in Germany have arrested Jaswinder Singh Multani, a prominent member of the banned outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), for his involvement in a blast in a Ludhiana court last week, and for hatching a conspiracy to target locations in Delhi and Mumbai, people aware of the matter said on Monday.According to diplomats based in Bonn and New Delhi, Multani was picked up by the Federal Police from Erfurt in central Germany after the Narendra Modi-led government requested German authorities to arrest the pro-Khalistan radical who has links to Pakistani, and has been involved in smuggling of arms and ammunition from across the border into Punjab.Previously a resident of Hoshiarpur in Punjab, 45-year-old Multani is a close associate of SFJ founder Gurpatwant Singh Pannu, and is involved in separatist activities, an official said on condition of anonymity.A bomb went off in the district courts complex in Ludhiana on December 23, killing one person and injuring six others, triggering a high alert in the state.Also read | Pak based Khalistani radical is the real face of Ludhiana blastMultani recently showed up on security agencies’ radar for arranging and sending weapons consignments comprising explosives, hand grenades and pistols from across the border with the help of Pakistan-based operatives, the official quoted above said.He also said that Multani was planning to carry out terrorist activities in Punjab by using the smuggled consignments.The arrest took place after the Modi government intervened at the highest diplomatic levels with their German counterparts about Multani’s involvement in a conspiracy to target cities like Delhi and Mumbai, the official cited above said.On February 7, the Punjab Police arrested four people belonging to Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Ferozepur and recovered eight countrymade pistols along with ammunition. The arrested people procured the illegal arms to carry out radical activities in Punjab, police said.The police later arrested another man named Jeevan Singh, who was radicalised by Germany-based pro-Khalistan leader Multani on social media to target key farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, the official quoted above said.Multani also sent funds to Singh for arranging locally made weapons for targeting Rajewal, who is the president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Rajewal.In August, Multani also radicalised another man from Tarn Taran through social media and arranged two hand grenades for criminal activities, the official said.Punjab director general of police Siddharth Chattopadhyaya on Saturday said the dismissed head constable killed in the Ludhiana court blast, Gagandeep Singh, had links with pro-Khalistan elements and terror outfits, and some Pakistan-based entities could be behind the incident.
28-12-2021||India||9 departments, ministries get new secretaries after rejig||In a series of bureaucratic reshuffles, the Centre on Monday appointed new secretaries to nine departments and ministries.According to an order issued by the Appointments Committee of Cabinet, former Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan was appointed as secretary of the department of drinking water and sanitation. Leena Nandan, who occupied the top post in the department of consumer affairs, was moved to the department of environment, forests and climate change.Mahajan, a 1987-batch IAS officer of Punjab cadre, was appointed as Punjab chief secretary in 2020 by then Amarinder Singh-led government but stepped down from the post in September this year. She was due to retire in October 2024. Nandan, meanwhile, is a 1987 batch officer of UP cadre.With Nandan moving to the environment ministry, Rohit Kumar Singh, a 1989-batch IAS officer of Rajasthan cadre, will take over as secretary, department of consumer affairs, ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution, the order said.The committee appointed Sanjay Kumar Singh, a 1987 batch IAS officer of Madhya Pradesh cadre, as secretary at ministry of steel. Singh, who was secretary, department of administrative reforms & public grievances and department of pensions & pensioners welfare, will be replaced by V Srinivas, an IAS officer of Rajasthan cadre (1989 batch).Kerala cadre IAS officer Manoj Joshi (1989 batch) will take over as officer on social duty for now and ascend to the top post in ministry of housing and urban affairs when the current secretary, Durga Shanker Mishra, retires at the end of the month, the order said. Currently, Joshi is a special secretary in the ministry of food processing and industries.Bharat Lal of Indian Forest Service from 1988 batch of Gujarat cadre was appointed as secretary to the Lokpal as Brij Kumar Agarwal is ready to superannuate on December 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-departments-ministries-get-new-secretaries-after-rejig-101640643195550.html
28-12-2021||India||Kerala announces four-day night curfew from Dec 30||Thiruvananthapuram: As cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus surged, the Kerala government on Monday decided to impose night curfew from December 30 to January 2 and put severe restrictions on New Year Celebrations. During night curfew strict restrictions will be in place from 10 pm to 5 am and only essential services will be allowed. On December 31, there will not be any celebrations after 10 pm and crowd will be controlled in major tourist destinations and beaches, said a statement released by the CM’s office. Earlier in the day, CM Pinarayi Vijayan has chaired the core committee meet on pandemic and decided to introduce certain restrictions after Omicron cases rose to 57. “Experts warned that by January-end there can be a spike in cases. We have to ensure enough beds and oxygen. District collectors have been given instructions to ensure this,” said the CM. He said seating capacity in hotels, bars and other places will be restricted to half and there will be strict inspections to ensure this. He appealed people to travel if necessary during this period and avoid crowded places. He said 98 per cent of the eligible people have got first dose of vaccine and 77 % got both doses in the state. He said the government will ensure booster dose to the priority people (with comorbidity and other ailments) from Jan 3 and approached the union health ministry for more doses. Meanwhile, the state reported 1636 fresh cases of Covid-19 after 42,149 samples were tested. It also reported 23 death and added 213 backlog deaths (occurred between March 2020 and June 2021) as per the directive of the Supreme Court order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-announces-four-day-night-curfew-from-dec-30-101640632612428.html
28-12-2021||India||Timely evacuation helps families in Chennai building avert tragedy||A portion of a four-storied building constructed by the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) collapsed in Tiruvottiyur in the dense northern region of Chennai On Monday morning, but there were no injuries and casualties, officials said. Families living in 24 houses in the building had a miraculous escape since they left their homes on Sunday night after noticing a few cracks in the building. Though a major tragedy was averted, much of their belongings were damaged in the incident. It was in the D Block of the apartment complex when the building came down like a pack of cards. Local police and rescue personnel rushed to the spot to clear debris. Chief minister M K Stalin announced ₹1 lakh each as aid to the families who lost their homes. In a statement, he said that the government will provide alternative accommodation to the 24 families very soon. “The government will examine the stability of old buildings of the TNSCB to ensure such incidents do not recur,” he said.Minister for micro, small and medium enterprises T M Anbarasan, who was deputed by Stalin to oversee the rehabilitation of those affected, told reporters that the building was constructed in 1993 and it sustained damage due to prolonged usage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/timely-evacuation-helps-families-in-chennai-building-avert-tragedy-101640632492430.html
28-12-2021||India||Telangana Omicron tally climbs to 55 after 12 more cases||Telangana on Monday reported 12 more cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus, taking the overall number of the cases of the new variant in the state to 55.State director of public health G Srinivasa Rao, in an official bulletin, said 10 international passengers from non-at-risk countries, who had arrived at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport at Hyderabad, were found to be positive for Omicron variant.Besides, two other contacts of a Dubai-returned person of Siricilla district also tested positive for the new variant of the virus.With this, the total number of international passengers who arrived at RGIA and tested positive for the Omicron variant since December 1 has gone up to 55. Of them, 10 persons have recovered from Omicron and the remaining 45 are still under isolation at Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS), Hyderabad.In all, 109 samples have been sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) for genome sequencing till date, of which 35 samples tested negative. The test results of another 19 samples are awaited.In the last 24 hours, as many as 182 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Telangana, out of 37,839 people tested for the virus. There was only one death during this period. In all, 181 people recovered from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and at present, there are 3,417 active cases in the state.
28-12-2021||India||Jailed serial killer Jayanandan behind 2004 Kochi double murder: Kerala police||Jailed serial killer Jayanandan was behind the 2004 twin murder near Kochi, Kerala police said on Monday as they claimed to having cracked the 17-year-old crime mystery.Talking to reporters in Kochi, additional director general of police S Sreejith said Jayanandan, who is also an accused in eight other murder cases, reportedly confided about the twin murder to a fellow prisoner six months back. Later, the Kerala police crime branch pieced together all information provided by the other inmate to reach the conclusion, the ADGP said.Jayanandan, who is lodged in Thiruvanthapuram central jail, was formally arrested by the crime branch and a fresh charge sheet will be filed against the serial offender, said Sreejith.According to the police, the twin murder took place on May 30, 2004, when a retired executive officer V Nanikutty Ammal (73) and her cousin TV Narayana Iyer (60) were brutally killed in their home. Both were attacked with a ripper, police said.Though police initially had suspected Jayanandan’s (who also goes by the name Ripper Jayanandan) role in the double murder based on his modus operandi, they failed to get any corroborative evidence. Most of his victims were elderly people and attacked with a ripper, police said. While in most cases robbery was the main motive, he also sexually abused some of his victims, police said.The ADGP said one of the witnesses, who saw the assailant coming out of the house after the crime, also identified the accused during a parade last month. Later, the crime branch recovered some gold stolen from the house.“It was a difficult case to crack. Now we have solid evidence against the serial killer,” said the ADGP. An accused in eight murder cases, besides several burglaries and attacks, Jayanandan was sentenced to death in the double murder of an aged couple in Thrissur in 2014. The Kerala high court, however, commuted it to life sentence without parole in 2016. According to the police, all murders took place between 2002 and 2006. In 2013, he escaped from the central jail in Thiruvananthapuram after scaling an eight-metre-high wall, but police netted him again after three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jailed-serial-killer-jayanandan-behind-2004-kochi-double-murder-kerala-police-101640632192896.html
28-12-2021||India||Stir against paddy cultivation: Telangana Congress chief held for bid to gherao CM’s farmhouse||Hyderabad police on Monday arrested Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president and parliamentarian A Revanth Reddy after he tried to lead a delegation of party leaders to Erravelli village in Siddipet district to lay siege to the farmhouse of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, officials said. The leaders were detained for three hours before being let off in the evening, the officials added.On Sunday, Reddy had announced that Congress would organise a “Rachabanda” (open forum) programme at the chief minister’s farmhouse at Erravelli village to expose the latter’s double standards on the cultivation of paddy during the Rabi season. He alleged that KCR was cultivating paddy in 150 acres of his farmhouse while asking the farmers of the state not to raise paddy in their fields during the Rabi season on the pretext that the Centre refused to buy. This lead to the police gathering in large numbers at Reddy’s Jubilee Hills residence Sunday night and keeping under house arrest. They took him into custody soon after he came out to proceed to Erravelli at around 2 pm. Along with the PCC chief, the police arrested several other Congress leaders, including PCC vice-president Mallu Ravi, and took them to Amberpet police station, the police said. Those kept in house arrest on Monday morning included former MPs V Hanumantha Rao and Madhu Yashki, former ministers D Sridhar Babu, Ponnala Lakshmaiah and Md Shabbir Ali and Telangana Mahila Congress president Sunitha Rao. Speaking to media at the Amberpet police station, the PCC chief said the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government had kept the farmers in a state of uncertainty for the last three months. “Many farmers committed suicide due to the inability of the state government in purchasing paddy during the Kharif season. Now, the chief minister tells them not to raise paddy during the Rabi, stating that his government won’t procure paddy in the season. On the other hand, KCR himself is cultivating paddy in 150 acres,” he said. Stating that he wanted to show to the media how KCR was practising double standards, Reddy wondered whether Erravelli was a prohibited area. “Why were we prevented from going to the village? Is the chief minister afraid of being exposed?” he asked. The PCC chief vowed to go ahead with the Rachabanda programme at any cost even at a later date. He accused both the TRS government in the state and the BJP government at the Centre of cheating the farmers. Meanwhile, Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party president Bandi Sanjay staged a six-hour-long Deeksha at the state BJP head office in Hyderabad in protest against the indifferent attitude of the Telangana government in filling up job vacancies for the last seven years. Sanjay told reporters that the BJP would step up agitation and stall the state assembly sessions if the TRS government did not release the job notifications by the first week of January. He described KCR as “inhuman”, as there was no response from the government despite several suicides by the unemployed youth. “We never expected that we would have to take up fasting demanding recruitments in separate Telangana state,” Sanjay said. Nizamabad MP Dharmapuri Arvind, Huzurabad MLA Eatala Rajender and several other BJP leaders spoke at the Deeksha programme. Reacting strongly to the agitations by the Congress and the BJP, senior TRS leaders and state animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivasa Yadav said the opposition parties were craving cheap publicity by taking up meaningless protests. “They have no other business except making false allegations against the chief minister. The Telangana has state achieved remarkable progress in the last seven years. Agriculture has grown by leaps and bounds during the KCR regime. It is the Centre which has betrayed the state by refusing to buy paddy,” Yadav alleged. On the unemployment issue, the minister said the TRS had filled up 130,000 vacancies in the last seven years and would be issuing notification for filling up of another 60,000 vacancies shortly.
28-12-2021||India||The year that was: Hacker at the centre of political furore||Srikrishna, a 26-year-old hacker, was the focal point of the one of the controversies that rocked the BJP government in Karnataka. A probe into an 11-month-old case in Bengaluru involving a cryptocurrency hacker has snowballed into a political controversy with opposition parties accusing the ruling party of a cover-up to protect “two influential politicians”. Who is Sriki? Sriki was arrested by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) of police on Nov 18, 2020, in a drug peddling case. He had bought drugs from international dealers using bitcoins on the dark web. In the interrogation that followed the CCB found that the software engineer was involved in a series of online crimes. What was the controversy? Police were accused of failing to inform central agencies about Srikrishna’s involvement in the infamous Bitfinex cryptocurrency exchange hack in 2016. The Bitfinex hack had alerted international authorities as 1.19 lakh bitcoins were stolen in 2016 and it is considered one of the biggest crypto exchange hackings so far. Alleging there was an intentional delay in informing the Enforcement Directorate and the Central Bureau of Investigation and Interpol, the Congress alleged that police waited for more than three months to inform central agencies and it was done on behalf of the senior BJP leaders. What police say? Police denied the claims that there was a delay in sharing information. “It is a matter of fact that even though the arrest of the said accused attained wide media publicity till date no foreign law enforcement agencies nor any foreign companies have approached the Bangalore Police about any hacking,” a police statement said. The missing Bitcoins The Congress accused Bengaluru police of misappropriation in handling the Bitcoins allegedly seized during the investigation. Quoting a press note released by Bengaluru police on January 12, 2021, the Congress said 31 Bitcoins worth ₹9 crore were seized by police during the probe, which were missing from the charge sheet submitted before the court. Responding to allegations about the “missing bitcoins”, another senior officer admitted the police department did announce the seizure of the ₹9 crore worth of bitcoins from Srikrishna. “He had done an evidence collection in the presence of two experts, where Srikrishna showed a bitcoin account with 31 bitcoins in it. With the help of experts, he had changed the login details of the account and considered it as seized. However, several days later we realised the seized account didn’t belong to Sriki. We have submitted all these details before the court also. I don’t understand why there is a controversy over this,” said the officer. Where is Sriki now? The controversy has been muted since police came out with a clarification. After the political controversy, Sriki was arrested on charges of drug possession on November 10. He was granted conditional bail a day later. After coming out on bail, he had gone absconding, resulting in the opposition demanding protection for the hacker. However, police said a few days before the charge sheet was filed by the CID, he has appeared before police. 
28-12-2021||India||6 Maoists gunned down by security forces in encounter in Telangana-Chhattisgarh border area: Police||Six members of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) were killed in a gunfight with security forces in Telangana-Chhattisgarh border area on Monday morning, police said.The security forces received a tip-off about the movement of a large group of Maoists in areas falling under Telangana’s Charla police station and Chhattisgarh’s Kistaram police station, according to Sunil Dutt, superintendent of police, Bhadradri Kothagudem district in Telangana. They were planning to attack police personnel in these areas, Dutta said in a statement.“Immediately, greyhounds (elite anti-Maoist force of Telangana police), district police, District Reserve Guards of Kistaram in Sukma district of Chhattisgarh and forces from 141st battalion of the Central Reserve Police Forces (CRPF) launched a joint combing operation at Pesallapadu forest area in the morning to track down the Maoists,” he said.The skirmish took place around 7 am in a forest in Kistaram area of Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district. “In the exchange of fire, six Maoists, including four women, were killed. In all, police seized five weapons, two .303 riffles and three double barrel guns, besides four rocket launchers, and other material, from the spot,” Dutt said, adding that the slain were yet to be identified.Preliminary reports indicate the insurgents belonged to the Kistaram area committee of Maoists, a police officer said on condition of anonymity. One of the deceased could be the top Naxal leader, Madhu, who headed the Charla area committee of the Maoist outfit, the officer said.The bodies were shifted to Bhadrachalam area hospital for postmortem, Dutt said.
28-12-2021||India||State to carry out jab drive in schools for 15-18 age group: Karnataka chief minister||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said the state government is preparing to vaccinate those between the age group of 15 and 18 years from January. He said special drives will be organised in schools as part of the vaccination programme. “We are preparing to inoculate 15 and 18 years olds from January 3 by organising vaccination drives at schools. Primary Health Care (PHCs) asked to be prepared for administering ‘precautionary dose’ to those above 60 years of age with co-morbidities from Jan 10, 2022,” Bommai told reporters in Bengaluru. Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said 75% of the eligible population has been administered the second dose of vaccine against Covid. “The administration of the preventive dose will start from January 10 for those with comorbidities and above 60 years of age.” The statement comes a day after the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) has given nod to Bharat Biotech’s vaccine against Covid for children in the age group of 15-18. According to the government, there are around 43 lakh children falling in the age bracket will be inoculated in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-to-carry-out-jab-drive-in-schools-for-15-18-age-group-karnataka-chief-minister-101640631294101.html
28-12-2021||India||Karnataka high court fines police officer ₹1L over illegal detention of woman||The Dharwad bench of the Karnataka High Court on Monday imposed a fine of ₹1 lakh on a police officer for keeping a married woman in a rehabilitation centre against her will. Apart from the police officer, the court has imposed a fine on the rehabilitation centre. The court further expressed its displeasure over the act of moral policing by law enforcement agency and said police don’t have the right to interfere with a person’s married life. The verdict was given by a bench headed by justice NS Sanjay Gowda after hearing a petition filed by the woman seeking her release from the rehabilitation centre meant for human trafficking victims. The petitioner, who got married in 2004 and had a daughter out of wedlock, decided to move out of her husband’s house along with the kid in 2011 over a family dispute. She told the court that after her husband filed a missing complaint with police, she was summoned to the police station. The woman told police that she was in love with a man living in the neighbourhood and wanted to live with him, hence she decided to end her marriage. The defendant in the case, inspector Balasaheb Patil asked the woman to reconcile with her husband and when she refused and decided to live on her own, he sent her to the rehabilitation centre. She also alleged that the inspector forcefully kept her in detention so that she could not have any contact with the outside world, particularly the man whom she loves. The court said that the woman had not requested shelter in the first place and since she rejected living with her husband, she had been sent to the rehabilitation centre. The court also said despite several requests, the woman was not allowed to go outside and said she was kept in illegal detention for 6 months. “This reflects a lack of humanity and sensitivity on the part of the police inspector,” said the court. In its order, the court ordered that the inspector and rehabilitation centre must pay the fine to the court and the registrar should deposit the amount in the name of the girl child as a fixed amount and the petitioner can take the interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-high-court-fines-police-officer-1l-over-illegal-detention-of-woman-101640631292333.html
28-12-2021||India||Maharishi Ramayan Vidyapeeth Trust under scanner in Ayodhya land purchase case||A religious body based in Ayodhya is under the scanner for allegedly buying large parcels of land from Dalit owners in violation of norms, officials said on Monday, as part of the government probe into allegations of financial irregularities in land purchase deals in the temple town. Officials requesting anonymity said they were focussing on the Maharishi Ramayan Vidyapeeth Trust,which bought land inManjha Barhata and Shahnawazpur villagesfrom its Dalit owners. A state government official said the trust allegedly purchased the land from a Dalit person in the name of its own Dalit employee, who was identified as Ronghai, and later showed that the land had been donated to the body. Such a transaction violated norms which state that land owned by a scheduled caste person can only be sold to another Dalit person. A non-Dalit is not allowed to purchase land from a Dalit. In rare cases, permission of the district magistrate concerned is mandatory for such transactions. A case is also pending against the trust in the revenue court (administrative), Ayodhya. “After camping in Ayodhya for three days, the probe team has returned to Lucknow. Land deals of the trust are being investigated. The probe team scanned all documents related with the land deals of the trust,” said the state government official quoted above. “The team also sought details of the ongoing case against the trust in the revenue court (administrative),” added the official, requesting anonymity. The probe team also received a complaint against a senior official posted in Ayodhya whose relatives allegedly purchased land in Manjha Barhata village, a senior official, seeking anonymity.According to officials, the parcel of land purchased by the official’s relatives belonged to three brothers. “Only two brothers had sold the land. The third brother had refused to sell his portion of the land. However, his land has been forcibly occupied by the official’s relatives,” said the above official. According to a senior official of the revenue department, the probe was almost complete and the final report was being prepared for presenting to the chief minister. The probe team headed by Radhey Shyam Mishra, special secretary (Revenue), comprises three members. Radhey Shyam Mishra, special secretary IN THE department of revenue was probing land deals of around 15 officials of the state government, their relatives and politicians in Manjha Barhata and Shahnawazpur villages and other parts of Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharishi-ramayan-vidyapeeth-trust-under-scanner-in-ayodhya-land-purchase-case-101640631234873.html
28-12-2021||India||BJP’s Surya withdraws his comment after row||Bengaluru South MP and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Tejasvi Surya on Monday said he was “unconditionally withdrawing” his comments on the ‘Ghar Wapsi’ of people who converted from the Hindu faith to other religions as a way to protect and review the religion.“At a program held in Udupi Sri Krishna Mutt two days ago, I spoke on the subject of ‘Hindu Revival in Bharat’. Certain statements from my speech have regrettably created an avoidable controversy. I therefore unconditionally withdraw the statements,” Surya tweeted.The BJP leader, however, didn’t offer an apology for his comment, which was demanded by the Opposition. Speaking on Saturday at the Udupi Krishna Mutt, the young MP said, “Those people who have left their mother religion and have for various socio, political and economic reasons throughout India’s History. Those who have gone out of the Hindu fold must be brought back in whole, brought back to the mother faith, to the Hindu faith.” Surya spoke for close to an hour in the coastal district. He further went on to attack the ideas of other religions. “Christianity and Islam are not mere religions. They are political imperial ideologies, and Hindus should understand this,” he said. He added that it was essential for Hindus to understand “who their enemies are”. “The first thing we need to do, identify who is trying to wipe our religion from the face of the earth. This is essential for survival for Hinduism and the Hindu race,” he said. The speech attracted adulation from the hard right and criticism from the larger society. “If everyone has a #GharWapsi as desired by the BJP, where exactly will they fit them in the varna system or will all be considered as Brahmins by default? That would be an interesting proposition for #GharWapsi,” Priyank Kharge, former minister and Congress legislator from Kalaburagi said in a post on Twitter. “And these persons “brought back” will be casteless, I assume? This whole Hinduism is under threat is a ploy by the Hindutva brigade to reestablish the caste hierarchical society,” Karti Chidambaram, Congress MP from Tamil Nadu, said. The statements come at a time when there have been attacks against the Christian community in Karnataka, which under the Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government, has been trying to implement contentious laws in the state. These include the recently mooted anti-conversion law, anti-cattle slaughter legislation and the special marriages act or which the right-wing calls ‘love jihad’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-surya-withdraws-his-comment-after-row-101640631233482.html
28-12-2021||India||Police complaint lodged against Bommai over anti-conversion bill||An activist on Monday lodged a police complaint against Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai and other Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators over the controversial “anti-conversion Bill” in Raichur district, people familiar with the development said. However, a senior officer of the Lingasugur police station in the district said no FIR (first information report) has been registered. Complainant Manaiah R, a Communist Party of India (CPI) leader, alleged that the BJP has portrayed the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities in a bad light in the controversial Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, also known as “anti-conversion Bill”. “The anti-conversion Bill has shown the people of these communities as vagabonds, beggars and portrayed them to be the ones who get converted to other religions with the lure of money, cloth, enticements and acts of donations,” reads the complaint, a copy of which HT has seen, seeking action under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. The Karnataka legislative assembly on December 23 passed the Bill, but it was not tabled in the Upper House of the state legislature. Besides Bommai, complainant Manaiah also named state’s home minister Araga Jnanendra, Assembly speaker Vishveshwara Kageri and all BJP MLAs in his complaint. A senior officer of the Lingasugur police station said no FIR has been registered, citing Article 212 of the Constitution that bars judiciary from probing into House proceedings. “We have given in writing to the complainant that a case can’t be registered. We don’t have any powers to book a case against the legislature as the constitution doesn’t allow it… If he wants to take action, he has to approach the speaker (who is named in the complaint),” said the police officer, requesting anonymity. As per Article 212, the “validity of any proceedings in the legislature of a state shall not be called in question on the ground of any alleged irregularity of procedure. No officer or member of the Legislature of a State in whom powers are vested by or under this Constitution for regulating procedure or the conduct of business, or for maintaining order, in the Legislature shall be subject to the jurisdiction of any court in respect of the exercise by him of those powers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-complaint-lodged-against-bommai-over-anti-conversion-bill-101640631232223.html
28-12-2021||India||Eateries stare at loss after Karnataka steps up Covid curbs||Pubs and restaurants in Bengaluru are staring at big losses end of the year after the Karnataka government imposed a night curfew and several other restrictions owing to the rising number of Covid cases and the Omicron variant scare. The night curfew between 10 pm to 5 am, applicable from December 28, has led to the cancellation of several special events planned for New Year’s Eve, resulting in major losses. The decision comes a day after the state reported seven more cases of Omicron infections, taking the tally in the southern state to 38. “From December 28 onwards, for about 10 days, we have called (imposed) a night curfew, invoking section 144 from night 10 pm to the next day morning 5 am,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said in Bengaluru. According to restaurants and pub owners, the government the order has forced them to cancel several bookings that were made weeks in advance. Amit Roy, a member of the National Restaurant Association of India and owner of restaurants like Watson’s and Slug in Bengaluru said that advance payment and travel ticket booking for artists are proving to be an additional cost to establishments that are already suffering from a lack of customers. “The industry creates so many jobs and we employ more people during the festive season. We are going to lose all that money now. Even though we have been generating revenue for the government, but now they are ignoring us,” said Roy. The state excise department, which collects taxes levied on the sale of Indian made liquor (IML) and beer, breached the target by ₹431 crores as of March 31, keeping up its performance despite the pandemic in 2021. The Yediyurappa regime revised its revenue targets from IML and beer in May after the state underwent a spell of lockdown to curb the spread of the infection. While the government fixed a target of 22,700 crores, the excise department has mopped up 23,131 crores by March 31, according to officials. “The government has got its revenues as spirits are sold in several places and the budget targets are achieved. But those who are dependent on alcohol licence and even veg restaurants... What should they do and how to recover losses? We were not given any concessions in anything?” Govindraj Hegde, president of the Karnataka Wine Merchants Association, said. Hedge said that they are not planning to approach the government to reconsider the situation. “There is no point,” he added. Veerendra Kamat, Secretary of Bruhat Bangalore Hotel Association said people would have to return home by 10 pm due to the night curfew, which would discourage them to visit restaurants in the first place. “Our revenues come during these festive seasons, and the government’s decision would affect us severely,” he said. Apart from the hospitality industry, taxi drivers’ associations have also questioned the government’s move. “Many industries were just bouncing back after facing hardships over the past two years, even ours. In such times, they are imposing restrictions. There are no restrictions on political rallies, but it is we who have to suffer,” said Tanveer Pasha, president of Ola, Taxi for Sure and Uber Owners and Drivers’ Association. The new restrictions came after chief minister Basavaraj Bommai chaired an urgent meeting with ministers, senior government officials and members of the technical advisory committee (TAC) on covid-19 in Bengaluru on Sunday to impose “preventive” measures to contain the growing number of infections. A senior BBMP official, who didn’t want to be quoted, said the authorities are trying to take precautions because of the new variant. “If we allow another super spreader event to happen, we could witness another wave. It is in the best interest of the industry at large; we have taken these decisions,” the official said.
28-12-2021||India||Scrutinise vigilance, corruption complaints to find ‘systemic lacunae’: CVC||The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) has asked the central government ministries, departments and organisations under its jurisdiction to ensure that every vigilance or corruption complaint received against their officials be scrutinised thoroughly to see if any “systemic lacunae” may have resulted in irregular acts by the suspects.The findings of such scrutinies should then be used to devise “systemic improvements” to stop a recurrence, CVC said in a new set of guidelines on handling corruption or vigilance complaints. The 25-page document also asks government departments to prepare case studies giving details of modus operandi in such corruption matters, along with corrective measures, which should be circulated in the organisation to educate or alert other officials.In case the systemic loopholes may have an impact across the industry, or on other organisations, the details may be shared with the administrative ministry or department, the regulatory authorities concerned, and with the Commission for issuing appropriate guidelines, CVC added. HT has reviewed the guidelines, issued on December 24, aimed at streamlining the process of receiving and handling thousands of vigilance or corruption complaints received from citizens every year. The guidelines say that complaints against government servants should be genuine and “not malicious, vexatious or frivolous” and should be based on verifiable facts. They should be specific with adequate evidence and should not be biased or based on personal grievances, the guidelines add. Apart from specifics on how the complaints should be framed and submitted, the guidelines specify that one particular issue should be raised in one complaint and that they should be about vigilance matters only.For the ministries and government departments, the guidelines ask that proper complaints registered to be maintained and each complaint be examined by the Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) of the respective organisation. In case of complaints against officials of central public sector enterprises, public sector banks etc, the initial decision about the existence of vigilance angle in a complaint may be taken by the CVO, according to the guidelines. The guidelines clearly state that complaints against board-level appointees of public sector organisations must be forwarded to the administrative ministry. “Under no circumstances, CVO of an organisation should initiate action against the board-level appointee of his organisation.” The CVC, however, can ask CVOs to investigate and report against board-level appointees. A senior official, who asked not to be named, said: “These will create awareness among the public so that they are able to become active participants in the process of eliminating corrupt and irregular activities from public life.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scrutinise-vigilance-corruption-complaints-to-find-systemic-lacunae-cvc-tells-govt-depts-101640631052949.html
28-12-2021||India||Expert panel recommends Covovax for emergency use||The subject expert committee (SEC) of the central drugs standard control organisation (CDSCO) on Monday recommended an emergency use authorisation be granted to Covovax, the second coronavirus vaccine manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which is expected to be available in large supplies once approved. According to a person aware of the process, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) will now issue a formal approval following which the Union government needs to include the dose in the immunisation programme. “The application was thoroughly examined and the expert panel has recommended it for restricted use in emergency situation,” said a government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.SEC recommendations are typically accepted within days. SII has the license to produce over two billion doses of the vaccine, and according to a government assessment in June, the company could provide millions of doses by December. The Covovax vaccine license and branding is similar to Covishield’s: both have been developed by foreign companies (US-based Novavax Inc in case of Covovax and UK’s University of Oxford and AstraZeneca) and have been licensed to SII for mass production in an effort to allow cheap and mass production.The World Health Organization on December 17 first approved Covovax, fulfilling an important precondition that may have been a part of the decision by the SEC on Monday. The vaccine is a protein subunit vaccine that delivers a full spike of the Sars-Cov-2 to train the immunity. It is the only other dose apart from the mRNA platform doses to demonstrate an efficacy of over 90% against symptomatic disease (against the original Sars-Cov-2 virus), but its production and development was delayed due to several factors, including raw material shortages.In May, this year, the company began at risk production of its second anti Covid vaccine, according to people familiar with the matter, even though there is no clarity on the number of doses that have been already manufactured.In March, the company chief executive officer, Adar Poonawalla, tweeted to inform that Covovax clinical trials had begun in India.On November 27, the subject expert committee evaluated and deliberated on SII’s application and sought additional data from the pharma company. The review of their application took time as the expert panel was looking at the opinion of other drugs regulators, especially the USFDA. SII submitted interim safety and immunogenicity data of phase 2/3 bridging clinical trial conducted in the country as well as interim clinical trial data of safety and efficacy from phase 3 clinical trials conducted in the UK and the US along with its application. The government recently permitted export of 20 million doses of Covovax to Indonesia produced in India by SII, as the vaccine was not yet approved for emergency use in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-panel-recommends-covovax-for-emergency-use-101640630932898.html
28-12-2021||India||Capt Amarinder calls on Amit Shah ahead of Punjab polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) (Sanyukt) and Captain Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) on Monday decided to form a six-member panel to finalise the seat sharing agreement as they formally announced their alliance for Punjab elections next year. The announcement was made by BJP election-incharge and Union minister Gajendra Shekhawat following a meeting with Singh, SAD (Sanyukt) chief Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, BJP president J P Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah at Shah’s residence. According to Shekhawat, a joint six-member committee comprising two leaders from each party will be formed to finalise the seat sharing pact. The parties will also issue a joint manifesto for the impending elections. “Today, we are formally announcing that we will contest the Punjab polls as alliance partners. A six-member committee, having two members from each party, would meet soon and start holding discussions to finalise the seat sharing as well as the manifesto of the alliance for the new Punjab,” Shekhawat said. This was Singh’s first meeting with Shah ever since the former announced floating the PLC on November 2. The former Punjab chief minister’s friend, Lt General TS Shergill (Retd), was also present in the meeting. “Met with Union home minister Amit Shah, BJP president JP Nadda, Punjab BJP incharge Gajendra Shekhawat and Akali Dal (Sanyukt) Sukhdev Dhindsa to discuss details of alliance. Look forward to working together to give Punjab a stable government,” he tweeted after the meeting. According to senior BJP leaders familiar with the developments, Singh and Dhindsa held detailed discussions on the rising political scenario in Punjab, especially after 22 farmer unions announced their decision to contest the elections. On Saturday, the unions that protested against the Centre’s now-repealed farm laws under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), announced a political outfit, the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM), to contest the state elections. The SKM has, however, decided to stay away from the polls. At Shah’s residence, a detailed discussion was also held on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s possible tour to Punjab in the first week of January, the BJP leaders said, seeking anonymity. Although no talks were held on the exact number of seats to be contested by each party, it is almost certain that the BJP will be the major partner in the alliance and may fight from at least 70 seats. The saffron party wants to contest on most of the urban and semi-urban seats where at least 45% of the electorate belongs to the Hindu and dalit communities, and other backward classes, the leaders said. With Akali stalwart Ranjeet Singh Brahmpura quitting SAD (Sanyukt) and returning to SAD last week, the BJP appears to be in no mood to give more than 8 to 10 seats to the party, the leaders added. 
28-12-2021||India||Pakistan summons Indian envoy over Haridwar hate speech||Pakistan on Monday summoned the senior-most Indian diplomat in Islamabad to convey its concerns over calls for violence against minorities by Hindu seers at a three-day event held in Haridwar. The charge d’affaires of the Indian high commission was summoned to the foreign ministry in Islamabad and asked to convey the Pakistan government’s serious concerns “over the widely reported open calls by Hindutva proponents for carrying out genocide of Indian Muslims”, an official statement said. Police in Haridwar registered a case on Thursday after videos of the three-day Dharma Sansad held during December 17-19 caused a furore as several seers participating in the event had called for violence against minorities. There was no response from the Indian side to the summoning of the diplomat by Pakistan’s Foreign Office. The Pakistani side impressed upon the Indian government that it was “highly reprehensible” that the seers who made the calls for violence had “neither expressed any regret nor the Indian government has condemned or taken any action against them so far”, the statement said. The reported hate speeches were viewed with grave concern by civil society and a cross-section of people in Pakistan, the statement said. A “toxic narrative against minorities, particularly Muslims and their persecution” has become a norm, and such incitement to violence had preceded riots in New Delhi in February 2020, the statement added. “India is expected to investigate these hate speeches and incidents of widespread violence against minorities, particularly Muslims and their houses of worship and take measures to stop such incidents from recurring in future,” the statement said. Pakistan asked India to ensure the safety, security and wellbeing of its minorities, including protection of their religious places and way of life. Relations between India and Pakistan are currently at an all-time low and the Indian side has summoned Pakistani diplomats in New Delhi several times in recent months to protest against instances of oppression of Pakistan’s Hindu minority and attacks on Hindu temples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-summons-indian-envoy-over-haridwar-hate-speech-101640630872141.html
28-12-2021||India||No plans yet to vaccinate kids younger than 15, say officials||India currently has no plans to vaccinate children younger than 15, a government official said, citing a risk profile that the administration considered before allowing the 15-18 age group to become eligible from next month.Several countries are inoculating younger children, in some cases as young as five, and there have been stronger calls to expand the universal coronavirus vaccination in light of the threat posed by the highly resistant and transmissible Omicron variant of the Sars-CoV-2.“Our decision is solely based on scientific data that shows that children are not impacted to a great extent by the virus anywhere in the world,” said the official, asking not to be named. “We were initially of the opinion that vaccination should only be allowed for adults, but felt that these young adults (in the 15-18 age group) were going to school or college, or moving around, and so could be carriers of the virus.” When asked why India’s policy was different from that of the United States or the United Kingdom – both countries are vaccinating children of ages 5 and above – the official said India’s decision was also based on the serological survey conducted in July. “It showed that 67.6% of the population had exposure, which also had a significant amount of children,” said the official. At the time, Indian Council of Medical Research chief Balram Bhargava said the survey included children between six and 17 years, and it was found that two-third of the general population above the age of six years had been infected already. “Why should we unnecessarily inflict vaccination on young children”” the official quoted above asked, contending that a purported race to vaccinate everyone could be a marketing gimmick.“Schools and colleges have also been open for some time now in different parts of the country and we are not seeing any surge of infections there. Neither are we seeing children falling seriously ill,” the official said. As the Centre and states move to tighten Covid regulations due to the spread of the Omicron variant, the government’s assessment indicates they are hopeful the threat is manageable. “Out of the 500 cases that have been detected of Omicron in India, half of them are fine and gone home. Forget serious illness, only 13% are symptomatic,” the official said. “If countries like South Africa teach us anything, it is that Omicron spreads rapidly and leads to a very quick increase in daily cases, but the fall is also equally rapid.” From a high of more than 45,000 cases a day, cases in South Africa fell to less than 15,000 new cases in the past 24 hours, data compiled by the government show. Officials also point out that of the around 186,000 known Omicron cases worldwide, there have been only 32 confirmed deaths.However, stricter precautions are necessary to put citizens on guard, they said. The government has begun holding a daily assessment of the situation.“Vaccination of children below 12 years may not be necessary as the number of severe disease is very small. Overall, children between 15-18 years have a slightly higher incidence of severe disease, as compared to below 15. So, at present, the priority is to complete double vaccination of adults, then boosters for the elderly and vulnerable, and eventually target young adults below 18 years,” said Sumit Ray, head of department, Critical Care Medicine, Holy Family Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-plans-yet-to-vaccinate-kids-younger-than-15-say-officials-101640630636924.html
28-12-2021||India||Check all cargo containers at ports for contraband: Amit Shah||Cargo containers at all Indian ports will have to be scanned for contraband, home minister Amit Shah said at a meeting Narco Coordination Centre (NCORD), according to people familiar with the development. Authorities at private and state-run ports will have to make arrangements for container scanners and related equipment, he instructed. Concerned authorities will also have to build pool of dog squads that can sniff out outlawed narcotics, he said. The Narcotics Control Bureau will frame a policy in this regard in coordination with the National Security Guard so that law enforcement agencies in all states have access to canine squads that can detect illegal drug consignments.The directions come three months after 3,000 kg of high quality Afghan heroin worth ₹210 billion was caught by the Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence at Gujarat’s Mundra Port run by Adani Group. HT exclusively reported on the recovery of the largest ever haul of illegal drugs on September 20. The government and security agencies have since then held a series of meetings to find ways to stop drug smuggling through containers, as it was deemed impossible for law enforcers to physically check every container entering the country. Among other key decisions taken on Monday in the NCORD meeting to deal with the drugs smuggling include forming a dedicated Anti-Narcotics Task Force under state police chiefs, which will work as state NCORD secretariats; putting in place an effective system to stop increasing use of Dark Net and cryptocurrency in illegal drugs trade; and using drones, satellites and other technology to keep a watch on illegal drug cultivation across the country, the home ministry said in a statement. NCORD was set up in 2016 under Director General of NCB for effective coordination among all drug law enforcement agencies and other stakeholders, and to also provide a common platform for discussions on drug trafficking related issues. Among those who attended the meeting on Monday included NCB chief S N Pradhan, home secretary Ajay Bhalla, state chief secretaries, chiefs of paramilitary forces and other central agencies. Shah also decided on Monday that a standing interministerial committee will be set up to curb misuse of dual-use precursor chemicals, which will be conducted by the ministry of chemical and fertilizers, and will have representatives from NCB, department of revenue and finance ministry. Along with this, it was decided that “to stop misuse of dual-use prescription medicines, a standing interministerial committee under ministry of health and family welfare should be formed which having experts from department of pharma, National Medical Commission, NCB and the industry,” the ministry statement added. The home minister further asked the agencies and states to prepare a narcotics training module at the national level so that police, central armed police forces, prosecutors and people from civil departments can be trained under it. He directed to form a central NCORD unit under NCB at the national level, which will coordinate all anti-drug efforts with the state units, as well as to have an integrated NCORD portal for information exchange. It was also decided that a national narcotics call centre called MANAS will be launched, elaborate awareness campaigns against drugs would be undertaken, and drug de-addiction centres will be established in all major prisons across the country. Illegal drugs worth ₹18.81 billion was seized between 2018 and 2021, which was three times the value of such drugs seized between 2011 and 2014, the home ministry said. Between 2018 and 2021, about 3.5 million kilograms of drugs were confiscated, while between 2011 and 2014, about 1.6 million kilogram of drugs were confiscated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/check-all-cargo-containers-at-ports-for-contraband-amit-shah-101640630524732.html
28-12-2021||India||Centre reviews Covid containment measures in 5 poll-bound states||Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Monday reviewed Covid-19 containment measures with officials of five election-bound states, a development that came hours after his meeting with the Election Commission over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus and the required arrangements to safely conduct the polls.On Monday afternoon, Bhushan briefed the election watchdog over the health care system’s preparedness ahead of the polls, saying there was no need for concern as the government was monitoring the situation, people aware of the matter said.Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur go to the polls early next year, with some experts expressing concerns over the large-scale polling process amid a gradual surge in Covid-19 cases.“The ministry conveyed the statistics as far as the rise in the number of cases is concerned; this was a preliminary assessment meeting,” a person aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity. “They have provided a brief of the situation that the commission will cross with whatever it has learnt from its field visits,” the person added.The person added that while the ministry said the number of cases was increasing, the surge was gradual and wasn’t a cause for worry at this point. “The ministry informed the commission that there have been far fewer deaths and the variant seems to be less fatal,” the person said.The Union health ministry said that Bhushan reviewed the vaccination status in the five states and advised them to speedily ramp up the inoculation of all eligible people.The meeting between Bhushan and the election watchdog was part of the commission’s agenda to keep a close watch on the spread of the pandemic, a second person said. “This is a preliminary meeting, the commission will continue to do more such meetings to keep a check on the situation,” the person added, asking not to be named.India reported about 150 fresh Omicron infections, with Goa and Manipur on Monday registering their first cases as the total tally of the new variant neared 600. With the surge in cases, the Centre has issued a fresh advisory to all states and Union territories, asking them not to let their guard down.The Election Commission has already visited Punjab, Goa and Uttarakhand and is scheduled to visit Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday for three-day consultations with stakeholders ahead of the elections. Uttar Pradesh, with 403 assembly constituencies, will be largest state elections to be held during the pandemic so far.The Allahabad high court on Thursday urged the Election Commission to consider postponing the polls in Uttar Pradesh, considering the increasing threat of the Omicron variant. The court asked the officials to stop political rallies in case the elections could not be postponed.Speaking after the visit to Uttarakhand last week, chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra said the commission would examine the court’s observation after analysing the situation in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-reviews-covid-containment-measures-in-5-poll-bound-states-101640630523207.html
28-12-2021||India||Kashi film festival begins with tinge of UP poll campaign||The first Kashi film festival was inaugurated on Monday with fanfare and the promise of attracting more filmmakers to the state, but what was not lost behind the glitz of the silver screen was the campaign mode that Uttar Pradesh is now in ahead of next year’s assembly elections.Gorakhpur MP Ravi Kishan and the state’s tourism, culture and religious affairs minister, Neelkanth Tiwari, who is also the MLA from Varanasi (south), spoke at the event about the achievements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath.The three-day festival will showcase films related to Varanasi including some which have been shot in the city. The opening film of the festival is Akshay Kumar starrer Toilet ek Prem Katha. Kishan, the first speaker at the inauguration ceremony, hailed the Adityanath government for a range of achievements, from several state new highways to schemes ensuring ration for all. “We have a saaf sutra (clean) government. It is a transparent government with no corruption charges,” he said. “In Yogi’s UP, there is vaccination, protection, and education,” he said.Tiwari, on his part, spoke about how the Modi government has given relief to “mothers and sisters” by bringing a law against Triple Talaq, in a reference to a passed in Parliament months after the Modi government returned to power for the second term in 2019. He narrated the plight of religious minorities in countries such as Pakistan, asked why they should not be eligible for citizenship in India.The state minister also credited PM Modi for “resolving the 500 years-old land dispute in Ayodhya to create Ram Mandir” and added that the Union government has given employment, housing, universal health care in reference to programmes such as MGNREGS, PM Awaj Yojna and Ayushman Bharat.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which won an unprecedented 312 seats in the 2017 assembly elections is pushing to break that record in the face of a challenge for former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav of the Samajwadi Party.Speaking about the push for promoting UP as a film-making destination, Kishan said that Adityanath was making a film city which would be bigger than Hyderabad’s Ramoji studio. The new Noida film city, announced by the UP government in 2021, will span 1000 acres and is expected to be completed by 2024. 
28-12-2021||India||Kanpur perfume seller sent to 14 day judicial custody||Officials found 23kg gold, ₹17 crore in cash and 600 kg of illegally procured sandalwood in their 80-hour search at businessman Piyush Jain’s four properties in Kannauj, a government statement said on Monday, as the controversial perfume trader was sent to judicial custody for 14 days.The Directorate of GST Intelligence (DGGI) also said in its statement that the sandalwood was worth ₹6 crore, and that the recovery in Kannauj was in addition to the ₹177.45 crore that the Central GST, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) and the Income Tax department found between December 23 and 24 in Kanpur. Jain was arrested on Sunday. On Monday, teh court of the metropolitan magistrate (corporation), Kanpur, remanded him in judicial custody for 14 days after rejecting the Central GST’s plea for his remand. DGGI roped in the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) for further investigation as the gold recovered had foreign markings, the statement said.The Central GST informed the court that the search was continuing in Kannauj. It also informed the court that it wanted to produce Jain in a CGST court in Ahmedabad.DGGI said Jain confessed that the cash recovered from his house was related to the sale of goods without paying GST. “The evidence is overwhelming to show that massive tax evasion by Piyush Jain and his Odochem Industries,” the DGGI statement said.Piyush Jain’s lawyer Subodh Malviya said he was remanded in judicial custody.The lawyer filed an application with the CGST, informing them that the Jains were ready to pay the penalty that accrues to around ₹52 crore. During the hearing, Malviya informed the court that Jain should be released on this ground. The public prosecutor told the court that searches on Jain’s premises in Kannauj were going on and the teams recovered gold from there.Jain’s neighbours said he kept a low profile in the area and use his rickety Bajaj Super scooter, which is parked inside his house, for getting around the city. “I never saw him in Kannauj moving in cars like other perfume businessmen do,” said a neighbour of Jain, requesting anonymity .Another neighbour said Jain showed up at weddings in rubber slippers or in shabby clothes, sometimes even pyjamas. “He isn’t social at all, hardly makes relations or converses in the neighbourhood. When he was in Kannauj, he and others in the family used to keep to themselves,” said the second neighbour, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-perfume-seller-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody-101640630394362.html
28-12-2021||India||Modi to visit UAE in Jan to bolster bilateral ties: Officials||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to make his first foreign visit in 2022 to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in early January to chart a course to take forward the burgeoning relations between the two countries, people familiar with the matter said on Monday. India and the UAE will be commemorating the 50th anniversary of diplomatic ties next year, and the visit is expected to focus on both deepening cooperation and looking for new areas for collaboration, the above-mentioned people said. Several agreements in different areas are likely to be signed during the visit. The dates for what is anticipated to be a brief visit are yet to be finalised by the two countries, though it is expected that the prime minister could travel to the UAE around January 6, the people said. Modi is also expected to visit the India Pavilion at the Dubai Expo, which has attracted more than 604,000 visitors in nearly three months. The pavilion has showcased the Indian start-up ecosystem through initiatives such as “Elevate”, which displays unconventional solutions created by 500 Indian start-ups, and also highlighted investment opportunities in sectors such as new and renewable energy, space, urban and rural development, oil and gas, textiles and education. India and the UAE are also engaged in negotiations for a comprehensive economic partnership agreement (CEPA) and are hoping to complete the talks by March next year. The issue is expected to figure during the prime minister’s visit, the people said. The strong bilateral ties between India and UAE got a boost when Modi visited the Emirates in August 2015, marking the beginning of a new strategic partnership between the two sides. Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the crown prince of Abu Dhabi and deputy supreme commander of the UAE armed forces, was the chief guest at the Republic day celebrations in January 2017. India and the UAE are also now part of a new grouping, which includes the US and Israel and is working on economic and business collaboration. The foreign ministers of the four countries are expected to hold their first in-person meeting in March to take forward an agenda focused on economic and infrastructure projects. The UAE is home to more than three million Indians who are a key source of remittances. India has been pushing countries in West Asia to facilitate the return of Indian workers who had come home at the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Defence and security ties between India and the UAE have also grown in recent years. The Indian Army chief, Gen MM Naravane, made the first-ever visit by an army chief to the UAE in December last year, followed by Indian Air Force chief, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, who visited the emirates in July this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-visit-uae-in-jan-to-bolster-bilateral-tiesofficials-101640630392459.html
28-12-2021||India||‘Don’t let guard down’: Centre cautions states amid Omicron concerns||New Delhi Amid growing concerns of spread of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, the Centre on Monday advised all states and Union territories (UTs) to not let their guard down, and consider imposing need-based restrictions ahead of new year celebrations.All states and UTs need to implement a “normative framework” for taking evidence-based containment measures at district and local level till January 31, home secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote in a letter. “I would like to reiterate that all the states and UTs must observe all precautions, and not let the guard down. Local and district administration, based on the normative framework and assessment of the situation, should promptly take appropriate containment measures. States may consider imposing need based, local curbs and restrictions, to control the crowd during the festive season,” Bhalla said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the status of Covid-19, the Omicron variant and preparedness of health systems across the country on December 23, following which he directed that everyone should maintain a high level of vigil and alertness, the home secretary said. Bhalla asked the states and UTs to refer to his earlier note, issued on December 21, which focuses on the fivefold strategy of Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour to avoid any surge in Covid-19 cases, especially keeping in view the Omicron variant. The national directives Covid-19 management, such as wearing of masks and practising social distancing, shall continue to be followed throughout the country, the letter said. “For the enforcement of social distancing, states, UTs, may as far as possible, use the provisions of Section 144 (prohibiting gathering of four or more people in a specified area) of CrPC,” it added. According to the directive, any person violating these measures will be “liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, besides legal action under Section 188 of CrPC, and other legal provisions, as applicable.” In his advisory last week, Bhalla said a normative framework has been provided and, with the presence of the Delta variant and detection of Omicron cases in many states, there is need for greater foresight, data analysis, dynamic decision making, and strict and prompt containment actions at the local and district levels, based on the assessment of the situation.The Centre emphasised the need to strengthen the health systems besides ensuring the installation and proper functioning of oxygen supply equipment.In a bid to prevent spread of any misinformation in respect of the new variant, all states and UTs should proactively and regularly hold media briefings at the highest level to disseminate correct information, Bhalla said. The country has so far recorded 578 cases of the Omicron variant and, with the new year celebrations approaching, experts fear the caseload may rise. Several states like Delhi, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have already reinforced restrictions like night movement and limits on large gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-let-guard-down-centre-cautions-states-amid-omicron-concerns-101640630278498.html
28-12-2021||India||Police yet to summon accused in Haridwar hate speech case||Haridwar police is yet to summon the three people named in a complaint on hate speech during a religious gathering as it is “gathering more evidence by verifying the videos of the event.” “Police haven’t yet send notices to the three named accused so far in the case to record their statements,” said inspector Rakendra Kataith, station house officer of Haridwar Kotwali police station, where a case was registered on December 23. “The probe in the case is ongoing, with the police gathering more evidence against the accused by verifying the videos of the speeches made by them during the event.” Police had registered a case under section 153 (a) of the India Penal Code (promoting disharmony, enmity or feelings of hatred) against Jitendra Narayan Tyagi (formerly Waseem Rizwi) and other unidentified persons at Haridwar Kotwali police station after videos of the three-day Dharma Sansad held from December 17-19 caused a furore on social media, as participating religious leaders called for violence against minorities. One of the participants even said he “wished he could become Nathuram Godse with a revolver and pump all six bullets in former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s chest.”Later on December 25, police added names of two more accused – Annapurna Maa and general secretary of Hindu Mahasabha Dharamdas Maharaj, both hailing from Haridwar. The case is being investigated by a sub-inspector at Kotwali police station.“Such events and hate speeches won’t be tolerated,” Uttarakhand’s director general of police Ashok Kumar had said on December 24, assuring legal action against the accused. “Police had already registered a case on the basis of a complaint lodged by one Gulbahar Khan, in which only Tyagi was named, while others were unidentified,” Kumar had said. “However, police will be adding more names to the case as the probe unfolds.”
28-12-2021||India||Centre to scale up skill programme: Officials||The Centre is scaling up its existing skill development training programmes to allow workers from India to tap work opportunities abroad. In line with the government’s intent, the national skill development corporation under the ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship has launched a new programme TEJAS to train, certify and place 10,000 Indian workers in the United Arab Emirates in one year in partnership with some of the leading employers in the region, officials said on Monday.According to an official of the Union ministry for skill development and entrepreneurship, which is the nodal ministry for overseeing skilling programmes, the international workforce mobility market opportunity for India is estimated to be 3.6 million in the next five years, of which 2.6 million Indians can be potentially placed in the GCC (Gulf cooperation council) countries, Europe, Australia, Canada, Russia and Malaysia.Through skilling, up-skilling and re-skilling initiatives under TEJAS, the government is aiming to prepare a trained workforce in both the blue-collar and the white-collar job sectors.“The programme will converge with the existing skill development programmes and leverage training infrastructure of ITIs, Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendra and Skill training institutes operating under the Central and state governments to ensure sourcing and supply of potential candidates,” said the official.Minister of state for skill development and entrepreneurship, Rajeev Chandrasekhar has held discussions with officials as well as top employers in the UAE for finalising the terms of the program, said the official quoted above.On the work being done to revamp the skilling programmes, Chandrasekhar said, “PM [Narendra] Modi has emphasised the need for upskilling digital skills in a very altered post-Covid world.”Work opportunities have been identified in sectors such as construction and facility management which includes electricians, plumbers and welders; in the logistics and transport sector; food and beverages; retail; IT; finance and healthcare sectors.Mobilisation of candidates will be done with the help of .skill development missions and the network of ITIs, PMKK, and colleges.
28-12-2021||India||Unlike Opposition, BJP is focussed on inclusive growth: PM Modi in HP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday hit out at political opponents and said the Bharatiya Janata Party was focussed on inclusive development while opposition parties were mired in dynastic politics and selfish family interests.Speaking in Himachal Pradesh after inaugurating a raft of projects, Modi tweaked his party’s poll slogan of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas (inclusive development for all) and extolled the benefits of the BJP’s double-engine government, a reference to the party being in power both in the state and at the Centre.Modi said there were two models of governance in the country: “Sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas and sabka prayas (inclusive development, everyone’s trust and effort)” and “khud ka swarth, parivaar ka swarth and parivar ka vikas (self interest, familial interest and family’s development)”.“Working on the first model, the Himachal Pradesh government not only implemented various schemes for the welfare of people of the state but also expanded Centre-sponsored schemes,” he said, adding the hill state also outperformed other states in vaccinating its adult population against Covid-19.He said the other model was about self-interest and vote bank. “This could be checked from vaccination data of the states where they are running a government.”The proponents of the second model made Himachal Pradesh wait for decades, he said. “That is why, Atal Tunnel was delayed which was completed by us. Similarly, Renuka Dam was also delayed for three decades.”State Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore, however, termed Modi’s remarks as “rhetoric”.“Congress is the party that fought for independence of the country. Our leaders have laid their life for nation. All this rhetoric is meaningless,” he said.Himachal Pradesh goes to the polls late next year and the BJP faced some reverses in recent bypolls to three assembly seats and the Mandi Lok Sabha seat. Monday also marked four years of the Jai Ram Thakur government.Modi praised the Himachal Pradesh government for “valiantly fighting” the pandemic while ensuring that the pace of development remained unaffected.“Today, the Himachal Pradesh government has completed four years. During its tenure, the government fought against Covid-19 and simultaneously made sure that development works don’t stop,” he said.On Monday, the prime minister inaugurated 111MW Sawra-Kuddu Hydro Electric Project (HEP) constructed with an outlay of ₹2,081.60 crore and laid the foundation stones of the Renukaji Dam Project ( ₹6,946 crore), 210MW Luhri Stage-I ( ₹1,811 crore) and 66MW Dhaulasidh Power Project ( ₹688 crore). He also presided over the second groundbreaking ceremony of projects worth ₹28,197 crore in the state.Clad in a traditional Himachali cap, Modi stressed that ease of living was a priority of his government.“Our ease of living model is helping conservation of environment and the new hydropower projects, of which inauguration or foundation stones were laid today, is one step forward towards a climate-friendly new India,” he said.“The whole world is praising India for how our country is accelerating development while saving the environment by making full use of every resource of renewable energy.”He said India has achieved 40% installed electricity from non-fossil resources, which was set for 2030, which reflects the rapid pace at which India is working in this direction.“India had set a target in 2016 to meet 40% of its installed electricity capacity from non-fossil energy sources by 2030. Today every Indian will be proud that India has achieved this goal in November this year itself,” said Modi.Congratulating CM Thakur, Modi said despite cold weather conditions, the crowd at the rally showed that the people were satisfied with the achievements of the state government.Modi said he had an emotional relation with the land and mountains of Himachal Pradesh that played a key role in giving a direction to his life. He added that the government was alert about the damage caused to the mountains due to plastic.“Along with the nationwide campaign against single-use plastic, our government is also working on plastic waste management,” he said, urging tourists to help keep Himachal Pradesh clean and plastic-free.Stating that Himachal Pradesh had a vast potential for industrial development, Modi said the government was focusing on food processing, farming, pharma sector and tourism sector.“Government is promoting the food sector while lakhs of Himachal farmers have already adopted chemical-free natural farming,” he said, while urging farmers from other states to emulate their Himachal brethren. “If India is today called the pharmacy of the world, Himachal is the force behind it,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlike-opposition-bjp-is-focussed-on-inclusive-growth-pm-modi-in-himachal-pradesh-101640630271925.html
28-12-2021||India||Bengal-Centre row over Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity||A political controversy broke out on Monday over the Centre’s decision, taken on December 25, to not renew the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) licence of Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity (MoC) with Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressing shock, and the Union government clarifying its stand.The row began when Banerjee alleged that bank accounts of Mother Teresa’s foundation were frozen by the central government, a claim instantly denied by the Union ministry of home affairs, which regulates FCRA.“Shocked to hear that on Christmas, Union Ministry froze all bank accounts of Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity in India! Their 22,000 patients & employees have been left without food & medicines. While the law is paramount, humanitarian efforts must not be compromised,” Banerjee tweeted.The Missionaries of Charity is a Catholic religious congregation established in 1950 by Mother Teresa.Responding to the allegation, the Union government issued a statement saying the request to freeze Missionaries of Charity (MOC) accounts was made by the foundation itself to the State Bank of India. It acknowledged, however, that the renewal of FCRA registration of MoC was refused on December 25, citing “adverse inputs”, and that it has not yet applied for a review.“The application under Foreign Contribution Regulation Act for the renewal of FCRA registration of Missionaries of Charity (MoC) was refused on December 25, 2021, for not meeting the eligibility conditions under FCRA 2010 and Foreign Contribution Regulation Rules (FCRR) 2011. No request/revision application has been received from Missionaries of Charity for review of this refusal of renewal,” the ministry of home affairs said.The registration of Missionaries of Charity, under FCRA vide Registration No 147120001, was valid up to October 31, 2021, according to the ministry. It added that the validity was subsequently extended to December 31, 2021, along with other FCRA associations whose renewal applications were pending renewal.However, the ministry added, while considering the MoC’s renewal application, “some adverse inputs were noticed”. “In consideration of these inputs on record, the renewal application of MoC was not approved,” it said.Asked about the nature of “adverse inputs”, ministry officials declined to give further details.The government amended the FCRA in September 2020 to make the law stricter. A new provision in the law mandated that non-government organisations receiving foreign funding will have to operate bank accounts in State Bank of India in New Delhi only.The Missionaries of Charity, when asked about the controversy on Monday, said everything was fine.“We would like to clarify that the FCRA registration of the Missionaries of Charity has neither been suspended nor cancelled. Further there is no freeze ordered by the ministry of home affairs on any of our bank accounts. We have been informed that our FCRA renewal application has not been approved. Therefore, as a measure to ensure there is no lapse, we have asked our centres not to operate any of the FC accounts until the matter is resolved,” it said in a statement.The Trinamool Congress (TMC), however, alleged that the Centre was putting pressure on the organisation.“First the government of India intimidates. For weeks, right through to December 25. And then they pile on the pressure to extract this Shame on the MHA and its shameless damage control tactics,” tweeted Derek O’Brien, TMC Rajya Sabha MP.The Archdiocese of Kolkata condemned the Centre’s decision, though its statement mentioned the freezing of accounts.“In freezing the bank accounts of Missionaries of Charity Sisters and Brothers congregations, government agencies have given a cruel Christmas gift to the poorest of the poor,” tweeted Father Dominic Gomes, vicar general of the Archdiocese of the Roman Catholic Church.Secretary of Communist Party of India (Marxist), Surjya Kanta Mishra, also criticised the move on the same grounds. ““Yesterday, Christmas Day the Union Ministry froze all bank accounts of Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity. The govt has frozen all the accounts in India, including cash in hand. Their 22,000 patients, including employees, are left without food and medicines,” he tweeted.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hit out at Banerjee.“Poorly informed Mamata Banerjee gets it wrong, like always. This is what happens when you have an eye on Goa polls and religious polarisation and not governance is the only calling card,” Amit Malviya, BJP’s co-incharge of West Bengal, said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengalcentre-row-over-mother-teresa-s-missionaries-of-charity-101640630212372.html
28-12-2021||India||Variant watch: Time to rethink Covid metrics, open up India data||To recap the impressive speed at which scientists responded to the Omicron variant, there are three critical things to know. First, it spreads faster than any Sars-CoV-2 variant yet – a UK study by Imperial College London estimated that for every infection the Delta variant led to, Omicron led to three. Second, it is highly resistant to antibodies from a past infection or vaccination, but only as far as symptomatic disease was concerned. The risk of reinfection with Omicron rose 5.4-fold compared to Delta.But, and the third important point, is that it is significantly less likely to cause severe disease. Some of it could be due to its inherent trait – Imperial College researchers estimate a 0-30% reduction in risk for unvaccinated, previously uninfected people needing to go to a hospital. But most of it, as estimated by South African researchers, is likely due to a past infection or vaccination. On average, the UK study found the risk of needing hospital care to be almost halved.There are some associated insights too, like the two studies by researchers in Hong Kong, Cambridge and Japan that found the Omicron variant replicating more in the bronchus and nasal airways, but was significantly less potent in infecting the lungs. The import, then, is that Omicron is a threat because of the speed at which it spreads even though it is likely to cause milder disease. To look at it differently, if Delta variant caused 100 infections in, say, a week and led to four hospitalisations, Omicron would likely cause 300 infections with six hospitalisations in the same period. In the second week, given what we know of the transmissibility, this number will grow to eight Delta hospitalisations (from 200 infections) and 18 Omicron hospitalisations (from 900 infections). At a population scale, these numbers can be much larger with more confounders. In a population with more past immunity or a more recent vaccination surge, Omicron may cause much fewer hospitalisations. Conversely, a region not exposed to past waves or one where vaccines have waned, the Omicron wave may be more severe. Reorienting perspectivesThe uncertainties make the case for an outbreak to now be assessed more on hospitalisation and fatality rates instead of case rates, experts say. “We have to do a shift. For two years, infections always preceded hospitalisations which preceded deaths… it was largely the unvaccinated people getting infections then. Omicron changes that. We are moving through a phase where large populations that are vaccinated gets infected, be unwell, and bounce back after a few days. I no longer think that infections should be the major metric – sure, we should continue tracking it, especially in unvaccinated people – but we must focus on hospitalisation and deaths now,” said Ashish Jha, the dean of the Brown University School of Public Health, in an interview with ABC News on Sunday.In India, there is no official figure on hospitalisations. The Union health ministry issues a daily bulletin with cases, active cases, and testing bulletin, but offers no figures on how many people with Covid-19 were admitted to a medical care facility. In terms of states, only some, like Delhi, give hospitalisation data in their state-specific daily bulletin. A second expert too recently said this was problematic. “The fact that we are not tracking hospitalisations is going to become very critical in coming months. For example, if Omicron, which is highly transmissible, truly leads to lot of mild infections and we have nothing to worry about, we need to know that,” Bhramar Mukherjee, head of biostatistics at University of Michigan and an epidemiologist who has modelled India’s outbreak, in an interview with The Wire. Mukherjee added that with the lack of this data, restrictions based simply on surging cases can turn into overkill or unvaccinated people may not be aware of the higher risk they will be at. India’s data hurdleThe Indian-origin University of Michigan epidemiologist said predicting India’s outbreak is difficult because of “data denial, data opacity and data paucity”. “What is the breakdown of cases, hospitalisation and deaths, across age, sex and now vaccination status? I cannot find it,” she said during the interview. Last week, the routine press briefing on Covid-19 offered a brief illustration how misrepresented data could be problematic. One of the figures shared by the officials in a slide show claimed 91% of the known cases of Omicron were in fully vaccinated people – without accounting for significant caveats in the fine print. The fine print said vaccination details of 73 of the 183 samples were not available, which meant that in reality, only 47% were know to be fully vaccinated. But the main figures were reported as is, leading at least one respected civil society member to share photographs of a newspaper headline to falsely claim the “vaccinated were more likely to get infected”. Even if it were indeed 91%, a second major caveat was mentioned, either by the government or in the particular report: the large proportion of vaccinated people is simply a testing bias artefact. All international travellers, who are mostly likely to be vaccinated, are tested even if they are asymptomatic, and all positive samples are sequenced for their genome. Omicron changes the epidemic equation significantly. To understand that, all elements of the equation must first be reported and reported faithfully.
28-12-2021||India||Experts concerned as NCR draft regional plan 2041 doesn’t mention Aravalli range||A draft plan approved by the National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB) does not mention the Aravallis and tributaries of the Yamuna and Ganga in “natural zones”, triggering concerns among experts, who say that such a move will let states be selective about the areas they want to conserve.Under the NCR Regional Plan 2021, which is in force since 2005, nearly the entire Aravalli range in Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan is protected, with no construction allowed in the area.While the Draft Regional Plan 2041 states that a “natural zone” is an area with features such as mountains, hills, rivers and water bodies, experts said that if implemented, it would leave out a large portion of the Arvallis from the protected zone. The draft plan was published by NCRPB on its website on December 9, with the board seeking public comments on it.According to the draft, the “natural zones” will be identified by states using revenue records and the ground situation.Chetan Agarwal, an environment analyst based in Gurugram, said that state governments have in the past tried to dilute the definition of the Aravallis. “Haryana has claimed that there are no Aravallis in Haryana records since 2016, but this was not accepted by the NCRPB earlier. In this context, the deletion of the ‘Aravallis’ from the definition of areas included in the Natural Conservation Zone in the new draft Regional Plan 2041 is troubling. This will have adverse implications for the air quality, groundwater recharge, forest cover and wildlife habitat in Delhi, Gurugram and Faridabad,” said Agarwal.An NCRPB official, however, said: “We have clearly stated which natural features fall in the natural zones and we have asked states to identify and notify these areas. State governments are answerable to their people. How can they leave out some areas? This time, we haven’t relied on satellite imagery and haven’t conducted any ground truthing because it’s a very resource intensive exercise. We have instead asked states to conduct ground-truthing exercises. This is why we haven’t named any places.”The current regional plan identifies the Aravalli ridge in Delhi, Rajasthan and Haryana, forest areas, Yamuna, Ganga, Kali, Hindon, Sahibi and major lakes such as Badkal, Suraj Kund and Damdama as protected zones, where construction is not allowed. These areas have been further detailed in the sub-regional and development plans.The draft plan, however, does not name the areas and says mountains, hills, rivers, water bodies, forests notified under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, wildlife sanctuaries notified under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 and eco-sensitive zones, wetlands and conservation under the Environment Protection Act, 1986 will be declared as “natural zones”. It also says that the extent of natural features under the zones will be identified. Experts say this will leave room for the states to be able to leave out large chunks from the conservation areas.“The previous regional plan was very clear and detailed as far as natural conservation zones. Of course, this leaves much to interpretation by states... The 0.5% restriction on construction has been made toothless as the Aravalli areas to which it is applicable have been removed. The regional plan is a guiding document for sub-regional plans that states develop. But if the guiding document itself is diluted, then obviously states can dilute further,” said Rahul Choudhary, environmental lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-concerned-as-ncr-draft-regional-plan-2041-doesn-t-mention-aravalli-range-101640630031207.html
28-12-2021||India||Kerala tops Niti’s health index for 4th year in a row||Kerala is the best among India’s states in providing healthcare, while Uttar Pradesh is at the bottom of the table among big states, the Niti Aayog’s fourth State Health Index showed on Monday.The country’s most populous state, however, was adjudged the best in improving its performance, followed by Assam and Telangana. Kerala, which topped the overall health performance index for the fourth consecutive time, stood 12th on that count.The report – ‘Healthy States, Progressive India’– considers 15-24 indicators including neonatal mortality rate (NMR), sex ratio at birth, maternal mortality rate, under 5 mortality rate (U5MR) and governance, among others, which are grouped in the three domains of health outcomes, governance and key processes.The states are divided based on their size (19 big and eight small states) and Union territories.The federal think tank has prepared the report with technical assistance from the World Bank, and in consultation with the health ministry. It compared performance for financial year 2019-20 in comparison to 2018-19.Among the eight smaller states, Mizoram topped the list, while Nagaland was at the bottom of the table in overall performance. In the overall health performance of Union territories, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and Daman and Diu topped the list, while Delhi ranked fifth.“States are beginning to take cognizance of indices such as the State Health Index and use them in their policymaking and resource allocation,” said Rajiv Kumar, vice-chairman, Niti Aayog.The incremental performance of states is crucial as it indicates efforts made by them to address challenges, officials said. While there is no change in the overall performance of states such as Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Bihar since last year, they have shown some improvement, the official said, requesting anonymity.Similarly, among the Union territories, the national capital emerged as the top performer in terms of improved performance, registering an incremental change of 9.7 percentage points from last year’s index.“Our objective through this index is to not just look at the states’ historical performance, but also their incremental performance. The index encourages healthy competition and cross-learning among states and UTs,” said Amitabh Kant, chief executive officer of Niti Aayog.This report is important as the health ministry has linked the index to incentives to states and Union territories under the National Health Mission, a Niti Aayog official said.“States which have shown improvement in incremental performance will get higher incentives under the NHM. Some states such as Haryana, Karnataka, Himachal Pradesh, etc., indicate an overall better health system, but have shown a negative incremental performance,” the official said, declining to be named.“There is an urgent need to accelerate efforts to narrow the performance gap between the states/UTs as 50% of the larger states, 50% of smaller states and 43% of the UTs did not even reach the halfway mark in terms of the Composite Overall Index Score (100),” the report said.Telangana, Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Mizoram and Tripura are the only states to have shown improvement both in overall and incremental performances.The report pointed out that Rajasthan was the weakest performer both in terms of Overall Performance and Incremental Performance.The performance of states on key health indicators such as U5MR and NMR reflect the need for improvement. For instance, NMR, which should be 12 or less per 1,000 births, is between five and 13 in only five states, namely , Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab and Tamil Nadu.“All states registered a reduction in NMR or its level remained the same during 2014 to 2018, except Chhattisgarh, where the number of neonatal deaths per 1,000 live births increased from 28 to 29. This is an important trend as NMR reflects the availability and quality of prenatal, intrapartum and neonatal services,” the report read.All the larger states recorded a reduction in U5MR between 2014 and 2018, a critical indicator for a child’s survival, the report said. “Kerala continued to be the best performing state with the lowest U5MR of 13 per 1,000 live births in 2014 and 10 per 1,000 live births in 2018,” it said.Assam and Madhya Pradesh are the worst performers with U5MR of 66 and 56 per 1,000 live births, respectively, according to the report.A Niti Aayog official said, “Uttar Pradesh has shown a marked improvement in the performance in majority of the indicators. There has been improvement in its performance with respect to the intermediate health outcome indicators such as full immunisation coverage, total case notification of TB, TB treatment success rate etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-tops-niti-s-health-index-for-4th-year-in-a-row-101640629971974.html
28-12-2021||India||Cases 331: Night curfew begins, Delhi in huddle over fresh curbs||The night lockdown began in the national capital on Monday as the Covid-19 case count continued to tick upwards with 331 new cases, deepening concerns within the Delhi administration that is deliberating on whether to impose additional restrictions planned under its graded response action plan (Grap).The number of active cases has now surpassed 1,300 and the test positivity rate has been over 0.5% for two straight days. As on Monday, there were 266 people with Covid-19 admitted to hospitals.The positivity rate has breached one of the thresholds meant to activate stricter curbs -- which, experts said, would be disproportionate for the current situation -- such as shutting schools and cinema halls, tighter restrictions on how many people can go to a private office, ride a taxi or in the Metro, and which shops can remain open in markets and malls.Officials aware of the discussions in the government said these restrictions -- part of the first level of curbs classified as Yellow Alert -- have not been taken yet due to economic considerations, but they remain on the table. “The government has already imposed night curfew and restrictions on celebrations have already been imposed. A balance needs to be maintained between curbs for Covid management and the employment and economic interests of people,” a senior official in the government said, asking not to be named.This person pointed out that most of the existing Covid-19 beds were unoccupied, the active caseload was 1,300 – below the 1,500 active cases for the Yellow Alert threshold – and the positivity rate was under 1%.A second top government official, asking not to be named, said the government is closely monitoring how the outbreak is unfolding and a decision on further curbs will be taken soon.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) issued detailed order for the night curfew, specifying what activities cannot be carried out and the exemptions that apply. Going for essential services and to buy routine household supplies on foot are some of the activities that can be carried out during the 11pm-5am night curfew hours.Experts said the current degree of curbs were enough at the moment. Suneela Garg, professor and a member Lancet Commission Covid India Task Force, said: “Since it is not a panic situation yet, no immediate implementation of Grap is not a cause of worry. Delhi’s current Covid situation appears to be under control as of now. The government has already imposed a night curfew and banned New Year celebrations to check the spread of coronavirus. Omicron cases are mild and recovery rate is very high, which is why not enforcing Grap provisions immediately will not lead to long-term harm.”A DDMA officer, who did not want to be named, said a decision on the Grap measures is likely to be taken on Tuesday after further discussions and monitoring. “Some of the curbs under the ‘Yellow Alert’ may be imposed. It is a developing situation, so saying anything in definite terms is difficult now,” this person said, asking not to be named.Grap spells out four different levels of economic restrictions that come into force at different levels of positivity rate. The first Yellow Alert comes into force when the positivity rate breaches 0.5% mark and stays above it for two consecutive days, and the highest Red Alert comes into force if positivity rate goes above 5%.A second expert said the positivity rate metric may not be the correct yardstick to implement strict curbs. “The occupancy of Covid-19 beds is currently negligible. The government should monitor the situation and impose Covid-19 appropriate behaviour among general public strictly which is necessary to check the spread of coronavirus, including Omicron variant,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.Chamber of Trade and Industry wrote a letter to DDMA on Monday seeking relief for trade and businesses because the rising Covid cases have raised concerns.CTI chairman Brijesh Goyal said the restrictions under Yellow Alert should not be immediately implemented because cumulative new positive cases for the last seven days is below 1,500 and beds occupancy is very low. “40 Omicron patients have been cured without oxygen, ICU, steroids and remdesivir and only five patients have shown minor symptoms. It seems that the situation has not worsened yet,” Goyal said. CTI appealed to different trade associations to strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.Delhi Gym Association vice president Chirag Sethi said the association has approached Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. “The gyms should not be closed under Grap on the basis of the current Covid positivity rate situation because the industry has already suffered a lot during the past few months. DDMA must also consider the total number of cases and the occupancy of oxygen beds in Delhi before imposing further curbs,” Sethi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-331-night-curfew-begins-delhi-in-huddle-over-fresh-curbs-101640629971231.html
28-12-2021||India||15+ can register for vaccines from Jan, set to get Covaxin||All those born on 2007 or earlier will be able to register from January 1 on the government’s CoWIN portal, according to RS Sharma, chief executive of National Health Authority that oversees the CoWIN system.“The system is being modified accordingly,” he said. “Students can make use of their ID cards for the purpose of registration.”The eligible children will be given Covaxin as it has an emergency use listing by the global health agency, the ministry said. India’s drugs regulator has also approved a second vaccine for use in ages 12 and above called ZyCoV-D, a dose made by Gujarat-based Zydus Healthcare. ZyCoV-D is yet to be included in the immunisation programme.The elderly with co-morbidities, and health and front line workers will be able to apply for the third precautionary dose through their existing CoWIN account, or at vaccination centres, the guidelines said.The CoWIN portal, the technological backbone of the country’s inoculation drive, will be suitably modified to send text messages to all applicants on their registered phone numbers once they become eligible.“The system will register if nine months from the second dose have been passed, both for people above 60 with co-morbidities, and health and front line workers,” Sharma said.The move to expand India’s Covid-19 immunisation campaign came amid calls to strengthen the fight against new variants such as Omicron, which has shown a substantial drop in vaccine efficacy against symptomatic disease. Protection against severe disease and hospitalisation is likely to remain durable.The new variant of concern is highly transmissible but appears to be leading to milder illness. But it has still raised fears that even a small proportion of serious cases in a large population of infected people will still be a high number that can swamp the health system.The government’s decision to expand the campaign was based on the recommendations of the Covid-19 working group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization, which advises the government on inoculation against all diseases, the health ministry said.“It is a good decision to start vaccinating children against Covid-19 even though they may not run the risk of developing severe disease as commonly as adults, they can infect their family members, especially putting at risk the vulnerable population such as the elderly or those with some underlying medical condition. We will eventually have to vaccinate everyone,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, director and head of respiratory medicine department, Fortis Healthcare.
28-12-2021||India||38-year-old man digs up mother’s grave, brings body home||For 10 months, for hours on end, he sat next to her grave. He thought she might want water, so he dug a pipeline into where she lay. He didn’t want her to be wet, so as neighbours and relatives watched aghast, he held up white rice bags over the grave when it rained. It didn’t matter that his 65-year-old mother died in February. To anyone that asked, or tried to stop him, he had one unbreakable, unchangeable justification. She was his mother. There were times in these 10 months that he tried bringing her back from under the earth and began digging her grave. Each time, locals stepped in, preventing him from doing so. Until early on December 24, when he did. Later that morning, people walking in the street in Kunnam village in Tamil Nadu’s Perambalur district found a strong, foul smell coming out of the 38-year-old’s one-bedroom home. They made a call to the Tamil Nadu Police Control room to complain. “By the time we reached the spot, the neighbours had gotten him out of the house but no one knew why there was a smell,” said the investigating officer, who didn’t wish to be named.When the team entered the house, they found that he had locked his mother’s body inside the one room, covered her using old sarees, and old banners. They removed the clothes gingerly, to find a pile of bones, the skin on them rotting away, almost non-existent. Even then, he protested. “He didn’t let us take her away and he kept wailing that she was his mother. We consoled him and only after his relatives brought him out of the house, could take her body out,” the officer said. Investigations since have revealed that the 65-year-old woman died in February this year of age-related complications -- 16 years after the death of her husband. For all that time, his mother was his only caretaker, and for the past decade, the 38-year-old was on medication for mental illness. The man has never been employed, and since his mother’s death, his sisters and their daughters, who live close by, have been giving him three meals a day, police officials said. Before her death, the mother worked as a farm labourer to provide for the two. After recovering the body from the house, police officials on Sunday cremated her in a different cemetery in Perambalur after a post-mortem examination. “We didn’t want to take her to the same place to burn her because he would continue going back. Even when we brought him to the station for an enquiry, he asked us where his mother is because he saw us taking her away,” the officer said.Ramesh Karuppaiya, a social activist in Perambalur, said that reports of the incident were being widely circulated on social media and might add to the “stigma” that the man is facing. “The only bond that this man had was with his mother and he completely lacked any social support. There isn’t a great deal of awareness of mental health problems, and no avenues for help. I fear he will be further stigmatised. The police should ensure that he gets continuous counselling and neuropsychiatric doctors are involved so that he is not marginalised further,” Karuppaiya said. A case under Section 174 (police to enquire and report on suicide) of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been filed, officials said. They, however, insisted that they would find mental health support for him. “We are planning to file a petition in court to allow us to send him to Chennai’s Institute of Mental Health,” a senior police official in the district said on condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, the grieving man is back home. 
28-12-2021||India||Maharashtra passes resolution to defer local body polls over OBC reservation||The Maharashtra assembly on Monday passed a resolution recommending that the state election commission (SEC) should not conduct local body elections until reservation for other backward classes (OBCs) was restored. The resolution moved by the state assembly was unanimously cleared by the Lower House as the Opposition, too, supported the move.The resolution comes on the back of the SEC declaring elections to 567 seats in local bodies reserved for OBCs on January 18. ON December 21, the SEC held elections to 1,533 seats in local bodies not reserved for OBCs. “Going by the existing provisions, the OBC community has 27% reservation in local bodies but the SEC has declared holding polls without OBC reservation. It is necessary to provide the representation, and the SEC’s decision will deprive them of representation. Considering this, the state assembly recommends that the SEC should not hold local body elections without OBC reservation,” said deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who moved the resolution. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that they supported the resolution and that it should be passed unanimously. On December 23,the Madhya Pradesh assembly, too, passed a similar resolution. In March, the Supreme Court (SC) scrapped the 27% OBC reservation in Maharashtra local bodies for want of quantifiable data on backwardness. In September and October, the state government promulgated ordinances to ensure reservation for OBCs in local body polls. But in December, the SC stayed both ordinances and on December 13, it directed the SEC to hold elections to seats reserved for OBCs by notifying them as general category seats.Former advocate general Shreehari Aney said that the SEC is an independent body and will have to conduct elections as per rules. “The SEC is ultimately governed by law because it is independent of the state. It will therefore have to abide by the requirement of law. What is being held (by the Supreme Court) is until a certain procedure is completed, you cannot make a reservation in local bodies. Reservation can be provided only after completing the required process so the commission would need to abide by those directives and it would need to tell the state government that until those procedural requirements are complied with, the state cannot make a reservation for local bodies,” Aney said.“As far as the elections are concerned, it is the SEC’s job to conduct, and they will be conducted subject to the limitation of OBC reservation. In other words, non-OBC seats will have to be filled. The election will have to be conducted excluding the OBC seats,” he added.Ulhas Bapat, a constitutional expert, said that the resolution passed by the state assembly cannot be implemented and elections cannot be deferred once the five-year duration of the legislature is completed. It has no legal standing and will be treated as a request. “The resolution cannot be implemented because the duration of the local bodies cannot be extended and elections have to be conducted once these bodies complete five years of tenure. The resolution is nothing but a request which has no legal standing. In my view, the SEC will follow all the directives issued by the apex court, and the resolution will make no difference,” Bapat told Hindustan Times.He said that the state government failed in the triple test laid down by the Supreme Court to provide political reservation to any community. “It is yet to collect empirical data, and thus OBC reservation was declared unconstitutional. In that case, the elections to seats reserved under the OBC category can be held by notifying them as open category or elections can be deferred to those seats, but the power to take any decision in this regard is ultimately with the SEC,” he pointed out.Till the time of going to press, there was no reaction from the SEC.
28-12-2021||India||India’s post-pandemic trade numbers||India’s trade deficit in November stood at a record $22.9 billion, the commerce ministry said on December 14, in sharp contrast to a trade surplus in June 2020. How do we explain this dramatic change? Here are four charts to explain it in detail.Imports suffered a bigger disruption than exportsA comparison of India’s merchandise export and import numbers shows there was a bigger disruption in imports during the early phase of the pandemic. Imports fell to $17.09 billion in April 2020, the lowest in 11 years. Given that most of India’s imports are in the intermediate and capital goods category – the World Bank’s WITS database shows these two had a share of 54% in India’s imports in 2019-20 – imports started rising sharply as the economy opened up. Although exports have increased in the post-pandemic period, the rise is smaller.Is the import spike just a result of rise in crude oil prices?Unlike GDP, trade numbers are measured in nominal terms. It means they are affected by changes in prices of important commodities. One commodity that plays a large role in the volatility in India’s import bill is crude petroleum. The country imports more than 80% of its crude oil, and its prices have fluctuated wildly during the pandemic. The price of India’s crude oil basket (COB) fell from $54.63 per barrel in February 2020 to just $19.90 a barrel in April 2020. It was less than $50 per barrel for the next eight months, a level not seen in the past three years, before climbing once again. Average COB price was $80.64 per barrel in November 2021. Are petroleum prices the biggest reason for rise in India’s import bills? Not entirely, as non-petroleum imports have also shown a large increase.But inflation has played a major role in boosting both import and export numbersPost-pandemic inflation has not been confined to petroleum alone, with most countries clocking high rates of overall inflation and also a rise in prices of non-food, non-fuel items. This has played a role in India’s trade numbers as well. Trade in different commodities in October 2021, as seen in the commerce ministry’s latest data, shows this clearly, according to HT’s analysis. For most of the top 10 items in India’s import and export basket, which account for 80% and 61% of total imports and exports, unit values have increased significantly between April and October 2021 compared to the same period last year.Dependence on Chinese import increasesIndia’s imports from China have also increased in the current year. Despite calls for boycott of Chinese products from time to time, imports from that country between April and October showed an annual increase of 52% to $51 billion. These imports are also 22% higher compared to the pre-Covid period in 2019-20. To be sure, non-Chinese imports between April and October have also seen 82% yearly growth. However, non- Chinese imports in current year are only 14% higher compared to a similar period in 2019-20. India’s exports to China in 202-21 have grown by 16% to $14 billion, compared to last year while non-Chinese exports grew by 59%.The continuous increase in the trade deficit due to increasing import bills could affect India’s economic recovery after the pandemic, as a rising deficit lowers GDP. The share of trade deficit in India’s GDP was 1.27% in 2020-21, the lowest since 2017-18. It was mainly due to a fall in import bills as crude prices crashed in the initial months of the pandemic. With the rise in crude oil prices this year, as well as higher non-crude imports, the negative impact of trade deficit on GDP is likely to grow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-post-pandemic-trade-numbers-101640626731867.html
28-12-2021||India||Nagaland shooting: Army inquiry team to visit incident site on Wednesday||An Indian army inquiry team constituted to probe deaths of 13 civilians earlier this month in Nagaland in shootings by an army unit will visit site of the incident at Mon district on Wednesday, an army notice on Monday said.In a botched operation, 13 civilians were killed by 21 Para Special Forces of the Indian Army on December 4 at Tiru-Oting area in Mon district of Nagaland and another civilian killed by security forces in Mon town on December 5.Following massive outrage across Nagaland after the incident with protests by Naga organizations seeking an impartial probe and punishment to those responsible, the army constituted a court of inquiry to probe the incident.The army notice on Monday said the inquiry team will visit the incident site and be at the Tizit police station in Mon between 1.30pm and 3.00pm.“The inquiry team solicits from the public at large any primary information (not forwarded or not from secondary source) pertaining to the incident. Any person having such information and desirous of deposing before the Inquiry is requested to do so at Tizit Police Station,” the notice said.It added that any original information, photo or video (not forwarded or from a secondary source) related to the incident may also be shared with the inquiry team via phone, SMS or Whatsapp Messenger at +916033924571. “The information may also be shared in person to the inquiry team at Dinjan Military Station in Assam. The original documents, audio-visual recording will be collected from the source following due legal procedure,” it added.In a statement on Sunday, the army’s 3 Corps headquartered at Dimapur in Nagaland said that the army inquiry “is progressing expeditiously and all efforts are being made to conclude it at the earliest.” “Indian Army is fully cooperating with the Special Investigation Team(SIT) inquiry ordered by Nagaland government and required details are being shared in timely manner…We assure you that action will be taken in accordance with the law to secure justice for all,” it added. 
28-12-2021||India||Centre seeks recall of SC order de-notifying OBC seats||The Centre has sought recall of the Supreme Court’s December 17 order making empirical data a must for the quota for Other Backward Classes (OBC) in local bodies. It has requested the court to suspend the local body elections in Madhya Pradesh, where the reserved OBC seats were de-notified as per the order, for four months. The Centre has suggested the state’s backward classes commission will during the suspension period submit a report in line with the court’s previous orders for the quota. The process will involve setting up an independent commission, preparation of seat-wise data on the backwardness of OBCs, and allocation of quota in each assembly segment while ensuring the total reservation does not exceed the 50% cap.The Centre’s application for recall was filed on Sunday days after Madhya Pradesh moved a similar plea earlier last week. It is expected to be heard after the court reopens on January 3.In a separate application, the Union social justice and empowerment ministry also sought to be impleaded in the proceedings before the court. The ministry said the December 17 order has pan-India ramifications and it deprived OBCs of their constitutionally guaranteed rights of political representation.The order under challenge was passed without hearing the Centre.In its plea, the Centre said, “The upliftment of scheduled castes, scheduled tribes, and other backward classes has been the utmost priority of the Union Government and any inadequate representation of OBCs in local self-government defeats the very object, intent, and purpose of the very idea of the de-centralisation of power and taking governance to the grassroots level.”It added the issues raised in the present petition are of great public importance and have a pan-India ramification on the issue of implementation of OBC reservations in the elections throughout the country.The court’s order came when the election process in Madhya Pradesh was going on with the allocation of seats for OBCs. The court directed these seats to be re-notified as general category seats.The Centre argued any intervention at this stage would deprive the OBC community of the quota for five long years. It added five years is not a short period and will cause “grave prejudice to the backward class citizens.”As a temporary solution, the Centre suggested the suspension of the election process while asking the commission to submit its report in three months. “Till such time, the administrator can function who can hand over the charge to the newly elected person/body who will be elected with the provision of OBC reservation,” the application said.The Supreme Court judgments prescribed the triple test for the quota in the K Krishnamurthy case (2010) and Vikas Kishanrao Gawli case (2021).In its plea, the state government cited the constitutional bar on the court from interfering in the reservation of seats in local bodies. “The conversion of seats reserved for OBC into general seats (in the Panchayat elections) when the electoral process had already begun is contrary to the constitutional mandate under Article 243O of the Constitution.”OBCs account for around 51% of the state’s population.“It would cause (a) grave miscarriage of justice if more than half of the total population of the state would have no reserved seats in the Panchayat elections,” the state government said.In its December 17 order, the court requested Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to impress upon the state election commissions to strictly adhere to the triple test, the pre-condition before notifying reservation of seats for OBCs in the local bodies.The Centre, in its plea, informed the court that a detailed advisory has been sent in this regard to all state governments requiring them to comply with the binding judicial pronouncements. At the same time, it said the order of the court could lead to adverse impacts, citing the aspirations of the OBC community.“Such inadequate representation or non-representation deprives the voters belonging to OBC community to elect one amongst them to the elected offices. It is humbly submitted that the same is strictly contrary to the object, intent, and purpose of the constitutional scheme.”The December 17 order was passed in the context of local body elections notified in Madhya Pradesh on December 4. Earlier, the court passed a similar order with regard to civic body elections in Maharashtra, where the triple test was applied and OBC seats were re-notified under the general category. A petition citing this order was filed in the Madhya Pradesh high court for staying the election process for OBC seats. The high court on December 9 declined to interfere pursuant. It prompted the petitioner Manmohan Nagar to move top court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-seeks-recall-of-sc-order-de-notifying-obc-seats-ahead-of-madhya-pradesh-local-body-polls-101640596187386.html
