29-12-2021||India||Ban on unvaccinated, night curfew, yellow alert: India fights rapid Covid spread||India's tally of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 neared the 900-mark (890 to be exact) on Wednesday after several states, including Maharashtra, reported a large number of fresh infections during the day.This comes even as the country reported a major spike of 9,195 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 3,48,08,886, according to the data shared by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Maharashtra, which did not log any fresh Omicron case on Tuesday, added as many as 85 new infections during the day, taking the state’s tally to 252. With this, it has once again become the leading contributor to India's tally of the highly transmissible strain of Covid-19. Of the 85 new cases, Mumbai accounted for 53, while the remaining were detected in Nagpur, Navi Mumbai, Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and Kolhapur, among other places.Delhi has so far confirmed a total of 238 Omicron cases.Both Maharashtra and Delhi recorded yet another massive jump in single-day Covid-19 cases with 3,900 and 923 infections, respectively.Also Read | Covid: Mumbai makes 7-day home quarantine, RT-PCR mandatory for UAE returneesRajasthan also reported as many as 23 new Omicron cases during the day, which took the state’s tally to 69, according to state health bulletin data. Of these, 44 have already recovered from the new variant of Covid-19.Meanwhile, Punjab detected its first Omicron case in a patient who recently returned from Spain. The patient had tested negative following an RT-PCR test three days ago after remaining in isolation.Rising Covid-19 cases across the country amid the Omicron outbreak, especially in major regions such as Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal and Karnataka, among others, have caused state governments to impose new restrictions and night curfew ahead of New Year.Rajasthan has mandated Covid-19 vaccination for entering public places from January 31 onwards. Similar moves have already been brought in by Haryana and Punjab, among others.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said a Covid-19 negative report or proof of double vaccination is mandatory for attending parties or entering restaurants in the coastal state.Besides, night curfews during the ongoing festive week have been announced by most state authorities. Delhi on Tuesday imposed a ‘yellow alert’ in the national capital, which has led to schools, colleges, cinemas and gyms to remain shut. The Arvind Kejriwal-led government has also imposed night curfew between 10pm and 5am.Also Read | Omicron fears: Sharp jump in Covid-19 cases prompts restrictions across IndiaMaharashtra has banned gatherings of more than five people between 9pm and 6am. Karnataka announced a 10-day night curfew on Monday and directed hotels, pubs and restaurants to function at 50 per cent capacity. The southern state has also prohibited Christmas and New Year gatherings.Assam, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, among others, have also imposed similar curbs to combat the increasing number of Omicron cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ban-on-unvaccinated-night-curfew-yellow-alert-india-fights-rapid-covid-spread-101640795281514.html
29-12-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: December 30, 2005 — Vajpayee says no more elections for him||Mumbai -Former PM A.B. Vajpayee threw a spanner in the works of the BJP on Thursday by announcing his decision to give up electoral politics and projecting outgoing party chief L.K. Advani and Pramod Mahajan as ‘Ram’ and ‘Lakshman’ who would lead the party in future.Vajpayee’s comments at a public rally at Shivaji Park do not amount to an endorsement of Rajnath Singh, widely perceived to be the leader to whom Advani will hand over the baton upon demitting office.His remarks couldn’t have come at a worse time for the party which is already rocked by sex tapes, internal rivalry and the cash-for-query scandal.Later, in an interaction with newsmen, Advani merely smiled when he was asked about Vajpayee’s comments about him and Mahajan. Advani said he came to know of Vajpayee’s decision to retire from electoral politics on Thursday morning.Vajpayee, however, is likely to remain leader of the NDA and of the BJP parliamentary party till the next Lok Sabha polls, due only in 2009.Senior party leaders and delegates to the conclave are likely to plead with him not to leave the party in a lurch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-december-30-2005-vajpayee-says-no-more-elections-for-him-101640796265591.html
29-12-2021||India||Assam Rifles havildar who escorted Dalai Lama in India in 1959 dies, laid to rest||SHILLONG: Naren Chandra Das, the retired havildar of Assam Rifles who escorted the Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama in India in 1959, was laid to rest on Wednesday in Assam’s Lokra where he lived after retiring from the force. He was 83.Das was 22 when he was posted at Lungla post near the China border when the assignment came his way. Narendra Chandra Das was a rifleman of the 9 Platoon of 5 Assam Rifles back then. “Late Havildar Naren Chandra Das was the lone surviving warrior of the Assam Rifles among a band of seven Bravehearts who had successfully escorted and accompanied His Holiness Dalai Lama to Indian Soil in 1959,” Assam Rifles director general Lt Gen PC Nair said in a message on his death.“His valiant deeds and indomitable warrior spirit continues to inspire the scores of young sentinels of the northeast. I, on behalf of the Assam Rifles family pray to Almighty God that the departed soul rests in everlasting peace,” the Assam Rifles chief said.“Guards of Assam Rifles Platoon no. 9 had brought the Dalai Lama from Zuthangbo and handed him over to five of us at Shakti. We brought him to Lungla from where he was escorted on his onward journey to Tawang by another group of guards,” Naren Chandra Das recalled after he came face-to-face with the Dalai Lama at an event in Assam’s Guwahati on April 2, 2017.The Tibetan spiritual leader thanked Das, and invited him as a guest of His Holiness at the Tibetan Government-in-Exile headquarters in Mcleodganj, Himachal Pradesh, the following year to an event commemorating the start of the Tibetan spiritual leader’s 60th year in exile and to thank India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-rifles-havildar-who-escorted-dalai-lama-in-india-in-1959-dies-laid-to-rest-101640796085976.html
29-12-2021||India||Hyderpora encounter: 'Speculative’ remarks will invite legal action, warns SIT||Speculative statements over the Hyderpora encounter from political leaders would invite legal action, a special investigation team (SIT) of the Jammu and Kashmir Police said on Wednesday.The statement from the SIT in-charge, DIG Sujit K Singh came amid political leaders and family members slamming the probe team's initial report that virtually gave a clean chit to the security forces while stating the team was open to reviewing its findings if any other evidence comes to light. On Tuesday, the SIT said that while one civilian was killed by the foreign terrorist, the owner of the building and a local "militant" (Magray) died in the crossfire after being used as a "human shield" by the hiding terrorist.Singh said the probe team came across posts on social media from some political leaders and family members of the deceased casting "doubts upon the evidence obtained by the SIT so far"."These people have tried to call it 'concocted cover up story', 'ornamental probe', 'clean chit to killers', fairy tale of police' etc," the statement said."Such speculative statements from the political leaders have a tendency to create provocation, rumour, fear and alarm among the general masses or particular section of society. This kind of approach is against the rule of law and may attract appropriate penal provisions as envisaged under law," Singh said, adding the SIT is still probing the case.It said the government had ordered a magisterial probe into the incident and all such persons making statements should have approached the inquiry officer with genuine evidence they have, for corroboration or contradiction."The SIT constituted in the instant case is still investigating the matter, all such persons are once again advised to provide any type of evidence if they have regarding the incident so that every aspect of investigation is covered and concluded on merit," the statement said.Earlier in the day, the father of Amir Magray, one of the four persons killed in the Hyderpora encounter in Srinagar, rejected the police probe which suggested that his son was a militant, and said he is moving the high court seeking the return of his body.The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) has said the police briefing was only a repetition of the "old story" and it does not even slightly give any objective picture of the incident. Demanding a judicial inquiry into the incident, it said there is a strong public perception that the civilians killed in the incident were made human shields by security forces.A Pakistani terrorist and three other persons were killed in Hyderpora on November 15 and police had claimed that all the slain men had links to militancy. The families of the three, alleging foul play, had said that they were innocent leading to a massive uproar in the Valley, prompting police to order the inquiry.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderpora-encounter-sit-warns-of-legal-action-for-speculative-remarks-101640792265741.html
29-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: At 2,510, Mumbai records massive jump in fresh Covid cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.At 2,510, Mumbai records massive jump in fresh Covid cases in 24 hoursMumbai on Wednesday recorded 2,510 new infections in the last 24 hours. The tally is more than 80 per cent of the daily cases recorded in the Maharashtra capital a day ago at 1,333. Read moreMadras HC bans liquor sales for 3 hours on New Year's night in PuducherryThe Madras high court on Wednesday ordered a ban on the sale of liquor for three hours on New Year's night in Puducherry. Read moreResident doctors of Sion, KEM Hospitals to withdraw services from todayAfter first-year resident doctors of Sion Hospital joined the nationwide protests by withdrawing from both elective and emergency services from 8 am on Wednesday, all resident doctors from KEM and Sion hospitals will go on an indefinite strike starting Thursday. Read more'Such a loose shot': Gavaskar upset with Virat Kohli after his dismissal in 2nd innings; 'He could've left it alone'Test captain Virat Kohli's disappointing run continued in the Centurion Test, as he finished with scores of 35 and 18 in the two innings. Read moreNusrat Jahan, grilled by Yash Dasgupta about their love story, says ‘I absconded with you’Actor-politician Nusrat Jahan welcomed her spouse, actor-politician Yash Dasgupta, as a special guest on her radio show this week. Read moreNew Year 2022: Best resolutions for your mental health, suggested by an expertBefore welcoming a brand-new year, many of us like to work on a list of new year resolutions aiming to give the coming year some sort of purpose. Read moreCrackdown on dissent in Hong Kong: Anti-Beijing news outlet raided, shuts downAmid mounting concerns over the erosion of liberty in Hong Kong, a pro-democracy news outlet has shut down after a police raid. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-at-2-510-mumbai-records-massive-jump-in-fresh-covid-cases-and-all-the-latest-news-101640790940844.html
29-12-2021||India||Madras HC bans liquor sales for 3 hours on New Year's night in Puducherry||The Madras high court on Wednesday ordered a ban on the sale of liquor for three hours on New Year's night in Puducherry. The ban will be put in place from 10pm on December 31 till 1am on January 1, 2022.A bench of Justices S Vaidyanathan and D Bharatha Chakravarthy passed the order while hearing a petition filed by GA Jagannathan, a resident of Puducherry."Prevention is better than cure", the court said, noting that it was an extraordinary decision for a tourist destination like Puducherry.The petitioner was seeking a complete ban on celebrations to contain the spread of Covid-19, but the court allowed New Year events to go ahead.The Madras high court, instead, restricted the sale of alcohol during the mentioned time window in bars, bar-attached restaurants/hotels or any other places for public consumption.The court further said only those in Puducherry with both vaccination doses will be allowed in public places after 7pm on December 31.The Puducherry government has imposed a night curfew from 1am to 5am on January 1, 2022, to avoid crowding on the occasion of New Year.The Union territory reported two cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus on Tuesday. It registered 12 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, raising the overall tally to 1,29,446.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-bans-liquor-sales-for-3-hours-on-new-year-s-night-in-puducherry-101640784524917.html
29-12-2021||India||Leopard walks into Tamil Nadu college and kills dog, sparks panic among locals||A leopard strayed into the campus of a college in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, in the wee hours of Wednesday sparking off panic among residents in the locality. The leopard mauled a dog to death before leaving the scene. The watchman of the college noticed the carcass and informed the Forest Department. Fortunately, the college remained closed for the festive season and there was no one around, police said. On inspection, the department officials found the pug marks of the big cat which, according to the residents, was moving in the area for the last few months, the police said. The area is near Madukkarai forests. The villagers have already sounded the department and handed over a video of the carnivore's movement there a few days ago, the police said. The Forest Department promised action to prevent the leopard from entering human habitats, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leopard-walks-into-tamil-nadu-college-and-kills-dog-sparks-panic-among-locals-101640787594373.html
29-12-2021||India||Defence ministry restricts import of 351 more items for ‘Make in India’ push||NEW DELHI: The defence ministry on Wednesday announced curbs on the import of 351 systems and components under a staggered timeframe beginning December 2022 to boost indigenisation in defence manufacturing and to ensure foreign exchange savings of ₹3,000 crore a year.This was the third such list issued by the defence ministry in the past 16 months as part of efforts to make India a hub for developing and manufacturing military hardware. The ministry issued a separate list of 2,500 imported items that it said had already been indigenised. The curbs on the import of 351 items – including components such as a missile approach warning sensor, shells, propellants, electrical parts, missile containers, a torpedo tube launcher and a gun fire control system – will kick in over the next three years. The import of 172 systems and components will be stopped from December 2022, while curbs on another batch of 89 items will come into effect from December 2023. The import of a further 90 items will be stopped from December 2024. Once the restrictions take effect, these items can be procured only from Indian industries. “A positive indigenisation list of sub-systems/assemblies/sub-assemblies/components has been notified by Department of Defence Production, Ministry of Defence, as part of the efforts to achieve self-reliance in defence manufacturing and minimise imports by Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSUs),” an official statement said. “This Aatmanirbhar (self-reliance) initiative will save foreign exchange approximately equivalent to ₹3,000 cr every year,” it added. The defence ministry announced in August 2020 that India will stop importing 101 weapons and military platforms such as transport aircraft, light combat helicopters, conventional submarines, cruise missiles and sonar systems by 2024. A second list issued in May this year restricted the import of 108 more weapons and systems such as airborne early warning systems, tank engines, radars and next-generation corvettes. These measures are in addition to other steps taken by the government to boost defence manufacturing. In May 2020, the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit under the automatic route in the defence sector was hiked from 49% to 74%. In October, the government dissolved the four-decade-old Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) and amalgamated 41 factories under seven new state-owned companies to manufacture defence hardware ranging from munitions to heavy weapons and vehicles. India is among the world’s largest arms importers, and the armed forces are expected to spend about $130 billion on defence purchases over the next five years. The government plans to reduce dependence on imported hardware and is backing domestic manufacturers to produce weapons and platforms that can be used by the Indian military and exported to other countries. The defence ministry has set a target for a turnover of $25 billion in defence manufacturing in the next five years, including exports worth $5 billion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-ministry-restricts-import-of-351-more-items-for-make-in-india-push-101640788224912.html
29-12-2021||India||Maharashtra announces guidelines for New Year celebrations: Know what's allowed, what's barred||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday released a new set of detailed guidelines for New Year celebrations this year and urged citizens to keep it “low key” in view of the ongoing Covid-19 crisis.The Uddhav Thackeray-led government announced several fresh restrictions on gatherings at public places with the rise of Omicron cases in the state. The government had already imposed a night curfew from 9pm to 6am from December 25 in view of the recent surge in coronavirus cases.Omicron is the newest variant of SARS-CoV-2 which is spreading faster than Delta, though its impact is not as severe as Delta, according to researchers.Here's what's allowed on New Year's in Maharashtra:What's not allowed:The Maharashtra government has urged everyone to stay at home as much as possible for the safety of the elderly and children.Cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray said Mumbai may witness more than 2,000 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday given the recent daily spike. He made the statement shortly after a meeting with senior BMC officials.The city had reported 1,333 Covid-19 cases of the total 2,172 fresh cases in the state in the last 24 hours, according to the latest available data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-announces-guidelines-for-new-year-celebrations-know-what-s-allowed-what-s-barred-101640780536182.html
29-12-2021||India||PM Modi to release 10th installment of PM-KISAN financial benefit on January 1||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release the 10th installment of financial benefit under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme on January 1, 2022. The event will be organised via video conferencing, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said.The Prime Minister will transfer an amount of over ₹20,000 crore to more than 10 crore beneficiary farmer families, the PM further said.Under the PM-KISAN scheme, a financial benefit of ₹6,000 per year is provided to eligible farmer families, payable in three equal four-monthly installments of ₹2,000.The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries.So far, an amount of ₹1.6 lakh crore has been transferred under the scheme, according to the PMO.During the program, PM Modi will also release an equity grant of more than ₹14 crore to about 351 farmer producer organizations (FPOs), which will benefit more than 1.24 lakh farmers, the PMO added.The ninth installment of PM-KISAN scheme was released by the Prime Minister in August this year when he virtually transferred ₹19,500 crore to over 9.75 crore farmers.In May this year, PM Modi released ₹19,000 crore as the eighth installment of the scheme which benefited 9.5 crore farmers.PM-KISAN is for families involved in farming. According to the rules of the scheme, the yearly amount is deposited directly into the bank account of one family member. If both husband and wife are found availing the benefit of the scheme, the government will take back the amount.Those who are using their farmlands for some work other than farming are ineligible for benefit under the scheme. Also, people working on the farm of another person and are not owners of the land are ineligible.Further, the scheme cannot be availed even if the land is registered under the name of the person’s father or grandfather, according to Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan.The scheme is also not valid for owners of farmlands who are either current or retired government employees, serving or former MPs and MLAs or ministers, according to Livehindustan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-release-10th-installment-of-pm-kisan-financial-benefit-on-january-1-101640782353721.html
29-12-2021||India||BJP accuses SP of trying to incite violence during Modi’s Kanpur rally||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday accused Samajwadi Party (SP) of attempting to incite violence during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Kanpur rally in the city’s Muslim-dominated area a day earlier.“Samajwadi party conspired to jeopardise Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rally by inciting riots… Through a viral video, we saw a BJP vehicle that was being attacked and vandalised by Samajwadi Party workers wearing red caps, and attempted to set it on fire,” said BJP spokesman Sambit Patra.He alleged the people, who allegedly vandalised the vehicle have been identified as SP’s student workers including national secretary Sachin Kesarwani. Patra added SP staged the violent incident. He claimed that this was done to provoke BJP workers and called it SP’s “gunda raj”.Also Read | Memorable experience, says PM Modi after riding new section of Kanpur Metro“If Samajwadi Party workers tried to incite violence in that area, then it is clear that they wanted Hindu-Muslim riots so they could blame the BJP,” he said.SP spokespersons were immediately unavailable for comments on the matter.Modi was in Kanpur on Tuesday to inaugurate the Kanpur Metro Rail and another pipeline project. He also addressed the 54th convocation ceremony of the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-accuses-sp-of-trying-to-incite-violence-during-modi-s-kanpur-rally-101640780784339.html
29-12-2021||India||Will help resume mining, says Goa CM on new policy to export iron ore dumps||PANAJI: The Goa cabinet on Wednesday cleared a policy to permit mining companies to export low-grade iron ore that was extracted during the mining boom but dumped on public and private land because it was considered to be of little value, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday.Sawant said the cabinet decision will pave the way for the resumption of mining activity that has been shuttered since 2018 after the Supreme Court deemed Goa’s mining lease renewals to be illegal and cancelled them.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government’s decision comes against the backdrop of opposition parties such as the Congress, and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) pledging to revive the state’s mining sector, which contributed about 15-16% to Goa’s GDP in 2011-12, but now accounts for just 2%, if they come to power.Goa has several mining dumps scattered around the countryside, essentially comprising waste earth and rock covering a mineral deposit that was rejected by miners who, in the past were only interested in the higher-grade ore located deeper underneath the opencast pits. These dumps are located on public and private.Sawant said an estimated 10 to 20 million metric tonnes of low-grade iron ore was lying at different locations outside the mining leases, and could sustain mining activity in Goa for the next four to five years.“The state government has formulated a policy for regularisation of mining dumps on government and private land and related issues. Those who were valid lessees and who had paid the money to the government (as a penalty for illegally dumping on government land), will be allowed to export,” Sawant said.Back in 2013 the Goa government amended the Land Revenue Code to regularise iron ore dumps at locations outside the mines by paying a penalty. A total of ₹200 crore was collected back then.Sawant said those who paid the penalty will be allowed to export the ore under the new policy after paying royalty to the government and getting necessary approvals from authorities including the Indian Bureau of Mines, the body mandated to inspects mines to ensure regulations are followed.The government will take over mining dumps where the penalty wasn’t paid and auction the ore.The chief minister said the Centre’s policy allows for disposal of “overburden or waste rock mineral below the threshold value and which is generated during the course of mining or beneficiation of minerals or any minor mineral extracted along with the mineral for which the lease is granted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-help-resume-mining-says-goa-cm-on-new-policy-to-export-iron-ore-dumps-101640778323928.html
29-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Goa CM imposes new rules for restaurants, parties and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Full vaccination or Covid-19 negative report: Goa's new rule for attending parties amid Omicron alarmGoa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that a person has to show either a negative Covid-19 report or a double vaccination certificate for attending parties or entering restaurants in the coastal state. Read more Mumbai may log over 2,000 Covid-19 cases today, warns Aaditya ThackerayMaharashtra tourism and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on Wednesday said Mumbai may cross the 2,000-mark in Covid-19 cases during the day given the number of fresh infections being recorded over the past week. Read more Mamata mulls shutting schools, colleges as Covid-19 cases rise in BengalWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee held an administrative meeting wherein she asked officials to review the current pandemic situation in the state and also begin identifying containment zones in Kolkata given the high rate of infection in the city. Read more China recommits to Covid Zero amid surging Xi’an outbreakChinese experts warn that the new surge in Covid-19 infections won't be under control until mid to late January. Officials are committed to taking up a zero-tolerance approach towards the virus. Read more 'Doubt it': David Warner posts spicy tweet to take a sly dig at Tom Moody for IPL snub, Sunrisers Hyderabad respondDavid Warner came up with a cheeky response to a fan's suggestion for Tom Moody regarding the IPL mega-auction. Read more Rhea Kapoor tests Covid-19 positive, is isolating with husband Karan Boolani: ‘Everything tastes bad except chocolate'Rhea Kapoor has tested positive for Covid-19. She took to her Instagram Stories on Wednesday to share her health update. Read more Bajaj to invest ₹300 cr for new electric vehicle manufacturing plant in PuneBajaj's upcoming electric vehicle plant will have an annual production capacity of 5 lakh units. Read more&amp;nbsp;Why you don't need to fear sugar, explains Taapsee Pannu's nutritionist Munmun GaneriwalSugar is not necessarily evil, as popularly believed and should not be feared by people, says Taapsee Pannu's nutritionist Munmun Ganeriwal who designed a holistic diet plan for the Rashmi Rocket actor and helped her revive her gut health. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-goa-s-new-rule-for-attending-parties-and-all-the-latest-news-101640774347586.html
29-12-2021||India||A food delivery army is being prepped to cater to orders on New Year’s Eve!||If you tried to order in last New Year’s eve, you would remember the phenomenal delay there was on that fateful evening! Well, the night curfew and the sudden rise in number of Covid cases this year have ensured that a lot of us will be again ordering in food on New Year rather than heading out for dinner and drinks. This time, however, the restaurants, food delivery partners and even home chefs promise that the delivery is going to be a lot better.All hands on deckThe employees of food delivery partner Zomato will also be pitching in to deliver orders on time. “We have tried to predict and accommodate the influx of orders for the New Year’s eve. Last year we received more than 4,600 orders in a minute, and this year we expect it to be more. Each New Year, we are overwhelmed with the demand, which puts significant pressure on our delivery partners, restaurant partners and the system at large. This year, we have Zomans (our employees) volunteering to deliver orders and helping the customer support across chat, email and social media. This is beyond their regular work profile. Besides, we have always had emergency SOS services for our delivery partners in case of SOS support and road side assistance. We are also working with the authorities to ensure our delivery partners are equipped with the right road safety and Covid gear,” says a spokesperson from the company. Nothing like too many cooks!Some restaurants are focussing on increasing the number of chefs so as to accommodate the surge in orders that is preordained. “The night curfew does put the staff in a challenging situation. However, we have ensured that we are now competent enough to tackle the huge demand of orders, we have increased the number of chefs and staff to prepare the orders,” says Shyam Thakur, founder, MoMo King. And Jasleen Marwah, a Mumbai-based home chef who runs Namak Swaad Anusaar, says, “I have two chefs who will come in from Kashmir to meet the orders on New Year. With three of us, we will be able to manage. Also, we will close the orders much before, and start prepping on December 30. The final cooking will happen on December 31, so that we can accommodate everyone.” Cooking in batchesFor home cooks, the situation shall be very challenging as most of the food is made personally by them, in their kitchens. “Since I work alone, days like these do get overwhelming,” says Snigdha Sheel, a home chef from Dwarka, adding, “I’m sure the demand will be a lot this year due to the night curfew. So, I’ve decided to cook only limited meals, and that too in batches. I have a package, which has about five or six dishes, which will all come together as one meal. People can order these meals, and I’m not serving anything other than these meals for 31st. Also, all orders will be on first come basis, and I plan to not take more than 10 orders, to be able to deliver quality food while it’s hot.”Extended delivery hours“We have surplus staff for New Year’s eve. There’s a rush during a definite timeline window, right before the curfew starts and we always try to utilise our managers and stewards to help the kitchen team in packaging and processing those orders quickly in such situations,” says Alok Ranjan, founder, Gaon Restaurant. Restaurateur Zorawar Kalra from Massive Restaurants, which has eateries across India, adds: “We are retrofitting two kitchens to start delivery. Louis Burger will be geared up for serious increase in volumes and we are increasing delivery hours till 3am. We are also ramping up new cloud kitchen openings and are hopeful that at least two more will be operational before December 31, as they are near completion. We are also providing backups for order delays by hiring our own delivery partners.” Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-food-delivery-army-is-being-prepped-to-cater-to-orders-on-new-year-s-eve-101640774845156.html
29-12-2021||India||Army to let SIT record statement of troops in Nagaland firing incident: Report||The Army will provide access to Nagaland's Special Investigation Team to record statements of troops involved in the incidents in which 14 civilian lives were lost in the state’s Mon district on December 4.An ANI input quoting sources said the unit is located in Jorhat district of Assam.An inquiry team of the Army probing the botched firing incident in Nagaland was scheduled to visit the incident site at Oting in Mon district on Wednesday.From day one, the Indian Army had assured the authorities on extending support and cooperation for the investigations into the incidents which took place on December 4: SourcesThe Union government has said the incident was a result of mistaken identity as the Army had received information on the movement of extremists in Oting. It had further said a special investigation team formed to look into the case will complete the probe within a month.Meanwhile, the Centre on Sunday constituted a high-level committee, headed by a secretary-rank officer, to examine the possibility of lifting the controversial Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act in Nagaland, in a bid to soothe the rising tension in the northeastern state over the 14 deaths.The committee was formed three days after Union home minister Amit Shah held a meeting with Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio and his Assam counterpart Himanta Biswa Sarma in Delhi. The panel will submit its report within 45 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-to-let-sit-record-statement-of-troops-in-nagaland-firing-incident-report-101640773974320.html
29-12-2021||India||Petrol price cut by massive ₹25 a litre in Jharkhand for two-wheelers||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday said that the state government will give a major concession on petrol and diesel prices, but only for two-wheelers.“Jharkhand government has decided to give a concession of ₹25 per litre petrol to motorcycles and scooter riders,” Soren was quoted as saying by news agency ANI."Prices of petrol and diesel are touching the sky today. And this is affecting poor and middle class families. Despite having a motorcycle at home, a poor man can't ride it because he has no money for petrol. He is not able to take is produce to the marketplace to sell it," Soren said in a notice posted on the official Twitter handle of Jharkhand chief minister's office.झारखण्ड सरकार का निर्णय... https://t.co/MpLHJFfoqu pic.twitter.com/y0bhZcUheS"So, it has been decided that if such ration card holders fill petrol in their motorcycle or scooter, we will transfer ₹25 per litre subsidy to their bank accounts. A family can get this subsidy for 10 litres of petrol every month," he added.The changes will be implemented from January 26 next year, the notice posted by Soren further said.The announcement was made as the Soren government completed two years today. His Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) stormed to power after winning the assembly elections in 2019.Fighting the elections in alliance with Congress and Lalu Prasad's Rashtriya Janta Dal (RJD), the JMM won a comfortable majority with 47 seats in the 81-member house.While the JMM won 30 seats, Congress and RJD secured 16 and later two MLAs of Jharkhand Vikas Morcha (JVM) joined Congress.The fifth assembly election in Jharkhand since the state was carved out of Bihar in 2000 will be held in 2024, along with Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-price-cut-by-massive-rs-25-a-litre-in-jharkhand-for-twowheelers-101640774025094.html
29-12-2021||India||Congress to get full-time president next September, says head of party's poll body||The Congress will get its full-time president by September next year, said a senior member of the grand old party.The party is currently headed by interim president Sonia Gandhi, who took over after her son and Congress MP Rahul Gandhi resigned from the post following the Lok Sabha debacle.Madhusudan Mistry, president of the Congress' Central Election Authority, said the election process for the post of Congress president will be completed by September according to the schedule decided by the Congress Working Committee.“As per schedule decided by Congress Working Committee, the election process for the post of Congress president will be completed by September: Madhusudan Mistry, president, Congress' Central Election Authority,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Congress flag falls as Sonia Gandhi tries to unfurl it on party foundation dayThe party has been facing internal rifts in multiple states, besides several senior party leaders openly calling for sweeping changes and an organisational restructuring.In one of the last CWC meetings, Sonia had said the revival of the Congress requires “self-control, discipline, unity and keeping the party’s interests paramount.”She had further said the party has started preparations for the upcoming elections but “undoubtedly, we face many challenges.” She had also underlined that if “we are united, if we are disciplined and if we focus on the party’s interests alone, I am confident that we will do well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-get-full-time-president-next-september-head-of-party-s-poll-body-101640772184475.html
29-12-2021||India||Keeping up with UP | Night curfews, day rallies. Will this stop the Covid surge?||Ahead of the New Year festivities, the Uttar Pradesh government imposed night curfew across the state from Christmas Day to check a surge of Covid-19 cases across the state. The restrictions were enforced from 11 pm to 5 am to check super spreader social gatherings.
29-12-2021||India||ARIIA rankings: IIT Madras bags No. 1 spot for third consecutive year||NEW DELHI: The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras bagged the top position among the centrally funded technical institutes in the Centre’s Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) 2021 released on Wednesday. IIT Madras was recognised as the most innovative technical institute for the third consecutive year.The ARIIA rankings, an initiative of the Union education ministry to promote innovation, assess technical universities and colleges on parameters ranging from support for entrepreneurship development to innovative learning methods, intellectual property generation, technology transfer, and commercialisation among other aspects.The third edition of the ARIIA ranking was dominated by the IITs in the centrally funded institution category. Seven IITs are on the top-10 list. IIT-Madras is followed by IIT Bombay, IIT Delhi, IT Kanpur, and IIT Roorkee. The Indian Institute of Science (IISc) in Bengaluru bagged the sixth position in the category.In a statement, the ministry’s innovation cell said there was unprecedented participation in the third edition of the ARIIA. “Out of a total of 3,551 higher education institutions registered, 1438 institutions (including all IITs, NITs, IISc, etc) participated, which is more than double as compared to the second edition and approximately four times as compared to the first edition.”Also Read: 100 scholarships for pursuing BSc in Programming & Data Science at IIT MadrasIn the state and deemed to be universities category, Panjab University (Chandigarh) topped the ranking followed by Delhi Technological University, and Netaji Subhas University of Technology (Delhi). In the government engineering colleges category, the College of Engineering in Pune stood first, followed by PSG College of Technology in Tamil Nadu, and LD College of Engineering in Gujarat.Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology Khordha (Odisha) topped the private university category. G H Raisoni College of Engineering in Maharashtra was recognised as the most innovative private college.For the first time, the Centre introduced a “non-technical institutions’’ category in the ARIIA rankings to strengthen the innovation and entrepreneurial ecosystem in higher education institutions. Indira Gandhi National Open University (Delhi) topped the category among centrally funded institutions followed by the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Kozhikode.Announcing the rankings virtually on Wednesday, minister of state for education Subhas Sarkar said they will inspire institutions to reorient their mindset and build ecosystems to encourage high-quality research, innovation, and entrepreneurship.“There are ample opportunities for higher education institutions to play the role of enabler to drive Indian innovation and the start-up ecosystem. A concerted effort by our higher educational institutions is required towards inculcating the culture of innovation and entrepreneurship among our students and to prepare faculty as innovators, out-of-the-box thinkers, creative problem solvers, entrepreneurs, and job creators. This will definitely bring a revolution not only at the economic level, but also at the social, environmental front.”IIT Madras director Bhaskar Ramamurthi said, “We are delighted to be adjudged the Most Innovative Institute for the third time in a row since inception of the Atal Rankings on Innovation. IIT Madras places a lot of emphasis on innovations among its students and faculty, which has resulted in a very successful and fast-growing deep technology start-up ecosystem in the country.”
29-12-2021||India||PM Modi's January visit to UAE postponed amid Omicron concerns||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to UAE and Kuwait has been postponed amid Omicron concerns. The scheduled visit was on January 6.According to South Block sources, the visit will have to be rescheduled due to the rising number of Omicron cases and could possible be held in February.The Omicron variant of coronavirus has been raging across the globe, severely affecting the United States and Europe. In the US, Omicron is now the dominant virus replacing Delta. In the UK, Covid-19 cases have been breaking records daily due to the fast spread of Omicron.In India, the situation is so far under control, with nearly 800 cases reported since the discovery of Omicron in South Africa on November 24.The UAE, a federation of seven emirates, on Monday reported 1,732 new coronavirus cases and one death.Abu Dhabi has tightened requirements to enter the country following the rapid spread of Covid-19 there.Vaccinated individuals will require a green status on their mobile-phone health app, while those who aren’t inoculated will need a negative PCR test to enter the emirate from December 30, according to Abu Dhabi’s Emergency, Crisis and Disasters Committee.Till now, the UAE has reported 755,000 cases and 2,160 deaths due to the coronavirus disease. The active cases stand at 10,186.
29-12-2021||India||DGGI raids another Kanpur-based businessman; seizes documents||A team of Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), Lucknow Unit visited the office and residence of another Kanpur-based businessman late on Tuesday for the verification of tax evasion allegations. A false Input Tax credit of ₹10 crores was allegedly detected, according to the officials.The raid was conducted on the premises of Mayur Vanaspati. The owner of the company, Sunil Gupta accepted to pay the taxes, said the officials.According to the officials, the owner of Mayur Vanaspati, Sunil Gupta was raided by the team of DGGI at his residence and his office. The team took important documents related to Mayur Vanaspati Industries into its custody.However, no arrest has been made so far. A probe of the owner of the company is underway, officials said.A spate of DGGI raids in on in Uttar Pradesh. After the raids at the residence of Kanpur-based businessman Peeyush Jain, Sunil Gupta is the second businessman to be raided.Earlier, DGGI on Wednesday concluded the raids at businessman Peeyush Jain's residence in Uttar Pradesh's Kannauj.The DGGI seized ₹194.45 crores of cash, 23 kg gold and 600 kg sandalwood from businessman Peeyush Jain's possession. Jain has been sent to 14 days of judicial custody by a Kanpur court in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dggi-raids-another-kanpur-based-businessman-seizes-documents-101640766220920.html
29-12-2021||India||Full vaccination or Covid-19 negative report: Goa's new rule for attending parties amid Omicron alarm||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that a person has to show either a negative Covid-19 report or a double vaccination certificate for attending parties or entering restaurants in the coastal state.A detailed order to this effect will be released by the state government on Wednesday evening, Sawant told reporters.Even as many states have brought back night curfews amid the Omicron alarm, the state government has decided against it for now so that the tourism business amid the Christmas-New Year festival season is not affected.Sawant has assured that his government is monitoring the Covid-19 situation in the state and would take precautionary measures during the meeting of the task force scheduled to be held on January 3 if need arises.Ahead of the New Year celebration, there is currently about 90 per cent occupancy in hotels in the state, while beaches are already overcrowded with revellers, tourism industry stakeholder said.Speaking to news agency PTI, Travel and Tourism association of Goa (TTAG) president Nilesh Shah said “There have been five to seven per cent cancellations in hotel bookings, but the season is overall good".“The end of the year has always been a good season for the tourism industry. The hotel occupancy is around 90 per cent during these days, which will increase by the New Year,” Shah told PTI.“It is a good sign that we are getting back to normalcy,” Shah said, adding that the tourism industry has learnt to do business with Covid-19 protocols in place.On Tuesday, Goa reported a sudden spike in coronavirus cases with 112 people testing positive for the infection, the state health department said. On Monday the coastal state had recorded 67 cases.The caseload on Tuesday rose to 1,80,229, while the death toll reached 3,520 with one patient dying due to the infection, as per official data.The state has reported one case of the Omicron variant so far.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-vaccination-or-covid-19-negative-report-goa-s-new-rule-for-attending-parties-amid-omicron-alarm-101640767284324.html
29-12-2021||India||No New Year celebrations in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru. Details here||Metro cities Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru will go into the new year with zero to muted celebrations as restrictive orders have been put in place amid the apprehension of Omicron. Omicron is the latest variant of SARS-CoV-2 which is spreading faster than Delta, though its impact is not as severe as Delta. Within a month of the first cases getting detected, India's Omicron tally is nearing 800.Here are the Omicron rules in these 4 cities:Delhi1. Delhi has gone for a mini-lockdown as it issued a yellow alert on Tuesday. The restrictions are not limited to New Year celebrations. School, colleges, cinema halls in Delhi are also closed.2. No cultural event/gathering/congregation is allowed on New Year's eve in Delhi.3. Restaurants, bars and auditoriums are allowed to function at 50% capacity.Mumbai1. In the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation area, no New Year celebrations are allowed -- not in confined or open space.2. Gathering of more than 5 people not allowed at public places between 9pm and 6am3. Restaurants, gyms, cinema theatres can operate at 50% capacity.Bengaluru1. Restaurants, hotels, clubs, pubs will operate with 50% seating capacity from 30 December to 2 January.2. All gatherings, meeting conferences including marriages from 28 December should strictly limit the number of participants to 300 people only.3. Night curfew will remain in force from December 28 to January 7 in all parts of Bengaluru city from 10pm to 5am4. No public events to celebrate New Year's Eve will be allowed anywhere in the cityChennai1. No gathering is allowed in Marina Beach, Elliots Beach, Neelankarai and Each Coast Road.2. Vehicles will not be allowed on Marina Beach, from War Memorial to Gandhi Statue, Kamaraj Road and Besant Nagar Elliots Beach Road from 9pm onwards.3. New Year celebrations will not be allowed on RK Salai, Rajaji Salai, Kamarajar Salai, Anna Salai, GST Road and other arterial roads.4. Resorts, farmhouses, clubs and convention centres will not hold any commercial event. No DJ parties or dance programmers will be allowed in public places.Why are restrictions mostly in metro cities?As the source of Omicron still remains foreign travellers, the spread of this variant is higher in metro cities compared to cities that do not handle a lot of international traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-new-year-celebrations-in-delhi-mumbai-chennai-bengaluru-details-here-101640766586049.html
29-12-2021||India||Girl in Amethi attacked, Priyanka Gandhi says Congress will launch stir if accused not arrested soon||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday attacked the Yogi Adityanath government over the thrashing of a Dalit girl in Amethi, and said her party will launch an agitation if the accused in the case are not arrested soon.Her remarks come after a video purportedly showing a 16-year-old Dalit girl being beaten up and molested went viral on social media.Attaching the video of the incident, the Congress General Secretary tweeted, "If the criminals who committed this inhuman act are not caught within 24 hours, then the Congress will work to wake you up by vigorous agitation.""This incident of ruthless thrashing of a Dalit girl in Amethi is condemnable. @MYOGIADITYANATH Sir on an average 34 crime incidents against Dalits take place every day under your rule and 135 against women, yet your law and order is sleeping," she said.Amethi Deputy Superintendent of Police, Arpit Kapoor said that one accused has been arrested in this case while police teams have been set up to arrest othersPolice had contacted the girl and based on her father's complaint, a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act was registered against accused Suraj Soni, Shivam and Sakal.The officer said the survivor is a resident of a village under Sangrampur police station area of Amethi district and the incident took place in Raipur Phulwari town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/girl-in-amethi-attacked-priyanka-gandhi-says-congress-will-launch-stir-if-accused-not-arrested-soon-101640765761670.html
29-12-2021||India||Intense cold wave across Kashmir; Gulmarg coldest at minus 10.4 degrees Celsius||The cold wave conditions intensified across Kashmir as Gulmarg skiing resort witnessed the season's record low with mercury plunging more than 10 degrees below the freezing point, officials said on Wednesday.Kashmir valley is currently under the grip of the 40-day harshest winter period known as 'Chilla-i-Kalan' which began on Tuesday.Gulmarg, the famous skiing resort in north Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 10.4 degrees Celsius. It was down one degree from minus 9.4 degrees compared to the previous night, the officials said.Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra, recorded a low of minus 6.6 degrees Celsius – up from minus 7.9 degrees Celsius the previous nightSrinagar saw a low of minus 2.3 degrees Celsius last night – down from the previous night's 1.4 degrees Celsius.Qazigund, the gateway town to the valley, recorded a minimum of 0.6 degrees Celsius.The nearby south Kashmir town of Kokernag recorded a low of minus 0.4 degrees Celsius.The mercury in Kupwara in north Kashmir settled at a low of 3.2 degrees Celsius. 'Chilla-i-Kalan' is a period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley.The chances of snowfall are the most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy to very heavy snowfall.The 'Chilla-i-Kalan' will end on January 31, but the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day-long 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intense-cold-wave-across-kashmir-gulmarg-coldest-at-minus-10-4-degrees-celsius-101640764703095.html
29-12-2021||India||Maybach added to PM Modi's security detail routine replacement: Govt sources||Amid speculation on the price and other details of the Mercedes Maybach added to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security detail, government sources said on Wednesday that the new cars are not an upgrade but routine replacement as BMW had stopped making the model used for him earlier. "The cars cost much less than the media speculation, in fact it is about one-third of the price quoted in the media," an official source said. The price quoted for a Maybach car in a section of the media is over ₹12 crore. Official sources said the SPG security detail has a six-year norm to replace vehicles used for the protectee, and the previous cars were used for eight years under Modi, leading to an audit objection and comment that it was compromising the life of the protectee. "The decisions relating to security detail purchases are based on the threat perception to the protectee. These decisions are taken independently by the SPG without taking views of the protectee. "The widespread discussion on the security features of the protectee's car is not in national interest as it puts in public domain a lot of unnecessary detail. This only threatens the life of the protectee," the source added. Officials asserted that Modi has not given any preference on which cars to use and noted in this context that Congress president Sonia Gandhi in the past used Range Rovers which were actually procured for the then prime minister.Cars manufactured by BMW are among those used by the prime minister over the years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maybach-added-to-pm-modi-s-security-detail-routine-replacement-govt-sources-101640765007300.html
29-12-2021||India||‘You won’t die': Kiren Rijiju replies to worried tourists, says all are welcome to Arunachal||Union minister Kiren Rijiju on Wednesday replied to worried tourists on social media and said he extends a warm invitation to all to visit Arunachal Pradesh. Only the tourists from the plain areas should be aware of the freezing cold situation in the state. Earlier, the minister posted photos and his video amid heavy snowfall in Tawang urging tourists to exercise caution. As people responded to the tweet asking whether it is not safe to visit Arunachal or whether there are any restrictions, the minister cleared the misgivings. Don't worry brother, you won't die. Have fun and enjoy your trip to Arunachal Pradesh. I'm just giving an advisory for everyone's safety. https://t.co/skqJsYGf8YBrother, I extend a warm invitation to everyone to visit beautiful Arunachal Pradesh. Just be cautious as many people from plain areas are not aware of slippery road conditions due to snow, freezing cold and less oxygen. But the visit will be fun if you take proper care !! https://t.co/APM98CCo6JAdvise to tourists visiting Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh at this point of time. It is reported heavy snow fall between Baishakhi, Sela Pass and Nuranang. Pls get proper information before you move because the road is extremely dengerous to drive and temperature goes down to -25 ! pic.twitter.com/sLYM9aF4Fh "Advise to tourists visiting Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh at this point of time. It is reported heavy snowfall between Baishakhi, Sela Pass and Nuranang. Pls get proper information before you move because the road is extremely dangerous to drive and the temperature goes down to -25!" the minister tweeted a few days ago with a video where the minister could be seen helping a car amid snowfall."Don't worry brother, you won't die. Have fun and enjoy your trip to Arunachal Pradesh. I'm just giving an advisory for everyone's safety," the minister tweeted as a Twitter user expressed apprehension and said he won't cancel teh Arunachal trip even if there are life threats."I extend a warm invitation to everyone to visit beautiful Arunachal Pradesh. Just be cautious as many people from plain areas are not aware of slippery road conditions due to snow, freezing cold and less oxygen. But the visit will be fun if you take proper care!!" the minister tweeted to another user."Indian Army is always useful during difficult situations. They provide help to the needy people in any emergency time," the minister tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-won-t-die-kiren-rijiju-replies-to-worried-tourists-says-all-are-welcome-to-arunachal-101640762675735.html
29-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Third wave has started in Bihar, says CM Nitish Kumar and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Third wave of Covid-19 has started in Bihar, says chief minister Nitish KumarBihar is already experiencing the third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to chief minister Nitish Kumar, Hindustan Times’ sister publication Livehindustan reported. The statement was made on Tuesday, when Bihar recorded 47 cases of the infection. Read more Play Indian music on flights, at airports: Aviation ministry to Indian airlinesOn December 23, the ICCR submitted a memorandum to Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia urging him to make it mandatory for Indian airlines and airports to play Indian classical or light vocal and instrumental music. Read more  Omicron and 3rd wave of pandemic in India: What experts have said so farMany countries in the world are witnessing the 4th peak of the pandemic as Omicron is replacing Delta as the most dominant variant. India has so far seen two surges. Read more Asia takes precautions against Omicron, but a surge may be inevitableMuch of Asia has largely managed to keep omicron at bay even as the variant rages in other parts of the world, but the region that is home to most of the globe's population is bracing for what may be an inevitable surge. Read more Harnaaz Sandhu responds to those who say she won Miss Universe due to her ‘pretty face’, compares pageant to OlympicsHarnaaz Sandhu reacted to those assuming she won Miss Universe just because she has a ‘pretty face’. The actor-model went on to compare the Miss Universe pageant to the Olympics. Read more Ola begins to set up Hyperchargers for e-scooters, aims to hit 4,000 by 2022Ola Electric's Hypercharger network is being installed in public places like BPLC petrol pumps as well as residential complexes. Read more&amp;nbsp;Why sugarcane juice is an ideal winter drinkNot just in scorching heat, sugarcane could be quite refreshing in winter season too as it perfectly hydrates your body that might be deprived of fluids due to less consumption of water in cold season. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-third-wave-has-started-in-bihar-says-cm-nitish-kumar-101640760644922.html
29-12-2021||India||Tamil Nadu Omicron count reaches 45, New Year celebration banned in Chennai||The Chennai Police has put restrictions on New Year celebrations in hotels and public places amid the rising cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus, health minister Ma Subramanian informed on Wednesday. The overall infections from the Omicron variant in the state currently stands at 45.Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, the health minister said that all these patients who have been found infected with Omicron are asymptomatic and fully vaccinated against Covid-19."The cases of coronavirus are rising in Chennai. 15 thousand RT PCR tests were done in Chennai last week per day but on Tuesday alone 23,000 tests were conducted in Chennai and they will be ramped up in the coming days," he further said.Meanwhile, the Chennai police has banned New Year celebrations in resorts, farmhouses, and clubs. Hotels have, however, been allowed to function till 11pm on December 31, as per the government's latest advisory.The vehicular traffic has been banned on thoroughfares close to the Marina, Elliots and other beaches from 9pm on December 31.Also read | India sees massive jump in Covid-19 infections with 9,195 new cases in 24 hours; Omicron tally reaches 781On Tuesday, Chennai police commissioner Shankar Jiwal cautioned people against crowding to ring in 2022, citing the Tamil Nadu government advisory against crowding as coronavirus.The health minister further said that chief minister MK Stalin has called a review meeting on the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the state on December 31 and appealed to the public to get vaccinated against Covid-19 at the mega vaccination camp being held across the state on Sunday.“1600 vaccination sites are being set up in Chennai alone. Our target is to vaccinate 2.5 lakh people in a single day,” he added.India has so far identified 781 cases of the Omicron variant across 21 states and UTs, out of which 241 people have recovered or migrated, according to the Union health ministry data on Wednesday.Delhi recorded the maximum number of cases at 238, followed by Maharashtra at 167, Gujarat 73, Kerala 65 and Telangana 62.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-omicron-count-reaches-45-new-year-celebration-banned-in-chennai-101640759595983.html
29-12-2021||India||Amid Ladakh standoff, India inaugurates world's highest motorable road: 5 points||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday inaugurated key infrastructure projects in India’s border areas to strengthen the country’s strategic capabilities. The inauguration was done through a virtual event in Delhi, amid a border standoff with China.The projects inaugurated by Rajnath Singh include 24 bridges and three roads built by Border Roads Organisation (BRO) in four states and two union territories.Out of the 24 bridges, nine are in Jammu and Kashmir, five each in Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh, three in Uttarakhand and one each in Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. Of the three roads, two are in Ladakh and one in West Bengal.The highlight was the Chisumle-Demchok road at Umling La Pass, which has been constructed at a height of over 19,000 feet in Ladakh.Here is everything you need to know about the road:• The Chisumle-Demchok road holds the Guinness World Record of world's highest motorable road.• The black-topped, 52-kilometre road connects many important towns in the Chumar sector of Eastern Ladakh.• It is located at a very strategic point as the villages that will be connected by the road are very close to the India-China border in the eastern sector. This road was constructed under Project Himank.• According to government, the altitude of this road is higher than the base camps of Mount Everest. The South Base Camp in Nepal is situated at an altitude of 17,598 ft, while the North Base Camp in Tibet is at 16,900 feet.• This road is much above the altitude of Siachen Glacier which is at 17,700 feet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-ladakh-standoff-india-inaugurates-world-s-highest-motorable-road-5-points-101640761538735.html
29-12-2021||India||Third wave of Covid-19 has started in Bihar, says chief minister Nitish Kumar||Bihar is already experiencing the third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to chief minister Nitish Kumar, Hindustan Times’ sister publication Livehindustan reported. The statement was made on Tuesday, when Bihar recorded 47 cases of the infection.“The third wave of Covid pandemic has started in the state and all necessary arrangements are being made to save the people from it. The medical staff has made various preparations regarding this,” Kumar said on Tuesday, according to Livehindustan.“The contribution of doctors in the first and second wave was commendable. I commend you for this,” he further said.The Bihar government is also keeping an eye on the rising cases of the new Omicron variant, and has ordered the closure of all the parks from December 31 to January 2."It has been also decided that the New Year celebration will not take place in any park here. The decision has been taken to avoid the crowd on New year," a government order read.According to the order, it will also be mandatory to follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the government to prevent any kind of political, social, religious, cultural, sports-related events in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Bihar hasn’t recorded any Omicron case yet, according to the list of 21 states released by the Union health ministry which are affected by the new variant of the coronavirus.The health ministry data further showed that 781 cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus have been reported in the country so far.Out of this, national capital Delhi tops the list with 238 cases followed by Maharashtra with 167 cases, Gujarat with 73 cases and Kerala 65.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-wave-of-covid-19-has-started-in-bihar-says-chief-minister-nitish-kumar-101640759873671.html
29-12-2021||India||Cash in underground bunkers: Raids on Kannauj businessman conclude||Peeyush Jain, the Kannauj-based businessman who has been arrested on Sunday on charges of tax evasion, had stashed money in two underground bunkers, an official witness who was present during the raids conducted by the Directorate General of GST Intelligence told news agency ANI. The family members had no idea about the money and after much difficulty, those underground bunkers were unearthed, witness Amit Dubey told ANI. The raids were concluded on Wednesday, reports said.During the raids, the agency seized ₹194.45 crores of cash, 23 kg gold and 600 kg sandalwood. Reports said Jain has admitted that the cash was related to the sale of goods without the payment of taxes. Jain has been sent to 14 days of judicial custody by a Kanpur court.Zakir Hussain, Additional Director of DGGI said, "We have concluded our 'panchnama'. We have recovered gold, handed it over to DRI, but the probe is on. The gold which was recovered in Kanpur is separate...here, we recovered about ₹19 crore cash. As per higher officials, this is the biggest cash recovery.""The statement of Peeyush Jain has been recorded wherein he has accepted that the cash recovered from the residential premises is related to the sale of goods without payment of GST," the agency said."The evidence collected during the searches conducted in the last five days are being investigated thoroughly to unravel the tax evasion," it added.The raid ahead of the election in Uttar Pradesh grabbed eyeballs not only because of the huge amount of money, the photos of which went viral, but also Jain's alleged link with the Samajwadi Party. Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, however, said the agency raided "the wrong P Jain" and both are in the perfume business. The businessman who launched Samajwadi perfume is not Peeyush Jain, but Pushpraj Jain, Akhilesh said. "Due to the mistake of Digital India, it got its own businessman raided," Akhilesh said.PM Modi on Tuesday referred to the raids and said, "Boxes filled with notes have stumbled out. I was thinking they will say that this was also done by us. The people of Kanpur understand business and trade well. Before 2017, the perfume of corruption that they had sprinkled all over Uttar Pradesh is there for everyone to see."(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cash-in-underground-bunkers-raids-on-kannauj-businessman-conclude-101640758359235.html
29-12-2021||India||Omicron and 3rd wave of pandemic in India: What experts, scientific projections have predicted so far||A 44% jump in daily Covid cases on December 29 signals the overall increase in Covid cases that experts, scientific projections forecast following the outbreak of Omicron, the latest variant of SARS-CoV-2. According to all these predictions, India will see a rise in Covid-19 cases, which may be termed as the third wave, but its impact will not be as severe as that of the first and the second waves. According to experts, the wave is also likely to be shortlived. The surge is predicted to take place at the beginning of 2022.Here are the 4 things that experts said> A tracker developed by researchers at the University of Cambridge predicted that the new infections will begin to rise from the last week of December.> An IIT-Kanpur study has pointed out that the third wave of the pandemic in India may peak by February 3, 2022. The rise in the cases, according to this prediction, should have started by December 15.> The National Covid-19 Supermodel Committee projected that the third wave is expected to peak early next year. The members said the daily caseload is expected to increase once Omicron starts replacing Delta as the dominant variant.> South African doctor Angelique Coetzee who first identified the Omicron variant recently said India will see a surge in Covid cases, primarily driven by the Omicron variant but the infection will be mild. "India will see a surge in Omicron-driven COVID-19 cases and simultaneously there will be a high-positivity rate. But hopefully, the majority of the cases will be as mild as what we are seeing here in South Africa," Coetzee said.Here are the worldwide trends> Most countries are seeing the 4th wave of the Covid pandemic, being driven by Omicron.> South Africa, it is believed, has started to overcome the wave as the number of Omicron cases in the country is now declining> In the US and the UK, Omicron has replaced Delta to be the dominant strain.> US and UK are witnessing a record surge in the number of cases and hospitalisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-and-3rd-wave-of-pandemic-in-india-what-experts-scientific-projections-101640756128260.html
29-12-2021||India||Play Indian music on flights, at airports: Aviation ministry to Indian airlines||The aviation ministry has written to Indian airlines and airport operators advising them to play Indian music in flights and airports, citing a request from the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), which submitted a memorandum urging the same a few days ago.Giving examples of other airlines that play music “quintessential” of their respective countries, including Jazz in American airlines or Mozart in Austrian airlines, the ministry asked the Indian airlines to follow their footsteps."Music played by most airlines across the globe is quintessential of the country to which the airline belongs, for example, Jazz in American airline or Mozart in Austrian Airline and Arab music in an airline from the Middle East. But Indian airlines seldom play Indian music in flight, whereas, our music has a rich heritage and culture and it has one of the many things every Indian has a reason for truly proud of it," news agency ANI quoted from the advisory written by aviation ministry joint secretary Usha Padhee to DGCA chief Arun Kumar and Airports Authority of India (AAI) chairman Sanjeev Kumar."(Union) aviation ministry is in receipt of a request from ICCR for playing Indian music in aircraft being operated in India and also at airports. It is therefore requested to kindly consider (doing so) following the regulatory requisites," the letter further read.“It is, therefore, requested to kindly consider playing Indian music in the aircraft being operated in India and at airports following the requisites,” it added.On December 23, the ICCR submitted a memorandum to Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia urging him to make it mandatory for Indian airlines and airports to play Indian classical or light vocal and instrumental music.“...it is extremely unfortunate and even ironic that most airways in India however — both private and government-owned as well as both domestic and International -- seldom, if at all, play Indian music... We hereby ardently request you to look into this matter,” the ICCR letter said.Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, president of ICCR, said the minister assured them that the ministry will look at their request.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/play-indian-music-on-flights-at-airports-aviation-ministry-to-indian-airlines-101640747491623.html
29-12-2021||India||India sees massive jump in Covid-19 infections with 9,195 new cases in 24 hours; Omicron tally reaches 781||India on Wednesday reported a massive spike in its coronavirus tally with 9,195 fresh cases being reported in the past 24 hours. According to data shared by the Union health ministry, the national tally of Covid-19 infection has climbed to 34,808,886, of which the active caseload stands at 77,002.The country's tally of the Omicron variant of coronavirus has risen to 781 with Delhi being the maximum contributor at 238 cases, the data further showed. Maharashtra was second in the highest number of Omicron cases at 167, followed by Gujarat (73), Kerala (65), Telangana (62) and Rajasthan (46).The number of deaths from the Covid-19 infection climbed to 4,80,592 with 302 fresh fatalities in the 24 hours.Also read | 781 Omicron cases in India, Delhi tops with 238 cases; major jump in daily tallyAs many as 7,347 people recovered from the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 3,42,51,292.The active cases account for less than 1 per cent (0.22) of the total cases in the country, which has been the lowest since March 2020.The recovery rate has soared to 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020, data by the health ministry showed.While the daily positivity rate has remained less than 2 per cent (0.79) for the last 86 days, the weekly positivity rate was registered to be less than 1 per cent (0.68) for the last 45 days.Under the ongoing Covid-19 nationwide vaccination drive, as many as 143.15 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far in the country.Since Covid-19 cases are once again seeing a spike in the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to hold a meeting with the Council of Ministers on Wednesday. According to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Livehindustan, the meeting is expected to take place at 4pm. The discussion is likely to revolve around the Omicron variant and the upcoming polls due next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-massive-jump-in-covid-19-infections-with-9-195-new-cases-in-24-hours-omicron-tally-reaches-781-101640751216033.html
29-12-2021||India||Winter chill: Mercury set to plunge across northwest India||NEW DELHI: Minimum temperatures are likely to fall by 2-4 degrees Celsius across northwest India over the next two days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. It also said that dense fog is likely in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh until January 1.The IMD said a western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation is lying over Pakistan and adjoining Jammu and Kashmir while a trough is running from the Madhya Pradesh to Bihar across Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. A cyclonic circulation was separately lying over Uttar Pradesh. Under the influence of these systems, light and moderate, isolated to scattered rainfall or snowfall is likely in Uttarakhand on Wednesday. Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall was also likely in Uttar Pradesh.Light to moderate, isolated to scattered rainfall is likely in Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal and Sikkim until Thursday.Isolated thunderstorms, lightning, and hailstorm are also likely in Madhya Pradesh, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Chhattisgarh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya on Wednesday and Thursday. Cold wave conditions are likely in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Rajasthan until January 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winter-chill-mercury-set-to-plunge-across-northwest-india-101640754801250.html
29-12-2021||India||'Cast 1 crore votes to party, get liquor at ₹70': Andhra Pradesh BJP chief||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Andhra Pradesh unit president Somu Veerraju has promised to bring down the price of liquor in the state if the party gets one crore votes. Assembly elections are due in the state in 2024.“Cast one crore votes to Bharatiya Janata Party and we will provide liquor for just ₹70. If we have more revenue left, then, will provide liquor for just ₹50,” Veerraju said while addressing a rally in Vijayawada on Tuesday, news agency ANI reported.The BJP is aiming to dislodge the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) government, headed by Jagan Mohan Reddy, in the next assembly elections. The “Praja Agraha Sabha” (a meeting to express people’s anger) in Vijayawada was organised by Andhra Pradesh BJP where former Union minister and senior BJP leader Prakash Javadekar urged the people of the state to “put an end to the corrupt and destructive rule of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy-led Andhra Pradesh government” in 2024.He described the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and YSRCP as family-dominated parties, and said both indulged in massive corruption.Veeraraju, meanwhile, claimed that the BJP is the only party capable of pulling down the corrupt Jagan government. “We are confident of forming the next government in the state,” he said.The YSRCP had swept the 2019 assembly polls in the state, winning 151 of the 175 seats. The TDP could only manage to win 23 seats, while the BJP drew a blank.In 2014, Chandrababu Naidu-led TDP has emerged victorious by winning 102 seats. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s party was at number 2, and won 67 seats.Since taking over as chief minister, Jagan has reversed many policy decisions of the previous TDP government. He cancelled several infrastructure projects, took back land allotted to companies and in January 2020, cleared a proposal to have three capitals – Vishakhapatnam (executive), Amaravati (legislative) and Kurnool (judicial).The three-capital plan, however, got entangled in legal troubles and is hanging in thin air. The high court ordered status quo on the capitals, thereby stalling the government’s plan. The chief minister then withdrew the two bills on the three capitals in the state legislature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cast-1-crore-votes-to-party-get-liquor-at-rs-70-andhra-pradesh-bjp-chief-101640753978987.html
29-12-2021||India||Thick snow blankets Darjeeling and Sikkim; set to spark tourism rush||SILIGURI: Tourist vehicles were stranded in many areas as Darjeeling in West Bengal and the neighbouring state of Sikkim received heavy snowfall early on Wednesday. The snowfall is expected to attract more tourists to the hills, but locals in high-altitude areas of Sikkim such as Lachung have urged them to avoid visiting the region until the weather improves.The snow disrupted normal life in parts of Sikkim as electricity and mobile networks were cut off. The army earlier rescued over 1,000 tourists stranded near the India-China border in eastern Sikkim on Sunday.“The weather was warm in Lachung till Tuesday evening. The weather changed suddenly and [the temperature] dipped below zero [degrees Celsius], resulting in massive snowfall since the early hours of Wednesday. This would surely attract more tourists,” said Bikash Tamang, a driver who ferries tourists.Residents said roads leading to tourist destinations such as Nathu La, Gurudongmar, Yumthang and Tsomgo lake were covered with snow and become slippery and dangerous to drive.In Sandakphu, the highest point in West Bengal, the temperature dropped below zero degrees Celsius. “Places such as Tiger Hill, one of the most popular places in Darjeeling to watch the sunrise and Mt Kancendzonga, receive snowfall. But Wednesday’s snowfall was massive. The entire Tiger Hill has come under a blanket of snow,” said Thupden Lama, a resident of Ghoom Jorebunglow, around 9km from Darjeeling.Supratim Bose, a Siliguri resident, said he and his friends left for Tiger Hill, 70km away, on Wednesday as soon as they got to know about the snowfall.
29-12-2021||India||781 Omicron cases in India, Delhi tops with 238 cases; major jump in daily tally||The number of Omicron cases in India has reached 781 on Wednesday with the national capital Delhi topping the chart with 238 cases, including 57 recoveries. Maharashtra is second with 167 Pmicron cases including 72 recoveries. Gujarat, Kerala, Telangana, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, West Bengal have two-digit figures of Omicron cases, according to health ministry data. The rapid spread of the latest variant of SARS-CoV-2 also impacted India's total tally of cases as it recorded around a 44% increase from Tuesday with 9,195 cases. The number of fresh cases reported in the last 24 hours surpassed the number of people discharged/ recovered, which stood at 7,347.Schools, cinemas and gyms shut: Yellow alert in Delhi amid Covid alarm | 10 pointsThe overall Covid tally of India has been around 7,000 to 8,000 for weeks. Even after the first Omicron cases were reported in India in the first week of December, the overall Covid tally did not show any considerable change. With Delhi and Mumbai clocking in an astronomical rise in daily tally, the situation worsened in the last 24 hours.Here is which state stands where regarding Omicron casesA yellow alert has been issued in Delhi limiting passengers in public transport. Schools, colleges, gyms, cinema halls have been closed in an emergency measure while restaurants and bars have been allowed to operate only at 50 per cent capacity. Delhi on Tuesday recorded a massive spike in the daily Covid-19 tally with 496 fresh cases, the highest since June 4, while the positivity rate also rose to 0.89 per cent.States which have single-digit Omicron cases include Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Chandigarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh and Manipur.The Union health ministry has already alerted all states and UTs to be on alert amid the festive season and most of the metro cities have already banned public gatherings and celebratory events on the occasion of New Year.The World Health Organization in its weekly epidemiological update said the risk from Omicron remains very high as the variant is spreading very fast. In the US and the UK, the variant has already become the dominant, while Omicron cases in South Africa have come down, WHO noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/781-omicron-cases-in-india-delhi-tops-with-238-cases-major-jump-in-daily-tally-101640750703791.html
29-12-2021||India||Not unparliamentary word: Narayan Rane on son Nitesh Rane 'meowing' Aaditya Thackeray||Union Rane on Tuesday commented about the row over his son Nitesh Rane meowing at Maharashtra minister Asditya Thackeray at the state assembly, the video of which has fone viral. The minister said his son did not do anything wrong, did not utter any unparliamentary word and the episode took place outside te House. Nitesh did not refer to anyone in particular, Narayan Rane said. The incident took place last week for which the Sena members have been seeking suspension of Nitesh Rane.Here is what happened:  #WATCH Video emerges showing BJP leader Nitesh Rane taunting Maharashtra min Aaditya Thackeray as he enters Vidhan Bhavan on December 23Shiv Sena's demand for Nitesh Rane's suspension from the Assembly led to brief adjournment of the session y'day (Video source unverified) pic.twitter.com/3qYfrd6UjkLast week, Nitesh Rane was sitting in the Vidhan Bhavan premises when Aaditya Thackeray was going inside the building. Nitesh Rane made 'meow' sound looking in the direction of Thackeray. Shiv Sena members demanded Nitesh Rane's suspension over the incident. "Aaditya Thackeray, being a dignified man, walked away ignoring Nitesh Rane. We will not tolerate the insult of our leader," Shiv Sena MLA Suhas Kande said.Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis said in the Assembly that Nitesh Rane will be reprimanded for his comments. But suspending a member for an incident that happened outside the house is not right. BJP leader Chandrakant Patil too wondered why the incident that took place outside the Assembly was being discussed in the Assembly. "Did Nitesh Rane take any name?" Patil said.On Tuesday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said MLAs should maintain decorum and follow parliamentary protocols in the Assembly and Vidhan Bhavan premises. "We don't represent animals. Making fun of others and making sounds of animals is betrayal of the people's trust in you," Pawar said, referring to the 'meow' incident.Nitesh Rane has come under fire in an attempt to murder case. On December 18, Santosh Parab, a Sena functionary from Kankavli in Sindhudurg was attacked. Parab is a close associate of Sindhudurg District Cooperative Bank chairman Satish Sawant, who was defeated by Nitesh Rane in the 2019 assembly polls on the Kankavali seat. The district bank's election is slated for December 30. "Nitesh is being falsely implicated in a case. (IPC) Section 307 (attempt to murder) has been invoked in a case where the complainant had bruises. Nitesh was not there when the incident occurred,” Narayan Rane said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-unparliamentary-word-narayan-rane-on-son-nitesh-rane-meowing-aaditya-thackeray-101640748314505.html
29-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to hold Council of Ministers meeting at 4 pm today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to hold Council of Ministers meet today; Omicron, assembly polls likely to be discussedPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday hold a Council of Ministers meeting amid rising cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus. The meeting is expected to take place at 4pm, according to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Livehindustan. Read MoreShashi Tharoor shares old post of Hinduism versus Hindutva, says still relevantAmid controversy over Haridwar's Dharma Sansad, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday shared an old post comparing Hinduism with Hindutva and said though he had shared it two years ago, the comparison is still relevant. Read MoreAmit Shah to lay foundation of projects worth ₹49.36 crores in GandhinagarUnion home minister Amit Shah will on Wednesday virtually lay the foundation of various developmental projects worth ₹49.36 crores in Gandhinagar, his parliamentary constituency, in Gujarat. Read More‘We can then allow South Africa to bat’: Mohammed Shami reveals target India aim to set in Centurion TestJust when you thought that South Africa have produced a remarkable turnaround in the ongoing Test in Centurion, the Indian seam attack led by Mohammed Shami put the contest back into India's favour as the visitors finished Day 3 with a commanding lead of 146 runs. Read MoreMrunal Thakur says she was ‘treated in a certain way’ as a newcomer, cried at home afterwardsActor Mrunal Thakur said that when she was starting out in the entertainment industry, there were times when the way she was treated left her in tears. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-hold-council-of-ministers-meeting-at-4-pm-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101640746063414.html
29-12-2021||India||Amit Shah to lay foundation of developmental projects worth ₹49.36 crores in Gandhinagar today||Union home minister Amit Shah will on Wednesday virtually lay the foundation of various developmental projects worth ₹49.36 crores in Gandhinagar, his parliamentary constituency, in Gujarat. The program will be held at 1.20 pm, according to news agency ANI."Union Home Minister Amit Shah through video conferencing will inaugurate and lay foundation stone of various developmental projects worth ₹49.36 crores in Gandhinagar parliamentary constituency," the office of Amit Shah said in a tweet in Hindi.Shah has been addressing rallies in Uttar Pradesh as part of Bharatiya Janata Party's campaign for the next year's assembly polls where the party is hoping to come back to power for the second consecutive term.On Tuesday, the home minister offered prayers at the Sankat Mochan Temple in Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi. He also addressed rallies in Hardoi and Sultanpur.During his address, Shah launched an attack on the Samajwadi Party and said that the party has a different meaning of ABCD and BJP has put an end to it.Also read | Amit Shah explains how ‘ABCD’ of Samajwadi Party is different"The ABCD of the Samajwadi Party is reverse. For them, 'A' means 'apradh and aatank' (crime and terror), 'B' stands for 'bhai-bhatijavad' (nepotism), 'C' means 'corruption' and 'D' is 'danga' (riot). BJP has put an end to this ABCD," Shah said.Shah said he was confident that the BJP will emerge victorious in the state in the assembly polls next year.In the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly election, the BJP came to power in the state with a massive majority of more than 300 of the 403 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-lay-foundation-of-developmental-projects-worth-rs-49-36-crores-in-gandhinagar-today-101640746515259.html
29-12-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor shares old post of Hinduism versus Hindutva, says still relevant||Amid controversy over Haridwar's Dharma Sansad, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday shared an old post comparing Hinduism with Hindutva and said though he had shared it two years ago, the comparison is still relevant. Hinduism is the union of various Indian cultures and traditions with diverse roots and no founder, while Hindutva is a homogenous racial-territorial category propagated by Savarkar, the post said.Comparing the origin of Hinduism and the Hindutva, the post says Hinduism is thousands of years old, while Hindutva was first proposed as a political idea in 1923 by Savarkar. Hinduism has many texts including the Vedas, the Puranas etc while Hindutva has one central political pamphlet, 'Hindutva: Who is a Hindu?" published in 1928. two years ago. Still relevant! @RahulGandhi @INCIndia https://t.co/FwTtzkFCnsThe post shared by Tharoor, the writer of Why I am a Hindu, says, unlike Hinduism, Hindutva is monolithic, more like Islam and Christianity. Hindutva is exclusive and the practitioners actively hate and fear other religions and oppose the traditional secular Hindu way of life.Also Read | Those who bow to PM’s wrong decisions follow Hindutva: Rahul Gandhi at Cong meetThe post comes amid the ongoing controversy over Hindu versus Hindutva. Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said people who bow before the wrong decisions of PM Modi are the ones who follow Hindutva ideology. “Those who believe in the ideology of Hindutva bow before anyone — they bowed before the British and they bow before money because there is no truth in their hearts,” Rahul Gandhi said.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said the country needs to understand the Hindu versus Hindutva debate started by Rahul Gandhi. “Rahul Gandhi started a debate on Hindu versus Hindutva, and there is a need to understand its meaning… The crux was that on one hand, there is a Hindu whose great values have been there for centuries, whose expressions are of love and brotherhood and the forces which are doing politics in the name of Hindutva, their becoming Hindu is pseudo, they are fake Hindus,” Gehlot said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-shares-old-post-of-hinduism-versus-hindutva-says-still-relevant-101640743357158.html
29-12-2021||India||Nagaland civilian killings: Army’s inquiry team to visit incident site today||An inquiry team of the Indian Army, which has been probing the December 4 Nagaland firing incident, will visit the incident site in the Mon district on Wednesday."In reference to Indian Army inquiry into December 4 incident at Oting, Nagaland, the Army Inquiry Team will visit the incident site on December 29. The team will also be present at Tizit Police Station, Mon District on the same day," public relations officer (PRO) Kohima, ministry of defence tweeted on Monday.Also Read| Govt panel to review Afspa amid Nagaland killings rowThe inquiry team has solicited from the public at large any primary information (not forwarded or not from a secondary source) about the firing incident.As many as 13 civilians died on December 4 after they were killed by the 21 Para Special Forces (SF) of the Army in a botched-up counter-insurgency operation in the district. The first firing led to the death of six civilians after the SF unit mistook coal mine workers returning home in a pick-up van, to be members of the terrorist outfit NSCN (K).As these coal mine workers did not return, villagers and locals started looking for them and surrounded Army vehicles. The troops fired at these agitating civilians of which seven lost their lives. One jawan of the Army died.The Nagaland Police in its FIR against the 21 Para SF unit said the firing was without any provocation, intended to injure and kill civilians.“On reaching at Langkhao between Upper Tiru and Oting village, security forces fired at the vehicle without any provocation, resulting to the killing of many Oting villagers and seriously injured many others,” the FIR lodged at the Tizit police station read.The state government has also formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the incident.Also Read| Nagaland killings: An apology will raise the Army’s statureThe Army, meanwhile, expressed regret over the killing of civilians in the Mon district and assured that the investigation into the incident was progressing expeditiously."The inquiry ordered by Army is progressing expeditiously and all efforts are being made to conclude it at the earliest. We have taken out notices for people to come forward and assist us in the inquiry," the Army said in an official statement on December 25.The Army also added it is fully cooperating with the SIT formed by the Nagaland government and required details were being shared on time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-civilian-killings-army-s-inquiry-team-to-visit-incident-site-today-101640736247938.html
29-12-2021||NA||Highlights: Mumbai makes 7-day quarantine must for residents arriving from UAE||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Mumbai makes 7-day quarantine must for residents arriving from UAE, RT-PCR on arrivalAll international passengers arriving from UAE including Dubai who are Mumbai residents to compulsorily undergo 7-day home quarantine, RT-PCR on arrival will be mandatory for such passengers, announces BMC.Manipur imposes night curfew from 9pm to 4am amid Omicron surgeManipur govt imposes night curfew from 9pm to 4am in view of new Omicron cases. Music concerts, Thabal Chongba, celebratory feasts, large gatherings in indoor spaces have been restricted.India, Philippines soon to sign BrahMos missile dealIndia is expected to soon get export order from Philippines for BrahMos supersonic cruise missiles. "India and Philippines are in an advanced stage of negotiations over the sale of BrahMos supersonic cruise missile. Export order likely to be placed soon," government sources told news agency ANI.Karnataka reports 5 new Omicron cases in last 24 hours5 new cases of Omicron have been confirmed in Karnataka today. All positive persons have been isolated and primary and secondary contacts have been identified and tested, says Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar.Full vaccination or negative RT-PCR report mandatory for entry into DehradunDehradun administration mandates negative COVID certificate not older than 72 hours for entry into the district.“Full vaccination certificate or negative COVID certificate not older than 72 hours is required for entry into Dehradun,” says district magistrate R Rajesh Kumar.Rajasthan mandates vaccination for entering public places from Jan 31Rajasthan cabinet on Wednesday made Covid-19 vaccination mandatory for entering public places from January 31 onwards.Maharashtra reports 85 new Omicron cases, state tally touches 252; surpasses DelhiMaharashtra reports 85 new Omicron cases, state tally touches 252; surpasses Delhi.UP govt renames Jhansi railway station as Virangana Lakshmibai station, reports ANIUttar Pradesh government has issued notification to rename Jhansi Railway Station as Virangana Lakshmibai Railway Station.India's Covid-19 vaccinations cross 143 crore mark, 57 lakh jabs administered todayIndia’s COVID-19 vaccination coverage has crossed the 143 crore mark today with more than 57 lakh vaccine doses have been administered till 7 pm today, according to the government data.Delhi’s daily Covid-19 caseload nears 1000-mark with 923 fresh infections, positivity rate at 1.29%Madras high court bans liquor sales for 3 hours on New Year's night in PuducherryMadras high court orders ban on liquor sales for three hours – from 10pm to 1am – on New Year's night in Puducherry.DDMA decides to maintain yellow alert; govt in 'wait and watch' modeThe DDMA has decided to not impose ‘amber’ alert in Delhi even though the positivity rate has gone above 1%.More curbs will not be immediately imposed. Govt is in ‘wait and watch’ mode. Read morePM Modi to release 10th installment of financial aid for farmers under PM-KISAN scheme on January 1Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release the 10th installment of financial benefit under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme on 1st Jan at 12:30 pm via video conferencing, announced his office.Delhi LG chairs review meeting over Covid-19 situation, CM Kejriwal also presentIn view of rising Covid-19 cases in Delhi, Lt Governor Anil Baijal chairs a review meeting (virtual) with Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is also present at the meeting.Indian Army to give access to Nagaland's SIT for recording statements in connection to firing incident, reports ANIThe Indian Army will provide access to Nagaland's Special Investigation Team to record statements of the troops involved in the incidents in which 14 civilians lost their lives in Mon district of Nagaland. The unit is located in Jorhat district of Assam, news agency quoted official sources. Read full storyRajasthan reports 23 Omicron cases, 4 returned from abroadRajasthan on Wednesday reported 23 cases infected with the Omicron variant of Covid19, which include four who returned from abroad.Till date, 69 cases of this variant have been found, including the 23 cases reported today. Of the total 46 detected earlier, 44 have recovered.NCP MP Supriya Sule, husband test positive for Covid-19NCP MP Supriya Sule and her husband tested positive for Covid-19.NPP leader Letpao Haokip joins BJPNational People's Party leader Letpao Haokip on Wednesday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Delhi. "I think that under the leadership of PM Modi, the Northeast region and Manipur will be developed,' he said.Karnataka CM likely to review Covid-19 containment measuresKarnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday indicated that he is likely to review the Covid-19 containment measures announced by his government, including the "night curfew", in the wake of opposition from businesses, reported news agency PTI.ED files 7,000-page supplementary chargesheet in money laundering case against Anil DeshmukhThe Enforcement Directorate has named former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh as the main accused in the 7,000-page supplementary chargesheet filed in a money laundering case in a Mumbai court, reported news agency ANI. The chargesheet also names the minister's sons in the case.  Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain says Covid-19 cases have gone up due to arrival of international passengersDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday that the Covid-19 positivity rate is the city is around 1 per cent, adding the cases have increased with the arrival of international flights. “Not a single Omicron patient has required oxygen support so far,” he added.Earthquake of magnitude 5.9 near Crete felt in some Egyptian citiesAn earthquake of 5.9 magnitude that hit the Greek island of Crete was felt in some Egyptian cities, Reuters quoted the country's National Research Institute of Astronomy and Geophysics as saying on Wednesday.Chennai Police restrict New Year's celebrations in hotels and public placesTamil Nadu health minister Ma Subramanian on Wednesday said that Chennai Police has put restrictions on New Year's celebrations in hotels and public places. He added that chief minsiter MK Stalin has called a review meeting on the Covid-19 sitution in the state on December 31.Delhi resident doctors continue their strike against delay in NEET-PG counsellingResident doctors from government-run Safdarjung hospital in Delhi have continued their strike against the delay in NEET-PG counselling. Speaking to news agency ANI, a patient's relative said, “We're facing problems in getting medical treatment here, but the doctors are raising valid demands after working through Covid-19 pandemic.”India reports 9,195 fresh Covid-19 cases in a major spike; Omicron count climbs to 781India has reported 9,195 fresh Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, according to Union health ministry data on Wednesday. The active cases in the country currently stand at 77,002. The country's Omicron tally has further climbed to 781.Amit Shah to lay foundation of developmental projects worth ₹49.36 crores in Gandhinagar todayUnion home minister Amit Shah will on Wednesday virtually lay the foundation of various developmental projects worth ₹49.36 crores in Gandhinagar, his parliamentary constituency, in Gujarat. The program will be held at 1.20 pm, according to news agency ANI. Read moreCoronavirus cases surge across Australia as omicron spreadsCoronavirus cases surged across Australia on Wednesday as an outbreak of the omicron variant spread, with new infections in Sydney and surrounding parts of New South Wales state skyrocketing to more than 11,000, up from 6,000 a day earlier, reported news agency AP.PM to hold Council of Ministers meet today; Omicron, assembly polls on agendaPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday hold a Council of Ministers meeting amid rising cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus. The meeting is expected to take place at 4pm, according to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Livehindustan. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-december-29-2021-101640738980672.html
29-12-2021||India||PM Modi to hold Council of Ministers meet today; Omicron, assembly polls likely to be discussed||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday hold a Council of Ministers meeting amid rising cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus. The meeting is expected to take place at 4pm, according to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Livehindustan.According to the report, the meeting is expected to be attended by all ministers and among the things that are expected to be discussed include next year's assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab.PM Modi had taken stock of the pandemic situation in a high-level meeting called last Thursday where he asked officials to maintain a high level of vigil and alertness amid the Omicron spread.In a communication to the states and UTs earlier, the Centre had said the Omicron variant is at least thrice more transmissible than its Delta variant and asked them to "activate" war rooms, keep analysing even small trends and surges and keep taking strict and prompt containment action at the district and local levels.Also read | Omicron risk remains high; variant surpasses Delta in UK, US: 7 things WHO saysIndia has identified 781 cases of the Omicron variant so far, according to the Union health ministry data on Wednesday. Delhi has reported the maximum cases of the Omicron variant at 238, followed by Maharashtra (167), Gujarat (73), Kerala (65), Telangana (62) and Rajasthan (46). Other states that have reported cases of the new variant include Karnataka (34), Tamil Nadu (34) and Haryana (12).A Bloomberg report on Tuesday stated that India may see a spurt in the Covid-19 growth rate within days and head into an intense but short-lived virus wave.Also read | Infection with Omicron may reduce risk from Delta variant too, shows studyThe report quoted an expert as saying, “It is likely that India will see a period of explosive growth in daily cases and that the intense growth phase will be relatively short."Last week, India allowed booster shots and included teenagers aged 15 to 18 in the ongoing vaccination drive. Two more vaccines as well as Merck & Co.’s antiviral pill molnupiravir were approved by the local drug regulator on Tuesday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-council-of-ministers-meet-today-omicron-assembly-polls-likely-to-be-discussed-101640736766649.html
29-12-2021||India||Biological E gets nod to conduct trials of its Corbevax as booster dose||Hyderabad-based Biological E has got the Drug Controller General of India's nod to conduct trials of its vaccine Corbevax as booster shots, news agency ANI reported. This makes Biological E the second company after Bharat Biotech to conduct clinical trials for booster doses. India has already rolled out its plan to administer booster doses, which is being called 'precaution dose' in the country, from January 10. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin will be administered as precaution doses to frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidities.The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) recommended granting of permission to conduct proposed phase 3 clinical trials for boosters of biological vaccine subject to the two conditions: The first is that the administration of booster dose after primary immunization should be studied in two cohorts of six and nine months with age-wise stratification and including 50 per cent subjects with high risk or comorbidity condition. The second is that the safety follow-up should be extended to nine months, ANI reported.On December 10, the committee reviewed the data provided by Biological E, which had presented its revised clinical trial protocol for the conduct of phase 3 clinical trial for the administration of booster dose of COVID-19 vaccine containing receptor-binding domain (RBD) antigen of SARS-CoV-2.Corbevax, a two-dose vaccine, is India's first indigenously developed protein subunit vaccine which has been included in India's arsenal of vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday after it got the DCGI nod. The vaccine maker company plans to deliver more than 1 billion additional doses globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biological-e-gets-nod-to-conduct-trials-of-its-corbevax-as-booster-dose-101640738392591.html
29-12-2021||India||IMD predicts rainfall in northwest, mercury dip||Minimum temperatures are likely to drop by 2°C-4°C from Wednesday over most parts of northwest India following a wet spell, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday. Cold wave conditions are also likely to set in over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and north Rajasthan on January 1 and 2, it added.A western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation is lying over north Pakistan while an induced cyclonic circulation is observed over southwest Rajasthan and neighbouring area, IMD said.A trough is running from the cyclonic circulation to north Telangana while a cyclonic circulation is lying over central parts of Uttar Pradesh, too.“Under the influence of these systems, light to moderate, scattered rainfall/snowfall was witnessed over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on Tuesday; with the latter likely to witness the same on Wednesday,” the IMD said.“Over Delhi the wet spell is almost over. Minimum temperatures will start dropping now gradually. We can expect very cold nights on December 31 and January 1 if the winds are strong and northerly. Another active western disturbance is approaching on January 5 which is likely to bring rain over Delhi around January 5 and 6. We are monitoring that approaching WD and will issue an alert accordingly,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.On Tuesday, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Rajasthan recorded light rainfall while Uttar Pradesh received scattered to fairly widespread rainfall. Isolated thunderstorm, lightning and hailstorm were also reported over East and adjoining West Uttar Pradesh.“The present western disturbance that brought scattered and widespread rain over the northern hills and northwest India has become more active over central India due to moisture incursion from Bay of Bengal. So we are witnessing hailstorm and thunderstorm over central and east India now,” added Jenamani.Minimum temperatures are presently 2°C-5°C above normal over many parts of Northwest, Central, East, Northeast and north peninsular India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-predicts-rainfall-in-northwest-mercury-dip-101640731286354.html
29-12-2021||India||Haridwar hate speech case: 2 summoned; accused files cross-complaint||Two people accused of giving hate speeches at a religious event in Haridwar on December 17-19 have been summoned by police on Tuesday for questioning, even as one of them has filed a complaint alleging “threat to life from Muslim fundamentalists”.Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, previously known as Wasim Rizvi, former chairman of Shia Waqf Board in Uttar Pradesh, and Pooja Shakun Pandey, alias Annapurna Maa, were served notice under section 41(a) of CrPC (Code of Criminal Procedure) to report to the Haridwar Kotwali police station by January 4 to record their statements.Also Read | 2 more names added to FIR in Haridwar hate speech case“Both of them received the notices,” said Rakendra Kathait, station house officer at the police precinct.A similar notice couldn’t be served to the third accused, Dharamdas Maharaj, general secretary of the Hindu Mahasabha. “He wasn’t present at his Haridwar residence,” Kataith said. ” We are trying to locate him.”Further legal action will be taken if the two accused fail to appear.“If that happens, the local court will issue non-bailable warrants against them as per the legal procedure,” the police officer said.Regarding Tyagi’s complaint, he said: “The complaint was lodged by Tyagi, along with some other seers, in which he claimed to face threat to life from Muslim fundamentalists ever since he converted to Hinduism. The police are verifying the complaint before taking further action.”City police have also issued “strict warning” to the organisers of Tuesday’s event against any hate speech.“Police have given stern warning to the organisers of the event against any similar incident,” said police superintendent Swatantra Kumar Singh. “We don’t want any disturbance in the law and order situation in the holy town before elections,” he told reporters.
29-12-2021||India||We’ll be world’s content subcontinent: Thakur||Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur said on Wednesday the government is committed to making India the “content subcontinent” of the world.Addressing the closing ceremony of the inaugural Kashi film festival here on Tuesday, Thakur said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath have transformed UP. If Mumbai is a city of films, UP will not be left behind. India is a country of story-tellers. It can also be a hub for post production, animation and graphics. We have skilled manpower. We will make India the content subcontinent of the world.”Thakur drew a parallel between India and Marvel comics and said, “If you come to Kashi, you can see all colours of life. India is a land of story tellers. If you see Marvel comics, its fictitious but in India, people can provide real life stories.”Assembly polls are scheduled to be held in UP in 2022.Hailing the work carried out by PM Modi is his consitutency of Varanasi, Thakur said: “Kashi has developed highways, airports and ports. PM has also created history by revamping the corridor of Vishwanath dham.”This, Thakur said, has brought streams of visitors to one of India’s oldest cities.This will not just boost religious tourism, but also augment local industries, the minister added.
29-12-2021||India||Those who bow to PM’s wrong decisions follow Hindutva: Rahul Gandhi at Cong meet||JAIPUR: People who bow before the “wrong decisions” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi are the ones who follow Hindutva ideology, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Tuesday. He said those who confront challenges are Hindus and those who run away from problems out of fear are the ones who follow Hindutva.“Those who believe in the ideology of Hindutva bow before anyone — they bowed before the British and they bow before money because there is no truth in their hearts,” he said, virtually addressing the concluding session of the three-day Congress training camp on Tuesday.Also Read | India a country of Hindus, not Hindutvavadis: Rahul GandhiHe also said a prime minister from the Congress would have resigned had China occupied Indian territory “whereas the RSS people are engaged in hiding the violation of India’s borders by China under the Modi regime”.He alleged that those associated with the RSS are spreading hatred and fear in the country, and said the Congress will fight this effort and not step back an inch. “This is our Laxman Rekha (strict boundary, a classical allusion to the Ramayana,” he said. “The BJP’s Laxman Rekha is power and for the sake of power, they have always been changing the Laxman Rekha of their ideology, whereas Congress’s Laxman Rekha is truth and we Congressmen stand where there is truth,” said Rahul.Sharing his experience of visiting Naini jail, where Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru was imprisoned during freedom struggle for over a decade, he said when Nehru was released from the jail, he in the visitor book thanked the jailers as he learned a lot during his imprisonment.There was no hatred and revenge anywhere in the statement of Nehru against those who imprisoned him, whereas Veer Savarkar in his book mentioned that he was most pleased when five of his companions together beat up a Muslim youth with sticks, he alleged.“All religions including Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians are the paths to attain the truth. For us, religion is the way to attain truth, but the religion of Hindutva is to make our religion a means of attaining power,” said Gandhi.BJP spokesperson Mukeshj Pareek said Rahul Gandhi has made baseless statements against RSS and Hindutva to misguide people. The RSS is known for serving the country and the society, and does not require any certificate.He said Gandhi, “with his half knowledge about Hindutva”, is indirectly seeking political mileage. “It is not hidden from anyone that Gandhi and his party believe in appeasement and accordingly behave like that”.Pareek said baseless charges on Veer Savarkar shows their narrow mindset. Praising Congress leaders, especially Indira Gandhi have set records of toppling elected governments, and he should also speak about them, he said.
29-12-2021||India||Hyderpora encounter: Businessman was used as human shield by Pakistani terrorist, says SIT||A Special Investigation Team (STI) of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday ruled out any foul play by security forces in the November 15 Hyderporaencounter, in which three civilians were killed, claiming that one of the deceased was killed by a foreign terrorist while the other died after he was used as a “human shield” by the extremists.Deputy inspector general of police Sujit Kumar, who is heading the SIT, said businessman Altaf Ahmad Bhat died after he was used as a “human shield” by Pakistani terrorist Bilal Bhai alias Hyder, who was also killed in the encounter with security forces. Bhat (48), Mudasir Gul (43) and Amir Magray (in his 20s), were killed along with two terrorists – one foreign and one local – in the encounter in Hyderpora area of Srinagar last month. While police claimed that the civilians were over ground workers (OGWs) of terrorism, the deceased’s families alleged that they were used by security forces as human shields during the gunbattle.Police had buried the bodies in Handwara, around 70 km away from Hyderpora, without the participation of their families. The bodies of Bhat and Gul were, however, handed over to the families after continuous protests. Addressing reporters here, DIG Kumar said: “The house owner was used as a human shield by Pakistani terrorist Bilal bhai. Mudasir Gul was killed by the same terrorist.”Providing further details, Kumar said that CCTV footage showed that Gul would travel in his vehicle along with the terrorist who also used to stay in his office.“We have found out that Amir was frequently visiting Bandipora. Why would someone visit Bandipora so frequently when he (his family) had fled that place in 2008?” the DIG said. The SIT head alleged that Bhat’s family did not provide any satisfactory replies about the tenants in the building during the probe. To this, Saima Bhat, Altaf’s niece, said he was the sole owner of his property, so only he was aware about certain documents like rent deed and mode of payment.Taking note of the police’s briefing, the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) -- an alliance of political parties in Kashmir -- said it was only a repetition of the “old story” and demanded a judicial enquiry into the incident. “Today’s press briefing of J-K police about last month’s Hyderpora tragic incident is only a repetition of the old story. It does not even slightly give any objective picture of this shocking incident,” PAGD spokesman Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami said in a statement.He said the statement seemed to be a “concocted cover-up story”.“It will not suffice the legitimate concerns of the people at large and family of the slain victims.”“PAGD firmly believes that nothing short of a credible judicial probe will clear the doubts. The administration must, without any further delay, order a timebound judicial probe,” Tarigami said.The Jammu & Kashmir government also received the magisterial inquiry report on the encounter, details of which are yet to be revealed. On November 17, Lt Governor Manoj Sinha had ordered a probe into the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderpora-encounter-businessman-was-used-as-human-shield-by-pakistani-terrorist-says-sit-101640716981669.html
29-12-2021||India||BJP holds rally against Jagan’s ‘corrupt rule’||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Tuesday called on the people to “put an end to the corrupt and destructive rule of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy-led Andhra Pradesh government” in the 2024 assembly elections. Addressing the “Praja Agraha Sabha” (a meeting to express people’s anger), organised by the BJP state unit in Vijayawada, Javadekar described the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) as family-dominated parties, and said both indulged in massive corruption and cheated the people with false promises over the years. “The people are witnessing a destructive rule of the YSRCP government. The chief minister has not fulfilled any of the promises he had made (in his 2019 election manifesto). What he is doing right now is renaming the Central government schemes and claiming them as his own by pasting his government stickers. The so-called Jagananna housing colonies are Narendra Modi colonies,” the former Union minister said. He also accused the Jagan government of ruining the state’s economy. “Before elections, he had promised to implement total prohibition in the state, but in reality, he is running the government on the revenue obtained from liquor sales,” he said. Javadekar pointed out that he had granted all the permissions to Polavaram major irrigation project on Godavari River when he was the Union environment and forest minister. “But the project is yet to be completed even after seven years,” he criticised. About the Amaravati capital region, Javadekar reminded that it was during his term, he got the forest lands transferred to the capital. “But the capital city project is in limbo, and the TDP and YSRCP were indulging in blame game over the capital,” he criticised. Alleging that corruption has reached its peak under the YSRCP regime, the BJP leader said, the ruling party leaders were making big money through smuggling of red sanders, referring to the latest Telugu movie Pushpa. He reminded that the Jagan government had disbanded a special investigation team constituted to probe into the red sanders smuggling. “There are many leaders in Andhra Pradesh who are out on bail in connection with various cases. They would soon go to jail,” he warned. Javadekar expressed regrets that there was no protection to the Hindu religious institutions in the Jagan regime. “While the Centre has taken up the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya in a big way, the Ram temple in Vizianagaram district was vandalised and a chariot of Lord Narasimha Swamy in Antarvedi in East Godavari district was burnt to ashes,” he alleged. During the rally, state BJP president Somu Veerraju blamed the TDP and YSRCP governments for the lack of development in Andhra Pradesh. He claimed that the BJP is the only party capable of pulling down the corrupt Jagan government. “We are confident of forming the next government in the state,” he said. Rajya Sabha member and BJP leader G V L Narasimha Rao said the TDP had no future in Andhra Pradesh and the YSRCP failed miserably to govern the state. He alleged that the Jagan government was diverting all the funds granted by the Centre to unproductive schemes. BJP leaders Y S Chowdary, C M Ramesh, Daggubati Purandeshwari, Kanna Lakshminarayana and others participated in the rally. Reacting to the BJP leaders’ allegations in the rally, senior YSRC leader and minister for municipal administration Botsa Satyanarayana said the BJP had hardly any existence in the state, and the meeting was only trying to prove its identity. “It appears the BJP leaders have woken up just now, two and a half years after we formed the government. If there are any lapses on our part, let them point out, instead of making wild allegations,” he said. Senior TDP leader and lawmaker Payyavula Kesav also hit back, saying that the BJP rally was only to mislead the people. “The BJP leaders in AP are working under the direction of Jagan Mohan Reddy. In the last two and a half years, they have not responded to any of the atrocities being perpetrated by the Jagan government against the people in general and TDP in particular,” he alleged. He demanded that the Central agencies should probe into the witch-hunt of political rivals in the hands of the Jagan government. 
29-12-2021||India||Kerala HC accepts plea, issues notices to all accused in actor sexual assault case||The Kerala high court on Tuesday sought the response of all the accused, including actor Dileep, on the state government’s appeals against a trial court’s orders, declining its pleas to summon several more witnesses and get certified copies of the call detail records of the accused in the actor sexual assault case of 2017.Justice Viju Abraham issued notice to all the accused in the case, seeking their stand on the prosecution’s two separate petitions and listed the matters for further hearing on January 6, 2022.On December 21, the trial court had rejected a fresh demand from the prosecution, forcing it to move the high court. The additional public prosecutor in the plea said certified phone call details will weaken its arguments and sought original records from mobile service providers. The prosecution also wanted to examine some of the witnesses, including film producers Anto Joseph and Balachandrakumar. It also said that it wants to re-examine nine witnesses and hear some of the new witnesses in the case. It contended that there is no merit in denying the opportunity to bring more evidence in the case sticking on to mere technical reasons. The court will hear a fresh petition in the case after the vacation. Dileep is the eighth accused in the case. The victim -- an actor who worked in Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam films -- was abducted and allegedly molested inside her car for two hours by some of the accused, who had forced their way into the vehicle on the night of February 17, 2017, and later escaped in a busy area. The entire act was filmed by some of the accused to blackmail the actress. There are ten accused in the case and initially, police arrested seven people. Dileep was arrested subsequently and let out on bail later.During the attack, the first accused Pulsar Suni, involved in many criminal cases in the port city, reportedly told the victim that he was given a quotation and was forced to do this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-accepts-plea-issues-notices-to-all-accused-in-actor-sexual-assault-case-101640716741736.html
29-12-2021||India||Marina Beach accessible to differently abled now||People with disabilities were able to enjoy the sea closely on Tuesday after Chennai municipal corporation, with the help of disability rights activists, constructed a temporary pathway from the main road up to the shore at the Marina beach, making it wheelchair accessible.Four beach wheelchairs have been provided by the city corporation since 2019 and the Tamil Nadu tourism department has also lent its amphibious wheelchair from the blue flag certified Kovalam beach to enable people with disabilities to float in, officials said.The temporary pathway is made every December to mark International Day of Persons with Disabilities, which falls on December 3. Last year this was stalled due to the Covid-19 pandemic and this year it was delayed due to incessant rains in November. Civic officials are working on making this a permanent facility by using materials that are compliant with CRZ norms.“This is just amazing,” said Preethu Jayaprakash, a wheelchair user, who has spinal muscular atrophy. “We are also getting a chance to see the sea from up close.”“After a long wait in exclusion and isolation, children and adults with disabilities Chennai could go to the beach, look up at the blue sky, take a breath of fresh air, go up to the waters, touch the waves, relax, rejuvenate and laugh in the outdoors,” said Smitha Sadasivan, member, Disability Rights Alliance (DRA). “This pathway brings in a strong air of hope that this will soon materialise into a permanent pathway and that’s what GCC Commissioner (Gagandeep Singh Bedi) too assured today.”DRA in Tamil Nadu has been working with the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) since 2016 to execute a permanent pathway for two beaches, Marina, which is considered the second-longest in the world and Elliot’s beach.“A temporary path made of wood has been laid for 200 meters from the point of the road access up to the beach,” said an official of the GCC. “We are exploring materials that we can use to make this a permanent structure without damaging the beach’s ecology.”Based on a request from the community, the temporary arrangement has been extended up from January 3 up to 16 by the minister for municipal administration, K N Nehru, said a statement from the GCC. Besides Nehru, a couple of other ministers, MPs and MLAs also inaugurated the access to the beach on Tuesday.
29-12-2021||India||Woman, minors kill man over sexual assault; surrender: Kerala police||A mother and her two minor daughters on Tuesday surrendered at the Amabalawayal police station for murdering their 68-year-old landlord with an axe after he allegedly tried to sexually assault the former in Kerala’s Wayanad district, senior officials said. The police said the girls, aged 15 and 16, were staying at the man’s house in Amabalawayal on rent for the last five years. The girls reportedly told police that in recent months they defaulted on their rent and the man used to harass them regularly. No formal complaint has been registered in the case so far, the police said. “There is no contradiction in their statement so far. We will question them separately and take the statement of the family of the victim. Neighbours told us there used to be heated arguments between them. We will get a clear picture only after questioning them in detail,” said the officer who did not want to be identified. A senior police officer of the district said the incident happened around 11 am when the man came to their room after his wife left the house. The girls told the police that there was a scuffle when he tried to sexually assault their mother, and they attacked him after getting hold of an axe. They said that it was an act of self-defence, and they got panic after he died, the police said. The police said they tried to cut the body into pieces, but when their attempts failed, they dumped the body in a nearby well, which was not functioning. Around 3 pm, they went to the police station and narrated the entire incident and surrendered. Later, the police recovered the body from the well. The body was sent for post-mortem, and other details will be known once they get the report. Minor children will be produced in a juvenile court on Wednesday, and the mother will be produced in a local court, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-minors-kill-man-over-sexual-assault-surrender-kerala-police-101640716621593.html
29-12-2021||India||Training material on LGBTQIA+ pulled for review: NCERT to HC||Chennai: The National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) has informed the Madras high court that the training material on the LGBTQIA+ community for teaching staff was taken down after being uploaded on the website because they had not followed a due procedure of review and not due to any external pressure.The Union ministry of social justice and empowerment also informed the court that they are “actively working” towards setting up at least one Garima Greh in every state and union territory for destitute transgender persons.Under the Garima Greh scheme, the transgender persons get a secure living space and care.Justice N Anand Venkatesh was hearing the case on December 23 pursuant to his landmark judgment passed on June 7 to ensure that the transgender community, including those in consensual relationships, was protected from various quarters, including police harassment. The case pertained to a lesbian couple moving court seeking protection as they were in a consensual relationship and complained of being harassed by their parents who had filed FIRs with local police saying that their daughters were missing.In the previous hearing held on December 6, the judge said that NCERT rightly posted material on its website to sensitise teachers but “in a very shocking development”, it was taken down within hours of its publication due to pressure from some quarters.In its response the educational body has said that the Department of Gender Studies, NCERT, proposed a programme, tiled ‘Development of Training Material for Teacher and Teacher Educators on Transgender Concerns in School Education’, which was approved by the Councils’ Academic and Programme Advisory Committees.A draft was ready in July. “As an academic exercise, every material developed by the NCERT undergoes various stages before being finalised and put in public domain,” the extract from NCERT’s response says, adding that every material is tried out with the target groups, reviewed by different stakeholders, inviting comments and suggestions on the draft.“Since this is a training material for teachers and teacher educators for sensitisation on such an important societal concern, it needs to be in a desired format, to be tried out through consultation with schools, teachers and teacher educators to take feedback before finalising it,” NCERT said. “Though the training material has been removed from the NCERT website, NCERT has already started the process of its internal and external review of the training programme.” NCERT plans to rollout the training module by the next academic session.Court: Cover entire community under Garima GrehOther government departments, such as the state’s legal services, also submitted a status report on the progress made in moving towards being more sensitive and inclusive to the trangsgender community. The Union ministry of social justice and empowerment informed the court that they are “actively working” towards setting up at least one Garima Greh in every state and union territory for destitute transgender persons.“The benefit under the scheme has to be extended to the entire LGBTQIA+ community and must not be confined only to transgender persons,” the court said, pointing out that transgender are only a fraction of the entire community.LGBTQIA+ is an abbreviation of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex, asexual and others.“Only then can it be considered as a wholesome and non-discriminative welfare scheme benefitting persons who otherwise are being marginalised in the society. The Ministry has to bear in mind that persons from the LGBTQIA+ community as such do not have any support from their family or from the society at large. Therefore, the welfare schemes provided by the Government are their only ray of hope.”These shelter homes are currently present in Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Odisha, Maharashtra, Chattisgarh, West Bengal and Rajasthan and are maintained by transgender community-based organisations.State to draft glossary of terms to address communityThe court in its order copy also included words and expressions in Tamil and English which the media can use to address the LGBTQIA + community. Stating that the list is illustrative and not exhaustive, the court said, “There must be a beginning where persons belonging to this community are addressed in a more dignified manner.”The court directed the additional advocate general to forward the list to the state government so that a standardised prospective glossary can be drawn up. “Once the Government publishes the same, it will have more force and will be easier to implement,” the court said. “If these words and expressions are used regularly, it will become a common practice and that will pave the way for a dignified identity for persons belonging to this community.”The court expected the government to submit this before the next date of hearing posted for February 18.
29-12-2021||India||Senior citizens will not need doctor’s certificate for precautionary shot: Centre||Senior citizens with specified co-morbidities will not be required to produce a medical certificate to be eligible for a third precautionary dose of a Covid-19 vaccine, the health ministry said in a statement on Tuesday.People above 60 years of age should still take a doctor’s advice before applying for a third dose, the ministry said.Also Read | 2 new vaccines, Covid pill approved for useTo inoculate children between 15 and 18 years of age, the health ministry has advised provincial authorities to either designate separate vaccination centres or deploy separate vaccinator teams to avoid confusion on the vaccine to be administered to them. The newly eligible children will be only given Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.Personnel on election duty in poll-bound states will be treated as front line workers and will be eligible to receive a third dose, the ministry said in its statement.Also Read | Personnel deployed in poll-bound states eligible for precaution dose: GovtIndia has expanded its vaccination programme to include most teenagers from 3 January, and allowed a third dose to health and front line workers, and senior citizens with co-morbidities, from 10 January. The latest advisory provides operational details to implement this.Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has written a letter to the states to familiarize them with the process.“Eligibility of such beneficiaries for the precaution dose will be based on the date of administration of 2nd dose as recorded in the CoWIN system -- completion of nine months i.e. 39 weeks from the date of administration of second dose,” Bhushan wrote. “CoWIN will send reminder messages to all those eligible for precaution dose, which will be reflected in digital vaccination certificates.”Since Covaxin will be administered to the 15 to 18 year old cohort, the central government will ensure additional doses of the Bharat Biotech vaccine is sent to all states and Union territories, the health secretary said.“Union Government will share the supply schedule of ‘Covaxin’ with all the States and UTs in the next few days,” he said. “Potential beneficiaries can either register themselves on CoWIN from the 1st of January, 2022 or avail of a walk-in registration when vaccination commences from the 3rd of January. Those with a birth year of 2007 or before will be eligible for vaccination under this category.”States have been advised to ensure orientation of vaccinators on jabbing the eligible children.“To avoid the mixing up of vaccines during administration, separate CVCs (covid vaccination centres), separate session sites, separate queue (if at same session where adult vaccination is ongoing) and separate vaccination team (if at same session site) are to be strived for,” the health ministry said. “States/UTs are also advised to share their requirement of vaccine doses through district wise estimation of beneficiaries using CoWIN. They are to publicize sessions where vaccination will be available for 15-18 years age groups. Sufficient vaccines will be provided to states to cover these beneficiaries.”Children taking the shot will have to remain under observation for half an hour to monitor adverse effects, the same as all eligible people. They will be given the second dose after 28 days.States were advised to form two separate vaccination teams at every vaccination centre to avoid confusion in administration of the right vaccine.The health secretary made a special mention of personnel to be deployed on election duty in the five poll-bound states — Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab and Manipur — who need to treated as front line workers as they are at high risk of catching the disease.“Personnel to be deployed in election duty in poll-bound states will also be included in the category of front line workers,” Bhushan wrote in his letter to the states.
29-12-2021||India||Urdu poet’s name changed to ‘Akbar Prayagraj’ on UP site due to ‘error’||The suffixes of renowned Urdu poets were changed from “Allahabadi” to “Prayagraj” on the website of the Uttar Pradesh Higher Education Services Commission on Tuesday, prompting officials to claim the portal was hacked. The district and city of Allahabad were renamed as Prayagraj in 2018 by the Yogi Adityanath government. The name of Urdu poet Syed Akbar Hussain, popularly known as Akbar Allahabadi, was changed to Akbar Prayagraj on the website of the UPHESC, an autonomous body under the state government. The ‘Allahabadi’ suffix of all writers or poets was changed to ‘Prayagraj’ on the portal. These include poets Rashid Allahabadi and Tegh Allahabadi (1930-1970) on the list of Urdu poets from the city. They were listed as Tegh Prayagraj and Rashid Prayagraj, respectively. “Akbar Prayagraj is a noted modern Urdu poet, and Nooh Narwi, Tegh Prayagraj, Shabnam Naqvi and Rashid Prayagraj have their origin in Prayagraj,” said the website’s “About Prayagraj” section. UPHESC secretary Vandana Tripathi said the error in the information came to light on Tuesday and a correction was now being made through the agency that designed the website and manages it for the body. She reiterated that the “name change” was an inadvertent error. Senior officials blamed the discrepancy on “mischievous elements”. “The commission has made no changes on its website in this regard. The information has been given on the site by some mischievous elements. It is being amended accordingly. This act of mischievous elements is being investigated by the cyber cell and strict legal action will be taken against those responsible,” said Shivji Malviya, deputy secretary, UPHESC. Some literary figures in Prayagraj criticised the development. Noted writer and poet Imtiyaz Ahmad Ghazi called it a major “error. “No one has the right to change the name of any individual. This should be corrected immediately,” he said. 
29-12-2021||India||‘e-RUPI’ payment mode on anvil for students in Karnataka govt scholarship programme||The Karnataka government’s e-Governance department has partnered with the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) and State Bank of India (SBI) for enabling and implementing ‘e-RUPI’, a cashless and contactless payment solution to students under its scholarship programme.e-RUPI will be used to ensure a leak-proof delivery of education fees of eligible students by paying digitally to the college or institute by the Karnataka government.The Karnataka government will get e-vouchers delivered to the mobiles of eligible students. The voucher code can be received on the feature phone also. The students will be able to redeem e-RUPI at the identified colleges or institutes for the intended purpose of fees payment, NCPI said in a release.For redeeming e-RUPI, the identified institutes will scan the QR code or SMS string displayed by the students using an Application or POS machine, and this process will remove the requirement of any physical token delivery for the students to avail of the scholarship, it said.“e-RUPI is indeed a very powerful tool for governments to use as it allows direct transfer of the benefits to the targeted beneficiary, with safety and security. The instrument ensures that the beneficiary gets the benefit as per the guidelines of the scheme. Under this initiative, each transaction is mapped with the beneficiary and the institution ensuring that the e-Voucher can be redeemed by the college where the student has enrolled,” Additional Chief Secretary, DPAR (e-governance) Rajiv Chawla said.The Karnataka government has on-boarded around 176 schemes of 35 departments of the state government on the Direct Benefit Transfer Platform.Following the successful implementation of this pilot project, the state is examining the use of e-RUPI Voucher in other schemes such as seed distribution, fertiliser distribution, micro irrigation schemes, issue of laptops to students, and Imparting skilled training, the release said.“We believe e-RUPI is a revolutionary initiative in the direction of ensuring a convenient and leak-proof delivery of schemes. This is a win-win for both students and colleges. While students receive the voucher, they can redeem it only for payment of fees to colleges/Institutes,” NPCI Chief of Products Kunal Kalawatia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/erupi-payment-mode-on-anvil-for-students-in-karnataka-govt-scholarship-programme-101640716203962.html
29-12-2021||India||Bengaluru Commercial Street undergoes revamp 2nd time in 5 months||Redeveloped at a cost of ₹5.5 crore under the Smart City Project, Commercial Street, a prominent shopping destination in Bengaluru, was the last infrastructure project BS Yediyurappa inaugurated in July while he was the chief minister. But the main road began showing signs of damage just a day after the inauguration and it was repaired two months later, which HT had reported. Now, within a span of five months, the street is being renovated for the third time – cobblestones will be removed and a concrete road will be white-topped. The commercial centre in the central business district was developed by Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. (BSCL) and the work began in May 2020. Despite several deadlines, the work progressed at a slow pace. However, with white-topping now being taken up, traders are hopeful of their businesses picking up at least in 2022. “The problems started just a day after it was inaugurated (in July). The next day itself, digging of the road began for repair. By then they had been repairing the road for more than six months and it had affected our businesses. We put up with it because it would help us in the long run, but after the work was done, they are digging up again. There is no planning whatsoever and what about the waste of money,” said Rajesh Jain, one of the shopkeepers on the Commercial Street. According to BBMP officials, the cobblestones were replaced after revenue and city in-charge minister R Ashok, during an inspection on August 14, ordered the contractor to replace them due to bad quality. BSCL managing director Rajendra Cholan said the technical committee and the project management consultant, who inspected the quality of the cobblestones, suggested replacement. “They found that the colour of the tiles was fading, and the tiles couldn’t handle the pressure of heavy vehicular movement. So, the decision has been taken to white-top the road,” he said. “There won’t be any extra cost for the government as the cost would covered under the original budget.” Sanjay Motwani, president of the Bengaluru Commercial Association, said traders were consulted before digging up the road for the redevelopment. “The tiles were not able to handle the traffic, so it was a good decision to have a concrete road. We are hopeful that the work will be finished at the earliest,” he said. However, a trader said the pace of work is slow. “This work began in 2020. They inaugurated it, then dug it up and even now the work is going on. No matter what the government says, this project has been a disaster. It is not just a concern of the shopkeepers but people are suffering. And so much money has been spent on this,” said a shopkeeper who didn’t want to be named. Rohan Menezes, a graphic designer and commuter, said traffic jams on the road have been a big problem. “The work has been going on this road for months now. Because the work has been going on this street for so many months and a lot of people come here to shop, traffic slows down on this street. This always leads to traffic pile-ups and adjacent roads getting jammed. I have to take a road next to the commercial street to get home but I’m stuck in traffic because there is a traffic pile-up on commercial street,” said Menezes. 
29-12-2021||India||Political row over J&K admin’s move to open real estate for citizens||The Jammu & Kashmir administration’s decision to open the Union territory to real estate investors triggered a political slugfest on Tuesday, with regional parties accusing the Centre of trying to change the demography of the “Muslim majority” region.The administration on Monday opened the Union territory to the country’s real estate investors by signing 39 MoUs worth nearly ₹19,000 crore for the development of housing, hotel and commercial projects.Soon after the decision, former chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti alleged that the move aims to change the demography of the region. “J&Ks special status was illegally revoked to dehumanise, dispossess & disempower the only Muslim majority state in India. GOIs brazen loot & sale of our resources shows that the sole motive is to annihilate our identity & change the demography (sic),” Mufti tweeted.
29-12-2021||India||Malegaon blast: Was forced by ATS to implicate Yogi, RSS leaders, says witness||A witness in the 2008 Malegaon blast case has told the court that he was threatened by senior Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) officers to implicate Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and four Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leaders, including Swami Aseemanand and Indresh Kumar. The witness, who is related to Lt Col Prasad Purohit, one of the accused in the case, was declared hostile by the prosecution as he retracted his earlier statement and became the 15th witness to turn hostile. Till now, the prosecution has examined around 220 witnesses. The witness, whose identity was not revealed, told the Special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court that he was threatened by ATS officers Param Bir Singh (who later became Mumbai police commissioner) and deputy commissioner of police, who were then posted with the Maharashtra ATS. “They told me our story is ready you just have to take names of people we tell you. They had even threatened me, if I don’t take the names, will have to face consequences. They had detained me for several days,” the witness told the court while he was cross-examined by Purohit’s counsel. The witness told the court that five names were given to him and he was asked to mention them in his statement. “You can lodge a complaint against the officers if you were tortured. Do you need police protection?” judge Prashant R Sitre asked the witness. Special NIA public prosecutor Avinash Rasal pointed out to the court that the witness never lodged a complaint about being tortured by the agency. The witness earlier told the Maharashtra ATS that he was associated with Abhinav Bharat, a right-wing group whose name has been allegedly linked to the blast conspiracy. He also said that he arranged several programmes with Purohit to attract young people and even took an oath to form a Hindu nation. On September 29, 2008, six people were killed and over 100 injured when an explosive device strapped on a motorcycle went off near a mosque in Nashik’s Malegaon town, located about 200 km from Mumbai. The accused in the case include Lok Sabha member Pragya Thakur, lieutenant colonel Prasad Purohit, Sudhakar Dwivedi, major (retired) Ramesh Upadhyay, Ajay Rahirkar, Sudhakar Chaturvedi and Sameer Kulkarni, all of whom are out on bail.The trial in the 2008 case is being conducted before NIA special judge PR Sitre and began on November 2, 2018. The prosecution has submitted a list of around 286 witnesses that include doctors, police officials, forensic experts and witnesses. On October 30, 2018, the court framed charges against all the seven accused for terror activities, criminal conspiracy and murder. The accused face trial under sections of the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). HT tried to reach out to Param Bir Singh for a comment but could not get one immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malegaon-blast-was-forced-by-ats-to-implicate-yogi-rss-leaders-says-witness-101640715661449.html
