30-12-2021||India||Rajya Sabha adviser to devise road map for reform of House processes||A month after he was unceremoniously shifted from the Rajya Sabha secretary general’s chair, PPK Ramacharyulu, now adviser in the Upper House secretariat, will prepare a road map for reforms in the functioning of its officials. Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu has commissioned this study for “improvement of functional systems in the Secretariat based on imaginative approach that enables evidence-based interpretation of the functioning of the House in the evolving situations”, an official order stated. Ramacharyulu’s study would take into account “integration of various initiatives taken during the last four years for better monitoring of output and service delivery further to detailed examination of process inadequacies in the functioning of the Secretariat”. Among other things, Ramacharyulu will also look into “promotion by equipping Secretariat officials for higher positions through a holistic understanding of various aspects and nuances of the functioning of the House.” This, however, has not amused at least two Opposition lawmakers, who quickly pointed out that Ramacharyalu was the first insider of the RS secretariat to rise through the ranks to become the secretary general — the top bureaucrat — in past 70 years. Naidu, who is set to complete his current term next August, has sought to examine and redesign processes and revamp the leadership promotion system. In an order issued this week, Naidu noted that “in the light of the experience and initiatives taken during the last four years, there is an imperative need for systems improvement in the Secretariat”. The study, involving ten aspects of the functioning of the Secretariat, would touch upon process re-engineering and quantification of deliverable output by each of the 12 divisions of the Rajya Sabha. It would also include measures to improve functioning of House panels, leadership promotion, promotion of team spirit and a sense of involvement and “coordinated effort for better communication outreach through media on various aspects of the functioning of the House”.What triggered the preparation of such a road map was Naidu’s assessment that various divisions of the secretariat need to function in an integrated manner and plug inadequacies. Ramacharyalu was elevated from the secretary general’s position just 10 weeks after his appointment. He was preplaced by former CBDT chief PC Mody in an unusual move. Naidu made Ramacharyalu adviser in the secretariat. 
30-12-2021||India||How Covid cases are spreading in India’s cities again||Nearly eight months have passed since India’s brutal second wave of infections peaked in the country. But the emergence of Omicron, a new and highly transmissible variant of Sars-CoV-2, has led to a massive rise in infections the world over, overpowering all other variants at a blistering pace. Though the variant appears far less virulent than Delta, its ability to evade vaccines and its higher transmissibility have sparked concerns that it could drag the fight against the pandemic back several months.In the past few days, a minor change in trajectory of new infections has been visible across several major cities in India. This, coupled with the fast-rising Omicron infections, has led some experts to speculate that this may become a steady stream of cases. But are cases rising everywhere, or is this spike limited to only a handful of regions? A look at four charts that try to answer this question.After months of decline, cases are rising again On December 20, India saw 5,161 new cases of Covid-19 reported across the country, making it the lowest daily case count seen in the country since May 18, 2020, or more than 580 days ago, according to HT’s Covid dashboard. But since then, a slow (but steady) bottoming out has started appearing. A week later, there were 6,139 cases across the country, and while this Tuesday, there were 9,155 new infections. The national daily case count touched 12,987 on Wednesday – the highest in a single day in nearly 50 days, data shows.Pushed by these numbers, the seven-day average of new Covid-19 cases across India (a number which denotes a region’s case curve) has risen by more than 20% in just three days (from 6,641 on Sunday to 7,972 on Wednesday). This is something that has happened only once since the peak of India’s second wave – in early August, pushed by a mammoth rise in cases in Kerala, the national trajectory started rising for eight days.[Chart 1: New Covid-19 cases across India]Biggest spike, by far, visible in major citiesWhile the rise in infections at the national level (and even on state-levels) may appear minor, the bump in trajectories becomes far more apparent when India’s major metropolitan areas are narrowed down upon.Delhi has seen its seven-day average of daily cases go up the most among the major cities – more than 1,000% from the start of December. At the start of the month, the Capital was reporting 31 cases a day on average. Since then, however, cases started rising slowly particularly through the second and third weeks of December. On Wednesday, for instance, the city saw 923 new cases, the most in a single day in nearly seven months, and the seven day average hit 370.Mumbai has seen the second highest resurgence of cases. The city’s seven-day average has witnessed a rise of 552% from the start of this month – from 163 average daily infections to 1,063. In absolute numbers, the numbers from India’s financial capital are dwarfing every other city in the country. In the past week, 13% of all infections in India can be traced to just Mumbai alone.These two cities are followed (at a fair distance) by Bengaluru, which has seen a 47% increase in average daily infections since the start of the month – from 166 daily cases on average for the week ended December 1, to 244 for the week ended Wednesday. In Chennai, average infections have gone from 135 a day to 184 a day so far in December (a rise of 36%). The case rate in Pune and Kolkata has grown by 15% and 8% respectively just this month. To be sure, despite the rise, hospitalisation rates and reports of severe infections remain low across the cities mentioned above.[Chart 2a to 2f: New Covid-19 cases in Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Pune and Kolkata]Urban centres are the main fuel in national tallyAt the start of December, the six cities together were contributing to around one in every 10 cases reported across the country – of the 9,004 (on average) daily cases reported across India in the week ended December 1, only 975 could be traced to these six cities. However, as the month has progressed, their share has nearly tripled to the national tally. In the past week, these six cities together have been responsible for three out of every 10 new Covid infections across India – of the 7,972 new infections of Covid-19 reported across India for the week ended Wednesday, these cities have reported 2,394.[Chart 3: Share of six cities in the national Covid-19 tally]Outbreak numbers also rising outside these cities, albeit slowly While the six cities mentioned above remain the main cause of the rise in national numbers, it would not be fair assume that cases are rising only there. Even if their numbers are excluded from the national tally, the overall wave of India still shows a reversal in the past few days. While national numbers excluding these cities have dropped from the start of December (from a daily average of 8,029 cases to 5,578), the reversal in trajectory is there to see. For the week ended December 27, the seven-day average of daily infections in rest of India had dropped to 5,151, data shows.[Chart 4: Seven-day average of new cases in six cities, and rest of India]The rise in case rate in urban centres, however, is particularly worrying because if previous waves have been any indication, then a rapid rise in infections (as being witnessed in cities right now) cannot remain isolated for long. In both the first and second waves, cases were initially confined to metros, with cities such as Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai becoming the early areas of concentration of infections. The trend of a handful of high-population density hot spot regions emerging as first centres of infection, then a heavy and steady stream of cases from medium-population regions, has been identical in nearly every major country that has seen outbreaks.
30-12-2021||India||Bengaluru continues to report rise in Covid cases||Witnessing a spike for the second consecutive day, Karnataka on Thursday reported 707 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths, taking the total number of infections to 3,006,505 and the toll to 38,327, said the state health department.Bengaluru Urban district reported the highest number of cases as the city witnessed another sharp spike with 562 new infections. On Wednesday, the city had reported 400 new cases, which is a jump from 269 cases on Tuesday and 172 cases on Monday, according to government data. Compared to the first week of November, Bengaluru has reported an 85% increase in the new Covid-19 cases in the last week of December (between December 23 to 29). While the city reported 1,108 new cases between November 4 to November 10, this week, the city recorded 2,060 cases in the time frame, said a document released by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). In the eight weeks from November 4 to December 29, Bengaluru reported a consistent increase in the number of cases. Similarly, the city’s positivity rate has increased from 0.39% to 0.74% between November 4 to December 30. The positivity rate between December 2 to December 8 was 0.49%, followed by 0.42% during December 9-15. It increased to 0.45% between December 16-22, eventually shooting up to 0.74% in the last week of the month. The increase in the Covid positive cases has been reported despite a drop in testing from 289,685 between December 16-22 to 277,209 between December 23-29. Talking to the media, BBMP chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the increase in positivity rate is a sign of concern. “We have effective containment management so that clusters are managed and contained. We have even been checking on the hospitalisations, and the Covid numbers have been low. Currently, the Covid status in the city is well in control. We are maintaining a high number of testing,” he said. Hospitals in the city have not reported a spike in the number of cases, which is a positive sign, he added. On Thursday, there were 252 discharges reported in Karnataka, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 2,959,926, a health department bulletin said. All the three deaths reported on Thursday were from Bengaluru Urban. The total number of active cases in the state is now 8,223.Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 565, Udupi 19, Mysuru 53, Hassan 17, Mysuru 16, Kodagu 12, Dakshina Kannada 11, followed by others, the bulletin said.Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,262,962, followed by Mysuru 180,266 and Tumakuru 121,338. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 1,239,720, followed by Mysuru 177,741 and Tumakuru 120,127.Cumulatively, a total of 56,350,280 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 114,686 were done on Thursday alone.The state reported five new cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the total to 43. In a tweet, health and medical education minister K. Sudhakar said four have a history of international travel from the US, Dubai and Ghana. The fifth person travelled from Mumbai to Bengaluru by flight. “All positive persons have been isolated and primary and secondary contacts have been identified and tested,” the minister’s tweet said. Among the five are a 22-year-old female, resident of Davanagere (travelled from the U.S.), a 24-year-old male from Bengaluru (returned from the U.S. via Qatar), a 53-year-old male from Tamil Nadu (who arrived at KIA from Dubai) and a 61-year-old male from Bengaluru (travelled from Ghana via Doha), according to the tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-continues-to-report-rise-in-covid-cases-101640888621043.html
30-12-2021||India||A year that was: An orange seller who went on to build a school for underprivileged kids||This year’s Padma Shri Awards have introduced people to a 64-year-old orange seller from Karnataka. Harekala Hajabba, who never received any formal education, won the award for building a primary school for underprivileged children in his village. Although circumstances led him to remain illiterate, a total of 175 underprivileged students from his village are now getting education till Class 10 in the school that materialised due to his efforts. A meeting that triggered a thought Sometime in the late 1970s, a tourist walked up to Harekala Hajabba and asked him the price of his oranges. He sat and gaped, not understanding a word. The foreigner tried again, but that didn’t help. A passerby explained what was being asked. Hajabba never forgot the feeling. On his way home, he told himself this shouldn’t happen to his children or any children. More than four decades after he decided to act on this thought, on November 8, 2021, orange seller Hajabba received the Padma Shri Award from President Ram Nath Kovind for building a government school in his village. Making a school with ₹80 per day earning It was a dream many would have considered too ambitious since in the late 1970s Hajabba made a little over ₹80 every day selling oranges. Years later, even his wife would tell him the same. “She used to ask me how many years it will take to build a school with the little money I used to save. But, however long it took, I wanted to build that school,” he told HT in an interview. But he began to save up. The dream comes true It took Hejabba more than two decades to fulfil this dream. The school began in Harekala-Newpadpu village on June 17, 2000. Later, it became a government school and the high school section was opened in 2007. The school started with 28 students and now accommodates 175 students till Class 10. Perseverance not saving that helped build the school Hajabba feels that more than his savings it was his perseverance that helped him realise his dream. “I knew that it would be difficult to build the school with just my savings. So, I went to a lot of people asking for help. In most of the cases, they came forward to help when I told them I was keeping all my savings for this school,” Hajabba remembered. Not just my award, says the orange seller Even though praises have been pouring in from across the country after the Padma award, Hajabba says that he merely received the award on behalf of his village and all those who helped build the school. “I’m just an orange seller. I can’t say that I built that school because it is not possible to build a school with the savings I had. The school was built because so many people donated money,” he said. When pointed out he was underplaying his role as a changemaker, Hajabba changed the topic quickly. “Now my dream is to build a pre-university college in our village,” he said with a smile. 
30-12-2021||India||Karnataka government drafts bill to ensure facilities for pedestrians, cyclists||The Karnataka government has prepared a draft to propose a bill that ensures facilities for pedestrians and cyclists across cities, but past projects raise concerns about the implementation of the project, Bengaluru residents said on Thursday.The Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) on Wednesday prepared a draft Active Mobility Bill, Karnataka 2021, mandating Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) to ensure the implementation of facilities for road users and proposes a fine if the bodies fail to do so. “It is aimed at protecting the rights of pedestrians and cyclists to safe, accessible and connected pedestrian and cycling networks in urban areas in the State, with a view to promote sustainable urban mobility and build healthy communities,” the draft stated. The draft has been proposed as the current legal framework does not have specific provisions to determine and protect the rights of pedestrians and cyclists, and give them equitable space on roads, read the draft. “An exponential increase in the number of vehicles on urban streets has caused congestion and deteriorated air quality. It has also led to a rise in road fatalities with pedestrians and cyclists more at risk,” the draft bill stated. “The legislation is aimed at giving the right of way to pedestrians and cyclists,” it added. Satya Shankran, Bengaluru’s first ‘Bicycle Mayor’, and founding member of Praja-Raag, a city-based citizens’ group, said it is on the lines of the Singapore model. If the government accepts and makes the bill official, it will help solve traffic issues to a large extent in the state, he added. However, the current state of cycle lanes in Bengaluru raises concerns about the ambitious project. Even as the newly developed cycle lanes in the Central Business District (CBD) appear to be a hit, riders feel the overall number of tracks available remain insufficient to enable them to pedal without running into traffic or pedestrians. Shankran said that as per the comprehensive mobility plan of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Pallike (BBMP), the idea was to develop 174km of cycle tracks in the city. “We took up the matter with the authorities and got it changed to developing 600 km in the next 10 years. But this is still not enough,” he said. He said the city has 14,000 km of roads, of which only around 2,000 km are 15 m wide or more and ideal for cycling. “Going by this, the current plan provides only 30% of the roads for cycle tracks. Even if we agree on these plans, the pace of development is slow,” he said. Rajesh Jain, a software developer from Marathahalli, said one of the biggest problems with cycling tracks in the city is the lack of continuity. “I understand that cycle lanes are present in the city but there needs to be a plan for a seamless track in the city. As of now, they are constructing tracks wherever smart city projects are coming up. But I’ve noticed that they are in patches. There should be a vision to connect the city using cycle lanes.”
30-12-2021||India||Senior BJD MLA Kishore Mohanty, 64, dies after heart attack at condolence meeting||Bhubaneswar: Former Odisha assembly speaker and Biju Janata Dal MLA Kishore Mohanty died on Thursday evening in a private hospital of Jharsuguda town after a heart attack.Mohanty, who represented Brajrajnagar assembly constituency of Jharsuguda district, suffered heart attack when he was attending a condolence meeting. He was 64.A veteran leader from western Odisha, Mohanty was thrice elected to the Odisha assembly from Jharsuguda assembly constituency. In the 2019 elections, he won from the Brajarajnagar assembly segment from where he was asked to contest by the party to make space for senior Congress leader Naba Das who joined the BJD ahead of the 2019 assembly elections.Mohanty was the ruling BJD’s chief whip between 2004 and 2007, and was assembly speaker between 2007 and 2009. He also worked as the Western Odisha Development Council chairman between 2014 and 2019.Expressing his grief on Mohanty’s demise, chief minister Naveen Patnaik described him as an outstanding leader who will be remembered for his works as an elected representative.Odisha governor Ganeshi Lal also condoled the sitting MLA’s death. ‘His contribution as a political leader and legislator will be ever remembered,’ the governor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-bjd-mla-kishore-mohanty-64-dies-after-heart-attack-at-condolence-meeting-101640888500765.html
30-12-2021||India||Congress trumps ULB polls in Karnataka, says victory a sign of people’s mood||The Congress emerged as the single largest party in elections to 58 urban local bodies in Karnataka, results of which were declared on Thursday. Of the 1,184 wards that were up for election, the opposition party raked in 498 seats, while the ruling party won 437 seats. The JD(S), however, had to settle for just 45 seats, with “others” clinching the rest of the 204 seats. In terms of vote share, data from the state election commission showed that Congress received 42.06% of the vote, while the BJP and JD(S) received 36.90% and 3.8%, respectively. The polls were held for city municipal council wards, town municipal wards and pattana panchayats. In City Municipal Council wards, out of the 116 seats, Congress won 61 seats, while BJP got 67 seats. The JD(S) managed only 12 seats, with 26 seats going to other candidates. Among the 441 town municipal council wards, the Congress got 201 seats, BJP got 176 seats and JD(S) took 21 seats. In the 588 wards of the pattana panchayats, the Congress won 236 seats, the BJP got 194 seats and the JD(S) 12 seats, with ‘others’ winning in 135 wards. According to a PTI report, the Congress retained the Bankapur town municipal council and Guttal town panchayat, in Shiggaon constituency – the home turf of chief minister Basavaraj Bommai.BJP has also lost urban local bodies in the home turf of ministers like B Sriramulu’s Nayakanahatti town panchayat.Karnataka pradesh congress committee president DK Shivakumar said that people have expressed their opinion on the government through this election. “The results are the opinion of the people of Karnataka, and they are supporting the Congress. These votes are a witness to the mood of the people in the state. Even though the BJP is power in the state, and their senior leaders and ministers come from these wards, we have won. Take Dharwad, which is the chief minister’s district. In all these places, people have made their voices heard. People have put their faith in us and in the coming days, we will live up to it,” said Shivakumar. Senior Congress leader and leader of the opposition, Siddaramaiah, said that the results will help the party in the Assembly elections scheduled for 2023. “The results are as per our expectations. People have expressed displeasure with the BJP and their misgovernance. The government is not responding to the people and their problems. Corruption and price hike are increasing. The results show that people are against this government now and the winds are in favour of Congress. We are certain that this helps us in upcoming Assembly elections,” said Siddaramaiah. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai played down the Congress victory claiming the minority votes in these regions were high. “If you look at the numbers, our performance has improved in this election compared to last time, though it should have been higher. We have not won these areas in the past, minorities are around 65% in these areas,” Bommai told reporters.Meanwhile, Randeep Singh Surjewala, who is in-charge of Congress affairs in Karnataka, congratulated K Shivakumar, the MLAs and all senior leaders of the party. “Their continued hard work and unity in action will bring the Congress back to power in the state and usher in a new era of putting Karnataka as the number one state in development,” he said in a statement, according to PTI. The local body polls were held amid reports of Bommai’s removal as CM early next year and high inflation. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-trumps-ulb-polls-in-karnataka-says-victory-a-sign-of-people-s-mood-101640888442348.html
30-12-2021||India||Pro-Kannada groups call off bandh after meeting with CM Bommai||Kannada organisations on Thursday withdrew the state-wide bandh call on Friday, demanding a complete ban on the activities of the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samithi (MES). Leaders of several Kannada outfits under the leadership of Vatal Nagaraj met chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on the Thursday evening, following which the bandh was called off. Heeding the request of the chief minister and several of pro-Kannada leaders conceded. “There will be no bandh tomorrow, we have withdrawn the bandh, but we may hold some protests,” Nagaraj told reporters after meeting with the CM. “The CM has assured that his government will do everything possible honestly in accordance with the law to ban MES and requested us to withdraw the bandh. Also, earlier in the day leaders of several organisations put pressure on me to postpone the bandh citing the inconvenience it may cause to the people and business ahead of New Year,” he added. The organisations will however be staging a protest rally demanding a ban on MES at Bengaluru’s Town Hall at 10.30 am on December 31. A similar protest was held by the Karnataka Rakshna Vedike on December 30. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said that he had requested the Kannada organisations with an assurance that legal action against MES will be taken. “They have now decided to withdraw the bandh. I have told that we are together in protecting our Kannada pride,” said the CM. However, another prominent leader of Kannada Okkuta, Sa Ra Govindu clarified that only tomorrow’s bandh has been called off and that they will call for a meeting and decide further action, in case their demand for banning MES is not met in the days to come. “We have not set any deadline to the CM, he has sought time to talk to experts, so we have postponed the bandh to another day, we will decide our future course, by calling a meeting of all Kannada organisations,” he added. Kannada organisations had last week called for a day-long state-wide bandh on December 31, demanding a complete ban on the activities of Maharashtra Ekikaran Samithi in the state over its repeated involvement in “anti-Karnataka and anti-Kannada activities.” (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prokannada-groups-call-off-bandh-after-meeting-with-cm-bommai-101640888440719.html
30-12-2021||India||Maharashtra records 5k Covid cases in single day||Maharashtra on Thursday reported 5,368 new cases of Covid-19, with capital Mumbai alone accounting for 3,555 infections on Thursday, the state health department said, adding that the state added 198 more cases of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19, taking the tally to 450.Maharashtra also reported 22 Covid-related deaths on Thursday, taking the toll in the state to 141,518 so far, the health department said, adding that no fatalities were reported in Mumbai. The number of active patients in the state stood at 18,217 on Thursday. the health department said.The surge in cases has added to the fears of a possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the state, which on Wednesday had reported 3,900 new infections. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the number of Covid-19 cases was doubling every two days, with Mumbai reporting a test positive rate of 8.48% on Thursday. ”This has added to our worries. I urge people to avoid crowding as it will lead to a surge in cases,” he said.Of the 198 new Omicron cases confirmed in the state, 190 are from Mumbai, four from Thane while Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Satara and Nanded reported one case each. The health department said that only 30 new Omicron patients have an international travel history. According to the health department, Pimpri-Chinchwad recorded the first death of an Omicron patient. “A 52-year-old man with a travel history to Nigeria died of heart attack on December 28, at Yashwantrao Chavan Hospital run by Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. The patient has had diabetes for the last 13 years and his death is due to non-Covid reasons. Coincidently, today’s (Thursday) NIV report reveals that he was infected with the Omicron virus,” a release issued by the state health department said.Meanwhile, a total of 125 Omicron patients have been released from isolation so far after their RT-PCR test results came negative. There has been a continuous surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. The daily caseload increased from 767 on December 1 to 1,201 on December 22. It touched 3,900 on Wednesday. The number of active patients in Maharashtra has also seen a corresponding rise from 7,391 on December 1 to 8,426 on December 24 and 14,065 on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-5k-covid-cases-in-single-day-101640888320650.html
30-12-2021||India||India dismisses China’s move to rename 15 places in Arunachal Pradesh||New Delhi: India on Thursday dismissed China’s move to rename 15 locations in the northeastern state of Arunachal Pradesh, which is claimed by Beijing, and said such actions will not alter the region’s status as an integral part of the country. China’s ministry of civil affairs issued a statement on Thursday saying it had “standardised” the names of 15 places in Arunachal Pradesh for use in Chinese maps. The statement referred to the Indian state as ‘Zangnan’, the southern part of China’s Xizang region. China claims 90,000 sq km in Arunachal Pradesh as southern Tibet, but such claims have always been rejected by the Indian side. The latest development came against the backdrop of a standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), which began in May last year and has taken relations to an all-time low. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi referred to China’s move of renaming the places in Arunachal Pradesh in its own language and said: “We have seen such reports. This is not the first time China has attempted such a renaming of places in the state of Arunachal Pradesh. China had also sought to assign such names in April 2017.” Bagchi added: “Arunachal Pradesh has always been, and will always be an integral part of India. Assigning invented names to places in Arunachal Pradesh does not alter this fact.” China had issued its own names for six places in Arunachal Pradesh in 2017. The latest list of names was issued ahead of a new border security law coming into effect from January 1. Among the 15 locations renamed by China are eight residential areas, four mountains, two rivers and a mountain pass. Zhang Yongpan, a research fellow at the Institute of Chinese Borderland Studies under the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, told state-run Global Times daily that the renaming of places in Arunachal Pradesh and the adoption of China’s first national law for protection and exploitation of land border areas are “important moves made by the country to safeguard national sovereignty, better maintain national security and manage border-related matters at the legal level amid regional tensions, including frictions with India”. 
30-12-2021||India||Bengal suspends direct flights from UK from January 3||The West Bengal government on Thursday announced a temporary suspension on all direct flights from the United Kingdom to Kolkata from January 3 till further orders, amid growing concerns over the rise in cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19.“In view of the rising number of Omicron cases globally as well within the country, the state government has decided to temporarily and until further orders suspend all direct flights from the United Kingdom to Kolkata with effect from January 3, 2022,” an order issued by the state home department said. While the daily count of Covid-19 cases in the state has doubled over the past one week, it has so far reported 11 Omicron cases till date.Similarly, UK has recorded a massive surge in cases amid the spread of the Omicron variant. “The Union civil aviation ministry seeks a NOC (no objection certificate) from the respective state governments before allowing any flights to land in the state. Now that the West Bengal government has suspended flights from the UK, the ministry is likely to suspend them too,” C Pattabhi, director of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose International Airport, said. The state has also written to Union civil aviation secretary Rajiv Bansak on its latest order. “Health is a state subject and as per the prevailing guidelines and considering the situation in a particular state, the states are free to take a call on such matters,” a senior official at the civil aviation ministry said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-suspends-direct-flights-from-uk-from-january-3-101640887720539.html
30-12-2021||India||Philippines allocates funds to procure BrahMos missile system||New Delhi: The Philippines is set to become the first foreign customer for the BrahMos cruise missile jointly developed by India and Russia, with the government in Manila recently allocating 2.8 billion pesos ($55.5 million) for initial funding for the weapon system.The process for the acquisition of the medium-range supersonic cruise missile by the armed forces of the Philippines suffered a setback because of the Covid-19 pandemic but is now back on track, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.
30-12-2021||India||HT This Day: Dec 31, 1949 - India accords recognition to Peking government||India today accorded recognition to the People’s Republic of China, thus becoming the first Commonwealth country to express willingness to establish diplomatic relations with the Communist regime. Almost simultaneously, with characteristic Confucian calm and naivete, came an announcement on behalf of the Foreign Minister of the Kuomintang Government, now torn from Chinese mainland and functioning from Formosa, that the Nationalist Chinese Government were recalling its diplomatic mission from India. While India has yet taken no decision on the choice of the person to be sent to Peking as Ambassador, mutual exchange of diplomatic representatives will take place before long. By recognizing Mao Tse-tung’s regime in China, India has kept in view the realities of the situation. The Communist Government had completely replaced the Kuomintang on the Chinese mainland. India by recognizing this historic fact is maintaining the continuity of friendly relations and good neighbourliness with the great Chinese people with whom the people of this country have had centuries-old ties. A communique issued by the External Affairs Ministry announcing the decision says: “In October last, the Government of India received a communication from the Foreign Minister to the Government of the People’s Republic of China, expressing their desire to enter into diplomatic relations with India on the basis of the principles of equality, mutual interests and mutual respect for sovereign and territorial rights. “Having considered this communication and taken note of subsequent developments, the Government of India have intimated to the new Government of China their willingness to establish diplomatic relations with them.The 55-year-old philosopher-historian diplomat from Chiang Kai-shek’s China, Dr Lo, Doyen of the Diplomatic Corps in the capital, in a statement declared that “the unfortunate consequences of the recognition by India of the Chinese Communist regime will be borne out by history.” “What my Government and people are fighting for is the common case of freedom and democracy,” the Chinese Ambassador emphasized. He added: “About two years and eight months ago I came to India with the fervent hope of my Government and my people to witness, to hasten and to symbolize the early realization of the Indian independence. In this respect my mission is fulfilled. I am happy that India is now free and independent. On the eve of my departure I wish to leave my best wishes and kindest regards to the people of India.” This week Dr Lo has had a number of social parties, with friends as well as with Government representatives. He lunched with the Prime Minister I yesterday and with the Governor General on Wednesday.P.T.I. adds: When the new Chinese Government approached the Government of India, nearly three months ago, for their recognition as the legal Government of China and for the establishment of diplomatic relations, the basis suggested by them was “principles of equality, mutual interests and mutual respect of sovereign and territorial rights.” India, it is understood, considered this basis broad enough and did not, therefore, ask for any undertakings or assurances from the new r6gime before according recognition to it. The Chinese Ambassador in New Delhi was, it is understood, given ample notice of India’s decision to enable him to have consultations with his Government. The future plans of Dr Lo are not yet known. Meanwhile, no authoritative indication is available regarding India’s probable attitude towards the Soviet Union’s move at Lake Success challenging the representative character of Dr T. S. Tsiang, Kuomintang’s nominee on the Security Council. Dr Tsiang is due to occupy the chair in the Council for a month from January 1 when the Kashmir issue may come up before the Council. According to informed quarters here India is not likely to take any positive stand at present in relation to the Soviet move. The question, however, is understood to be engaging the attention of India’s representatives at Lake Success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthis-day-dec-31-1949-india-accords-recognition-to-peking-government-101640887600933.html
30-12-2021||India||Six terrorists, 1 army jawan killed in J&K encounters: Police||Srinagar: Six terrorists and an army jawan were killed in the encounters in Anantnag and Kulgam, which broke out on Wednesday night and ended on Thursday, IGP Vijay Kumar said at a press conference.Three terrorists were killed in the overnight operation in Nowgam Dooru area of Anantnag, and three others were gunned down in Mirhama village of Kulgam, Kumar said. Four security personnel were injured in the operations, of whom, one succumbed to his injuries, he added.All the terrorists, two of whom were foreign nationals, were associated with the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terror group, Kumar said. He added that three of them were involved in the December 13 attack on a police bus in Zewan, in which three policemen were killed.Security forces had launched joint operations in both areas based on specific inputs regarding the presence of terrorists, Kumar said.General officer commanding of the army’s 15 Corps, Lt Gen D P Pandey identified the army jawan who was killed as Sepoy Jasbir Singh.On the Anantnag operation, IGP Kumar said: “During the search operation, as the presence of terrorists was ascertained they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party leading to an encounter. In the initial exchange of fire, four security forces personnel including a policeman received gunshot injuries. They were evacuated to hospital for treatment however, one Army jawan succumbed to his injuries.”Kumar said the operation was halted on Wednesday night to evacuate civilians from the area and the gunfight broke out again on Thursday morning.The terrorists killed in the operation were identified as Sultan alias Rayees alias Mavia (a foreign national), Nisar Ahmad Khanday of Dudwangan Kapran and Altaf Ahmad Shah of Nathipora Dooru.“As per police records, all the killed terrorists were part of group involved in several terror crime cases, including attacks on security forces and civilian atrocities. Several terror crime cases were registered against them including the attack on family of a police personnel at Kokagund, in which his wife and daughter received injuries,” IGP Kumar said.He said Altaf and Sultan were involved in the Zewan attack along with another terrorist Suhail Rather.Kumar identified the three terrorists killed in the Kulgam operation as Shahid alias Shahzaid (foreign national), Mohammad Shafi Dar of Tral and Uzair Ahmad of Mirhama.“As per police records, the killed foreign terrorist Shahid was listed among the top most wanted terrorists operating in J&K while the other were also categorised terrorists linked with proscribed terror outfit JeM. As per police records, the killed terrorists were part of a group involved in several terror crime cases including attacks on security forces and civilian atrocities,” a police spokesman said.He added that a huge cache of arms and ammunition including two M4 rifles and four AK-47 rifles were recovered from the sites of encounters.Active terrorists in valley below 100: IGPWith the two encounters that ended on Thursday, police said that for the first time, the number of local active operatives has come down to below 100 in the Valley.Security forces have killed 188 militants in J&K, including 19 foreign nationals, according to police data.IGP Kumar pegged the number of active local terrorists in the Valley at 85-86 and said the active terrorist in J&K numbered less than 200. “This is the first in history that the number of active local militants [in the valley] has come down below 100,” he remarkedAccording to the IGP, 29 security forces personnel -- including 20 policemen, six armymen and three CRPF jawans -- and 34 civilians were killed in the course of anti-terror operations in J&K this year.He added that 82 terrorists or associates and around 592 overground workers have been arrested in J&K this year.GoC Pandey said youth over the age of 21 were not joining terrorist ranks now. “Now, youth who are in the age bracket of 15 and 16 years old are recruited...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-terrorists-1-army-jawan-killed-in-j-k-encounters-police-101640887485354.html
30-12-2021||India||Covid positive international passengers can be sent to designated hotels for isolation: Delhi govt||Delhi government on Thursday said that international passengers who test positive for Covid-19 can be sent to both paid or free designated isolation facilities. The development comes as the Kejriwal-led government set up 350 isolation beds in the national capital for international travellers, their contacts arriving in the city, as well as Omicron cases.The order was released in compliance of guidelines for international arrivals issued by the Health Ministry.The isolation facilities have been organised at four places, including the Commonwealth Games village in Akshardham (50 beds), Terapanth Bhawan (100 beds), Sardar Patel COVID Care Centre (100 beds) and Ibis hotel (100 beds), according to an official order.The facilities will be linked to hospitals to look after patients, the health department said in the order.The 50 beds at the Commonwealth village facility will be scaled up to 500, the order further noted.The order has been issued in compliance of guidelines for international arrivals issued by the Health Ministry and the linked hospitals will ensure proper monitoring and adequate supply of logistics to the isolation centres, it stated.The Health Ministry had on November 30 mandated that passengers who are found to be symptomatic during screening at the Indira Gandhi International airport will be immediately isolated and taken to a medical facility. If tested positive, their contacts will be identified and managed as per laid down protocols.Meanwhile, travellers from 'at risk' countries are being tested at the point of arrival and for those who test positive, the samples are being sent for genomic testing.Such passengers will be managed at separate isolation facilities and treated as per laid down standard protocol, including contact-tracing, according to the guidelines.Delhi witnessed a significant jump in its single-day Covid-19 cases with as many as 1,313 infections, according to the health bulletin data this evening. This is the biggest jump in daily caseload since May 26 when 1,491 cases were recorded. The Omicron tally in the national capital stands at 263 as per the latest available data.(With Agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-positive-international-passengers-can-be-sent-to-designated-hotels-for-isolation-delhi-govt-101640880908961.html
30-12-2021||India||Delhi, Mumbai's R-value exceeds 2 amid Omicron spike: What it means||The R-value of Covid has exceeded 2 in Delhi and Mumbai in the highest surge since the beginning of the pandemic, which indicates that Covid is spreading at the fastest rate in these two cities. India's overall R-value is 1.22, the health ministry said on Thursday. Any value greater than 1 is concerning as it suggests that more people are getting infected from the existing number of infected people.The data study by researchers of the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai revealed that Chennai, Pune, Bengaluru and Kolkata too have an R-value of over 1.The R-value of Delhi stood at 2.54 between December 23-29, while for Mumbai it was 2.01 between December 23-28. Pune and Bengaluru recorded an R-value of 1.11. The R-value of Kolkata and Chennai was 1.13 and 1.26, respectively."Since mid-October, the R-value of all these cities was over 1. What is new was the sudden rise. The fact that Delhi and Mumbai crossed the R-value 2 is quite surprising,” Sitabhra Sinha, who led the study, told PTI.Talking about R-value, Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said, "We believe on the scientific basis R0 is 1.22 as per the available data... so the cases are now increasing, not shrinking. As the scenario emerges, we believe what we are witnessing could be part of the global rise in cases pushed by the Omicron variant... we are already aware that this variant is highly transmissible and that perhaps explains the speed with which it is rising in the world."Delhi on Thursday reported 1,313 fresh Covid cases, a 42% increase from Wednesday's Covid cases. The positivity rate in the capital has reached 1.73%. On May 26, when Delhi witnessed 1,491 Covid cases, the positivity rate was 1.93%.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said Delhi is witnessing community transmission of Omicron as people with no international travel history are contracting the variant. The same is being reported from Mumbai as, according to BMC data, as many as 141 Mumbai residents who had not travelled abroad tested positive for Omicron.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-mumbai-s-r-value-exceeds-2-amid-omicron-spike-what-it-means-101640883879997.html
30-12-2021||India||‘Invented names’: India hits out at Beijing for ‘renaming’ 15 places in Arunachal||NEW DELHI: India on Thursday dismissed China’s move to rename 15 locations in the northeastern state of Arunachal Pradesh, which is claimed by Beijing, and said such actions will not alter the region’s status as an integral part of the country. New Delhi’s sharp rebuttal after China’s ministry of civil affairs issued a statement that said it has “standardised” the names of 15 places in Arunachal Pradesh for use in Chinese maps. The statement referred to the Indian state as Zangnan, the southern part of China’s Xizang region. Among the 15 locations renamed by China are eight residential areas, four mountains, two rivers and a mountain pass. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi referred to China’s move of renaming the places in Arunachal Pradesh in its own language and said: “We have seen such reports. This is not the first time China has attempted such a renaming of places in the state of Arunachal Pradesh. China had also sought to assign such names in April 2017.” Bagchi added: “Arunachal Pradesh has always been, and will always be an integral part of India. Assigning invented names to places in Arunachal Pradesh does not alter this fact.” China claims 90,000 sq km in Arunachal Pradesh as southern Tibet, but such claims have always been rejected by the Indian side. The latest development came against the backdrop of a standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), which began in May last year and has taken relations to an all-time low.China issued its own names for six places in Arunachal Pradesh in 2017. The latest list of names was issued ahead of a new border security law coming into effect from January 1. It gives more powers to the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and state agencies to use civilians in border areas as a first line of defence, to strengthen infrastructure, and to build more border towns.Zhang Yongpan, a research fellow at the Institute of Chinese Borderland Studies under the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, told state-run Global Times daily that the renaming of places in Arunachal Pradesh and the adoption of China’s first national law for protection and exploitation of land border areas are “important moves made by the country to safeguard national sovereignty, better maintain national security and manage border-related matters at the legal level amid regional tensions, including frictions with India”.
30-12-2021||India||126 tiger deaths recorded in India in 2021: NTCA||As many as 126 tigers died in India in 2021, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) said on Thursday, asserting that it is looking into the cause of the recent death of a big cat in Madhya Pradesh.A tiger was found dead in Chhindwara of Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday, taking this year's toll in the state to 44. According to reports, two days ago, a tigress died in the state's Dindori area allegedly due to poisoning.An official from the NTCA said the number of tiger deaths has increased in 2021, and investigations are ongoing.The official, who did not wish to be named, said several measures are being taken to protect tigers which include patrolling and arresting people for poaching.He said there can be many causes for the death as the population of tigers is huge, and a standard operating procedure (SoP) is followed to ascertain the reasons.The official said the tiger death is under scrutiny of the state as well as the NTCA.The official also rejected reports that claimed the tigress in Madhya Pradesh died due to poisoning in Dindora, saying they are “mere assumptions” as scrutiny takes time."Ongoing process to protect tigers like patrolling is going on, and a lot of people have been arrested for poaching too. We are doing everything to protect the tigers, but we should also understand that nearly 30 per cent of them are outside tiger reserves," the official said.As per the NTCA, the maximum tiger deaths this year took place in Madhya Pradesh (44), followed by 26 in Maharashtra and 14 in Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/126-tiger-deaths-recorded-in-india-in-2021-ntca-101640879674768.html
30-12-2021||India||Piyush Jain’s tax liabilities not settled, probe is still on: finance ministry||NEW DELHI: The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), which recently uncovered over ₹197 crore cash and 23 kg of gold from Kannauj-based perfume maker Piyush Jain, is still investigating the case and it has not yet determined his liabilities, the Union finance ministry said on Thursday refuting reports in a section of media that Jain has been discharged of tax liabilities.DGGI has “so far” recovered “a total cash of ₹197.49 crore, 23 kg of gold and offending goods of high value” from two premises of of Odochem Industries, the manufacturer of perfumery compounds and its proprietor Jain in the “ongoing” investigation, the ministry said in a statement.Also Read: How a pan masala shipment led to mega seizure, political rowIt refuted reports in certain sections of the media that DGGI has decided to treat the cash recovered as the turnover of the manufacturing unit and proposes to proceed accordingly.The statement said, “Some reports have even stated that after admitting his liability, Shri Peeyush Jain has, with the approval of DGGI, deposited a total amount of ₹52 crore as tax dues. Thus, it is made out as if the department has agreed with the deposition of Shri Peeyush Jain and finalised the tax liability accordingly.” “These reports are purely speculative, without any basis and seek to undermine the integrity of the ongoing investigations which are being carried out in a most professional manner based on specific intelligence against the party,” it said.Also Read: Neighbours in Kannauj recall Piyush Jain’s conspicuous austerityIn this regard, it is clarified that the total amount of cash in the ongoing case from the residential and factory premises of Jain has been kept as case property in the safe custody of the State Bank of India (SBI) pending further investigations, it said.“No deposit of tax dues has been made by M/s Odochem Industries from the seized money to discharge their tax liabilities and their tax liabilities are yet to be determined,” it added. It said that voluntary submissions made by Jain are a subject matter of ongoing investigations and any view on the source of cash seized by the department and the exact tax liabilities of Odochem Industries shall be taken on the basis of appraisal of evidences collected from various premises during the searches and the outcome of further investigations. Piyush Jain was arrested on December 26, 2021 for offences under Section 132 of the Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Act and was produced before the court on December 27. The court has remanded Piyush Jain in judicial custody for 14 days. His lawyer has said a plea for granting bail to him will be filed on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/piyush-jain-s-tax-liabilities-not-settled-probe-is-still-on-finance-ministry-101640880279872.html
30-12-2021||India||News update from HT: Omicron pushes Covid tally to 4-digit number in Delhi, Mumbai. Kolkata and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Omicron pushes Covid tally: 4-digit Covid cases in Delhi, Mumbai, KolkataThe Covid-19 situation of India worsened overnight with states recording a huge jump in the number of Covid-19 cases. Read moreHeavy rain lashes Chennai, cause traffic snarls, floods; IMD sends orange alertRains lashed several parts of Chennai and its suburbs with strong winds on Thursday afternoon. Read moreCovaxin found to be safe and immunogenic in 2-18 age group: Bharat BiotechBharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL), on Thursday, announced that BBV152 (Covaxin), its whole-virion inactivated COVID-19 vaccine candidate, has proven to be safe, well-tolerated, and immunogenic in paediatric subjects in phase II/III study. Read more'Expect him to rain centuries after centuries': Gavaskar backs 'underachiever' India star to score consistent hundredsIndia secured a comprehensive 113-run victory over South Africa in the first Test in Centurion to take a 1-0 lead in the three-match series. Read moreShilpa Shirodkar tests Covid-19 positive in Dubai, sister Namrata Shirodkar says ‘get well soon’Actor Shilpa Shirodkar, who lives in Dubai, announced on social media late Wednesday night that she has tested positive for Covid-19. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-update-from-ht-omicron-pushes-covid-tally-to-4-digit-numbers-in-few-cities-and-all-the-latest-news-101640878063375.html
30-12-2021||India||Major Omicron spike: 198 cases recorded in Maharashtra, tally reaches 450||In a major spike in the number of Omicron cases in India, Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 198 new Omicron cases, taking the Omicron tally of the state to 450. Out of these 198 cases, 190 have been reported from Mumbai alone. This comes on a day Maharashtra reported 5,368 fresh Covid cases, including 3,671 from Mumbai as reported by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said with around 4,000 cases, Mumbai's case positivity rate has increased to 8.48%. The alarming spread of Omicron remains unabated in the state and keeping this is mind, the government has decided to use S-gene dropout kit maximum to identify Delta and Omicron at RT-PCR centres only, before genome-sequencing. This will help the doctors to differentiate between Omicron and Delta variants, the minister said."Vaccination drives will be done at full speed. School students should be taken in batched to vaccination centres. This will result in a high rate of vaccination. Schools will not be closed as of now," Rajesh Tope said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held an emergency meeting of the Maharashtra Covid task force on Thursday in view of the sudden increase in the number of cases. The government has already imposed several restrictions curbing New Year festivities in the state. The Mumbai Police on Thursday has imposed Section 144 in the city starting from today till January 7. As per the new Covid-19 restrictions, prohibition has been placed on New Year's celebrations, parties in any closed or open space including restaurants, hotels, bars, pubs, resorts and clubs from December 30 to January 7.Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said the new wave of the coronavirus pandemic could be worse than the earlier two waves as she appealed to people to follow the norms. "Earlier variants of the coronavirus infected mostly adults, but the latest variant is also infecting children, she said. "Hence it is necessary to be careful,” Pednekar said.Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 22 death including a 52-year-old man with a travel history to Nigeria. Maharashtra health department said the man died of a heart attack on December 29 and the death was due to non-Covid reasons. After his samples were sent for genome sequencing, it has been found that he was infected with Omicron variant.The Union health ministry on Thursday expressed concern over the emerging situation and asked people to not panic as India is well prepared to fight any surge. Maharashtra is one of the eight states which were alerted by the Centre once again on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-omicron-spike-198-cases-recorded-in-maharashtra-tally-reaches-450-101640876044538.html
30-12-2021||India||J&K Police's SIA books Hurriyat leader, 8 others for 'selling' MBBS seats||The Special Investigation Agency (SIA) of Jammu and Kashmir Police filed its first charge sheet against nine people, including a Hurriyat leader, in a case related to "selling" of MBBS seats in Pakistan to Kashmiri students and using the money to support and fund terrorism, officials said on Thursday.The case was registered by the Counter Intelligence Kashmir (CIK), a branch of the police's CID, in July last year after receiving information through reliable sources that several unscrupulous people, including some Hurriyat leaders, were hand in glove with some educational consultancies and were "selling" Pakistan-based MBBS seats and seats in other professional courses in colleges and universities.The CIK, which has been designated as the SIA now, filed its charge sheet before a court against Mohammad Akbar Bhat alias Zaffar Akbar Bhat, the chairman of Salvation Movement, a constituent of hardline Hurriyat Conference.Others named in the chargesheet are Abdul Jabbar, Fatima Shah, Altaf Ahmad Bhat Qazi Yasir, Mohammad Abdullah Shah, Sabzar Ahmad Sheikh, Manzoor Ahmad Shah, Syed Khalid Geelani and Mohd Iqbal Mir of Mahaz Azadi Front.During investigation, oral, documentary and technical evidence was collected and in analysis it surfaced that MBBS and other professional degrees-related seats were preferentially given to those students who were close family members or relatives of killed terrorists, they said.Evidence also came on record to show that money had been put into channels that ended up supporting programmes and projects pertaining to terrorism and separatism, which included the unrest after the killing of Burhan Wani, the poster boy of banned Hizbul Mujahideen terror group, in 2016.The money was also used in failed efforts to disrupt peace after the abrogation of the erstwhile state's special status in August, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-police-s-sia-books-hurriyat-leader-8-others-for-selling-mbbs-seats-101640873864419.html
30-12-2021||India||Pro-Kannada organisations withdraw tomorrow's Karnataka bandh||Mindful about its impact amid divide within and lack of support, pro-Kannada organisations on Thursday withdrew the Karnataka bandh, called by them on December 31, demanding a complete ban on the activities of the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samithi (MES) which has been campaigning for a long to merge Marathi speaking regions in Belagavi with Maharashtra. Leaders of several Kannada outfits under the leadership of Vatal Nagaraj, the leader of the Kannada Okkuta, met Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai this evening, ahead of withdrawing the bandh.The organisations will however be staging a protest rally demanding the MES ban at the city's town hall at 10:30 AM on Friday. A similar protest was held by the Karnataka Rakshna Vedike today. "Heeding the request of the Chief Minister and several of our pro-Kannada leaders, I have conceded. There will be no bandh tomorrow, we have withdrawn the bandh, but we may hold some protests," Nagaraj told reporters after meeting with the CM. "The CM has assured that his government will do everything possible honestly in accordance with the law to ban MES and requested us to withdraw the bandh.Also earlier in the day leaders of several organisations put pressure on me to postpone the bandh citing the inconvenience it may cause to the people and business ahead of New Year," he said. Chief Minister Bommai said he has discussed all issues with Nagaraj and others and everyone is on one page to protect the interest of Kannada, Kannadigas and Karnataka and thanked the organisations for withdrawing the bandh callTo a question on their demand for banning MES, he said, "all those things have been discussed, I have already stated publicly that the government is examining it legally. I have brought the same to their notice." However, another prominent leader of Kannada Okkuta, Sa Ra Govindu clarified that only tomorrow's bandh has been called off and that they will call for a meeting and decide further action, in case their demand for banning MES is not met in the days to come."We have not set any deadline to the CM, he has sought time to talk to experts, so we have postponed the bandh to another day, we will decide our future course, by calling a meeting of all Kannada organisations," he added. Another leader hinted that they may wait and call for bandh on January 22, if their demands are not met by then. Pro-Kannada organisations had last week called for a day-long state-wide bandh on December 31, demanding a complete ban on the activities of Maharashtra Ekikaran Samithi in the state over its repeated involvement in "anti-Karnataka and anti-Kannada activities". The demand follows the recent incidents of burning of the Kannada flag in Maharashtra's Kolhapur and defacement of the statue of historical icon Sangolli Rayanna in Belagavi, allegedly by MES activists. The MES, a Marathi outfit, has been campaigning for a long to merge Marathi speaking regions in Belagavi with Maharashtra. However, several organisations like the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce (KFCC), Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV), Bruhat Bangalore Hotels Association, Auto, schools and college associations, shopping malls association and several other commercial establishments had offered only moral support and said they will not participate in the bandh and will function as usual. Business establishments had cited New Year brisk business for not physically supporting the bandh call. At the last moment today, even those who were supporting Nagaraj in his call for bandh, like Karnataka Rakshana Vedike Praveen Shetty faction among others, made a u-turn and requested him to call off the bandh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karntaka-bandh-tomorrow-who-called-the-strike-who-are-supporting-all-you-need-to-know-101640874010363.html
30-12-2021||India||Omicron pushes Covid tally: 4-digit Covid cases in Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata||The Covid-19 situation of India worsened overnight with states recording a huge jump in the number of Covid-19 cases. On Thursday, India's Covid tally was 13,154 in a sharp jump from Wednesday's tally. On Friday, the number will see another jump as cities are reporting around 40% jump in the number of Covid cases. On Thursday, the Centre said the rise of Covid-19 cases in India could be a part of the global surge being driven by Omicron, the latest variant of SARS-CoV-2. India's surge is also believed to be driven by Omicron, but this variant can be detected only through genome sequencing and that's why experts said it will take time to confirm Omicron's role. But the cases are increasing, almost doubling, which is a sign of Omicron, which is more transmissible than DeltaHere are updates of India's Covid-19 situation:1. Mumbai on Thursday reported 3,671 infections. On Wednesday, the number was 2,510. Maharashtra reported 198 Omicron cases, taking the tally of the new variant in the state to 450. Out of these 198 Omicron cases, 190 have been reported from Mumbai alone. 2. Delhi on Thursday reported 1,313 Covid infections, in a massive jump. This is the highest single-day rise since May 26. The positivity rate on Thursday mounted to 1.73%. On May 26, the positivity rate was 1.93%. During May, the country was witnessing the peak of the second wave.3. West Bengal on Thursday reported 2,128 fresh Covid infections. Kolkata has emerged as a district of concern with 1,090 Covid-19 cases recorded on Thursday. On Wednesday, the tally in Kolkata was 540. The test positivity rate in West Bengal is 5.47%.4. The present R-value of Covid in India is 1.22 which means every 100 infected people can spread the infection to 122 people. Delhi, Maharashtra have R-Value over 2 for the first time since the pandemic began.5.  India's present surge could be part of the global rise in cases pushed by Omicron, the Centre observed. However, Delta is still the predominant variant in India and not Omicron, the ministry said. 6. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said Omicron is seeing community transmission in Delhi as people with no foreign travel are testing positive of Omicron variant. 7. Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Bengaluru, Chennai, Gurugram, Ahmedabad, Nashik are reporting an increasing trajectory of overall Covid cases, the Centre said. Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Karnataka and Gujarat are emerging as states and UTs of concern on the basis of weekly cases and positivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-pushes-india-s-covid-tally-mumbai-3-671-cases-kolkata-at-1090-101640872332614.html
30-12-2021||India||Heavy rain lashes Chennai, causes traffic snarls, flooding; IMD issues red alert||Rains lashed several parts of Chennai and its suburbs with strong winds on Thursday afternoon. An orange alert has been sounded in the coastal city with about 13cm rainfall till 5:30pm.Areas across Chennai including Marina beach, Patinapakkam, MRC Nagar, Nandanam, Mylapore and other suburban areas witnessed cool winds with moderate rainfall. The city witnessed traffic snarls as several roads were flooded and commuters were stuck on roads for hours. At least three deaths due to rain-related incidents have been reported so far.Meanwhile, Chennai’s MetroRail extended services by an hour from 11pm to 12am.According to the Regional Meteorological Centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) in Chennai, MRC Nagar recorded the highest rainfall at 176.5mm till 6:15pm today.“More clouds blooming off Chennai coast and looks like rains wont stop anytime soon. Go home safe, avoid T.Nagar, Alwarpet, Royapettah, Nunga & surrounding areas,” tweeted Pradeep John, a weather blogger better known as the ‘Tamil Nadu Weatherman’, while noting over 200mm rainfall in Mylapore.More clouds converging into Southh Chennai and rain is expected to continue further for few more hours. South Chennai - ECR belt which missed heavy spells might get balancing rains in coming hours. The old city area have got 150-200 mm. While other areas have got close to 100 mm.The IMD had predicted ‘heavy to very heavy’ rainfall in Chennai, Thiruvallur, Kanchipuram and Chengalpattu districts. The rain was expected to last for two hours.Earlier today, the IMD forecasted heavy rainfall in isolated areas of coastal Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on December 31 and January 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-lash-chennai-causes-traffic-snarls-flooding-imd-issues-orange-alert-101640868998348.html
30-12-2021||India||Covaxin found to be safe and immunogenic in 2-18 age group: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL), on Thursday, announced that BBV152 (Covaxin), its whole-virion inactivated COVID-19 vaccine candidate, has proven to be safe, well-tolerated, and immunogenic in paediatric subjects in phase II/III study. Bharat Biotech had conducted phase II/III, open-label, and multicenter studies to evaluate the safety, reactogenicity, and immunogenicity of Covaxin in healthy children and adolescents in the 2-18 age group, a press release from the vaccine maker said. Krishna Ella, Chairman and Managing Director, Bharat Biotech, said, "Covaxin’s clinical trial data from the paediatric population is very encouraging. Safety of the vaccine is critical for children and we are glad to share that Covaxin has now proven data for safety and immunogenicity in children. We have now achieved our goal of developing a safe and efficacious COVID-19 vaccine for adults and children." The clinical trials conducted in the paediatric population between June-September 2021 have shown robust safety, reactogenicity, and immunogenicity. The data was submitted to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) during October 2021 and received an emergency use nod for children aged 12-18 from DCGI recently. In the study, no serious adverse event was reported. A total of 374 subjects reported either mild or moderate severity symptoms, with 78.6 per cent getting resolved within a day. Pain at the injection site was the most commonly reported adverse event, the release said. For the trial, 976 subjects were screened for SARS-CoV-2 by RT-PCR and ELISA testing ( enzyme-linked immunoassay). Out of these, 525 eligible participants were enrolled. Based on the age, participants were distinguished into three groups in an age de-escalatory manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-found-to-be-safe-and-immunogenic-in-2-18-age-group-bharat-biotech-101640869272305.html
30-12-2021||India||‘Done deal’: Philippines allocates funds to buy India’s BrahMos missile system||NEW DELHI: The Philippines is set to become the first foreign customer for the BrahMos cruise missile system jointly developed by India and Russia, with the government in Manila recently allocating 2.8 billion pesos ($55.5 million) for initial funding for the weapon system. The process for the acquisition of the medium-range supersonic cruise missile by the Philippines armed forces suffered a setback because of the Covid-19 pandemic but is now back on track, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. According to the website of the Philippines’ department of budget management, two “special allotment release orders” worth 1.3 billion pesos and 1.535 billion pesos were issued on December 27 to cover the initial funding requirements for the “Shore-Based Anti-Ship Missile System Acquisition Project” of the Philippine Navy. The people cited above confirmed this allocation was for the BrahMos missile system. They added that a team from the Philippine Navy visited the production unit of BrahMos Aerospace in Hyderabad earlier this month as part of the acquisition process. The BrahMos Integration Complex in Hyderabad is responsible for integration of mechanical systems and assembling electronic systems. Various sub-systems fabricated in other centres in India and Russia are integrated and checked at this complex.“It is a done deal and there will be further developments early next year,” one of the people cited above said.The Philippines armed forces are implementing a revised modernisation programme and a contract for two corvettes was signed by the navy with South Korea’s Hyundai Heavy Industries on December 28. The Philippines also plans to sign contracts for 36 Black Hawk helicopters and six offshore patrol vessels in 2022. The department of budget management also made substantial allocation this month to cover the initial funding requirements for the acquisition of utility helicopters by the Philippine Air Force and fast boats for the navy. On March 2, India and the Philippines signed an “implementing arrangement” to facilitate government-to-government deals on military hardware and equipment, including the BrahMos missile, which has a range of 290 km and can carry a 200-kg warhead.Filipino defence secretary Delfin Lorenzana, who witnessed the signing ceremony, was quoted by the media as saying at the time that Philippines is buying the BrahMos missile. Lorenzana said the agreement would serve as a guide for the two sides on policies and procedures in defence procurement. Hindustan Times had first reported in December 2019 that the Philippines was set to become the first country to buy the BrahMos missile system. Both sides were keen on signing a deal during a proposed visit by President Rodrigo Duterte early in 2021, but the plan fell through because of the widespread disruptions caused by the pandemic. The Philippine Army’s first Land Based Missile System Battery also has plans to acquire the BrahMos. Russian officials have said India and Russia are working to gradually increase the range of the BrahMos and begin exporting the missile to third countries. The Philippines zeroed in on the BrahMos after extensive trials and much of the negotiations have revolved around the cost of the system. India had offered a $100-million line of credit to the Philippines for defence purchases. India has been in talks with several Southeast Asian countries, including Thailand, Indonesia and Vietnam, in recent years to sell them land and sea-based versions of the BrahMos. New Delhi has set an ambitious target of achieving defence exports worth $5 billion by 2025.
30-12-2021||India||DGGI rubbishes 'tax liability' claim about Kanpur trader Piyush Jain, says recovered amount kept in safe custody||The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) on Thursday refuted reports claiming that the department has agreed to treat the money recovered from Kanpur-based perfume trader Piyush Jain as turnover of the manufacturing unit. The DGGI said that these reports are “purely speculative”.Also Read | Raid on Kanpur businessman: Money recovered from 2 bunkers, says witnessSome reports in a section of media had claimed that Piyush Jain deposited ₹52 crore as tax liability, with the approval of DGGI, and rest of the money was given back to him.“These reports are without any basis and seek to undermine the integrity of the ongoing investigations which are being carried out in a most professional manner based on specific intelligence against the party,” the DGGI said in a release.“In this regard, it is clarified that the total amount of cash in the ongoing case from the residential and factory premises of M/s Peeyush Jain has been kept as case property in the safe custody of the State Bank of India pending further investigations,” the release further said.The DGGI said that a total cash of ₹197.49 crore, 23 kg of gold and offending goods of high value have been recovered from two premises belonging to Jain.His arrest on December 26 led to a major war of words between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the challenger Samajwadi Party (SP) in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has been touring UP ahead of next year’s assembly elections, took a veiled dig at SP over the large cash seizure, saying the 'Ittar' (perfume) of corruption that it had sprinkled all over Uttar Pradesh before 2017 is there for everyone to see.Union home minister Amit Shah, who has also addressed multiple rallies in the state, used the issue to allege that the SP's lexicon starts with 'Apraadh' (crime), 'Bhaai-Bhatijavaad' (nepotism) and 'Corruption'.The Samajwadi Party, meanwhile, denied any link with Jain and its president Akhilesh Yadav mocked the BJP, saying the party got "its own businessman" raided "by mistake"."By mistake, the BJP got its own businessman raided. Instead of SP leader Pushpraj Jain, it got Piyush Jain raided," Yadav told reporters in Unnao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dggi-rubbishes-tax-liability-claim-about-kanpur-trader-piyush-jain-101640868583522.html
30-12-2021||India||Precautionary dose to mitigate hospitalisation, not prevent Covid-19: Centre||With Omicron spreading at a rapid pace across the country, the Centre's health department on Thursday clarified that the precautionary booster dose is "disease-modifying" but they do not prevent infection from coronavirus.“All COVID vaccines, whether they are from India, Israel, US, Europe, UK or China, are primarily disease-modifying. They don't prevent infection. The precautionary dose is primarily to mitigate the severity of infection, hospitalization, and death,” said ICMR director-general Dr Balram Bhargava.“Use of masks before and after vaccination is a must and mass gatherings should be avoided... The treatment guidelines for the earlier and the currently circulating strains of coronavirus remain the same. Home isolation remains an important pillar,” he added.Addressing the media, Union health joint secretary Lav Agarwal said that India has been reporting more than 10,000 daily cases.Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Karnataka and Gujarat are emerging as states/UTs of concern with the increasing trajectory of Covid-19 cases, the health secretary added.Notably, India is set to begin booster shots of the Covid-19 vaccine from January 10 for frontline workers and senior citizens above the age of 60.“The government will send SMS to the eligible elderly population to remind them for taking the precautionary dose that starts from January 10,”  the health ministry said.India registered 13,154 new Covid-19 cases and 268 deaths in the last 24 hours, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday with 961 Omicron cases. The maximum cases were reported from Delhi (263) and Maharashtra (252).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/precautionary-dose-to-mitigate-hospitalisation-not-prevent-covid-19-centre-101640864689070.html
30-12-2021||India||Augment public transport while travel restrictions continue, say experts||New Delhi: With the new travel restrictions in place, public transport users in the capital are in for a tough time ahead with long queues of commuters outside metro stations over the last two days. Transport experts say that there is a need to make short and long term plans to address these challenges in order to stop public transport users from switching to personal vehicles.
30-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: India seeing sharp spike in Covid cases for 3-4 days, says Centre and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sharp increase in Covid cases in 3-4 days, situation concerning in 22 districtsDelhi, Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Bengaluru, Chennai, Gurgaon, Ahmedabad, Nashik are reporting an increasing sudden trajectory of cases, the Centre on Thursday said expressing concern over the sharp spike in the overall Covid cases of the country. Read more With no Covid curbs, tourists flock to Himachal for New Year festivitiesWith no Covid-19 curbs, Himachal Pradesh is seeing a rush of tourists for New Year festivities. Read moreIn a first, Delhi commuters vandalise buses at 2 spots over Covid curbsCommuters waiting for buses to get to work on Thursday morning vandalised buses at two locations to protest the shortage of buses after the government decided to cap the number of passengers in buses and metros at 50% of its seating capacity. Read more.Akhilesh's lab stands for ‘loot’, ‘aatankwaad’ and ‘bhrashtachar’: Shah in UPUnion home minister Amit Shah on Thursday hit out at the former governments in Uttar Pradesh and said that rioters cannot raise their eyes under the current Yogi Adityanath-led government. Read more.Squid Game to Sex Education: 10 best international shows of 20212021 has given us some truly fantastic storytelling on streaming platforms with a wide variety of worlds and universes to get lost in and relish. There’s just too much great stuff for any one person to watch. Read more Upcoming Royal Enfield bikes set for Indian market in 2022Royal Enfield is preparing to introduce its updated lineup for the year 2022. It was recently caught testing the Scram 411, and also revealed new bikes at the recently held EICMA 2021. Here's a list of all the new Royal Enfield bikes expected to launch in 2022. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-seeing-sharp-spike-in-covid-cases-for-3-4-days-says-centre-and-all-the-latest-news-101640861267519.html
30-12-2021||India||Provide food, treatment to people at Missionaries of Charity-run homes: Patnaik||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday directed district collectors to use funds from his relief fund to provide food and treatment to people at Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity-run orphanages and leprosy homes in the state, officials said.This comes days after the Centre on December 25 cited “adverse inputs” and decided against renewing the organisation’s license under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA).Missionaries of Charity runs a leprosy home near Bhubaneswar that houses 300 inmates. It also runs 12 orphanages with 600-odd inmates. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday expressed shock over the Centre’s refusal to renew the license. She alleged the organisation’s bank accounts were frozen. The Union home ministry, which regulates FCRA, denied the claim.Also Read: Missionaries of Charity row: Congress says BJP creating fake bogies of communalism“Shocked to hear that on Christmas, Union Ministry froze all bank accounts of Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity! Their 22,000 patients & employees have been left without food & medicines,” Banerjee tweeted.The Centre issued a statement in response saying the foundation made the request to freeze the accounts to the State Bank of India while acknowledging the renewal of FCRA registration was refused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/provide-food-treatment-to-people-at-missionaries-of-charity-run-homes-patnaik-101640861677963.html
30-12-2021||India||Sharp increase in Covid cases in 3-4 days, situation concerning in 22 districts: Centre||Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Bengaluru, Chennai, Gurugram, Ahmedabad, Nashik are reporting an increasing trajectory of Covid cases, the Centre on Thursday said expressing concern over the sharp spike in the overall Covid cases of the country. December 26 onwards, India's daily Covid tally has been increasing, joint secretary of the health department, Lav Agarwal said, addressing the ministry's weekly press briefing on the Covid-19 situation. The Centre is in contact with districts which are areas of concern, the secretary said. Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Bengaluru, Chennai, Gurugram, Ahmedabad, Nashik are reporting an increasing trajectory of Covid cases, the Centre on Thursday said expressing concern over the sharp spike in the overall Covid cases of the country. December 26 onwards, India's daily Covid tally has been increasing, joint secretary of the health department, Lav Agarwal said, addressing the ministry's weekly press briefing on the Covid-19 situation. The Centre is in contact with districts which are areas of concern, the secretary said. |#+|Here is what the health ministry said about India's Covid-19 situation and vaccines1. Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu are the five states with the highest number of active Covid cases.2. Eight districts in India are reporting more than 10% weekly positivity rate. Six of them fall in Mizoram, 1 in Arunachal Pradesh and 1 in West Bengal (Kolkata).Ramp up hospital preparedness, increase vaccine coverage: Centre's warning to 8 states amid Omicron rise3. 14 districts in India are reporting a weekly positivity rate between 5% and 10% including 6 in Kerala, 4 in Mizoram, 1 each in Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Jharkhand and Manipur.4. The virus is mutating which calls for stepped-up vigilance from the public, the Centre said. 5. Talking about immunity post the infection, ICMR DG Dr Balram Bhargava said the durability of immunity post-infection persists for about nine months. Post-vaccination immunity also lasts for around 9 months, Dr Bhargava said, citing international and Indian studies.6. The R-value is 1.22, which means the cases are not shrinking, Niti Aaayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said. R-Value signifies the spread of the virus and a value of 1.22 means 100 infected people are spreading the infection to 122 people. 7. The increase of Covid cases in India could be part of the global rise pushed by Omicron, Dr Paul said, adding that there is no need to panic as the country is prepared to handle any surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharp-increase-in-covid-19-cases-in-last-3-4-days-22-districts-areas-of-concern-101640861057768.html
30-12-2021||India||Dalit girl lashed: UP Congress chief held for protesting without permission||Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu was arrested here on Thursday while staging a protest against the state government over an incident of a 16-year-old Dalit girl being beaten up in the district.Led by Lallu, Congress workers in large numbers started the protest demonstration from the Ramlila Maidan, which ended at the Rajiv Gandhi tri-section, where the protesters sat on a dharna. They also raised slogans against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.Police subsequently arrested Lallu.Amethi Superintendent of Police (SP) Dinesh Singh said the state Congress chief was arrested for staging a protest without permission and squatting on the road.In a tweet, Congress general secretary and the party's Uttar Pradesh in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had hit out at the Adityanath government over the incident and demanded the arrest of all the accused in 24 hours.After a video clip of the Dalit girl being beaten up in a village under the Sangrampur police station in Amethi went viral on the social media, police filed an FIR against Rahul Soni, Suraj Soni and Shubham Gupta alias Sakal on a complaint from her father.The three accused were arrested and sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalit-girl-lashed-up-congress-chief-held-for-protesting-without-permission-101640856049086.html
30-12-2021||India||Community spread of Omicron in Delhi: What does it mean? What we know about this||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 is gradually spreading in the community. Delhi has witnessed a sudden surge in the number of Covid cases, driven by Omicron. As on Thursday morning, the national capital has the highest number of Omicron cases in India."Indeed, the variant is gradually spreading in the community and its proportion will increase in the coming days," the health minister said when asked if Omicron will be the dominant variant in a possible third wave of the pandemic.Commenting on Omicron's community spread, Dr Naresh Gupta, director professor of Maulana Azad Medical College, Delhi, said, about 70% of Omicron patients are asymptomatic and with the variant's high transmissibility, it is going to spread like fire once it gets into the community because you won't know if the next person is infected.What is the community spread?SARS-CoV-2 generally spreads from person to person through droplets, aerosols or through touch. Contact tracing is a process to track this chain of transmission and also to stop the chain from proceeding further by quarantining people who might have come in the chain. When the chain can not be established because the virus is widespread, it is called community spread. This means that the virus is circulating in the community and anyone can get the infection.Community spread of OmicronOmicron is a more transmissible variant of SARS-CoV-2, more contagious than Delta which caused the second wave of the pandemic in India. Within a month after the first Omicron cases were detected in India, the total number of Omicron cases reached 961 on Thursday.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said the latest genome sequencing report of samples in Delhi showed 46% of the samples have Omicron and these people include those who do not have any travel history. This indicates community transmission, the health minister said.The World Health Organization had confirmed the community transmission of Omicron in South Africa and the UK.The first cases of Omicron in India were foreign travellers who contracted the variant, first detected in South Africa, from abroad. All first cases of Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka were international travellers. However, the situation changed within a month as now the Omicron cases are mostly those with no international travel history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/community-spread-of-omiron-in-delhi-what-does-it-mean-what-we-know-about-this-101640857117342.html
30-12-2021||India||What the Chandigarh Municipal Election results signify||With months to go for a high stakes assembly election in Punjab, leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party have been exuding confidence after a more than encouraging debut in the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation results, declared on Monday. AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and the state unit chief Bhagwant Mann, who both campaigned in the polls, lost no time in terming its feat of emerging as the single-largest party as a “sign of the coming change”.
30-12-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav's lab stands for ‘loot’, ‘aatankwaad’ and ‘bhrashtachar’: Amit Shah in UP||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday hit out at the former governments in Uttar Pradesh and said that rioters cannot raise their eyes under the current Yogi Adityanath-led government.Addressing a gathering at the ‘Jan Vishwas Yatra’ in Aligarh, Shah took a swipe at the former Samajwadi Party and said that their government had “set up a new type of lab” in the state.“SP's LAB means – L for ‘loot’, A for ‘aatankwaad’, B for ‘bhrashtachar’(theft, terror and corruption). The SP government cannot develop Uttar Pradesh,” he said.Shah also slammed Mayawati's Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) and said, “Sister's cold has not gone away yet. Oh sister! Election is here, come out a little bit.”In another public rally in Moradabad, the home minister said, “700 riots happened in Akhilesh Yadav's govt but today in Yogi govt rioters can't dare to raise their eyes.”“Nizam means governance but for Akhilesh Yadav, it means – N for 'Nasimuddin', I for 'Imran Masood', Z and A for 'Azam Khan', and M for 'Mukhtar Ansari'. I want to ask you whether you want Akhilesh's Nizam or Yogi-Modi's development Nizam,” Shah said, sounding the poll bugle.Uttar Pradesh is headed for assembly elections early next year. The final list of voters will be released on January 5, the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) announced, adding that voting will be held from 8am to 6pm on the date of polling.The tenure of the current Uttar Pradesh Assembly ends on May 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-s-lab-stands-for-loot-aatankwaad-and-bhrashtachar-amit-shah-in-up-101640854197148.html
30-12-2021||India||Two years of the Hemant Soren government: Hits and Misses||Ranchi: “I am focused on the development of the Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes, Other Backward Castes and minorities of the state. I am not thinking beyond that. The issue you are talking about is national. There is nothing for me to choose. I will remain with Jharkhand.” This was Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren during an interaction with journalists on December 27, two days before the government led by him completed two years in power.
30-12-2021||India||Goa to test all passengers travelling from abroad amid Omicron alarm||The state government has enhanced surveillance at the Goa airport and mandated that all passengers arriving from abroad will have to get tested upon arrival. The mandatory testing condition was earlier applicable to passengers travelling only from high-risk countries.Health minister Vishwajit Rane cited the rising cases of Covid-19 while announcing the new protocol at the airport. “Earlier, we tested only 2% of passengers travelling from non-high-risk countries. The government has now taken a decision in the public interest to test all international passengers,” he saidAlso Read | Full vaccination or Covid-19 negative report: Goa’s new rule for attending parties The government earlier limited gatherings at casinos, nightclubs, bars, restaurants, and entertainment parks to 50% of the maximum capacity in view of the rising cases. Only fully vaccinated people or those who have tested negative 24-hours earlier will be allowed entry such places. An expert committee was expected to meet on January 3 to review the situation before imposing further restrictions in Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-to-test-all-passengers-travelling-from-abroad-amid-omicron-alarm-101640856397189.html
30-12-2021||India||PM Modi launches projects worth ₹17,500 crore in Uttarakhand, announces ‘New Year gift’ for Haldwani||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday inaugurated and laid the foundation stone for 23 projects worth over ₹17,500 crore in Uttarakhand’s Haldwani. Among these projects is a branch of the prestigious All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Udham Singh Nagar, for which the Prime Minister laid a foundation stone.PM Modi also addressed a gathering in Haldwani, where he announced a ‘New Year gift’ for the people of the district. “We are bringing a scheme worth ₹2,000 crore for the development of the overall infrastructure of Haldwani, for water, sewage, road, parking, street lights,” he said.The Prime Minister also lauded the capabilities of the people of Uttarakhand and the projects inaugurated today, saying that these will make the coming 10 years the ‘decade of Uttarakhand’.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday inaugurated and laid the foundation stone for 23 projects worth over ₹17,500 crore in Uttarakhand’s Haldwani. Among these projects is a branch of the prestigious All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Udham Singh Nagar, for which the Prime Minister laid a foundation stone.PM Modi also addressed a gathering in Haldwani, where he announced a ‘New Year gift’ for the people of the district. “We are bringing a scheme worth ₹2,000 crore for the development of the overall infrastructure of Haldwani, for water, sewage, road, parking, street lights,” he said.The Prime Minister also lauded the capabilities of the people of Uttarakhand and the projects inaugurated today, saying that these will make the coming 10 years the ‘decade of Uttarakhand’.|#+|According to Prime Minister's Office (PMO), these projects cover a wide array of sectors/areas across the state including irrigation, road, housing, health infrastructure, industry, sanitation, drinking water supply.Among the projects for which foundation stones were laid by the Prime Minister is the Lakhwar Multipurpose Project to be built at a cost of about ₹5,750 crore. This project was first conceived in 1976 and lying pending for many years.It will enable irrigation of 34,000 hectares of additional land, produce 300 MW hydro power and supply drinking water to the six states of Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan.There were multiple road projects that were also inaugurated or for which foundation stones were laid. Among them are four-laning of 85 kilometre Moradabad-Kashipur Road - to be built at a cost of over ₹4000 crore; two-laning of 22 Kilometre stretch of Gadarpur-Dineshpur-Madkota-Haldwani road (SH-5) and 18 kilometre stretch of Kiccha to Pantnagar (SH-44); construction of 8 kilometre long Khatima bypass in Udham Singh Nagar; construction of four lane National Highway (NH109D) being built at a cost of over 175 crore.These road projects will improve connectivity of Garhwal, Kumaon and Terai region and also the connectivity between Uttarakhand and Nepal.The AIIMS Rishikesh satellite centre and Jagjivan Ram Government Medical College at Pithoragarh will be built at a cost of about ₹500 crore and ₹450 crore respectively.This will be the second AIIMS in the hill state after the one in Rishikesh which was established back in 2012 and will not only help the people of the Kumaon and Terai regions but also the bordering areas of Uttar Pradesh.Thursday's inauguration events come months ahead of the high stakes assembly elections in Uttarakhand. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which won the elections last time in 2017, is aiming for a second consecutive win.The other top contenders in this year's elections are the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-year-gift-pm-modi-launches-projects-worth-rs-17-500-crore-in-uttarakhand-101640853423122.html
30-12-2021||India||Last date for filing ITR on December 31, taxpayers risk penalty of upto ₹5,000 on missing deadline||The last date for filing your income tax returns for the financial year 2020 to 2021 (assessment year 2021 - 2022) is fast approaching and the deadline is set for midnight on December 31, 2021. Failing to file the returns before the mentioned deadline can attract penalties of upto ₹5,000.The maximum penalty amount was ₹10,000 until last year which was then reduced to ₹5,000. Taxpayers were levied a fine of ₹10,000 if they filed their returns late between December 31 and March 31 and a penalty of ₹5,000 for filing their returns between August and December. However, from this year, the maximum penalty has been reduced to ₹5,000.The last date for filing the income tax returns for the financial year was initially extended from July 31, 2021 to September 30, 2021 due to the disastrous second Covid-19 wave in the country. It was then extended to the year end after complaints about technical glitches in the new IT portal to file the returns.Meanwhile, the Income Tax department on Wednesday said that over 5 crore returns were filed as of the date and urged people who were yet to file to do so before the deadline.“More than 5 crore Income Tax Returns for AY 2021-22 filed till 5:45pm today! Hope you have filed yours too! If not, please file your #ITR for AY 2021-22 before the extended due date of 31st December, 2021. Please visit http://incometax.gov.in,” the department said in a tweet.Also, taxpayers who are yet to electronically verify their returns for the financial year 2019 - 2020 can also verify them by February 28, 2022, after the I-T department gave a one-time relaxation for the verification.(With inputs from Livemint)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/last-date-for-filing-itr-on-december-31-taxpayers-risk-penalty-of-upto-rs-5-000-on-missing-deadline-101640854381353.html
30-12-2021||India||Ramp up hospital preparedness, increase vaccine coverage: Centre's warning to 8 states amid Omicron rise||The Centre on Thursday wrote to Delhi, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Jharkhand, advising the states to enhance Covid-19 testing, strengthen hospital-level preparedness, increase pace and coverage of vaccination. The warning comes as India on Thursday reported 13,154 new Covid cases in a sharp rise in the last 24 hours. India's Omicron tally on Thursday surged to 961. The weekly positivity rate in the country is 0.76 per cent which remains lesser than 1 per cent for the last 46 days. The daily positivity rate is 1.10 per cent which remains lesser than 2 per cent for the last 87 days.Delhi has the maximum number of 263 Omicron cases followed by Maharashtra at 252, Gujarat 97, Rajasthan 69, Kerala 65 and Telangana 62.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said the latest variant, which is replacing Delta in other countries, is gradually spreading in the community as people without foreign travel history are getting infected. A yellow alert has been issued in Delhi halving the capacity of public transport, creating a rush among office goers. While serpentine lines are seen in front of metro entrances, a group of people on Thursday blocked the MB road and damaged DTC buses after not being allowed to board it.Amid the apprehension of the third wave of Covid striking the country in 2022 when several states will go to the elections, chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra on Thursday said political parties in UP want the state election not to be postponed. “Representatives of all political parties met us and told us that elections should be conducted on time following all Covid-19 protocols,” Chandra said at a press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramp-up-hospital-preparedness-increase-vaccine-coverage-centre-s-warning-to-8-states-amid-omicron-rise-101640853730513.html
30-12-2021||India||‘We will bring law to make the temples independent’: Karnataka CM Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said that the state government would bring a law before the Budget session in order to make temples independent.Speaking during the BJP executive committee in Hubballi on Wednesday, CM Bommai said, "Currently, the Hindu temples are controlled by different laws and rules. We will bring a law before the Budget Session to make the temples independent."He said, "Several religious places are functioning safely under various laws and also have freedom of worship. But our Hindu temples are controlled by rules and regulations of the government and also restricted the temples to use their own funds."Bommai said, "The system of temples seeking government officials to use the funds should end. Before the next Budget session, all the temples will function independently and we will enact a law for this."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-will-bring-law-to-make-the-temples-independent-karnataka-cm-bommai-101640850983713.html
30-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: FIR against Tej Pratap Yadav for hiding property details and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.FIR against Tej Pratap Yadav for ‘suppressing’ info about propertyA First Information Report (FIR) has been lodged against former Bihar minister Tej Pratap Yadav for allegedly suppressing information about his property in his affidavit filed ahead of the 2020 assembly elections. Read more Dr Dangs Lab conducted tests in all three trial phases of Corbevax vaccineDr Dangs Lab acted as the central lab of choice for the screening, safety and several immunogenicity tests for all three phases of the Corbevax. Read more Shanghai opens longest Metro line in the worldShanghai has maintained its position as the city with the largest Metro network in the world, with the opening of two driverless lines—Line 14 and Phase One of Line 18. Read more Sing 2 movie review: Songs, visuals prop up a weak story in this animated musicalSing 2 movie review: Garth Jennings' animated musical touches the right notes with good music and animation along with strong performances from the voice cast but falters due to a weak story. Read more 'We didn’t pick this ball': Ashwin rightly spots new-ball error as Centurion opener witnesses 'bizarre' delay on Day 4After India set a target of 305, South African openers Markram and Elgar made their way to the middle to begin the chase on a promising note. Bumrah was handed the new ball, but there was bit of a hold up. Read more This truck drives itself entirely, may help long-haul drivers take it easyAutonomous vehicles are widely seen as the next major technological breakthrough in the world of mobility and while four-wheeled vehicles are already out on roads minding their own drive - rules permitting of course, the world may soon have trucks doing the exact same with no need for a driver to control the steering. Read more&amp;nbsp;Gul Panag had a company for her morning run. Guess who?In the video, Gul and Nihal, with their backs to the camera, can be seen engrossed in their morning workout routine. Gul, in her red athleisure, can be seen running on one side of the road, while Nihal, with a small bag on his shoulders, can be seen catching up with Gul on his small cycle. Read more Post on dogs of Indian breeds prompts people to share lovely pics of their petsA post about how dogs of India breeds are ‘gorgeous and unique’ has left people smiling. The tweet also prompted a wonderful thread with people posting beautiful pictures of their Indie pet pooches. There is a chance that the wholesome post and the thread it sparked with leave you happy too. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-fir-against-tej-pratap-yadav-for-hiding-property-details-and-all-the-latest-news-101640846939865.html
30-12-2021||India||Delhi to remain cold on New Year, cold wave to severe cold wave conditions may prevail till Jan 3: IMD||A cold wave is expected to continue over Delhi on New Year’s day and such conditions are likely to prevail till January 3 as the city witnessed similar weather on Thursday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted.The IMD also said the minimum temperatures in several states in central and northwestern parts of the country are set to fall by at least 2 degrees.“Fall in minimum temperatures by 2-4°C over most parts of Northwest & Central India during next 24 hours and no significant change thereafter. No significant change in minimum temperatures over most parts of East India during next 24 hours and fall by 3-5°C thereafter,” the IMD said in its daily forecast.Meanwhile, a cold wave- or a severe cold wave-like condition is also expected in Delhi’s neighbouring states like Punjab, Rajasthan and Haryana until January 3, the IMD also said.“Cold Wave/Severe Cold Wave conditions in isolated/some parts of Punjab during 30th December to 03rd January; north Rajasthan during 31st December to 03rd January and Haryana & Chandigarh during 31st December to 02nd January,” the IMD said.“Dense fog in isolated pockets very likely over Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in night/morning hours on 31st Dec. and over East India on 31st December, 2021 and 1st January, 2022,” it added.During a severe cold wave, the minimum temperature dips to 2 degrees Celsius or the departure from normal is more than 6.4 degrees Celsius. Previously, on December 20 and 21, Delhi witnessed cold wave conditions when the minimum temperature fell to 3.2 degrees Celsius and 4 degrees Celsius respectively, according to a report by news agency PTI.From January 4, the minimum temperature is expected to increase due to the influence of an active western disturbance which is also likely to cause fairly widespread rainfall and snowfall over Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh between January 4 and 7, the IMD also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-to-remain-cold-on-new-year-cold-wave-to-severe-cold-wave-conditions-may-prevail-till-jan-3-imd-101640848691166.html
30-12-2021||India||68-year-man sentenced to 20-year imprisonment for raping girl||A Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) court in Kerala’s Thrissur on Wednesday sentenced a 68-year-man to three life terms for sexually assaulting a 15-year-old girl in 2015. It said the convict, Krishnan Kutty, did not deserve any sympathy and would not be granted parole. The sentence will run concurrently and Kutty will have to undergo 20-year imprisonment. The court also fined the convict ₹ 1.50 lakh and ordered that the money be given to the survivor. It added she is also eligible for compensation through the Legal Service Authority. The girl also gave birth to a baby at 16 and the DNA test confirmed Kutty fathered the child. As many as 25 witnesses were examined during the trial and the prosecution sought maximum punishment for Kutty. The court agreed and awarded maximum sentences. In 2019, a court in Kollam awarded three life-term sentences and 26-year rigorous imprisonment to a 28-year-old convict who raped and killed his seven-year-old niece.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/68yearman-gets-triple-life-terms-for-raping-girl-101640847630088.html
30-12-2021||India||Dr Dangs Lab conducted tests in all three trial phases of Corbevax vaccine, says Dr Arjun Dang||With the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) approving two new COVID-19 vaccines and one anti-viral drug for emergency use on Tuesday, Dr Arjun Dang, CEO, Dr Dangs Lab, welcomed the announcement and said they feel immensely proud "to have been a part of this momentous journey as the central lab of choice for an end-to-end services" concerning Corbevax vaccine."Dr Dangs Lab conducted screening, safety and several immunogenicity tests for all the three phases of the Corbevax which were multi-centric, ensuring seamless project management, timely submission of results, accurate lab assays, and efficient bio-repository management. This called for close coordination with participating investigative sites, principal investigators as well as efficient handling of pan-India logistics," Dr Arjun Dang said.Biological E limited's COVID-19 vaccine Corbevax is the first indigenously developed protein-subunit vaccine against COVID19 which utilizes the receptor-binding domain from the spike protein as the vaccine antigen.Protein subunit class of vaccines have been used successfully against multiple viral pathogens for many years and are known for excellent safety profile and consistent immune response which was also demonstrated in the comprehensive Phase 1, 2 and 3 clinical trials conducted at more than 30 sites in India.Dr Dangs Lab in New Delhi conducted and participated in the screening and immunogenicity tests for all three phases following stringent quality norms driven by GCLP guidelines as mandated by regulatory authorities.Dr Arjun Dang said the lab has renowned experts in each field "who worked tirelessly and collectively to provide quality and timely results to fulfil the imminent need for an effective and safe COVID-19 vaccine"."Dr Dangs Lab is a premium lab chain in Delhi and NCR renowned for its personalised and quality-based diagnostic services and has also partnered with various institutes and companies for academic research and clinical trials in the past," he said.Corbevax is the third made-in-India vaccine against coronavirus, the other two indigenous vaccines are Covaxin and ZyCoV-D.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-dangs-lab-conducted-tests-in-all-three-trial-phases-of-corbevax-vaccine-says-dr-arjun-dang-101640846518160.html
30-12-2021||India||After Kalicharan Maharaj’s arrest, MP and Chhattisgarh spar over rule book||After the arrest of Hindu seer Kalicharan Maharaj on Thursday in connection with his alleged derogatory remarks against Mahatma Gandhi earlier this month during a religious gathering, a war of words broke out between Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh.A police team from Chhattisgarh’s capital of Raipur arrested Kalicharan Maharaj near the town of Khajuraho in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday, officials said."Kalicharan Maharaj was living in a rented room in Bageshwar Dham, 25km from Khajuraho. He booked a room in a guest house in Khajuraho by hiding his identity. When he reached there on Thursday morning, he was arrested by Chhattisgarh police,” Chhatarpur superintendent of police Sachin Sharma said.Also watch | Kalicharan Maharaj arrested in MP: Hindu seer in dock for insulting GandhiAfter his arrest, Madhya Pradesh’s home minister Narottam Mishra condemned the action by the Raipur Police. "The Chhattisgarh government could have summoned him or could have called him by serving a notice,” Mishra said."The DGP of Madhya Pradesh has been asked to immediately speak to the DGP of Chhattisgarh and register a protest for not informing MP police. MP DGP has also been asked to seek clarification over violation of inter-state protocol,” he added.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel questioned Mishra’s comments over the seer’s arrest.“Narottam Mishra should say whether he is happy or sad about the arrest of the person who derogated Mahatma Gandhi? No rules have been violated and the arrest made by Chhattisgarh police is as per procedures,” Bhupesh Baghel was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The Chhattisgarh chief minister also said Kalicharan Maharaj's family and lawyer have been informed about his arrest by the police. “He will be presented before the court within 24 hours time,” he added.Also read | Kalicharan Maharaj booked in Pune for making provocative speechThe Raipur Police apprehended the seer from a rented room near Bageshwar Dham, around 25km from Khajuraho town, Raipur superintendent of police Prashant Agrawal told PTI. He will be brought here via road route by Thursday evening, the official added.On Sunday, a first information report (FIR) was registered against Kalicharan Maharaj in Raipur for allegedly using derogatory words against Mahatma Gandhi. A case was also registered against him at Akola in Maharashtra on Monday in this connection.The seer allegedly used abusive words against the Father of the Nation and asked people to elect a staunch Hindu leader as the head of the government in order to protect the religion. He made the remarks during the conclusion of the two-day Dharma Sansad (religious parliament) in Raipur on Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-kalicharan-maharaj-s-arrest-mp-and-chhattisgarh-spar-over-rule-book-101640845046377.html
30-12-2021||India||Centre extends AFSPA in Nagaland for six months||Days after it formed a panel to study the removal of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) from Nagaland, the Centre extended the application of the controversial law for six more months while calling the state’s condition “disturbed and dangerous”.In a gazette notification issued on Thursday, the Union home ministry said: “Whereas the Central government is of the opinion that the area comprising the whole of the State of Nagaland is in such a disturbed and dangerous condition that the use of armed forces in aid of the civil power is necessary.” It added, therefore, in the exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the AFSPA, the Central government declares Nagaland to be “disturbed area” for six months with effect from December 30 for the extension.An official, who did not want to be named, pointed out “renewing such notifications on their expiry is a routine practice depending on the ground situation”.Also Read | Army to let SIT record statement of troops in Nagaland firing incident: Report“Any decision on the removal of AFSPA from Nagaland will only be taken after the report of the high-level committee led by Vivek Joshi (the registrar general and census commissioner of India) submits its report,” the official added.The panel was set up to look into the possibility of withdrawing AFSPA amid anger in Nagaland over the killing of 14 civilians in Mon this month. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting Union home minister Amit Shah held with chief ministers of Nagaland and Assam Neiphiu Rio and Himanta Biswa Sarma on December 23.The controversial law gives sweeping powers to the armed forces to conduct operations and arrest anyone without any prior warrant. It also gives immunity to the forces if they shoot someone dead. AFSPA has been in force in Nagaland, Manipur, Assam, parts of Arunachal Pradesh, and Jammu and Kashmir for decades.Protests have been going on in Nagaland for the withdrawal of the AFSPA ever since the army killed the civilians in Mon mistaking them for insurgents. The army is separately probing the killings in a botched-up operation. An inquiry team visited Mon on Wednesday and recorded statements of two witnesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-extends-afspa-in-nagaland-for-six-months-101640845170609.html
30-12-2021||India||Six terrorists killed in Kashmir||The Jammu and Kashmir Police on Thursday said that security forces killed six terrorists in South Kashmir in two overnight operations. They said joint teams of police, army, and the Central Reserve Police Force launched the operations at Mirhama in Kulgam and Dooru in the neighbouring Anantnag district.Police said that the six included two foreigners. They added that two of the local terrorists have so far also been identified.Inspector general of police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar called the killing a big success for the security forces.“Two local terrorists and one Pakistani terrorist affiliated with proscribed terror outfit JeM killed. Search still going on. 01 M4 and 02 AK 47 rifles recovered. A big success,” said the police in a tweet quoting Kumar.Three terrorists each were killed at Mirhama and Dooru. A policeman was also injured in the Dooru shootout.Officials said both the operations have been concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-terrorists-killed-in-kashmir-101640842890381.html
30-12-2021||India||India’s Omicron cases spike to 961, daily Covid-19 infections rise by 13,154||India’s Omicron cases rose to 961 across the country, an increase of 180 infections reported a day before, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday.The health ministry also said as many as 13,154 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the country’s tally to over 34.8 million. Also, 268 people succumbed to the coronavirus disease in the same period and the country’s death toll climbed to 480,860, the health ministry’s data also showed.Delhi with 263 Omicron cases followed by Maharashtra with 252 and Gujarat with 97 cases added the most to the national tally of the highly transmissible variant of the coronavirus. The variant has now been detected from 22 states and Union territories.Meanwhile, 320 of the 961 Omicron patients have been discharged, the ministry’s data showed.Also read | Ahead of New Year 2022, here are restrictions put in place by statesAmong other states, Rajasthan and Kerala have reported 69 and 65 Omicron cases respectively. In Telangana, 62 people have so far tested positive for the variant while in Tamil Nadu the count stood at 45. Karnataka has logged 34 cases.Andhra Pradesh (16 cases), Haryana (12 cases) and West Bengal (11 cases) have all so far seen less than 20 infections of the variant.The count remained in single digits in Madhya Pradesh (9 cases), Odisha (9 cases), Uttarakhand (4 cases), Chandigarh (3 cases), Jammu and Kashmir (3 cases), Uttar Pradesh (2 cases), Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh, Manipur and Punjab (1 case each).The active caseload increased by 5,400 cases to reach 82,402 from the 77,002 reported previously on Wednesday.With 7,486 recoveries across the country in 24 hours, total recoveries so far rose to 34,258,778 with a recovery rate of 98.38%. More than 67.64 crore samples have so far been tested for the disease, the health ministry said.On the vaccination front, the cumulative doses administered crossed the 1.43 billion mark. “With the administration of 63,91,282 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, India’s COVID-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 143.83 Cr (1,43,83,22,742) as per provisional reports till 7 am today,” the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-omicron-cases-spike-to-961-daily-covid-19-infections-rise-by-13154-101640839629924.html
30-12-2021||India||Kalicharan Maharaj arrested for derogatory remarks against Mahatma Gandhi||A religious leader, Kalicharan Maharaj, has been arrested from Madhya Pradesh's Khajuraho days after he made a provocative speech against Mahatma Gandhi in Raipur, news agency ANI reported on Thursday.On December 26, Kalicharan Maharaj hailed Nathuram Godse for killing Mahatma Gandhi and said people should elect a Hindu leader as the head of the government to protect the religion.“Kalicharan Maharaj was staying in a rented accommodation near Bageshwar Dham, 25km from Khajuraho in Madhya Pradesh. Raipur Police arrested him at 4 am today. By late evening, the police team will reach Raipur with the accused,” Prashant Agarwal, Raipur’s superintendent of police, told ANI.A case has been registered against him in Raipur's Tikrapara Police Station.Delivering a speech at Dharma Sansad organised in Raipur, he also used an abusive word against Gandhi.“What is our prime duty - to save religion. We should elect a staunch Hindu king (leader) in the government irrespective of any party (he/she) belongs to…” the religious leader said.#WATCH Raipur Police arrests Kalicharan Maharaj from Madhya Pradesh's Khajuraho for alleged inflammatory speech derogating Mahatma Gandhi(Video source: Police) pic.twitter.com/xP8oaQaR7G"The target of Islam is to capture nation through politics. In front of our eyes, they had captured in 1947 (referring to partition)...They had earlier captured Iran, Iraq and Afghanistan. They captured Bangladesh and Pakistan through politics...I salute Nathuram Godse that he killed Gandhi," Kalicharan added.He received widespread criticism from the ruling Congress government in Chhattisgarh. Sushil Anand Shukla, the state Congress communication wing head said that the use of such words against Mahatma Gandhi was highly objectionable.Congress leader Pramod Dubey filed a complaint against Kalicharan Maharaj on December 26 and the state police registered a first information report (FIR) against the religious leader.This is not the first time that Kalicharan has made provocative speeches.On December 19, he made derogatory comments about Christians and Muslims at an event in Pune, prompting the police to register a case against him and five others.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kalicharan-maharaj-arrested-for-derogatory-remarks-against-mahatma-gandhi-101640836392123.html
30-12-2021||India||Minimum temperatures likely to fall by 2-4 degrees in northwest, central India||Minimum temperatures are likely to fall by 2-4 degrees Celsius in most parts of northwest and central India and by 3.5 degrees in east India over the next two days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. IMD added cold to severe cold wave conditions were likely in isolated parts of Punjab till January 3 as well as north Rajasthan, Haryana, and Chandigarh till January 2. Dense fog was expected in pockets of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, and eastern India in the night and morning hours this week.IMD said a western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation was over Uttar Pradesh. A separate cyclonic circulation was also over the state’s eastern part and adjoining Bihar. A trough also ran from the cyclonic circulation to Madhya Pradesh. Under the influence of these systems, light isolated rainfall was likely in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, and Vidarbha.Also Read | At 17.4° Celsius, Mumbai sees coldest morning of seasonLight to moderate and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with an isolated thunderstorm, lightning and hailstorm were likely in Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal, and Sikkim. Heavy rainfall was also likely in north interior Odisha.A western disturbance is likely to affect the Western Himalayan Region from January 4 to 7. Isolated to scattered rainfall and snowfall was likely in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, and Himachal Pradesh from January 1 to 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minimum-temperatures-likely-to-fall-by-2-4-degrees-in-northwest-central-india-101640838750457.html
30-12-2021||India||MP seeks FIR against Assam chief minister for alleged hate speech||Opposition Congress Member of Parliament Abdul Khaleque on Wednesday submitted a letter to the in-charge of a police station in Guwahati seeking a First Information Report (FIR) against Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma for an alleged hate speech on December 10.He said Sarma in the speech cited the eviction exercise carried out at Garukhuti in Darrang district in September, which left two civilians dead in police action, and called it a “revenge” for incidents in 1983 during the agitation against undocumented migrants in Assam.“Betraying his oath on the Constitution, Sarma has maliciously given a communal colour to what was supposed to be an executive exercise,” Khaleque said in the letter. “By calling the horrendous acts (deaths of two civilians) as revenge, Sarma has not only justified the killings and arson committed there, the legality of which is sub judice before the Hon’ble Gauhati High Court, but he has gone far ahead and communalized the whole exercise--the target of which was the Muslim population living there.”Also Read | Assam’s Himanta Biswa Sarma goes on overdrive against drunk driving on New Year’s EveKhaleque called Sarma’s reference to revenge a “wanton provocation” to the public “to commit further acts of rioting against a particular community”. “Through such malignant and provocative utterances, the CM (chief minister) is intending to cause disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will towards the Muslim population of Assam.” HT has seen a copy of the letter.Khaleque said Sarma’s comments amounted to offences under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 153 and 153A as they were a provocative and could cause rioting and promote disharmony, enmity between different groups. He urged police to initiate action against Sarma.A police officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they have received the letter and a preliminary inquiry was being done. He added that no FIR has been lodged against Sarma.Sarma’s political secretary, Jayanta Malla Baruah, called Khaleque’s request “politically motivated”. He added they will go ahead with its agenda of removing illegal settlers from encroached lands irrespective of what other parties say or do. “People who are aware of the background of the Assam Agitation know the circumstances that led to over 850 persons becoming martyrs. As a political party we stand by our commitment to protect the interest of indigenous persons of Assam,” said Baruah. 
30-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Karnataka to review, decide on night curfew today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Karnataka to review night curfew? CM Basavaraj Bommai to take decision todayKarnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has said he will review the Covid-19 containment measures announced by his government, including the night curfew, after business establishments in the state complained against the restriction. Read moreRoss Taylor announces retirement from international cricketVeteran New Zealand batter Ross Taylor on Thursday announced that he will retire from international cricket at the end of the ongoing domestic season. Taylor hence will play his final appearance in the second Test against Bangladesh, where will will equal Daniel Vettori’s record of 112 tests for New Zealand. Read more2021: Year that saw Bollywood stars, from Salman Khan to Ajay Devgn, on OTTApart from the fact that they are among the most bankable stars in Bollywood currently, what's the common factor about Salman Khan, Ajay Devgn and Vicky Kaushal? The fact that if you wanted to see their films this year, you didn’t have to queue up outside a cinema ticket counter but simply subscribe to an OTT service. Read moreSanya Malhotra's outdoor workout session is our year-end fitness inspoSanya Malhotra is back to her favourite place, with her favourite things – at the gym, working out with dumbbells. The actor is a fitness enthusiast who keeps setting the bar higher with every picture and video that she posts from her fitness routine. Read moreDelhi sees huge Covid spike amid Omicron fears; Yellow Alert to continueThe Delhi Disaster Management Authority held a meeting on Wednesday to take stock of the Covid situation. Delhi's Lt Governor Anil Baijal said the government will not impose any fresh pandemic-related restrictions at the moment. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-karnataka-to-review-decide-on-night-curfew-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101640834593503.html
30-12-2021||India||Out on harassment charges, Cong leader back in key position||When the Congress party appointed a secretary to oversee key northeastern states of Tripura, Nagaland and Sikkim last week, they reopened a sexual harassment case that they thought was dealt with last year.Ranajit Mukherjee, 41, resigned in 2020 after an internal inquiry was conducted by former Rajya Sabha member Rajeev Gowda, head of the party’s research department of which Mukherjee was a member.The inquiry took place after a member of the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), the party’s student arm, complained about him in writing, and another colleague in the research department reported “inappropriate behaviour’’ during the 2018 Rajasthan assembly elections.After Mukherjee’s recent appointment, the women have raised questions about the propriety of assigning a key leadership role to him. While the Congress party hasn’t responded, Mukherjee told HT that he has been punished long enough, and the party was recognising the hard work that he has done since.“I have had a consensual relationship after I was estranged from my wife. This matter blew up in 2019-20. I voluntarily resigned and opened up to my family, and it led to my divorce this year. The party has acknowledged that I made an error in judgement,” he said. “I have been kept away from a party position for more than a year. I have been working diligently and party has recognised my work and given me responsibility. I cannot be punished forever.’’The two women, however, told HT that the party has erred in giving a supervisory role to Mukherjee when his behaviour showed a pattern.“There are others besides me who have fallen prey and can vouch for the same,” the main complainant wrote in an email on Friday to party leaders, including Rahul Gandhi. “I have been quiet because I do not want our political opponents to hurt the Congress party using this as a tool. The appointment of a proven sexual predator would only harm the Congress party.... Please follow the official procedure and remove him from the post.’’While there has been no response to the Friday letter, Gowda did send an email on July 24 last year, acknowledging that he was accepting Mukherjee’s resignation after her allegations. “An internal inquiry was conducted,” the email had said. “His resignation has been accepted and he is no longer secretary, AICC department with effect from today.”When contacted Gowda said: “If such matters arise, they are dealt with in an appropriate and fair manner to the satisfaction of the complainant."The second woman, who was working in the research department, told HT that Mukherjee travelled with her on party work to Rajasthan. “He always made me feel uncomfortable, but there, he got drunk and banged on my door late at night,” she said.While she did not file an official complaint, she did bring it to Gowda’s attention. She described Mukherjee as “predatory.”Mukherjee’s boss Ajoy Kumar told HT that he was holding off assigning work to him. “I have been informed of this, and so no work will be assigned till the issue is resolved,” Kumar said.An accused in a sexual harassment case could be reinstated, but it depended on the particular case and the findings of the inquiry committee, according to Vrinda Grover, lawyer and expert in sexual harassment cases.“After inquiry, what was the punishment? Did they say it was only for a year? It depends on the nature of the case and the punishment should be commensurate to that,” she said. “Due diligence requires that they don’t give them a supervisory position, but you may give them a position after a review.”In this particular case, the details of how long the inquiry committee removed him from the post have not been disclosed even to the complainants.Mukherjee was also the Lok Sabha candidate for the party from West Bengal’s Bardhaman-Durgapur constituency in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/out-on-harassment-charges-cong-leader-back-in-key-position-101640833268106.html
30-12-2021||India||‘A big success for us’: 6 JeM terrorists killed in south Kashmir, say police||Six terrorists affiliated with proscribed terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), including two Pakistani nationals, have been killed in two separate encounters in Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag and Kulgam districts, the police said on Thursday morning."6 #terrorists of proscribed #terror outfit JeM killed in two separate #encounters. 4 among the killed terrorists have been identified so far as (2) #Pakistani & (2) local terrorists. Identification of other 02 terrorists is being ascertained. A big #success for us," Kashmir Zone Police tweeted quoting Kashmir’s inspector general Vijay Kumar.According to officials, one gunfight broke out in Kulgam district and the other in Anantnag district—both in south Kashmir.Security forces launched a cordon and search operation acting on a tip-off about the presence of terrorists in the Mirhama area of Kulgam district. When the forces were conducting searches in the area, they were fired upon by the hiding terrorists, they added.The forces retaliated, ensuing a gunfight in which three militants were killed, the official said.Officials also said the other gunfight took place in the Nowgam Shahabad area of Dooru in neighbouring Anantnag, the official said. A policeman was injured and he was shifted to hospital, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/-a-big-success-for-us-6-jem-terrorists-killed-in-south-kashmir-say-police-101640827544062.html
30-12-2021||India||PM Modi to lay AIIMS foundation, launch other projects in Uttarakhand's Haldwani today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday lay the foundation stone of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and launch several other projects worth over ₹17,500 crore in Haldwani in poll-bound Uttarakhand.This will be the second AIIMS in the hill state after the one in Rishikesh which was established back in 2012.“Devbhoomi Uttarakhand will move towards touching new heights of progress tomorrow. In Haldwani, I will have the opportunity to lay foundation stones and inaugurate 23 projects worth over ₹17,500 crore. These include infrastructure projects related to health, roads and irrigation,” PM Modi tweeted on Wednesday.Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said he was grateful to PM Modi for accepting his request for opening an AIIMS for people of the Kumaon region, for whom going all the way to AIIMS, Rishikesh, for treatment is difficult.Also Read| Centre reviews Covid containment measures in 5 poll-bound statesApart from laying the foundation stone for AIIMS Haldwani, the Prime Minister will also lay the foundation stone of 23 projects worth over ₹17,500 crore.According to a statement from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), these projects cover a wide array of sectors across Uttarakhand including irrigation, road, housing, health infrastructure, industry, sanitation, drinking water supply among others.These 23 projects include laying the foundation stone of AIIMS Rishikesh satellite centre in Udham Singh Nagar district and Jagjivan Ram Government Medical College at Pithoragarh.“These two hospitals are being built at a cost of about ₹500 crores and ₹450 crore respectively. The improved medical infrastructure will not only help the people of Kumaon and Terai regions but also the bordering areas of Uttar Pradesh,” the PMO statement read.Thursday's inauguration events come months ahead of the high stakes assembly elections in Uttarakhand. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which won the elections last time in 2017, is aiming for a second consecutive win.The other top contenders in this year's elections are the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).Also Read| Uttarakhand HC issues notices over plea for deferment of state pollsGiven the threat posed by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, the Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday issued a notice to the Election Commission and sought its response over the public interest litigation (PIL) seeking postponement of the assembly elections in the state. The high court was hearing the PIL regarding the matter on Wednesday.The next hearing on the matter is scheduled for January 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-lay-aiims-foundation-launch-other-projects-in-haldwani-today-101640822925779.html
30-12-2021||NA||Highlights: Maharashtra Minister Balasaheb Thorat tests positive for Covid-19||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Maharashtra Minister Balasaheb Thorat tests positive for Covid-19माझी कोरोना चाचणी पॉझिटिव्ह आलेली आहे.मला कोणतेही लक्षणे नाही, तरीही डॉक्टरांच्या सल्ल्याने मी पुढील उपचार घेणार आहे.माझ्या संपर्कात आलेल्यांनी आपली कोरोना चाचणी करून घ्यावी.सगळ्यांना या निमित्ताने आवाहन करत आहे, आपण मास्क वापरावा, काळजी घ्यावी.“My corona (Covid-19) test has come out positive. I do not have any symptoms, but I will take further treatment on the advice of my doctor. Anyone who came in contact with me should get tested. Appealing to everyone on this occasion, you should use a mask, be careful,” he said.Red alert due to heavy rain in 4 districts of Tamil Nadu including Chennai, Kanchipuram, Thiruvallur and ChengalpetA red alert has been issued for 4 districts of Tamil Nadu – Chennai, Kanchipuram, Thiruvallur, & Chinglepet in view of heavy rainfall. Three people have died due to electrocution today, said state revenue and disaster management minister KKSSR Ramachandran.Earlier today, a 70-year-old man was electrocuted in Chennai when he came out of his and died on the spot. Two more deaths took place at other locations.Arunachal Pradesh will always be integral part of India, MEA snubs report on China renaming places“Arunachal Pradesh has always been, and will always be an integral part of India. Assigning invented names to places in Arunachal Pradesh does not alter this fact,” said MEA in a statement in connection with reports that China has renamed some places in Arunachal Pradesh in its own language.Delhi records huge jump in daily Covid cases, 1,313 infections logged in 24 hrsDelhi recorded a huge jump in daily Covid-19 cases, 1,313 infections logged in last 24 hours.Maharashtra sees massive spike in Omicron count, 198 new cases today198 new cases of the Omicron variant were reported in Maharashtra, taking the total number to 450. So far, 125 patients have been discharged after undergoing RT-PCR tests.Amir Subhani, 1987 batch IAS officer appointed Bihar's new chief secretaryAmir Subhani, 1987 batch IAS officer has been appointed Bihar's new chief secretary.Bengal's Covid infections nearly double in 24 hours with 2,128 new casesWest Bengal reports 2,128 fresh COVID cases, 1,067 recoveries, and 12 deaths todayActive cases: 8,776Total recoveries: 16,06,501Death toll: 19,757 pic.twitter.com/IVeaukZ9gnWest Bengal had registered 1,089 new cases on Wednesday, which was the biggest single-day spike till yesterday.Covid +ve, asymptomatic int'l passengers can isolate at hotels: Delhi govtDelhi government says Covid positive and asymptomatic international passengers can also be sent to designated hotels.Gujarat extends Covid curbs till January 7Gujarat government has announced extending Covid-19 restrictions from Dec 31 to Jan 7, announced state health minister Rushikesh Patel.Mumbai Police cancels holidays, week offs tomorrow, city on high alarmAll police holidays and weekly holidays have been cancelled tomorrow and every policeman posted in Mumbai will be on duty. Information was received that Khalistani elements could carry out terrorist attacks in the city, after which the Mumbai Police has been on alert, says Mumbai Police.West Bengal decides to suspend all flights coming from UK to Kolkata airport from January 3West Bengal government has decided to suspend all flights coming from UK to Kolkata airport from January 3.Emergency meeting of Covid-19 Task Force by Maharashtra CM Thackeray beginsThe emergency meeting of Maharashtra COVID-19 Task Force called by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray begins in a virtual mode.Precautionary vaccine dose to mitigate Covid severity, says CentrePrecautionary dose of COVID-19 vaccine is primarily to mitigate severity of infection, hospitalisation, death, says ICMR DG Dr Balram Bhargava.Maharashtra, Delhi among 6 emerging as states/UTs of concern: Health ministryMaharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujarat are emerging as states/UTs of concern on the basis of weekly Covid-19 cases and positivity, the health ministry said at the press briefing, as quoted by PTI. Read moreWeekly positivity rate more than 10% in 8 districts across India, says health ministry“The weekly positivity rate of more than 10% is being noted in 8 districts including 6 districts from Mizoram, one from Arunachal Pradesh, Kolkata in West Bengal. The weekly case positivity rate is between 5-10% in 14 districts,” says Union health secretary Luv Agrawal.Omicron to spread like fire, you won't even know if next person in infection, says Dr Gupta“Reportedly, 70 per cent of Omicron patients are asymptomatic, and with the variant's high transmissibility, it's going to spread like fire once it gets into the community because you won't know if the next person is infected,” said Dr Naresh Gupta, director and professor of Delhi's Maulana Azad Medical College, while speaking to ANI.Govts of past looted Uttarakhand with both hands: ModiIt has been a permanent trademark of those who were in the govt before, to hinder developmental projects. Lakhwar Project, which started today, has the same history, it was first thought of in 1976. Today after 46 yrs, our govt has laid the foundation stone for its work: PM Modi pic.twitter.com/voQROO01sEPM Modi lays foundation stone of 23 developmental projects in Uttarakhand’s HaldwaniPM Narendra Modi inaugurates and lays the foundation stone of 23 developmental projects worth ₹17,500 crore in Haldwani, Uttarakhand.Health secretary writes to 8 states, advises strengthening of Covid-19 measuresUnion health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to Delhi, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Jharkhand and advised the states to enhance Covid-19 testing, strengthen hospital-level preparedness, and increasing the pace and coverage of vaccination, reports ANI. PM Modi arrives in Haldwani, UttarakhandPrime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in Haldwani, Uttarakhand, to inaugurate and lay the foundation of various developmental projects, reports ANI.Delhi Covid-19 norms: Over ₹89 lakh collected in fines, 67 FIRs filed since Dec 29The Delhi government said that more than ₹89 lakh has been collected in fines and as many as 67 FIRs were registered from December 29 for the violation of Covid-19 protocols in the national capital after the 'yellow alert' restrictions came into effect, reports ANI.All parties agreed for holding UP elections on time, says election commissionChief election commissioner Sushil Chandra said that the representatives of all political parties met with the election commission of India and said that polls should be conducted on time following all Covid-19 protocols, reports ANI.Uddhav Thackeray to chair Maharashtra Covid-19 task force meetingMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will chair a virtual meeting of the state's Covid-19 Task Force today, reports ANI. Close to half of Covid-19 cases in Delhi are of Omicron variant: Health minister JainDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that 46% of the total Covid-19 cases in the capital are of Omicron variant as per the latest genome sequencing results, reports ANI. 3 Omicron patients in UP so far, need to be alert as Covid cases flaring up in Delhi, NCR: OfficialUP has 3 #Omicron patients till now, 2 in Ghaziabad, 1 in Raebareli. Out of 115 genome sequencing samples, 112 were of Delta variant. But, we need to be careful & alert. Delhi NCR areas have already started witnessing an increase in COVID-19 cases: UP ACS Health Amit Mohan PrasadThe Additional Chief Secretary for health, Uttar Pradesh, Amit Mohan Prasad said that the Covid-19 infections in Delhi and the National Capital Region have been increasing and Uttar Pradesh needs to be alert in view of the same, reports ANI.He also said that the state has reported three cases of the new variant so far and out of 115 samples which were sent for genome sequencing, 112 have returned positive for Delta variant. India reports 13,154 new Covid-19 cases, 268 deaths in 24 hoursIndia reported 13,154 new Covid-19 cases and 268 related deaths in the last 24 hours. Active caseload up by 5,400 to reach 82,402.Raipur police arrest Kalicharan Maharaj for alleged inflammatory speechChhattisgarh | Kalicharan Maharaj was staying in a rented accommodation near Bageshwar Dham, 25 km from Khajuraho in Madhya Pradesh. Raipur Police arrested him at 4 am today. By late evening, the police team will reach Raipur with the accused: SP Raipur Prashant AgarwalThe Raipur Police have arrested Kalicharan Maharaj from Khajuraho, Madhya Pradesh, for alleged inflammatory sppech derogating Mahatma Gandhi, reports ANI.  Centre extends AFSPA in Nagaland for 6 more months Days after the Centre formed a committee to study the removal of AFSPA from Nagaland, the ministry of home affairs extended the act in the state for six more months from today (December 30).Houseboat tourism resumes in Kerala after long pauseHouseboat tourism resumed in Kerala's Kottayam after a long gap, reports ANI. However, houseboat employees expressed concern about the thin footfall and the looming threat of the Omicron variant. 126 tiger deaths recorded across country in 2021As many as 126 tiger deaths were recorded from across the country in 2021, reports ANI citing the National Tiger Conservation Authority.6 JeM terrorists killed in 2 separate encounters in J&K6 #terrorists of proscribed #terror outfit JeM killed in two separate #encounters. 4 among the killed terrorists have been identified so far as (2) #Pakistani & (2) local terrorists. Identification of other 02 terrorists is being ascertained. A big #success for us: IGP KashmirJammu and Kashmir police said that as many as six terrorists of the Jaish-e-Mohammed group were killed in two separate encounters in Anantnag and Kulgam. The police also said that two among those killed were Pakistani nationals and two were locals, while the identification of the remaining two was being carried out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-december-30-2021-101640825784870.html
30-12-2021||India||Ahead of New Year, AIIMS director Dr Guleria’s message on Omicron, pandemic||In his New Year message, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi director Dr Randeep Guleria advised people "not to panic, but to be vigilant" amid the rising cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus across the country."Let me take this opportunity to wish everyone a very happy, healthy, and prosperous 2022. As we move forward, it is important for us to understand that the pandemic is not over, yet we are in a better position,” Dr Guleria said in a video message posted by AIIMS."We have a large number of people who are vaccinated, still we are witnessing increasing cases. Therefore, it is very important for us to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour including wearing masks, physical distancing, and avoiding crowds so that we do not have a super spreader anywhere," the AIIMS director said.Also read | As Omicron spreads, WHO chief scientist’s take on Covid-19 vaccinesAccording to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, India reported 781 Omicron cases across 21 states and Union territories until Wednesday. Delhi accounts for the highest number of Omicron cases (283), followed by Maharashtra (167), Gujarat (73), Kerala (65), Telangana (62), Rajasthan (46), Karnataka (34), Tamil Nadu (34).These states are followed by Haryana (12), West Bengal (11), Madhya Pradesh (9), Odisha (8), Andhra Pradesh (6), Uttarakhand (4), Chandigarh (3), Jammu and Kashmir (3), Uttar Pradesh (2), Goa (1), Himachal Pradesh (1), Ladakh (1) and Manipur (1).Also read | Covid-19: Some nations rethink isolation, testing rules as Omicron sweeps globeDr Guleria said the current data shows the Omicron variant is a mild one and doesn't cause a significant fall in oxygen saturation, therefore, the requirement of oxygen may not be that much.Guleria also requested people not to waste oxygen cylinders and medicines which had happened earlier this year when the nation was facing an oxygen crisis."We as a nation are now better prepared to manage any surge in the cases that may happen because of the possible new wave. So, I would like to reassure everyone that don't panic but you have to be vigilant. Make sure that you don't become a part of the chain of spreading the infection," he added.Also read | Omicron probably behind case spike in Delhi, shows analysisStates across India have stepped up Covid-19 containment measures against the new Omicron variant of the coronavirus with Goa and Rajasthan imposing a fresh set of restrictions, including a night curfew and limiting access to public places.The Centre on December 21 asked states and Union territories to step up scrutiny of Covid-19 infection trends and consider steps such as night lockdowns and bans on large gatherings if more than 10 per cent of all tests in a week turn positive or if the occupancy of hospital beds breaches 40 per cent of capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-new-year-aiims-director-dr-guleria-s-message-on-omicron-pandemic-101640825817834.html
30-12-2021||India||5 SP workers held for bid to disrupt PM||Five youth activists of the Samajwadi Party were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly trying to instigate violence and disrupt Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rally in Kanpur on December 28.Also Read | BJP accuses SP of trying to incite violence during Modi’s Kanpur rallyThe SP has expelled all five workers, who are sitting and former office bearers of its youth brigade, from the party.The BJP, meanwhile, launched an attack on the SP, saying such incidents are aimed at creating fear and communal divide among people ahead of assembly polls.
30-12-2021||India||India’s single-day Covid tally nears 13k, highest in 7 weeks||With nearly 13,000 new cases of Covid-19 reported on Wednesday, India saw its largest single-day spike in seven weeks as the number of daily infections continued to climb up in several regions, data compiled by HT shows.Maharashtra was the biggest contributor to the national tally with 3,900 new infections on Wednesday, followed by 2,846 new Covid-19 cases in Kerala, 1,089 in West Bengal, and 923 in Delhi, data shows. In total, 12,987 new cases were detected across India on Wednesday – the most in a day since November 10, when the country saw 13,148 new cases, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.There were 9,155 new cases in India on Tuesday, while this number was 6,139 on Monday.The surge is likely to be driven by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. The number of Omicron cases reached 946 on Wednesday, with 161 of these confirmed in the last 24 hours, according to data shared by states with HT. Of the total, at least 241 infected by the new “variant of concern” have recovered.In Maharashtra, infections increased 79% over the previous day, when the state had 2,172 new cases, according to the state’s daily health bulletin.Mumbai, meanwhile, logged 2,445 Covid cases on the day as infections surged 83% from 1,333 on Tuesday. The state, meanwhile, reported 85 Omicron cases on Wednesday, taking its tally to 252.Maharashtra’s positivity rate climbed to 3.16% while Mumbai recorded the positivity rate of 4.71 %. Both these numbers were less than 1% last week.Earlier in the day, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope expressed concern over the rise in the number of fresh as well as active cases in the state, terming it an “alarming” situation.“Mumbai has a positivity rate of more than 4% is not a good sign and is a matter of concern. The surge of cases is really alarming and we will shortly meet Chief Minister where we may be forced to tighten curbs,” said Tope. He said he was likely to meet tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray to discuss further restrictions in two days.Thackeray, meanwhile, urged people not to panic, but exercise extreme caution in the wake sharp rise in coronavirus cases in Mumbai and stressed on vaccination and widespread use of face masks. He said all public places in the city will remain shut on December 31.Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the Covid-19 task force in Maharashtra said that third wave has already hit the city of Mumbai. “The cases jumped from 600 to 2300 in just five days and the rapid growth rate clearly states that omicron outbreak has happened in the city of Mumbai and that it is here to replace the delta variant. However even if the medical infrastructure is not overwhelmed yet we will have to stay vigilant and alert,” said Joshi.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner and in-charge of public health in the BMC, said: “The city is functioning like pre-covid times with local trains operating normally. While there is a surge, there is no heavy demand for hospital admission and oxygen in the city... Besides this the pattern of cases is also inconsistent and it is too early to say now whether the third wave has already started.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-single-day-covid-tally-nears-13k-highest-in-7-weeks-101640812071921.html
30-12-2021||India||Raid on Kanpur businessman: Money recovered from 2 bunkers, says witness||An official witness accompanying the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) raid team at businessman Piyush Jain’s residence in Kannauj, said that ₹19 crore in cash was recovered from two secret chambers built in the basement of the premises, taking the total cash haul to nearly ₹200 crore.Amit Dubey, one of independent witnesses who accompanied the DGGI team on the five-day raid, said: “Money was recovered from two underground bunkers after much difficulty.”Jain’s son, who was present at the spot, appeared to have no idea about the money hidden in the chambers, he told the reporters.“Team members spent maximum time locating and getting into the bunkers, which were like secret chambers, it took a lot of effort,” he said.The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) concluded the raids at Jain’s house in Chipatta Mohalla on Wednesday evening.Jain was arrested Sunday under Section 67 of the CGST Act after recovery of unaccounted ₹196.45 crore in cash, 23 kgs of gold and 600 kg of sandalwood — worth ₹6 crore — from premises linked to him in Kanpur. Zakir Hussain, additional director of DGGI said, “We have concluded our ‘panchnama’. We have recovered gold, handed it over to DRI, but the probe is on. The gold which was recovered in Kanpur is separate... here, we recovered about ₹19 crore cash,” he told reporters.DGGI also said the accused has admitted that cash recovered was related to the sale of goods without payment of GST.“The statement of Piyush Jain has been recorded wherein he has accepted that the cash recovered from the residential premises is related to the sale of goods without payment of GST,” DGGI said in a statement.The accused has been sent to 14 days’ judicial custody by a Kanpur court. Jain’s lawyer Subodh Malviya said he would file for his bail application on January 1.Malviya further said that DGGI has assessed on the basis of recovery that Piyush Jain has a liability of ₹32.20 crore as penalty. “We have offered in writing that total ₹52 crore shall be deducted from the recovery money... The sum includes, penalty, the interest and other expenses...” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raid-on-kanpur-businessman-money-recovered-from-2-bunkers-says-witness-101640811355000.html
30-12-2021||India||Congress, BJP are on same page against BJD’s Odisha panchayat election plan||Bhubaneswar: Odisha’s opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress have asked the government to only go ahead with the panchayat election process if it can implement reservation of 27% seats for other backward classes.On Wednesday, a delegation of BJP MLAs led by Lalitendu Bidyadhar Mohapatra met governor Prof Ganeshi Lal and submitted a memorandum protesting the publication of draft reservation list for zilla parishad, panchayat samitis and gram panchayats without any reservation for OBCs.As per the new reservation list, 12 of the 30 zilla parishad chairpersons’ post has been reserved for candidates of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. The post of chairpersons in 7 tribal-dominated districts has been reserved for the scheduled tribe while in the rest 23 districts, 54 posts of chairpersons have been reserved for scheduled caste candidates. The posts of sarpanch in 7 tribal-dominated districts have been reserved for scheduled tribes while out of the 4697 panchayats in the rest 23 districts, the sarpanch post in 1161 panchayats reserved for the SC category.The state government’s new list came a week after the Orissa High Court directed the state government to withdraw its earlier notification for panchayat polls that earmarked seats for OBC candidates and publish a new list.The high court cited the December 6, 2021 order of the Supreme Court which quashed the Maharashtra government’s ordinance for 27% quota for OBCs in all zilla parishads and panchayat samitis without collecting data on OBCs in every municipal body seat. The SC had asked Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh to comply with the “triple test” before notifying the reservation of seats for OBCs the local bodies under their jurisdiction. The triple test includes setting up a dedicated commission to conduct an empirical inquiry into the nature and implications of the backwardness as regards local bodies in the state, specifying the proportion of reservation required according to the commission’s recommendations.Mohapatra who met the Governor said the move of the Odisha government to proceed with the panchayat polls without reservation to OBCs is strictly contrary to the object, intent and purpose of the constitutional scheme of advancement and adequate representation of OBCs.“Persons belonging to OBC category are deprived of an opportunity to be elected to the elected positions through the democratic process and fulfil the aspirations of OBC communities. It is quite unfortunate that the state government is actively pursuing to conduct the panchayat elections without reservations to OBCs. Such an election would deprive the persons belonging to OBC community for five long years which by no stretch of logic can be said to be a short period causing grave prejudices to the backward classes,” the BJP delegation said requesting the Governor to take up the issue with the State Election Commission.Senior BJP leader and Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan also criticised the publication of the new notification saying Odisha government could have approached the top court against the high court order, especially when its own SLP for reservation beyond 50% is pending with the apex court.The BJP’s demand comes in the backdrop of BJD’s decision to nominate 40% candidates in the forthcoming panchayat elections from OBCs. Though the BJD earlier announced that it will give 27% tickets to OBC candidates, BJD organisational secretary Pranab Prakash Das on Saturday moved a resolution in the state executive meeting to give 40% tickets to OBCs.“As the SC has passed an order on scrapping reservation for OBCs, reservation for OBCs is not possible in panchayat polls. So the state executive moved the proposal to give 40% tickets to OBCs,” said BJD leader Debi Mishra.The BJD, however, did not clarify whether the party would reserve 40 per cent of the seats from the total number of zilla parishad, panchayat samiti and gram panchayats or 40 per cent of the seats after deducting the seats for SC/ST from the total number of seats.Congress leader Ganeswar Behera demanded that the state goes to polls only after implementing the OBC quota provision.“A special session of the assembly should be convened to make required legal provision to give social justice to the OBCs in the state. Once the legislation is made, OBCs can get the reservation in politics, education and jobs like other states,” he said.Former union minister Srikant Jena, also an OBC leader, demanded that Odisha, like Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra which have put the panchayat polls on hold till seats are reserved for OBCs, should also stay the election till it reserves seats for OBCs. “The state government should call a special session in the Assembly to discuss the issue. The Centre should move a review petition in SC seeking withdrawal of the December 6 order of the apex court,” said Jena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-bjp-are-on-same-page-against-bjd-s-odisha-panchayat-election-plan-101640806166665.html
30-12-2021||India||Kerala’s K Rail project: Govt, oppn prepare for high-voltage debate||With the state government and Congress-led opposition sharpening their position on proposed high speed rail project ‘K Rail’, Kerala is set to witness campaigns for and against the project in coming days. After the ruling Left Democratic Front announced a door-to-door campaign to spread awareness on the project, opposition United Democratic Front has decided to mount a similar drive against the project in coming days. The government’s ambitious project is facing rough weather in the face of protests from opposition parties. The ₹63,940 crore project seeks to develop a high-speed rail corridor connecting Kasaragod in the state’s north to Thiruvananthapuram in the south. The state needs 1,383 hectares of land for the proposed project, of which 1,383 hectares are private land. The central government is yet to approve the project. Opposition leaders draw a parallel between Kerala’s project and the land acquisition drive in West Bengal’s Nandigram region which culminated in violent clashes between farmers and security personnel in 2011. The state government on the other hand is putting its weight behind the project. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has launched a social media campaign for the project. According to officials who are familiar with development, he will meet people in all 14 districts of the state to dispel their fears surrounding the corridor. The CM will also interact with business, social, cultural and religious leaders across the state, said the party. “All are teamed up against the government and some of them even threatened that it will be another Nandigram. They can’t browbeat us and we are least bothered. The project was there in the LDF manifesto and people gave us a resounding verdict in April assembly elections,” said CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. He reiterated his charge that Congress, BJP, Jamat-e-Islami and other outfits have ganged up against the government. “We have information that some of these forces are also planning unrest in the name of the project. But we will go ahead with this,” he said in Pathanamthitta on Wednesday. Opposition leader V D Satheesan ridiculed the CPI(M) saying it opposed the bullet train project (Ahmedabad-Mumbai) and passed a resolution saying it was meant for the high-income groups and now the party bats for high speed rail “which will displace thousands of families and damage fragile ecology of the state”.“The party’s double standard is exposed. No serious environment or social impact study was done. Is this dialectical materialism?” he asked. He said the opposition will strengthen its protest in the coming days. The proposed rail line will bring down the travel time between Kasaragod and Thiruvananthapuram, covering 529.45 km, from 12 hours to four hours. It will be completed by 2025, said Kerala Rail Development Corporation Ltd (KRDCL), the nodal agency for the project. “Initial work for the project is progressing. We have started land marking and acquisition. Our target is March 2025 and there can be some cost escalation but it is manageable,” said Ajith Kumar, MD of the KRDCL. Besides opposition parties, environmental activists are also opposing the project saying it will displace more than 20,000 families and destroy wetlands. “The project will be a disaster for the state. The government conceived the idea when weather experts warned the state will face recurring calamities due to climate change,” said environmental activist C R Neelakandan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-k-rail-project-govt-oppn-prepare-for-high-voltage-debate-101640805393263.html
30-12-2021||India||Year that was: DMK’s sun rises; NEET row erupts: Year of churn in Tamil Nadu||This year on April 6, Tamil Nadu voted for a new government and the DMK came to office after a decade. The courtrooms have also been in the limelight with ex-chief justice Sanjib Banerjee’s remark against the election commission to be booked for murder being dragged to the Supreme Court while his colleague justice Anand Venkatesan passed a landmark order to uphold the rights of the LGBTQIA+ community. The crime scene primarily unfolded in schools with several teachers being arrested on charges of sexually abusing children. Though Tamil Nadu has attracted multi-crore investments this year, Ford’s exit is chief minister MK Stalin’s first challenge in the industries sector. On the health front, the state managed its oxygen resources to ride over the second Covid wave. But reasoning that the future of healthcare would be in peril if NEET continues, the government has passed a Bill to abolish the medical entrance exam. DMK’s return to power after a decade This was the first assembly election that saw no stalwarts like late J Jayalalithaa and M Karunanidhi but it was a battle that would decide the succession and future of both the Dravidian parties - the AIADMK and DMK. In the contest between an accidental chief minister Edappadi Palanswami and MK Stalin, who had been waiting for this post under the shadow of his father Karunanidhi for four decades, it was the Stalin-led DMK’s coalition that swept to power forming the government in May after a decade. But there was no time for celebrations as the new government had to immediately hit the ground to contain the raging second of Covid wave intensified by the Delta variant. Sasikala’s release from prison Even without having either contested or campaigned, VK Sasikala has been a powerful behind-the-scenes player who manoeuvred affairs in the AIADMK as well as in governance while she lived with Jayalalithaa for three decades. So, it was only natural that her release this January after being imprisoned in a Bengaluru jail for four years in the disproportionate assets case pushed the AIADMK into panic mode as the very people she propped up – Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam had turned against her to control the party in a dual leadership set up. As expected Sasikala announced that she would pick up from where she left off before being jailed as AIADMK’s interim general secretary. The BJP hoped her inclusion will strengthen the NDA alliance but even union home minister Amit Shah’s intervention couldn’t convince Palaniswami. Sasikala then made a surprise announcement that she would “step away” from politics before the election only for her to renew her ambition to take over the AIADMK following their defeat. For now, the AIADMK has managed to thwart her advances. ‘Me Too’ movement hits Chennai schools It started in June, when students and alumni from a popular Chennai school began sharing bitter experiences of their teachers sexually abusing them in physical and online classes. Soon, it snowballed into an avalanche of sexual abuse stories of children from across the city. Police received hundreds of complaints in a week. Women police officers convinced some of them to register an FIR and a dozen teachers have been arrested including God Man Siva Sankar Baba, who founded of Sushil Hari International School who was accused by his former students. Since November, at least three girl students have died by suicide in Tamil Nadu citing sexual harassment. HC bans ‘curing’ sexual orientation In a landmark judgement in June, the Madras high court banned any attempts to cure the gender identity and sexual orientation of people as part of a slew of orders passed to sensitise the state and central governments and the society on the LGBTQIA+ community and prevent them from being harassed. The order was passed after a lesbian couple who had fled from Madurai to Chennai had moved court seeking protection from their parents and the police as they were in a consensual relationship. Justice N Anand Venkatesh is continuing to hear the case where various state and central bodies are submitting compliance reports to further the rights of the community. Ford exits India On September 9, Ford Motor Company announced that it will stop producing cars in India for sale immediately and export will wind down by shutting down its manufacturing facilities in Sanand and the vehicle and engine manufacturing in Chennai by June 2022. Ford’s workers union in Chennai stalled work and went on strike protesting the sudden decision that would leave the future of the 2,650 permanent employees and another 2000-odd employees on contract uncertain. Ford was the first global car maker to invest near Chennai in the 1990s which led to a boom in automobile companies; auto-ancillary manufacturing and it uplifted the poor economic status of its workers. Tamil Nadu government is in talks with a few auto companies to take over the Ford plant. NEET isn’t abolished yet The DMK couldn’t keep its promise that in the first assembly session after they returned to power they would abolish the National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test (NEET) which is legally not plausible. A dozen students have died in the state since NEET was made compulsory in 2017 because they couldn’t either pass or they feared failing this entrance exam that’s required for undergraduate medical admissions. The struggle against NEET is also a larger fight for the rights of the state to follow its own educational system and against the BJP-led union government centralising power. The DMK government formed a committee under retired Justice AK Rajan to study the impact of NEET on medical aspirants who are socially and economically backward. This was challenged by the BJP in the Madras high court but the court favoured the state. Based on the report, which concluded that NEET should be scrapped, the DMK-led government passed the Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Act, 2021 with a voice vote supported by all parties except the BJP. This is the second such Bill from the state with the President rejecting the earlier Bill passed under the AIADMK regime. The new Bill is now pending before the Tamil Nadu Governor.
30-12-2021||India||Oppn slams Andhra BJP president’s poll promise of liquor bottle at ₹50||Opposition parties in Andhra Pradesh slammed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state unit president Somu Veerraju on Wednesday after he promised that the party would supply quality liquor to the people at a nominal rate of ₹50 a bottle if voted to power in the 2024 assembly elections.Veerraju made this promise while addressing the Praja Agraha Sabha (meeting to express people’s anger) rally at Vijayawada on Tuesday evening, also attended by former Union minister Prakash Javadekar among others.He alleged that the Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra had abnormally increased liquor prices and was thriving on the money earned through liquor sales. “More than one crore people are consuming alcohol in the state, and the government is fleecing their money by enhancing liquor prices. If all these one crore people vote for BJP in the next elections, we shall offer you good quality liquor at ₹75 (a full bottle). If the revenues are good, we can even supply it at just ₹50,” he said.The BJP leader went on to allege that the state government itself was encouraging the brewing of cheap liquor by the YSR Congress party leaders and selling them with unknown local brands, while popular brands have disappeared. “The Jagan government promised to implement total prohibition in phases, but it is manufacturing and selling cheaper brands of liquor,” he alleged.Senior YSR Congress party leader and state excise minister K Narayana Swamy on Wednesday wondered whether Veerraju was a president of the state BJP or that of liquor shop owners’ association. “Unfortunately, the BJP has stooped down to the level of seeking votes by promising to supply liquor at cheaper rates,” he said.Communist Party of India state secretary K Ramakrishna said the state BJP president seemed to have lost his mental balance. “It is the height of madness to say that one crore people are addicted to alcohol, and they should all vote for the BJP to get the liquor for ₹50 a bottle,” he said.Telangana Rashtra Samithi working president and state IT minister KT Rama Rao also reacted to the BJP leader’s promise. “Wah, what a scheme! What a shame! AP BJP stoops to a new low. The national policy of BJP to supply cheap liquor at ₹50 or is this bumper offer only for states where desperation is ‘high?’” he tweeted.However, Veerraju on Wednesday defended his comments, saying: “I made the promise only for the benefit of womenfolk in the state as the present YSRC government is selling liquor at a very high price and cashing in on their weakness for liquor,” he said.He reiterated that the BJP if voted to power, would reduce the liquor prices substantially so that the poor man would spend less money on liquor and give the remaining amount to his family. “I made the promise only keeping in mind the families of the poor. BJP is a pro-poor party,” he said.
30-12-2021||India||IAS officer Durga Shankar Mishra set to be next UP chief secretary||Senior bureaucrat Durga Shankar Mishra was on Wednesday repatriated to the Uttar Pradesh cadre after the state government proposed to appoint him as the new chief secretary, an official order said. A 1984- batch IAS officer of the UP cadre, Mishra was serving as the housing and urban affairs secretary and was scheduled to retire on Friday. “The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved repatriation of Durga Shankar Mishra, IAS (UP: 1984) to his cadre for his proposed appointment as chief secretary, Uttar Pradesh, by the state government,” said an order issued by Deepti Umashankar, secretary appointments committee of the cabinet. HT has seen a copy of the order?Rajendra Kumar Tiwari, a 1985-batch IAS officer, is currently serving as the state’s chief secretary. He was due to retire in February 2023. “DS Mishra will reach here on Thursday. The state government may issue his order of appointment simultaneously with the order for new posting for RK Tiwari,” said a senior state government official on condition of anonymity. Uttar Pradesh is scheduled to go to polls in the first half of 2022 “I will hand over charge as the chief secretary to DS Mishra on Thursday,” said Tiwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ias-officer-durga-shankar-mishra-set-to-be-next-up-chief-secretary-101640805387585.html
30-12-2021||India||T’gana high court admits PIL against liquor order||The Telangana high court on Wednesday admitted a public interest litigation petition questioning the state government’s decision to extend timings for supply of liquor by retail wine shops, bars, pubs and event-license holders on the eve of New Year. At present, retail shops, bars and pubs in the state are allowed to supply liquor till 10 pm, except in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, where they are allowed to run till 11 pm. However, state chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Tuesday night issued orders according permission to the prohibition and excise department authorities to allow bars, pubs, event-permit holders and resorts being run by the Telangana tourism development corporation to serve liquor up to 1 am on the intervening night of December 31 and January 1. Similarly, retail wine shops would be allowed to remain open up to midnight of December 31 for New Year celebrations, subject to observance of standard operating procedures (SOP) for Covid-19, the chief secretary said in the orders. The government’s decision comes at a time when several states across the country are imposing night curfews on the directions of the Central government in the wake of rising cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus. Last week, the Telangana high court directed the government to impose stringent restrictions on celebrations for Christmas, New Year and Sankranti. On Wednesday, while admitting the PIL filed by advocate Ch Prabhakar, the high court sought to know the reasons for the state extending timings. It posted the case to Thursday for hearing the arguments of the state government. The petitioner argued that the state government, instead of complying with the orders of the high court issued last week, was not following the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Prevention Act, 1897 and the Provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, by extending the timings. This will lead to a huge congregation of the people on New Year Day eve, he pointed out. An official of the state excise department said on condition of anonymity that the state government had earned ₹2,886 crore through liquor sales till December 28 and was expected to earn another ₹700 crore in the next three days by relaxing the timings. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president A Revanth Reddy criticised the state government saying it was prioritising revenue over lives. “Other states are imposing night curfews to control Covid cases.. But @TelanganaCMO permits bars to serve liquor till 1 am and wine shops to be open till 12 midnight. Revenue is priority over lives…??” he tweeted.
30-12-2021||India||Three months on, Guv office still considering TN’s NEET Bill||Three months after Tamil Nadu passed a bill seeking exemption from the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduate medical admissions and forwarded it to the Governor, the state government is still awaiting response from the Raj Bhavan on the bill. “The file is under consideration,” said S Venkateshwaran, the undersecretary to Governor RN Ravi in response to a Right to Information (RTI) query. The RTI was filed by the general secretary of the State Platform for Common School System, Prince Gajendra Babu, seeking information on what action has been taken by the governor on the Bill and its current status. Babu said his organisation will send a letter to the Governor to immediately forward the bill to the President. “The Bill has been passed under List 3 (concurrent list) entry number 25, a subject in which the Governor has no role to accept or reject it and he only has to reserve it for the President. So what is there to consider?” says Babu. “The Constitution says such issues should be addressed as soon as possible and the Supreme Court has said that there is no time frame for constitutional authorities to examine this. But NEET is an issue where hundreds of seats and lakhs of applications are involved. It affects higher secondary students who are still below the age of 18 so imagine the amount of stress they are in waiting to know about the results of the Bill.” A state minister, on condition of anonymity, said it was unclear if the delay was due to the change in the office of the Governor at a time when the Bill was passed. “It should have been done by now but we do not know what the reason is. By now, the Governor should have understood the pulse of the people. But we were informed that a legal opinion is being considered,” he said. “Our MPs in Delhi are also in touch with central government officials on this issue. We hope it is sent soon for the President’s assent.” The Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Bill, 2021 was passed by the DMK-led state government in the state assembly in September to restore Tamil Nadu’s process of medical admissions by considering only class 12 marks before the Supreme Court made NEET compulsory in 2017. All parties, except the BJP, supported the Bill through a voice vote on September 13. It was then forwarded to the Governor’s office. Ravi took over as governor on September 18 after then Governor Banwarilal Purohit was transferred to Punjab. In November, chief minister MK Stalin met Ravi and urged him to immediately send the bill to President Ram Nath Kovind for his assent. The bill can be implemented only if the President of India gives his assent. The AIADMK in 2017 passed a similar Bill seeking exemption from NEET but it was rejected by the President. Tamil Nadu’s stance under both the DMK and AIADMK governments has been that NEET puts poor and rural students at a disadvantage compared to their peers who belong to affluent and urban backgrounds who can afford better resources and coaching. After NEET was made the sole criteria for medical admissions, more than a dozen students have died by suicide either due to fear of failing or failing the entrance exam. NEET was conducted this current academic year across the country including Tamil Nadu in September. And hours before taking the NEET, a 19-year-old from Salem district died by suicide. 
30-12-2021||India||Officer suspended for assaulting tribal men in Udupi||Karnataka police on Wednesday suspended a police sub-inspector for allegedly attacking people of the Koraga Adivasi community at a wedding celebration in Udupi district, officials said. The community is categorised under scheduled tribe (ST). According to the complaint registered by members of the community with the police chief in Udupi, the incident occurred on Monday night when the Santhosh-led police team arrived at the groom’s house after neighbours complained of loud music. After an initial altercation with the locals, the team began assaulting those present at the wedding and later took five people, including the groom Rajesh to the police station and assaulted them, the complaint said. The detention led to a protest outside the police station by the community members. A video of the incident has also been circulating on social media, showing the policemen using lathis against the wedding party. HT has verified this video. A day after the incident, the Koraga community insisted on suspending the SI when inspector Ananthapadmanabha visited the colony in Kotathatthul. Kundapur MLA Halady Srinivas Shetty also visited the colony on Tuesday and condemned the lathi-charge incident. Soon after minister for backward classes Kota Srinivas Poojary, who hails from Kota, promised to visit the colony and sought a report into the lathi-charge incident from the Udupi superintendent of police and deputy commissioner. An inquiry has now been ordered into the case. “We have suspended the sub-inspector and other staff have been transferred out of the station. Further action will be taken after the investigation. The Crime PSI was entrusted with the charge of the Kota police station,” said Udupi superintendent of police Vishnuvardhan told reporters. Poojary has condemned the incident. “I strongly condemn the brutal assault on innocent Koragas, including the groom, by the police at a function in a Koraga colony last night in the Kotathattu Gram Panchayat of Brahmavar taluk in Udupi district,” Poojary said. He said that he will visit the family of the bridegroom on Thursday. The Koraga community is an Adivasi community mainly residing in the Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts of Karnataka and Kasargod district of Kerala. The population of the Koraga community has seen an alarming decline over the last few decades. The population is currently around 16,000 people of which 9,000 people reside in Udupi, according to government figures. This is the third incident where a police officer has faced action for assault against minorities. In September, the criminal investigation department (CID) arrested a police sub-inspector for allegedly forcing a Dalit man to drink urine, while the latter was in custody in May, police said. Arjun Horakeri, a sub-inspector of police posted with Gonibeedu police station, was produced before a court in Chikkamagaluru on Wednesday, and an additional district and sessions judge remanded him to 14 days judicial custody. On December 8, a police sub-inspector was suspended after he had allegedly manhandled a young man and forced him to drink urine in Bengaluru. Sub-inspector Harish KN was suspended after a departmental inquiry. He was charged with “dereliction of duty and not registering a complaint”. 
30-12-2021||India||Year that was: Left’s hold continues; nature’s fury returns in Kerala||This year saw the ruling CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) making history in the April assembly election by retaining power in Kerala that usually boots out the incumbent. Also, at least 40 people had been killed in Kottayam and Idukki districts in October following heavy rains and landslides. Left front retains power It was an unexpected win for chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan as Kerala took a left turn again bucking the four-decade-old electoral trend that usually boots out the incumbent. With a brute majority, winning 98 out of 140 seats, the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) made a history of sorts in the April assembly polls. For Vijayan, who led the coalition, it was a personal victory and it catapulted his position nationally. When the CPI(M) was licking its wounds in West Bengal, left liberal forces were happy that only communist government in the country bounced back and retained power in Kerala. Though the government was in the midst of many scandals and corruption charges, including the sensational gold smuggling, arrest of party secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son in money laundering case and alleged backdoor entry in government services, the CM steered the coalition with his “brand” and “trust quotient,” sweeping results show. He gave a tough challenge when five central agencies pitched their tents in the state and questioned some of his confidants in the gold smuggling case. Vijayan remained main “trouble shooter” and “captain” for all - when a section of the party called him a “captain” - the party defended it saying “people will address him with many names due to love and affection”. That was his hold over the party. During the first term, the state had faced two consecutive floods (2018 and 2019) and pandemic outbreak and the CM was always there to assure that the state government was with the suffering lot and it clicked well. Nature’s fury For last three years, the state has been facing natural calamities one after the other. At least 40 people killed in Kottayam and Idukki districts in October after heavy downpour and landslides. According to met office, the state received highest rainfall in October since 1961. Weather experts cited recurring cyclonic circulation as the main reason for the unseasonal heavy downpour. The frequency of cyclonic circulation over the Arabian Sea, usually considered mild sea, also increased manifold in recent years, they pointed out. While a 52% increase in cyclonic movement has been observed over Arabian Sea between 2001 and 2019, there was a decrease of 8% during the same period over the Bay of Bengal. The IMD statistics also showed formation of nine cyclone or major depressions in 2020-21, four of which were over the Arabian Sea. Experts also cited rising temperature in Arabian Sea for unusual downpour and warned more such occurrences. Mother’s struggle for her baby After six-month-long struggle, mother Anupama Chandran, who fought a valiant battle to establish her motherhood, got her baby back. Her struggle national attention and even BBC profiled her. The 23-year-old woman activist (former leader of SFI) Chandran gave birth to a baby on Oct 19 in 2020 but three days after the birth parents allegedly taken away the baby and admitted to a government-run orphanage fearing stigma. She said her parents opposed her relation with her husband Ajith Kumar as he belonged to a Dalit family. But parents insisted that she gave up her child voluntarily for adoption which she denied outright. She even alleged a C-section (caesarean operation) was forced on her as her parents were in tearing hurry to dispose the child. Later, the baby was given for adoption to couple in Andhra Pradesh. The sensational issue came to light after the mother gave an interview to a news channel in October second week alleging that her new-born baby was forcibly taken by her parents and gave for adoption ignoring her protests. Belonging to a Communist family, she initially took it up with party leadership but later turned to the media after all attempts failed. After the news channel beamed her heart-rending story on October 20, police filed a complaint against six people, including her parents. She finally got her baby in November. Governor-CM spat The state witnessed an unusual spat between the Governor and the state government after the former sent a strongly-worded letter to the chief minister on Dec 8 in which he said he was really pained over “dipping standard” of higher education sector and blamed “brazen political interference” as reason in varsities for this. He asked the government to take up the chancellor’s post if political interference continued and he can’t bend further. Though the CM asked the Governor not to take any precipitation action but the latter refused to budge. CPI(M) and its junior partner CPI said the governor’s sudden outbursts remain a “mystery” for them. Both said he was forced to come out against the left government due to pressure from some quarters. Later the Governor hit back saying they can call him a “Sanghi” or any other name but he will stick to what he said and no plan to take up the chancellor’s position, if varsities were not given complete autonomy. The stalemate continues and the Governor asked his office not to accept any files regarding universities. According to political observers, the real trigger (between governor and government) was the reappointment of the vice-chancellor of Kannur University, Prof Gopinath Raveendran. He was re-appointed for a period of four years in November last year after the government issued a notification and appointed a selection committee to select the new V-C. Double political murder The twin political murder of two state-level leaders - Social Democratic Party of India secretary KS Shan and BJP OBC Morch leader Renjith Sreenivasan - in a span of 12 hours in a radius of 10 km in Alappuzha sent shockwaves across the state. Kannur-model eye for an eye and tooth for tooth politics was re-enacted in relatively peaceful Alapzuha. Police have arrested 20 persons in connection with the twin murders and blame game is still going on. 
30-12-2021||India||Bommai urges Kannada groups to call off statewide bandh on Dec 31||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday asked Kannada organisations to withdraw state-wide ‘bandh’ call on December 31 since the government has already taken action against “anti-Kannada forces” and was examining their demand for the ban legally. A group of pro-Kannada organisations have called for a statewide bandh on December 31 demanding a ban on the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES). The members of the outfit are suspected to have defaced the statue of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna in Belagavi district on December 18 amid the ongoing dispute between Maharashtra and Karnataka over the Belagavi region. “I appeal to organisations… as per their wishes, we have already taken several decisions. We have taken strict action as per law against anti-Kannada forces. On the demand for banning MES, we are examining it legally. So I appeal to them through the media not to go ahead with the bandh. Bandh is not an answer for everything,” Bommai said. He further said that the government would welcome if organisations want to put pressure in any other peaceful way, other than bandh. “So we earnestly appeal to the organisations to drop the bandh call,” he added. The MES has been campaigning for a long to merge Marathi speaking regions in Belagavi with Maharashtra. Asked whether MES can be banned as per law, Bommai said, “We are examining it. I’m not saying it will be banned, I had said the same thing in the assembly as well. We will have to look into it.” The organisers of the Bandh are yet to state their decision on the Bandh call The act of burning Karnataka’s flag in Maharastra on December 14 led to unidentified persons pouring ink on a statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji in Bengaluru. In response, Suspected MES supporters then allegedly damaged a statue of Rayanna and indulged in stone-pelting on Karnataka government vehicles in Belagavi. Following this prohibitory orders were passed by the police in certain areas of the district. Karnataka police also arrested seven people in connection with the vandalism. Following this, as many as 35 organisations have extended support for the dawn-to-dusk bandh, however, several organisations like the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce (KFCC), Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV), Bruhat Bangalore Hotels Association, Auto, schools and colleges associations, shopping malls association and several other commercial establishments have offered only moral support and said they will not participate in the bandh and will continue to function normally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bommai-urges-kannada-groups-to-call-off-statewide-bandh-on-dec-31-101640805210393.html
30-12-2021||India||Some creative ways to celebrate the New Year’s||Here they come again, the questions: what are you doing for New Year’s? Any plans? Any resolutions? As for resolutions, just say, “I don’t make them, I keep them.” Here are some suggestions from interesting Bangaloreans about celebrations.Julie Kagti, textile artist: My suggestion would be a quiet sit-down 7-course dinner at Grasshopper, located in a family-run farm on Bannerghatta road. A few good friends and family, where the wine and conversation flows easy. End with a nightcap by a bonfire recapping the highlights of the year late into the night.Ravichander, honorary director, Bangalore International Centre: This New Year, I would recommend that you discover our erstwhile city centre on foot. A civilised society cares for its most vulnerable and that would be the pedestrian on our streets. With our newly built footpaths, you could for instance, explore getting from Ulsoor Lake to Freedom Park and back. And there are a myriad of alternative routes on foot where you can cover places, community spaces and food joints. You will discover Bengaluru that you missed experiencing all these years.Praveen Kumar, bharatanatyam dancer and guru, Chithkala.com: Being a classical dancer, my life mostly revolves around art, travel, meeting people. I have been associated with the Swananda Ashram, which is off Kanakapura road, wherein we help kids studying in and around that place. We help them in getting funds to pay their school fee, uniforms etc. So I like to spend the day in that area just to keep a tab on their activities. Also, the Ashram has beautiful greenery, which reminds me of old beautiful Bengaluru.Ruma Singh, wine writer and columnist: If the pandemic has taught us anything it is that we have got a second chance at life. So, it will be a quiet getaway with my family to one of the many beautiful, green places we have around Bengaluru -- like Flameback, surrounded by paddy fields and bird sounds, or Primrose Villas, atop the mist-wrapped mountains of the Western Ghats, both in Chikmagalur. I would sit and watch the trees, listen to the birds and immerse myself in the beauty of nature and the present: that joy never gets old. Oh, and a glass of wine to aid the meditation- perhaps an Alvaro Palacios Ermita 2013 from Priorat.Abhishek Poddar, founder, Museum of Art and Photography: I realise the true extent of how much I enjoy Bengaluru, each time I land back in the city. From the smoothest airport in the country-- ten minutes from landing to being in the car, the steaming hot cup of filter coffee at Hatti Kaapi in hand, driving back home with the windows down and enjoying the amazing weather. The next morning is always a refreshing walk in the park amongst the flowering trees (and each season has its own colours), followed by the finest South Indian breakfast at Umesh Point! There is no other place that offers so many of life’s simple pleasures so amply.Madhu Natraj, Award winning Choreographer, Mentor, Artpreneur: If I were to imagine a New Year’s Eve that is special, I would choose to nominate the majestic stairs and patio of the Vidhana Soudha as a concert venue on 31st night. A unique amalgam of folk, classical, and contemporary performers of Karnataka along with an international troupe. The area around Vidhana Soudha to be cordoned off for a kilometre radius to feature bespoke cuisine and beverages (with local breweries and wineries). This should be a ticketed event with security. If the Government-- in liaison with event companies and artistes-- hosts such an event every year, we don’t need to hear of revellers roaming the streets like headless chickens with no idea as to how to spend this special evening. Madhav Sehgal, General Manager, The Leela Palace Bengaluru: My New Year plan is to take a ride on my Harley and visit a few temples in and around Bengaluru and find some authentic temple food in their vicinity.As you see from the responses, muted, simple celebrations are in. We are emerging from the chrysalis of the pandemic and taking tentative steps into a new year and a new dawn. What would I do? Staycations are in. Watching the moonrise and the sunrise from a penthouse suite at The Conrad hotel overlooking Ulsoor Lake will be cool.To celebrate may seem unseemly given the turmoil and crises that many of our family and friends have gone through. But it is also a way to leave behind our guilt and pave the way forward. It is a life-giving affirmation.Happy New Year everyone!Shoba Narayan is Bengaluru-based award-winning author. She is also a freelance contributor who writes about art, food, fashion and travel for a number of publications.
30-12-2021||India||Karnataka reports five more cases of Omicron variant, tally rises to 48||Five more cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus have been detected in Karnataka, health minister K Sudhakar said here on Wednesday.This takes the state’s tally of Omicron cases to 43.“Five new cases of Omicron confirmed in Karnataka on 29-12-21. (1) 22 yr female, Davanagere (Travelled from USA) (2) 24 yr male, Bengaluru (Returned from USA via Qatar) (3) 53 yr male, Tamil Nadu (Arrived at KIAL from Dubai) (4) 61 yr male, Bengaluru (Travelled from Ghana via Doha),” Sudhakar said in a tweet.Stating that fifth case is a 41-year-old male from Mumbai (travelled from Mumbai to Bengaluru by flight), he said, “All positive persons have been isolated and primary and secondary contacts have been identified and tested.”The country’s first two Omicron cases were detected in the State on December 2.The state reported 566 new COVID-19 cases and six deaths on Wednesday, taking the total number of infections to 30,05,798 and the toll to 38,324.The day also saw 245 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,59,674, a health department bulletin said.With 400 cases, Bengaluru Urban topped the list as the city saw 130 discharges and four deaths.The total number of active cases in the state is now 7,771.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.52 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.06 per cent.Out of six deaths reported today, four were from Bengaluru Urban and one each from Chitradurga and Tumakuru.Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 400, Dakshina Kannada 33, Hassan 31, Udupi 17, Kodagu and Kolar 14, followed by others.Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of cases with a total of 12,62,397, followed by Mysuru 1,80,250 and Tumakuru 1,21,332.Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 12,39,616, followed by Mysuru 1,77,720 and Tumakuru 1,20,097.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-reports-five-more-cases-of-omicron-variant-tally-rises-to-48-101640805206364.html
30-12-2021||India||Soon, bill to free state temples from govt’s control, says Karnataka CM Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said that the government plans to introduce a new bill to free temples and Hindus religious institutions in the state from government control. He announced this at the BJP state executive meeting in Hubli. “Hindu temples are under different types of control bylaws and rules. Before the budget session, a law would be given shape to make our temples free from such restrictions. Temples will be allowed to function freely, and there will be only regulations,” he said. He pointed out that prayer halls of other communities are safe under different laws and are free to perform without government regulations. According to Hindu Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowment Department website, there are 34,558 temples in the state under comes under government regulation. Those generating more revenue will be under ‘A’, those generating little less revenue will be under ‘B’, and temples not generating any revenue would be under ‘C’. The idea is to make use of a portion of the revenue generated in ‘A’ and ‘B’ categories for rejuvenation of ‘C’ category temples. Among the famous temples coming under the department are Kollur Sri Mookambika temple, Chamundreshwari temple in Mysore and Ranganathaswamy temple in Mandya. The temples are regulated through Karnataka Hindu Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowment ACT 1997. He further said that a task force would be set up to implement the anti-conversion law, and proper implementation will be undertaken. The Bill is yet to be cleared in the upper house. “Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah says this (anti-conversion) law will be scrapped within a week if the Congress comes to power. His dream will not come true, they won’t come to power. The law ensuring freedom for all to practice their religion will remain permanently,” Bommai said. Responding to the allegations, a Congress spokesperson said that people are watching how the BJP is targeting the minorities in the state. “First of all, the BJP came to power in the state with immoral methods since they couldn’t win a majority on their own. Drunk on this power, they passed legislation that are targeting minorities. People of the state will respond to this in the next elections,” said the spokesperson. Meanwhile, BJP’s senior Karnataka leader Anwar Manippady said that he won’t be attending the party’s two-day executive committee meeting being held in Hubli, because of the attitude of other leaders. “I’m an invitee also. I am the Executive Committee member of the party. I just returned from Mangaluru and at the last moment, I thought I will not go (to the meeting) because the attitude of them is not welcoming for us to go there. So, I won’t go there,” he told reporters. Asked about the present BJP government in the state, he stated it has failed in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s concepts. “The concept of ‘Sab ka Saath, Sab ka Vikas’ is been neglected and not happening at all... such a good concept has gone. They are going against it by totally neglecting minorities, especially Muslims.” “I have umpteen examples of how they are harassing the Muslim minority by denying their rights for a decent burial. The burials, which have been functioning for 10 to 12 years in Goonadka, Sullia in Dakshina Kannada district and Parappana Agrahara in Bengaluru and other places, hooligans with the help of police goondas in Sahakarnagar stopped and locked up a functioning mosque,” he said. Manipaddy also accused the state government of taking no action against encroachments of Wakf properties, despite the Supreme Court order to look into the report submitted to the government, and alleged the culprits have indulged in heavy bribery. CM Bommai did not respond to the questions on Manippady’s statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soon-bill-to-free-state-temples-from-govt-s-control-says-karnataka-cm-bommai-101640805146601.html
30-12-2021||India||Average time for environmental clearance down to less than 90 days: Govt||The average time to grant environmental clearances in all sectors has reduced significantly from over 150 days in 2019 to less than 90 days in 2021 said the Union environment ministry in a statement on Wednesday.The clearance time is as low as 60 days in some sectors, it added. The ministry has granted environmental clearances to 7,787 projects through environment impact assessment (EIA) notifications in 2021, the statement added. “In pursuant to the spirit of ‘digital India’... a Single-Window Integrated Environmental Management System named PARIVESH has been developed…over the years, the existing system of ‘PARIVESH’ has undergone numerous modifications and customization in alignment with statutory provisions and requirements,” the statement said.The ministry has automated various processes through Parivesh such as development of online modules for dispensing requirements for environmental clearance for expansion / modernisation of industries provided there no increase in pollution load; aligning the EIA notification with Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act 2021; Online generation of environmental clearance with unique ID number and several others.HT had reported in April that the environment ministry has allowed companies operating in several industries, including some polluting ones, to expand capacities on the basis of a self-certification that this will not “increase the pollution load”, creating the room for potential misdeclaration (and misuse).Further, the ministry has decided to upgrade the Parivesh portal to provide a “single window” solution for administration of environmental regulations. “Upgraded Parivesh will not only strengthen the clearance processes but also encourage ease of doing business in the country. Know Your Approval module with inbuilt decision rules in the envisaged system will guide the Users about the applicability of clearances to the proposed project activity. In addition, it will minimize repetitive efforts of the Users and the same time will ensure single version of the truth across all applicable clearances,” the ministry said.The ministry also listed the biological diversity amendment bill; India’s stance at Glasgow climate change conference (COP 26) and implementation of national clean air programme among its major achievements in 2021.One of the major changes in the new biological diversity amendment bill is that registered Ayush practitioners who have been practising indigenous medicine can access any biological resource and its associated knowledge for commercial utilisation, without giving prior intimation to the concerned State Biodiversity Board which has been widely criticised by experts.However, researchers said the reduction in clearance times was not benefiting conservation. “Has the time taken to grant environmental clearance reduced due to increased vigilance and better enforcement? They don’t say whether the level of scrutiny has improved. The mandate of the environment ministry is environmental protection. How is it an achievement if they have reduced time to grant EC by not improving monitoring and infrastructure? Its also laughable that the ministry counts proposed amendments to the biological diversity act and forest conservation acts to be achievements,” said Ritwick Dutta, environmental lawyer.“The environment regulation is being assessed through a perverse logic that considers rates and dates of approvals as measure of success. It is no longer about how much area has been protected from degradation or how much environmental damage has been remedied. Faster rates of clearance do not ensure financial viability or a project and neither does it ensure that proposals are ecologically wise and socially legitimate,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/average-time-for-environmental-clearance-down-to-less-than-90-days-govt-101640804729495.html
30-12-2021||India||Three terrorists killed, cop injured in separate encounters: J&K police||Three unidentified terrorists were killed, and police personnel was injured in two separate encounters in South Kashmir’s Anantnag and Kulgam districts, Jammu and Kashmir police said on Wednesday.The three terrorists were killed at Mirhama in Kulgam district during an encounter. Police said the operation is still in progress, and searches are underway in the area.The police personnel was injured in the Nowgam Shahabad area of Anantnag district when joint teams of security forces launched an operation in the evening after a tip-off about terrorist presence in the area.“Encounter has started at Nowgam Shahabad, Dooru area of Anantnag. In the initial firing, 01 police personnel got injured and was shifted to hospital. Police and security forces are on the job. Further details shall follow,” Kashmir Zone Police tweeted soon after the development. “The operation is still in progress,” a police spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-terrorists-killed-cop-injured-in-separate-encounters-j-k-police-101640804607789.html
30-12-2021||India||2 arrested in Amethi for assaulting Dalit girl: Police||Two men were arrested in Amethi on Wednesday for allegedly assaulting a 16-year-old Dalit girl in Raipur Phulwari town on suspicion of theft, police said. A video clip of the incident surfaced online and has sparked outrage on social media. HT was not able to independently verify the authenticity of the clip. In the clip, one of the men can be seen holding the girl down while the other hits her on the feet with a stick repeatedly. Later, the man assaulting the girl is seen dragging the girl on the floor and grabbing her by the hair.Additonal SP (Amethi) VK Pandey said an FIR was registered against three people in connection with the case, based on a complaint by the girl’s father.The FIR was registered under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 342 for illegal confinement, 323 for voluntarily causing hurt and 354A for molestation. Relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act were also slapped against them, Pandey added.Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra attacked the Yogi Adityanath-led UP government over the incident, stating that her party would launch an agitation if the accused were not arrested soon. “If the criminals who committed this inhuman act are not caught within 24 hours, then the Congress will work to wake you up by vigorous agitation.” “This incident of ruthless thrashing of a Dalit girl in Amethi is condemnable. @MYOGIADITYANATH Sir on an average 34 crime incidents against Dalits take place every day under your rule and 135 against women, yet your law and order is sleeping,” she said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-arrested-in-amethi-for-assaulting-dalit-girl-police-101640804368111.html
30-12-2021||India||Nihar Nalini Swain, foster mother of tigress Khairi in Odisha, dies at 88||BHUBANESWAR: Nihar Nalini Swain, who along with her wildlife officer husband Saroj Raj Choudhury, famously raised tigress Khairi in the 1970s, died in an old age home in Odisha’s Cuttack district on Wednesday. Nihar Nalini Swain was known as the foster mother of tigress Khairi who came to the couple as a frail and bony seven-week-old cub, and lived with them in their forest bungalow.She passed away in Ashirvad old age ashram at Siddheswar Sahi in Cuttack at the age of 88. “She passed away peacefully,” said Shreeja, a family member of Swain.Swain had been staying at the old-age home following the death of her husband, Saroj Rai Choudhury, who is considered by many forest officers as the father of wildlife education in India.When Choudhury was director of Similipal Tiger Reserve in 1974, a group of Khadia tribals returning from an expedition found a tigress with 3 cubs. The tribals shouted and banged their drums to scare away the tigress. The tigress ran off with 2 of her cubs but one was left behind. The tribals took the frail cub and brought it to the official quarters of Choudhury who named it Khairi. Since then, Khairi lived with the childless couple as their adopted daughter at home.Within a few days of getting the cub into their household, it became an inseparable part of the family. The cub ate from Nihar’s hands. Though Choudhury and Swain reared some other wild animals at their residence including a crocodile, a bear cub, a blind hyena and a mongoose, it was Khairi that caught everyone’s notice. Khairi stayed with the couple in their bungalow till it was bitten by a rabid dog in 1981. As her condition deteriorated, Choudhury decided to euthanise the tigress to spare her the torture. Khairi was buried in the lawns of the same bungalow. Choudhury died soon after. After her husband’s death, Swain moved to an ashram and later to an old-age home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nihar-nalini-swain-foster-mother-of-tigress-khairi-in-odisha-dies-at-88-101640804306297.html
30-12-2021||India||Media’s duty to protect judiciary from motivated attacks, says CJI||New Delhi: Delving upon the dangers of mixing information with ideological stance, chief justice of India NV Ramana on Wednesday called on the media to protect the judiciary from motivated attacks. Speaking during the virtual presentation ceremony of the Redink Awards by the Mumbai Press Club, the chief justice said the media and judiciary need to sail together. “The recent trend to sermonise about judgments, and villainise judges, needs to be checked. The media must have belief and trust in the judiciary. As a key stakeholder in democracy, media has the duty to defend and protect the judiciary from motivated attacks by evil forces. We are together in ‘Mission Democracy’ and in promoting national interest. We have to sail together,” he said. He also acknowledged the challenges faced by journalists. “Speaking truth to power and holding up a mirror to society is an immense responsibility that is extremely difficult to fulfil,” Ramana said. The freedom of the press is a sacrosanct constitutional right, he said, pointing out how the Supreme Court of India has upheld this freedom through the years.Having started his professional career as a journalist, justice Ramana noted two trends in contemporary reporting of news. “Nowadays, everything is subject to reporting. Every moment is available to the scrutiny of millions as things get reported 24x7….In the race for ratings, the important journalistic tenet of verification before publishing is not being followed. This leads to incorrect reporting,” he said. Once published, he added, social media amplifies the incorrect news and it is difficult to take it back. He advised media professionals to follow the “principles of natural justice” before making any adverse comments against someone.Another trend, justice Ramana pointed out was “the seeping of ideological stances and biases into the news story.” In his view, “News mixed with views is a dangerous cocktail. Connected to this is the problem of partial reporting, of cherry-picking facts to give it a particular colour… Allowing yourself to be co-opted by an ideology or the State is a recipe for disaster.”Veteran journalist Prem Shankar Jha was awarded the lifetime achievement award, while RedInk journalist of 2020 was given posthumously to Reuters photojournalist Danish Siddiqui who died while covering the Afghanistan takeover by the Taliban in July.CJI Ramana compared journalists to judges and said, “Journalists are like judges in one sense. Regardless of the ideology you profess and the beliefs you hold dear, you must do your duty without being influenced by them.” He said, “Nothing can be more lethal to democracy than the deadly combination of confrontational polity and competitive journalism. Tragically, they feed on each other. History is witness to this hard truth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/media-and-judiciary-must-sail-together-cji-101640804254882.html
30-12-2021||India||ED files supplementary chargesheet against Anil Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday filed a supplementary charge sheet against former Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Anil Deshmukh in connection with an alleged money laundering case, an official confirmed.The 7,000 page charge sheet, which was filed by the agency before a special court here assigned to hear matters related to the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), also named Deshmukh’s two sons, Salil Deshmukh and Hrishikesh Deshmukh.The probe agency earlier filed a charge sheet against 14 accused, including Deshmukh’s private secretary (an additional collector-rank officer) Sanjeev Palande, and personal assistant Kundan Shinde, who were arrested on June 25.The central agency registered the money-laundering case against Deshmukh on May 11 on the basis of a First Information Report (FIR) filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on April 21 following allegations of corruption levelled by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. In a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20, Singh alleged that Deshmukh instructed dismissed Mumbai police assistant inspector Sachin Vaze to collect an amount of ₹100 crore every month from restaurants and bars in the state capital. According to ED, it was on Deshmukh’s instructions that Vaze held a meeting of bar owners from Mumbai and demanded a monthly amount of ₹3 lakh from each of them.Vaze was dismissed from service after his arrest in the ‘Antilia’ bomb scare and Mansukh Hiran killing cases.CBI’s FIR was filed under provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. In its first charge sheet on August 23, ED claimed that Vaze collected ₹4.7 crore from various bar owners between December 2020 and February 2021.The probe agency claimed that the money was sent to Delhi-based Jain brothers who reportedly operated bogus companies using hawala channels. The Jain brothers reportedly diverted this money as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, an educational trust controlled by the Deshmukh family. The minister was arrested on November 2 after more than 12 hours of questioning at the ED office in south Mumbai, and is currently in judicial custody. He stepped down from his post on April 5.ED suspects that the Jain brothers were acting on the instructions of Deshmukh’s son, Hrishikesh. Both Palande and Shinde played an important role in collecting and laundering the unaccounted money, the ED claimed.The supplementary charge sheet was submitted to the Session’s Court for verification. Once the verification process is completed, the court will take cognisance of the charge sheet and summon the accused accordingly.Anil Deshmukh’s counsel Inderpal Singh said they were yet to see the supplementary charge sheet as it would be made available to them only after the court took cognizance of it. .
30-12-2021||India||SIT may get access to jawans in Nagaland op||Kohima: An Indian Army team probing the killings of 13 civilians in a botched operation in Nagaland’s Mon visited the spot on Wednesday, but could question only two people, even as the force allowed a special investigation team (SIT) of police to collect statements of jawans involved in the incident, people aware of the matter said.Protests erupted in the state after 13 civilians were killed by soldiers who appeared to have mistaken them for militants in Oting village of the district on December 4. A jawan died in retaliation by locals, and a day later, another civilian was killed when security personnel opened fire at a mob that vandalised an army camp.
30-12-2021||India||In setback to NIA, Portugal refuses to extradite narco terror case mastermind||The Supreme Court of Justice of Portugal has denied India’s request to extradite Iqbal Singh alias ‘Shera’, in a setback to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which describes him as the mastermind of a Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) narco terror case, officials familiar with the development said.The Portuguese court rejected the request as it was not convinced by guarantees of the Indian government that Singh will not serve a prison sentence of more than 25 years if extradited to India or further extradited to a third country, including Pakistan, they added. “After the court’s observation, Iqbal Singh was released by the Portuguese authorities,” one of the officials cited above said on condition of anonymity. According to a Portuguese publication, Expresso, the Indian embassy shared a letter by Central Authority on Extradition (MEA), with the Portuguese court, saying that Singh would not receive a prison sentence of more than 25 years and will not be re-extradited to a third country. The Indian letter assured it would comply with the “principle of reciprocity” with Portugal, the report said. The court, however, observed that the letter does not fully bind the Indian government since it was not issued by any of its representatives but by the Central Authority on Extradition. NIA, ministry of external affairs and ministry of home affairs did not respond to HT’s query on Portugal’s refusal to extradite Singh. According to the probe agency, Singh is the mastermind behind the collection, distribution and sale of heroin smuggled from Pakistan in Kashmir, as also in collection and channelisation of proceeds to further activities of the Hizbul Mujahideen. The matter came to light after one of the naro traffickers was arrested and ₹29 lakh was recovered from him last year.The official cited above said that the 26-year-old was absconding ever since the NIA began its probe into the case in May last year. A global arrest warrant was also issued against him through Interpol in October 2020. Singh was arrested by Portugal’s Immigration and Border Service in Loures in July, following which he was sent to preventive detention at a prison in Lisbon. Subsequently, India made a request with Portugal authorities to extradite the accused in order to unearth the entire Pakistan-Punjab-Kashmir narco terrorism network.NIA officials said that Singh, along with Pakistan-based Hizbul Mujahideen, sent six large consignments of heroin to India between 2018 and 2020. The consignments included a shipment of 532 kg of heroin, which was intercepted by the customs in June 2019 at Attari in Amritsar. The heroin consignments were sent in the garb of importing rock salt granules from Pakistan and proceeds of the same were partly sent back to Pakistan through hawala operators. A substantial portion of the proceeds was channelised to the terrorists in Jammu & Kashmir through a network of overground workers and other associates, officials said. Chief of Kashmir-based terror group Riyaz Ahmad Naikoo, who was killed by security forces in May 2020, was supervising the entire operation for the Hizbul in India, they added. The agency has already filed a charge sheet against 12 people, including Singh and Naikoo, in connection with the case. On Wednesday, a fresh charge sheet was filed against two more narco traffickers – Gurjant Singh and Nasir Khan.Portugal had earlier accused India of violating the extradition treaty by slapping charges attracting death penalty against gangster Abu Salem, after he was extradited in 2005 for his role in the 1993 Mumbai blasts case. Salem was awarded a life sentence in 2017. He continues to plead before Indian courts that India violated the extradition terms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-setback-to-nia-portugal-refuses-to-extradite-narco-terror-case-mastermind-101640803647003.html
30-12-2021||India||PM Modi’s UAE visit pushed amid Omicron variant prep||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s proposed visit to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in early January has been put off because of concerns about the spread of the Omicron variant of coronavirus, people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.This would have been the Prime Minister’s first foreign trip for 2022, and he was expected to chart a course to take forward burgeoning relations between the two sides. India and the UAE will commemorate the 50th anniversary of diplomatic ties next year.No official announcement was made regarding the visit by both countries, though it was expected that Modi would have been in the UAE on January 5-6. An unnamed official of the Indian embassy in Abu Dhabi was quoted by Khaleej Times as saying that the visit has been put off.“The visit has been postponed. But it has not been cancelled. It will happen soon,” the official said. He added that the visit will “happen sooner than later”.The people cited above said the trip could be pushed back to February.The UAE has rolled out new measures to control the possible spread of Covid-19, including mandatory RT-PCR tests on passengers arriving from countries such as India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Brazil and Russia, and random tests on travellers from other countries.Covid-19 cases in the UAE have risen to the highest levels in the past six months, with 1,803 infections and two deaths recorded on Sunday. This marked a steep increase from the start of December, when daily cases had fallen to below 50.The Prime Minister’s visit had been expected to focus on both deepening cooperation and looking for new areas for collaboration. Several agreements in different areas were likely to be signed during the visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-uae-visit-pushed-amid-omicron-variant-prep-101640803645587.html
30-12-2021||India||BJP ready for virtual rallies: Union minister||New Delhi: Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who is the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Punjab election incharge, said on Wednesday his party was ready to hold virtual rallies if the situation so demanded -- a remark that came amid concerns of a fresh wave of Covid-19 cases fuelled by the Omicron variant.Shekhawat said the BJP also held virtual rallies in West Bengal, where polls were held in March-April.“The BJP is fully prepared. The BJP did virtual rallies during the West Bengal assembly polls also. And when the political parties across the world were in hibernation, during the first and the second wave of Covid-19, even at that time, BJP workers were reaching out to people through virtual platforms,” Shekhawat said, when asked if his party was ready to hold virtual rallies.The Election Commission, which is on a three-day visit to poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, recently held a Covid-19 review meeting with Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan. While experts say that large political gatherings may cause localised spikes in infections, the Allahabad high court last week urged the commission and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consider delaying elections or banning large political rallies.Elections are scheduled to be held in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur early next year. Shekhawat was talking to the reporters at the BJP headquarters in New Delhi after several local leaders from Punjab joined the party.A New Delhi-based spokesperson of the BJP was not available for a comment on a query about whether Shekawat’s remark was the party’s position in all poll-bound states.Omicron, a fast-spreading variant of the coronavirus, has led to fresh curbs across the country, including the national capital. The Centre on December 21 asked states and Union territories to step up surveillance and consider steps such as night lockdowns and bans on large gatherings if more than 10% of all tests in a week turn up positive or if the occupancy of hospital beds breaches 40% of the capacity.Samajwadi spokesperson Abdul Hafiz Gandhi said: “The Samajwadi Party campaign is going well, including the party president’s rath yatras. SP is getting overwhelming public support. If any decision regarding virtual rallies comes from the Election Commission, then the party will look into it. It will be hypothetical to say anything now.”Naveen Pirshali, spokesperson of the Aam Aadmi Party’s Uttarakhand unit, said: “The AAP has always been a responsible party. Unlike the BJP, it has always valued human life above all. Having said that, the party will follow the government guidelines in case of a Covid-19 outbreak and accordingly find appropriate ways to campaign for the assembly elections in Uttarakhand.”The Union health secretary on Monday reviewed Covid-19 containment measures with officials of the five election-bound states, hours after his meeting with the Election Commission over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus and the required arrangements to safely conduct the polls.Bhushan briefed the election watchdog over the health care system’s preparedness ahead of the polls, saying there was no need for concern as the government was monitoring the situation, people aware of the matter said.The health ministry said that Bhushan reviewed the vaccination status in the five states and advised them to ramp up the inoculation of all eligible people.The meeting between Bhushan and the election watchdog was part of the commission’s agenda to keep a close watch on the spread of the pandemic. “This is a preliminary meeting, the commission will continue to do more such meetings to keep a check on the situation,” a person aware of the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-ready-for-virtualrallies-union-minister-101640803587285.html
30-12-2021||India||Amid surge in cases, fresh curbs in Goa and Rajasthan||New Delhi: As states across India step up Covid-19 containment measures against the new Omicron variant of the coronavirus, Goa and Rajasthan on Wednesday imposed a fresh set of restrictions, including a night curfew and limiting access to public places.The Centre on December 21 asked states and Union territories to step up scrutiny of Covid-19 infection trends and consider steps such as night lockdowns and bans on large gatherings if more than 10% of all tests in a week turn positive or if the occupancy of hospital beds breaches 40% of capacity.In all, India has detected at least 946 cases of Omicron as on Wednesday, with 161 of these confirmed in the last 24 hours, according to data shared by states with HT. Of the total, at least 241 people who were infected by the new “variant of concern” have recovered.The Goa government on Wednesday limited the capacity of casinos, cinema halls/auditoria and other such arenas to 50%, and mandated full vaccination for entry into public places. Rajasthan, too, revised its containment guidelines by imposing a self-regulatory night curfew from 11pm to 5am and imposing a 200-person cap on public gatherings.In wake of the rising cases, several states have also made vaccination mandatory for visiting public places, including restaurants, bars and parks. In Karnataka and Maharashtra, restaurants have been asked to operate till 10 pm. Full vaccination has been mandated for entry into public places in Haryana from January 1, and in Punjab and Rajasthan from January 15 and February 1, respectively.However, the Telangana government on Wednesday eased some curbs in view of the New Year’s celebrations by allowing the state excise department to permit bars and licensees of event permit managements to serve liquor till 1 am on December 31 and January 1.The state reported 235 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, pushing the tally to 681,307, while the toll stood at 4,024.The Telangana high court has agreed to listen to a petition challenging the decision. The petitioner, advocate Ch Prabhakar, has alleged that the state government’s order violates the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Prevention Act, 1897 and the Provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.An official of the state excise department, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that the Telangana government had earned ₹2,886 crore through liquor sales till December 28 and it was expected to raise another ₹700 crore in the next three days by relaxing the timings of the liquor supply on December 31 night.Several other states such as Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, which receive a large number of tourists for New Year’s celebrations, have not imposed any restrictions.On Wednesday, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, too, ruled out any restrictions for New Year’s, but asked officials to identify containment zones in Kolkata, where cases have been on the rise.“Covid-19 cases are on the rise... there are a few Omicron cases also. So, review the situation in the state. We may consider closing down schools and colleges for some time,” Banerjee told officials at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-surge-in-cases-fresh-curbs-in-goa-and-rajasthan-101640803410626.html
30-12-2021||India||Dec 29: What we know about the Omicron variant so far||The Omicron variant may have reached community transmission in Delhi. Officials shared data showing one of the main genome sequencing hospitals – a genome analysis determines the variant of a Sars-CoV-2 sample – in the Capital found 53% of the samples to be of the Omicron variant. People aware of the matter said these samples were taken as part of “sentinel surveillance”, which means they are from labs in different parts of the city where people have tested positive.The findings explain what case numbers say. From reporting around 100 cases a day a week ago, the Capital logged 923 cases in a single day on Wednesday. The proportion of tests turning positive – 1.29% -- rose to its highest in 212 days.This was expected. And so far, Delhi’s experience appears to be consistent with the mild but rapid spread seen in the early phases in South Africa and the UK, the first hot spots of the Omicron variant. According to the Delhi government’s daily bulletin, of the 2,191 active cases in the city, only 55 are on oxygen support with the remaining being asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic.Preparing testing for the surgeThe Omicron surge will soon begin to pose a problem for the city’s testing infrastructure if the current protocols on when to get a test continue. Even if Omicron cases are largely mild, the testing system needs to be protected to allow for people who need it -- those with moderate or severe symptoms -- to be able to take one.Two countries illustrate why the threat that the variant will exhaust testing capacity is significant: Denamrk and the UK. In Denmark, the third country where Omicron took hold after South Africa and the UK, testing hit a ceiling after a peak positivity rate of 47%. In UK, too, there are shortages of RT-PCR test appointments as well as antigen test kits.
30-12-2021||India||How a pan masala shipment led to mega seizure, political row||Kanpur: One morning in early December, tax inspectors stopped a truck carrying a consignment of pan masala outside Ahmedabad. While checking papers, they found several questionable invoices with the driver, who couldn’t prove their authenticity. Suspicious, officials from the directorate general of GST (DGGI), a law enforcement agency under the Union finance ministry fighting tax evasion, started looking into the owner of the truck – Praveen Jain, who ran Ganapati Transport. On December 21, the investigators landed in Kanpur to raid the offices of the pan masala company, Shikhar, and Praveen Jain. During the raid, the DGGI team intercepted four more trucks – all owned by Ganpati Transport, all loaded with the same pan masala brand, and all with the same fake invoices, issued to fictitious firms. In all, 200 such fake invoices were found, said tax officials on condition of anonymity. Officials then tallied the stock available in the factory with the stock recorded in the books, and found a massive mismatch. “This corroborated the suspicion that there was clandestine removal of goods with the transporter,” said the official quoted above. With suspicions now turning towards the supplier of raw materials, investigators started looking at Piyush Jain, a relative of Praveen Jain who supplied a key raw material – the chemical compound that gives a distinct scent to each brand of pan masala – and showed up at his house the next day. “We were just following the investigation. We hadn’t even thought we would recover any cash,” said a second official, requesting anonymity.They were in for a surprise. Over the next two days, they recovered ₹196.45 crores in cash – all allegedly unaccounted-for wealth. “Everyone was surprised with the quantity we had before us; we got in touch with the SBI (State Bank of India) officials through our local office to help with manpower and machines,” said the second official quoted above.Pictures of officials sifting through mounds of cash on the floor and notes piled up high have gone viral since, making Piyush Jain one of India’s most-notorious businessman who allegedly evaded taxes worth several crores. The haul of cash is one of the largest by an enforcement agency, the Union finance ministry has said, and details about how the money was recovered from underground bunkers, walls and furniture has riveted local residents. Piyush Jain is in jail but has sparked a bitter verbal war between the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) – because his name matches an SP lawmaker, Pushpraj Jain, who launched a Samajwadi perfume and who is his neighbour in Kannauj. The SP alleges that the government was targeting Pushpraj Jain and erroneously raided Piyush Jain. Investigators say that the raid was the result of investigation and recovery of fake invoices. At an event on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi even referred to “fragrance of corruption” while taking a dig at the SP. Talking to law enforcement and tax officials, Piyush Jain’s neighbours and other residents in Kannauj and Kanpur, HT pieces together the high-profile incident. Unassuming familyIn Kannauj’s cramped Sarai Meera neighbourhood, everyone remembers the Jains as an unassuming family. In this area -- located next to the railway station in the old town of Kannauj where cheek-by-jowl houses line narrow lanes – Piyush Jain grew up in a three-room house. In a town famous for its scents, their father Mahesh Chandra Jain was a chemist who was an expert at mixing chemicals for different compounds. He passed on his trade secrets to his two sons, who launched a company, Odochem, in 2010. Their fortunes rapidly changed, remember friends and neighbours. Over the next decade, they bought two adjoining houses, hired masons from Rajasthan and rebuilt the area with a 2,500 yard housing complex. His fragrance compound sold for up to ₹2 lakh per kg.“Piyush Jain is one of the finest compound makers but he was not social and kept to himself,” said Nishank Jain,a friend. Another neighbour said he was never seen without his rickety Bajaj Super scooter or his rubber slippers. In Kannauj, he owned an old Santro and in Kanpur, the family had two cars. This was why shockwaves went through the neighbourhood when investigators landed in Kannauj on December 24. The house was found locked and when the family was called, they said the keys were missing, said officials. In all, there were eight front doors and each had four locks; the DGGI team brought in gas cutters to finally get in. “Inside, we found cash hidden in the bed, basement and the walls. The house was freshly built by the masons from Rajasthan with certain walls wider than the normal ones, which made us suspicious,” said the first official quoted above. In all, ₹19 crore was recovered from the house with 23kg of gold, and 600kg of sandalwood, said Zakir Hussain, additional director of DGGI. Start contrastPiyush Jain’s home in Kanpur is in stark contrast to his ancestral house in Kannauj,. Located inside the high-income neighbourhood of Anandpuri, the swanky house stands on one of the most expensive pieces of real estate in the city, Uttar Pradesh’s largest.But inside, officials said they found money in ₹500 and ₹200 notes stashed in wardrobes, neatly packed. Thirty currency bundles were wrapped in paper and plastic, and secured with coloured tape, said officials. The 177.45 crore found hidden in the house was counted by 14 machines for 36 hours. The notes were finally taken away in 81 tin boxes to the SBI’s main branch in Kanpur. “On December 22, around 3.30pm, two vehicles screeched to a halt outside the house, and people stormed in, taking everyone by surprise. That’s how the raid began,” said Jung Bahadur, the guard.The case has now taken a political colour, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav sparred over the raid on Tuesday. At an event in Kanpur, PM Modi took a veiled dig at SP and said that the “itar” (fragrance) of corruption that was spread before 2017 – the year the SP was voted out of power -- had now been exposed.“They take credit for every development works done in the state. I was thinking if they will also take credit of the suitcases full of cash which are recovered in the last few days,” Modi said. Hours later, Yadav hit back. “By mistake, the BJP got its own businessman raided. Instead of SP leader Pushpraj Jain, it got Piyush Jain raided,” Yadav told reporters.The other Jain at the heart of this row –SP MLC Pushpraj ‘Pampi’ Jain –denies any relations with Kanpur-based businessman. The confusion began, he claims, because the two men are neighbours in Kannauj and their houses are roughly 20 paces from each other. “I am a Jain, he is a Jain. Coincidentally, we have houses in the same locality (Chipatta) in Kannauj. This doesn’t mean we are related. I have no relations with him whatsoever,” he said. Last month, Pushpraj Jain had launched the Samajwadi perfume. Bail applicationPiyush Jain is now behind bars, after the court of the metropolitan magistrate (corporation), Kanpur, remanded him in 14 days judicial custody after rejecting the investigators’ plea for his remand. He has been arrested on charges of tax evasion under section 69 of the Central GST Act and has allegedly confessed to his crime, said officials. His lawyer, Subodh Malviya, said he will file a bail application on January 1. “DGGI has alleged that they have found this much amount from residential premises, it has not made clear whose money this is and where it has come from,” he said. “DGGI has assessed that my client has the liability to pay penalty of ₹32.50 crore and that could increase. We have informed the DGGI through a letter that it should deduct ₹52 crore from money recovered and that has been put in a fixed deposit as penalty and other expenses. We have not heard from the DGGI or Central GST on our offer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-a-pan-masala-shipment-led-to-mega-seizure-political-row-101640803165638.html
