31-12-2021||India||The year ahead: Discontent brewing in Telangana Cong, PCC working president to be summoned before disciplinary panel||HyderabadDiscontent is brewing within the Telangana Congress over the style of functioning of Pradesh Congress Committee president A Revanth Reddy, who is allegedly taking unilateral decisions without consulting senior leaders in the party.A recent letter written by PCC working president and senior lawmaker from Sangareddy assembly constituency T Jayaprakash Reddy alias Jagga Reddy to AICC president Sonia Gandhi lodging a serious complaint against Revanth Reddy created tremors in the party.Taking serious exception to Jagga Reddy’s letter, the PCC chief referred it to the party’s disciplinary committee to take appropriate action. The committee headed by former minister G Chinna Reddy met on Friday decided to seek an explanation from the Sangareddy MLA.“The committee felt that Jagga Reddy has violated party discipline. If there are any differences within the party, they should be discussed in the party forums and resolve them. Leaking the party’s internal issues to the media is a breach of discipline,” Chinna Reddy said.He said the MLA would be summoned before the disciplinary committee shortly to seek his explanation in person. “Since he is a PCC working president and also an MLA, it is for the high command to take appropriate action,” he said.In his letter to Sonia Gandhi on Monday, Jagga Reddy requested that the high command replace Revanth Reddy with a new PCC chief, as the latter was taking unilateral decisions without taking senior leaders into confidence.He pointed out that the PCC chief suddenly announced that he would conduct “Rachabanda” (public forum) near chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s farmhouse at Erravelli village in Siddipet district on Sunday last, without intimating anybody in the party.“I am the only Congress MLA from the erstwhile Medak district (of which Siddipet is a part), but I was not given any information about the programme. Even another senior leader from the district and present PCC working president J Geetha Reddy was also not intimated about the programme,” Jagga Reddy complained.He alleged that Revanth Reddy was not functioning along party lines and was instead using such programmes only for personal image building.The PCC working president also alleged that Revanth Reddy had not made any effort in the recently held by-election to Huzurabad assembly constituency. “The Congress candidate got only 3,000 votes against its vote bank of more than 40,000. This has to be taken very seriously and assessed,” he pointed out.Similarly, in the recent elections held for 12 Local Bodies’ MLC seats, it was most unfortunate that the TPCC president decided not to contest the elections, the MLA said. “Revanth Reddy does not have a grip at the grassroots levels and does not possess any experience to go into the village level, mandal level and work for the Congress,” he said.Former Rajya Sabha member V Hanumantha Rao also found fault with the PCC president for taking unilateral decisions without consulting senior leaders. “Revanth Reddy should have spoken to Jagga Reddy before taking up the Rachabanda programme,” he said.Another senior Congress leader and former minister, who preferred anonymity, said not just Jagga Reddy, several others had written to the high command complaining against the monarchic style of functioning of the PCC chief.Meanwhile, the PCC chief was kept under house arrest at his Jubilee Hills residence, for the second time in a week, for trying to stage a Rachabanda programme on paddy procurement issue at Bhupalpalli town in Jayashankar Bhupalpally district.The police surrounded his house at Jubilee Hills in the early hours and did not allow him to come out saying that there was no permission for the programme. “Telangana under dictator rule. Police personnel deployed again at my house restricting visiting farmers. Is this Afghanistan or North Korea?,” Reddy posted on Twitter.Speaking to reporters later, the PCC chief criticised that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had time to attend marriages and call on the families of the deceased party leaders, but he had no time for the farmers in distress. “When we want to console them, we are kept under house arrest,” he said.
31-12-2021||India||44 more Omicron cases detected in Kerala, total 107||Thiruvananthapuram Kerala on Friday reported 44 Omicron cases taking total cases of new variant to 107, state health minister Veena George said. Talking to newsmen in the state capital the minister said out of 107, 29 persons came from United Arab Emirates, 23 from the United Kingdom and others from different countries. Seven persons contracted the new variant through contact. She said maximum number of cases were reported from Ernakulam 37 followed by Thiruvananthapuram district 26. One person also recovered from the infection she said adding all tests were held at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology in the state capital. The minister asked people to be vigilant and exercise utmost caution during the New Year and other festivities. “There is no need of any panic. But we have to be extremely careful. We have to be vigilant and follow Covid-appropriate behvavior,” she said. New cases were reported a day after the state announced night curfew for four days, Dec 30 to Jan 2. People close to the government said the curbs are likely to be extended if the state reports more such cases. The state detected the first case of the new variant on Dec 7 and cases crossed 100 in less than a month. Experts said Omicron cases are likely to peak in the state in two months. The government said it has taken enough precautions to meet the exigency. The minister said the state will start vaccination to children below 18 from Jan 3 and all arrangements have been done in this regard. At least 98 per cent of eligible population in the state received the first dose of vaccine and 77 per cent received both and experts said good vaccination rate will help contain the new threat of Omicron but they warned it is too early to lower guard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/44-more-omicron-cases-detected-in-kerala-total-107-101640972808988.html
31-12-2021||India||Chennai research scholar stabbed to death; 2 held, say police||Chennai: An argument among three research scholars quickly escalated into a dramatic murder in Tamil Nadu’s Chengalpattu district close to Chennai. A day after the crime, police have remanded J Desapriya, 26 and S Arun Pandian, 27 on charges of murdering K Senthil, 43.Police said that Desapriya was in a consensual relationship with Senthil who was still married. “Desapriya wanted to marry Senthil but he had not agreed to leave his wife and remarry her,” said a senior police official of Chengalpattu district which adjoins Chennai. The deceased had been married for about nine years and didn’t have children. “She called him on Thursday to meet near her college. It seemed like an attempt to convince him and her friend Arun also joined her. There seems to have been a sudden provocation and Arun took out a knife and slit the throat of Senthil and stabbed him four times.” The crime took place 2-km from the Kelambakkam police station on a road over a subway around 1.30 on Thursday afternoon.Senthil bled out and died on the spot due to multiple injuries. The by-standers caught hold of the duo, informed the police and handed them over. A complaint was filed by the victim Senthil’s family members. Though Despriya had not stabbed him, she and her friend Arun have been booked under section 302 (punishment for whoever commits murder). “It doesn’t seem like a planned murder,” the officer quoted above said. “It’s more of a case of being spurned. We are still investigating the case.”Desapriya is currently a research assistant in the Physics department of a prominent college in Chennai. The other accused Arun has completed his MS in Physics but his current designation is unknown. Desapriya met Senthil while they studied for their Ph D together in an educational institute in Chennai, said police. A similar murder had taken place in the outskirts of Chennai in September when a 20-year-old woman was stabbed to death by a man at the Tambaram railway station, more than 30-km away from Chennai. Police had said that the crime was a result of an ‘estranged love’. After stabbing her in the neck, the man Ramachandran attempted to kill himself by slitting his throat but he survived. The status of the case is not known. In 2016, in another sensational case at Chennai’s busy Nungambakkam railway station, a 24-year-old techie S Swathi was murdered by P Ramkumar who was spurned that she had rejected his advances. He had stalked her for a few months before the crime. Ramkumar was arrested from his native in Tirunelveli district and the case was closed after he died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-research-scholar-stabbed-to-death-2-held-saypolice-101640972750382.html
31-12-2021||India||Tamil Nadu laboratory recognised to conduct genome sequencing||Chennai: The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) has recognised Tamil Nadu’s State Public Health Laboratory to conduct whole genome sequencing, which means the state will no longer have to send samples to labs in Pune, Bengaluru or Hyderabad to confirm variants, such as Delta and Omicron. INSACOG is a consortium of 38 laboratories established jointly by the union ministry of health, the department of biotechnology (DBT), Council for Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to assess variants in Covid-19 patients. “Tamil Nadu is the first state to receive this recognition,” said state health minister M Subramanian. “The recognition would fasten the process of identifying variants and it can help in better prevention and containment measures.” This comes days after the state on Monday had urged the central team of experts, who were in Tamil Nadu to inspect the pandemic control measures, to stress on the union government for permission for Tamil Nadu to declare Omicron cases through this lab. At that time the health minister pointed out delays in declaring Omicron cases as the state had to wait for confirmation from one of these labs. By the time the confirmation came the patients were already being discharged, the minister had said. Tamil Nadu has already been detecting S-drop, a marker for Omicron, at 12 labs across the state. The State Public Health Laboratory is located at the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) campus in Chennai. It is an initiative of the DMK government which assumed office in May this year and announced setting up of the lab in July. Chief Minister M K Stalin inaugurated the laboratory set up at a cost of ₹4 crore in September. Since the Covid-19 second wave driven by the Delta variant peaked in Tamil Nadu between May and June, the state began the exercise to identify the variants which were circulating and causing rapid transmission. Cases have been rising in Tamil Nadu in the past week in the light of the Omicron variant of concern, which studies indicate spreads faster, promoting the Greater Chennai Corporation to bring back containment zones and opening Covid Care Centres. As of December 31, the state has a total of 46 Omicron cases. 32 of these patients have been discharged and 12 are under treatment. Only three of these Omicron cases are not linked to international travellers. S gene drop has been detected in 141 international travellers. Tamil Nadu as of Thursday registered 890 new cases of people infected with Covid-19 taking the total to 27,46,890.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-laboratory-recognised-to-conduct-genome-sequencing-101640972749008.html
31-12-2021||India||The year ahead: Andhra...||HyderabadWhile Omicron, new variant of Coronavirus, is a matter of concern for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, both the two Telugu states are likely to witness interesting developments in the new year 2022.In Andhra Pradesh, the uncertainty over the capital city might end at least in the second half of 2022. The Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government is planning to reintroduce a revised legislation on three capital cities during the budget session in February and March. Since the ruling YSR Congress now has absolute majority in the state legislative council, the passage of the new bill would be smooth.However, the petitions filed by Amaravati farmers and opposition parties are pending before the high court, pending the passage of the revised legislation in the assembly. The high court might take up fresh hearing on the revised laws and continue hearing. In all probability, there would be some clarity on whether the capital would remain at Amaravati or three capitals would be formed for the state.Another major development that is expected to happen is the judgement by the Central Bureau of Investigation court into the alleged quid pro quo and disproportionate assets case of Jagan Mohan Reddy. In case of a verdict against the chief minister, there will be a major political turmoil in the state.In that event, Jagan might have to step down from the chief minister post and hand over the reins to another senior member of the party or his wife Y S Bharati. In case he gets any temporary relief by moving the high court or Supreme Court, he might continue as the chief minister. In any case, it will be a major political setback for him.The coming year might also witness realignment of political forces in Andhra Pradesh. The Telugu Desam Party might enter into an alliance with parties like Jana Sena and the Left parties to launch a broadside against the ruling YSRCP.The Centre might complete the process of privatization of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant in the next few months and this is expected to trigger widespread unrest among the workers of the steel plant and also an agitation form the people in general.
31-12-2021||India||Record rain batters Chennai, more predicted for four districts in Tamil Nadu||Chennai: Except for essential services, schools, colleges and government offices were closed on Friday in four Tamil Nadu districts--Chennai, Chengalpattu, Thirvallur and Kancheepuram -- due to the sudden and intense rains from December 30 afternoon onwards.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday said that intense convective clouds were present over 26 out of the 38 districts in Tamil Nadu including Chennai, Kancheepuram, Chenglpattu, Thiruvallur, Cuddalore, Salem and Madurai, which have the potential to cause moderate to heavy rainfall.
31-12-2021||India||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman attacks Akhilesh over I-T raids in UP||New Delhi: Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday accused Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav of politicising raids on Kannauj-based perfume maker Peeyush Jain and said searches were conducted on the basis of “actionable intelligence”.Also Read | Raids on other P Jain add to poll heat in UPShe also challenged the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s claim that raids were erroneously conducted on a person associated with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Questioning Yadav’s motive behind doubting the intent of law enforcement agencies, Sitharaman said in Hindi: “If he is so sure this is BJP’s money, how does he know? Is he a partner?... I’m saying this is not BJP’s money.” Sitharaman was addressing reporters after the 46th meeting of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council.On December 22, the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) had recovered ₹197.49 crore cash, 23 kg of gold and other high-value materials from two premises of Odochem Industries, the manufacturer of perfumery compounds and its proprietor Jain in an ongoing investigation. The raids conducted ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, scheduled for early next year, took a political colour when Jain was linked with the Samajwadi Party.Denying Jain’s link with his party, Yadav on December 29 said the BJP got its own businessman raided by mistake, as his name is similar to SP MLC Pushparaj Jain.Sitharaman, however, said the rumour that raids were mistakenly conducted on a wrong person would have gained credence only if nothing would have been found from Peeyush Jain. “They went to the right house, they searched the right place, and after the search it was proved that the information was correct,” she said.
31-12-2021||India||Fresh restrictions push revellers outside Bengaluru||With fresh restrictions imposed by the state government, Bengalureans are choosing to either go out or have house parties. With hotels, pubs and restaurants advancing their closing time to suit the night curfew, professional DJs, who usually work in different pubs and clubs, have been booked for private parties as there is no restriction on them.Bengaluru city police imposed additional restrictions in view of the new year celebrations on Friday. As per the revised order, prohibitory orders will be in place from 6 pm on Friday till 5 am on Saturday.While there are no changes to restrictions imposed earlier, including night curfew, the revised order has been issued to ensure that no more than four persons gather at public places such as main roads, open areas, parks, grounds etc. to celebrate New Year.Rakesh Mishra, a city-based lawyer, said he was planning to stay in Bengaluru for the new year, but with all the restrictions, he decided to book a resort on the outskirts of Bengaluru. “As per the current guidelines, the restaurants and pubs have to close by 10 pm, which mean the last order would be around 9 pm. So, my family and friends have booked the resort and since it’s a private property our celebrations can go late into the night,” he said.Kuttan Nair, who runs a travel agency, said they have got more bookings for travel this year. “A lot of people is moving out of the city. We had to scramble to get vehicles due to last-minute bookings and due to restrictions, the number of vehicles is high too. People want personal vehicles instead of tempos and other larger vehicles,” he said.For those staying back in the city, house parties and barbeques are the name of the game. “We used to party at a club generally. Last year, we couldn’t do it. So, this year, we are going to a friend’s farmhouse for a party,” said Krishnan R, a city-based IT employee. According to him, due to high traffic getting out of the city was difficult.For the owners of pubs and restaurants, it was another bad year for business. According to establishment owners, government order has forced them to cancel several bookings that have been made weeks in advance. Amit Roy, a member of the National Restaurant Association of India and who runs restaurants like Watson’s and Slug in Bengaluru, said advance paid and travel tickets booked for artists are proving to be an additional cost to already suffering without bookings.“The industry creates so many jobs and we employ more people during the festive season. We are going to lose all that money now. Even though we have been generating revenue for the government, but now they are ignoring us,” said Roy.The excise department, which collects levies on the sale of Indian made liquor (IML) and beer, breached the targets by ₹1,547 crore keeping up its performance despite the pandemic in 2021. The Yediyurappa regime revised its revenue targets from IML and beer in May after the state underwent a spell of lockdown that was imposed to curb the spread of the infection. While the government fixed a target of ₹22,700 crore, the excise department has mopped up ₹23,131 crore as of March 31.“The government has got its revenues as spirits are sold in several places and the budget targets are achieved. But those who are dependent on alcohol licence and even veg restaurants... What should they do and how to recover losses? We were not given any concessions in anything?” Govindraj Hegde, president of the Karnataka Wine Merchants Association, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-restrictions-push-revellers-outside-bengaluru-101640972389143.html
31-12-2021||India||Give full authorisation to Covishield: Serum Institute of India||NEW DELHI: Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) on Friday announced it has applied to India’s drugs regulator for full market authorisation to Covishield, its anti-Covid vaccine, citing adequate availability of the required data.“Supplies of the COVISHIELD vaccine in India, have exceeded 1.25 billion doses. The government of India now has enough data for full market authorisation, and therefore @SerumInstIndia has applied to the @CDSCO_INDIA_INF (DCGI) and @MoHFW_INDIA for this permission,” Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer, Serum Institute of India, tweeted on Friday.
31-12-2021||India||Jaish man linked to attack on cops among 3 terrorists killed||Srinagar: Three terrorists affiliated to the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) outfit were killed and six security force personnel injured in an encounter in Pantha Chowk area on the outskirt of Srinagar on Friday, police said.Inspector general of police (IG) Kashmir range, Vijay Kumar, said one of the slain terrorists, identified as Suhail Ahmad Rather, was involved in the attack on a police bus in the nearby Zewan area on December 13, in which three policemen were killed while 11 others were injured.
31-12-2021||India||Bengaluru looks forward to better infrastructure and policing||Another year, marred by the pandemic, is coming to an end. For India’s IT capital and its citizen, the year 2022 was to be a sign of a positive change, but with Omicron Covid variant is causing yet another spike in the city. Concerns are mounting as whether the city will see another lockdown and if businesses will get time to recover the losses.The hopes for the next year are, however, not limited to recovering from the pandemic. The city’s infrastructure, better policing and a new way of living are among the thoughts on top of people’s minds. So, here is what Bengaluru looks forward to in 2022.Recovery from pandemic As Bengaluru steps into 2022, the biggest hope remains for a recovery from the pandemic. Due to Omicron, Bengaluru has already witnessed two major spikes in number of Covid-19 cases in December. In the second wave, close to 1 out of 10 patients have died out of the hospital. In comparison, during the first wave of the coronavirus, only 3 per died outside of a hospital. In the first wave of the virus, 6,551 people lost their lives to Covid-19 in the two months, while in the second wave 14,167 deaths were reported, which made 2021 one of the deadliest. As Bengaluru enters 2022 with a fear of another wave of Covid-19, the biggest hope for the year is to not repeat the tragedy of the second wave.Better infrastructure A crackdown by the Karnataka High Court following the death of a 19-year-old medical student in May and hearings of Public Interest Litigations have revealed that there are at least 5,435 potholes, bad roads or bad footpaths in Bengaluru. Another study showed that at least 2,000 km of roads in the city are damaged or have potholes that have cost many lives over the years.The year 2021 was also the year, where after getting pulled up by the high court, the state government began fixing Bengaluru’s bad roads on a war-footing. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai also claimed that in 2022, most of the potholes in Bengaluru will be taken care of. How realistic is the promising still remains a difficult question, but Bengalureans will be entering 2022, with the hopes of seeing better infrastructure in the city.Humane policing In 2021, Karnataka witnessed several instances of human rights violations at the hands of police. On the last of December, a policeman was suspended for attacking a tribal man on his wedding day. In September, the criminal investigation department (CID) arrested a police sub-inspector for allegedly forcing a Dalit man to drink urine, while the latter was in custody in May. On December 8, a police sub-inspector was suspended after he had allegedly manhandled a young man and forced him to drink urine in Bengaluru. Sub-inspector Harish KN was suspended after a departmental inquiry. Activists in the city have been claiming that these attacks were just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to Bengaluru’s policing problem. A new year brings the hope that the men in Khaki will change for the better in 2022.A new lifestyle The Covid-19 pandemic too is an opportunity for such a change, say experts. Mohandas Pai, former director of Infosys, said one of the first changes the city will see is the way it works and work from home is here to stay, at least in a hybrid model.The pandemic forced companies to rethink the way they operate. In the future, the idea of having a large office with all employees in one place will be obsolete. From an employee point of view, people are thinking of the quality of life, especially by wasting time travelling large distances within the city. A hybrid model which involves work from home and having small hubs across the city will be the way forward. Many are already doing it,” he said.V Ravichandar, a civic expert, said the city should and will have a “5 km city” in the coming days. “The work from home culture will enable people to work and live in a 5km radius. Such a system will make Bengaluru a pandemic proof city to some extent. One thing this pandemic has taught us is that cases happen in bubbles and travel results in the spread,” he said.Even though the pandemic has been one of the difficult phases of last year, at least some are hoping that Bengaluru will learn a good lesson from this bad phase.
31-12-2021||India||Covid committee asks Bengaluru civic body to prepare plan for 3rd Covid wave||The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Covid-19 has asked the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to formulate a comprehensive action plan to tackle a third wave of Covid-19 with the city and Karnataka reporting a rise in cases, mostly driven by the new variant Omicron, officials familiar with the matter said on Friday. The TAC met on Wednesday to discuss a strategy to contain a surge in Covid infections in the coming days.The state on Friday reported 832 new Covid-19 cases and 8 deaths. The state also reported 23 more Omicron variant cases, health minister K Sudhakar said on Friday. This takes the state’s Omicron tally to 66.“From the previous experience of the two waves in Karnataka, the case surge in Bengaluru/Karnataka was preceded by a surge in Mumbai/Maharashtra,” the TAC report pointed out. Officials in the know the developments said recommendations from TAC include ramping up medical facilities at hospitals across the city, reactivating Covid Care Centres (CCCs) and increasing testing in the city. The TAC report said that since the Omicron variant is found to be less deadly, focus should be on creating CCCs, which would cater to patients who require observation than treatment. “We are currently isolating Omicron patients at hospitals, even if they are showing mild symptoms. In case the cases increase, having a larger CCC network would help decongest hospitals by taking in patients with mild symptoms,” said a TAC member who didn’t want to be named. He said that the recommendation to increase CCCs was given since during the second wave several patients with mild symptoms had occupied hospital beds resulting in a scarcity. “Apart from that we have recommended that home isolation should be avoided as much as possible, since Omicron variant is highly contagious,” he added. The report has also asked for a triage system, which would identity who should be allotted hospital beds and who would be kept in CCCs. “We have recommended that no walk-in patients should be allowed at the hospital and the admissions should go through the government,” he added. KV Trilok Chandra, BBMP special commissioner (health), said the BBMP was planning to set up one CCC in every assembly constituency. “A system of physical triaging and tele-triaging is already functional. We also send mobile triaging teams to every ward,” he said. Meanwhile, the R0 for Covid-19 of Karnataka and Bengaluru has crossed the value of 1, indicating that the virus is spreading. R0 or reproduction number indicates the rate of spread. Bengaluru’s reproduction number rose from 1.02 on December 22 to 1.11 as of Monday, according to calculations of the Institute of Mathematical Sciences (IMSc) in Chennai.In view of the rising numbers, the Karnataka government on Friday revised the timings of the prohibitory order within the limits of the Bengaluru City Commissionerate. “The prohibitory order within the limits of Bengaluru City Commissionerate shall remain with revised timings, that is, from 6 pm on December 31 to 5 am on January 1, 2022,” the order read. The gathering of five or more persons in public places for the celebrations of New Year in any form is prohibited in Bengaluru. However, in-house celebrations in residential complexes and private clubs may be held for their members without organising any special events. “Hotels, malls, restaurants, clubs or any similar establishment shall not organize any special DJ, events or shows in the city. However, they may carry out their regular business activities following Covid-19 protocols,” the order said.
31-12-2021||India||Fresh cases, new entries to tally: India's Omicron caseload reaches 1,432 on last day of 2021||Amid the outbreak of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, this year ended on concerning note as India's tally of the new strain rose to 1,432 on Friday. The surge occurred owing to multiple states, including Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Gujarat and Maharashtra adding fresh cases. Meanwhile, Bihar detected its first Omicron case after a 26-year-old man, who recently visited Delhi after returning to India.Maharashtra and Delhi, which are the leading contributors in the countrywide tally with 454 and 320 Omicron cases, respectively, have been consistently witnessing an upward swing in single-day Covid-19 infections as well. Both the regions maintained the trend on Friday as well after recorded a massive jump of 8,067 and 1,796 cases in the last 24 hours.Mumbai is the most-hit city of Maharashtra due to Covid-19 as it logged 5,428 infections in the last 24 hours, up from 3,671 on the previous day. Delhi's 1,726 cases, on the other hand, is the highest since May 22, while its 2.44% positivity rate is the highest since May 24 when it was 2.52%.As far as other states are concerned, Tamil Nadu reported the biggest spike in Omicron cases during the day with 74 fresh infections, taking the state tally to 120. Kerala also reported 44 new cases to take its count to 109 while Karnataka and Gujarat logged 23 and 16 fresh infections, respectively.Also Read | These states in India have confirmed cases of Omicron Covid variant. Full listOwing to massive surge in Omicron cases, Tamil Nadu government announced restrictions till January 10. According to the curbs, mall, theatres, beauty parlours, amusement parks and metro, will function at 50% capacity. Offline classes of students from classes 1 to 8 have been suspended till the said date, while the same for remaining classes will be conducted following all Covid-19 protocols.Meanwhile, Maharashtra government that already announced a slew of curbs, including prohibiting gathering of more than five people between 9pm and 6am, imposed fresh restrictions. As per these, attendees at social, political and religious events have been capped at 50 while those at funerals have been restricted at 20.Mumbai Police extended the Section 144 across the city till January 15 from January 7.Several other states such as Punjab and Rajasthan have banned entry to public places to those unvaccinated from January 15 and January 31 onwards, respectively.Also Read | India's Covid vaccination coverage exceeds 145 crore, Mandaviya says 'ending year on great note'The Union health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Friday wrote to all states and UTs, asking them to augment testing for Covid-19. They also said that any person having fever with or without cough, headache, sore throat, breathlessness, body ache, diarrhoea and recent loss of taste or smell, must be seen as a suspect case of the virus and must be tested.“Early testing of suspect patients and their contacts and isolating them expeditiously are one of the key measures to curb transmissions of SARS-CoV-2,” the letter said.This came on a day when India recorded a spike in its daily Covid-19 case count for third day in a row with 16,764 infections, up from Thursday's 13,154, according to the Union health ministry data. The cumulative tally of the country now stands at 3,48,38,804 while the active caseload at 91,361.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-cases-new-entries-to-tally-india-s-omicron-caseload-reaches-1416-101640969151030.html
31-12-2021||India||Minorities helped Congress win civic polls: Karnataka CM||Hours after the Congress overtook the BJP in the urban local body (ULB) election results in Karnataka, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai was in a defensive mood on Friday claiming a high number of minorities in these 58 ULBs had resulted in the BJP not getting as many seats as expected.“If you look at the numbers, our performance has increased in this election compared to last time, though it should have been higher. Further, in these areas, the minorities are in large numbers. We have not won these areas in the past, minorities are around 65% in these areas,” Bommai told reporters.Party insiders said despite his defence, it is the chief minister, who is feeling the pressure of the UBL election results. In all three elections held in Karnataka since Bommai took charge as chief minister in July, the BJP’s performance has been poor. In three municipal corporations in September, the BJP won the Belagavi corporation but failed to get the numbers in Hubbali-Dharwad and Kalaburagi.In the bypolls to two assembly seats in November Srinivas Mane, the Congress candidate, won after he secured 87,490 votes and 50.95% of the vote, defeating Shivaraj Sajjanar of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) who secured 80,117 votes.Soon after this, the chief minister, who earlier claimed that the bypoll will be an indicator of the 2023 polls in the state, walked back his earlier statement. “These elections are fought on that particular time and issues so it doesn’t give a verdict to the entire thing. I have taken this election setback very seriously,” Bommai said.Even in the MLC elections, the BJP fell short of the majority and stood tied with the Congress, winning 11 seats. “The poor performance in the election always trumps anything he does has the Chief Minister. Even though he is defending the party’s performance in UBL elections, he is certainly under pressure to prove himself,” said a BJP legislator, who had served as minister earlier.Even in the UBL elections, Bommai suffered a personal setback. The saffron party lost both ULBs in Haveri, Bommai’s hometown, to the Congress. In the 23-seat town municipal council of Bankapur in Shiggaon, Haveri, (Bommai’s home constituency) the Congress won 14 seats while BJP only managed to win seven seats. “When the chief minister is not able to ensure victory in the bypoll and UBL elections in his own constituency and district, there are bound to be questioned in the future,” added the BJP leader.For Congress, on the other hand, victories in recent times have been a morale boost. KPCC president DK Shivakumar said the BJP’s claims that they have done well are “laughable”.“The BJP is in power in the state and they are not able to win more seats than the Opposition in the ULB election. This only means that people are against the BJP. There is no question about it,” Shivakumar told HT.He said the Congress has managed to win ULBs seats that were either produced a hung verdict or favoured the BJP in previous elections. “Out vote share in the election was 42.06% and the BJP’s vote share was 36%. This tells the reality on the ground,” he added.The Congress secured 202 out of the 441 seats in town municipal councils while the BJP won 176 and JD(S) won 21, less than the 43 seats won by independents and other candidates. In the 577 seats in town panchayats too, the Congress held the upper hand, clinching 237 seats. The BJP won 191 while the JD(S) won just 12.In terms of capturing the local bodies through the majority, the Congress secured a majority in 20 ULBs while the BJP won 15 and the JD(S) has just won one ULB at Bidadi. The rest of the ULBs have thrown mixed results with no party being able to get a majority. In three ULBs, the support of JD(S) is crucial for either the BJP or the Congress to secure a majority.
31-12-2021||India||Cong appoints in-charge for West Bengal||New Delhi: Congress leader A Chellakumar has been appointed the party’s in-charge for West Bengal, the party has said in a statement. The appointment comes nearly seven months after Jitin Prasada quit the post and the party.The development comes at a time when the Congress is on the backfoot in West Bengal and its relations with the ruling All IndaTrinamool Congress are strained.Chellakumar is already the party’s in-charge for Odisha.A communication from Congress general secretary (organization) KC Venugopal said, “Hon’ble Congress president Sonia Gandhi has appointed Chellakumar as AICC in-charge of West Bengal and Andaman & Nicobar islands for an interim period, with immediate effect.”Prasada quit the Congress in June, a month after the Congress drew a blank in the Bengal assembly elections. It had contested the polls in alliance with the CPI(M)-led Left parties.“The delay in appointing an AICC in-charge for the Congress was plausible as there were no elections round the corner,” said a senior leader.Chellakumar’s entry in Bengal also comes at a point when the Congress’ larger goal of an united Opposition is facing issues from the Trinamool.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-appoints-in-charge-for-west-bengal-101640971429198.html
31-12-2021||India||Five charts that capture 2021 for India||2022 begins today. What did the last year bring for India? Here are five charts which capture the most important events in the year that was. Pandemic: The deadly second wave India imposed one of the most stringent lockdowns in the world when the pandemic broke out in 2020. The lockdown did delay the spread of the Covid-19 virus in the country. Daily new cases did not cross 5,000 until May 17, two weeks after lockdowns were being eased. The first wave of the pandemic, seen in terms of seven-day average of daily new cases peaked on September 16, 2020, when the average was 93,617. By February 11, daily new cases had come down to just 10,988. This created a sense of complacency, which would prove to be extremely costly months later. The second wave of Covid-19 – if one defines it as a consistent daily increase in 7-day rolling averages for two weeks – started around February 28. The numbers increased rapidly. By April 7, seven-day average of daily new cases had crossed the 93,617 figure, the peak seen during the first wave of the pandemic. The peak came on May 9, when the seven-day average of daily new cases was 391,819. The rapid surge in infections tested and led to a near-collapse of India’s medical infrastructure, seen in reports of not just a shortage of hospital beds but also things like medical oxygen. To be sure, both the number of infections and deaths – at 1.38% India’s case fatality rate is among the lowest – are likely to underestimates. Various reports of rapid spike in death registrations during the peak of the pandemic underline the argument about undercounting of deaths during the pandemic. Chart: Seven-day average of daily new cases Policy: 841 million vaccinated people and counting If there is one policy achievement the Indian State should take credit for in 2021, it is the country’s Covid-19 vaccination programme. The achievement was not without initial hurdles, even hiccups. The world’s first fully-tested Covid-19 public vaccine was administered on December 8 in the United Kingdom. India started vaccinations on January 16. India opened its vaccination programme for the general population on March 1. It would take another 61 days before the programme was opened for all adults on May 1. The progress was slow initially, and there were experiments with a decentralised versus centralised approach to vaccination initially. It was only from August that the pace of the programme reached its current level. While it seems unlikely that the country will achieve full vaccination of all adults by the end of 2021 – 841 million or 89.5% adults have received at least one dose by December 28 -- the progress so far is far from insignificant, especially in keeping with the global vaccine inequality between rich and poor nations. It is on the basis of this success that India has announced the administering of booster doses and vaccines for children in 2022. Chart: Cumulative share of partially and fully vaccinated adults Pain: Largest ever economic contraction in India’s history India’s GDP suffered a contraction of 7.3% in 2020-21. This is the largest ever economic contraction in Independent India and the first instance of a contraction because of the non-farm economy; agriculture was the only sector which actually recorded positive growth. The contraction was largely a result of the 68-day long hard lockdown which threw economic activity off the rails in the first half of the fiscal year. Quarter-wise GDP numbers show this clearly. GDP suffered a contraction of 24.4% and 7.4% in the quarters ending June and September 2020. The economy was inching back to normalcy with a growth of 0.46% and 1.64% in the quarters ending December 2020 and March 2021, before the second wave disrupted the momentum once again. India’s GDP is expected to cross pre-pandemic levels in 2021-22 with a growth of 9.5% (RBI’s projections), but indicators such as Consumer Confidence Surveys clearly show that a large share of the country’s population is still scarred by the pandemic’s economic disruption. Chart: Annual GDP growth rate India Politics: The BJP’s loss in BengalThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) created history when it came back with an even bigger majority in the 2019 general elections. The state which played a crucial role in the BJP achieving this feat was West Bengal. The arithmetic speaks for itself. The BJP’s seat tally went up from 282 to 303 between 2014 and 2019, an increase of 21. West Bengal accounted for 16 of these additional seats in 2019. The West Bengal success for the BJP was also a debacle for the All India Trinamool Congress (TMC). As the assembly elections came closer, the TMC seemed to be besieged, with large-scale defections to the BJP of which Suvendu Adhikari was the most prized catch. A BJP victory in West Bengal was not just about capturing a large state with 42 Lok Sabha seats. It was also about conquering the last eastern frontier which has eluded India’s dominant political hegemon so far. This was not to be. When the results were announced, the TMC seemed to have more than compensated for its 2019 debacle. It won a bigger majority than it had in 2016, gaining 4.6 percentage points in vote share from its 2019 performance. 2021 West Bengal results will have a significant bearing on both the BJP’s and its opposition’s politics in the run-up to 2024.Chart: Seat share and vote share of BJP and TMC in 2019 and 2021 Perseverance: India’s best ever Olympics The pandemic delayed the Tokyo Olympics, which were originally scheduled for 2020. It also meant that our athletes were blocked access to their regular training facilities. When the Olympics did happen in 2021, they proved to be India’s best ever, not just in terms of the overall medals tally, but also the number of sports where Indians were able to prove themselves to be the best in the world. Tokyo 2021 also saw India break its jinx in track and field, with Neeaj Chopra winning no less than a gold medal in javelin throw. While there is absolutely nothing which takes away from individual heroics of the athletes which won medals at the Olympics, or the ones which could not but made us all take notice; the Indian women’s hockey team or Aditi Ashok in golf, for example, the overall performance is yet another vindication of the fact that Indian sport is slowly but steadily expanding its footprint at the global stage. Chart: Medals won by India in summer Olympics||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-charts-that-capture-2021-for-india-101640971309589.html
31-12-2021||India||Uttarakhand cook who was fired in ‘caste’ row reinstated||Rudrapur: A 32-year-old Dalit woman, who was fired as the cook in a government school in Uttarakhand 10 days ago after upper-caste students refused to eat meals cooked by her, was reinstated on Friday following widespread criticism of her removal.Her reappointment came a day after the police registered a First Information Report (FIR) against six named and 18-20 other unnamed– including a female block development committee (BDC) member and the president of the parent teacher association -- under the Scheduled Castes (SC) and the Scheduled Tribes (ST) (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and 506 (criminal intimation), on a complaint filed by the Dalit woman, Sunita Devi.“We held a meeting of the parent teachers association and school management committee in the college and reinstated the Dalit woman as bhojanmata (midday meal cook) who was removed from her post on December 22,” said RC Purohit, chief education officer (CEO) of Champawat district.“I am so happy after all I have not only got justice but also will be able to financially help my family. Before my appointment and removal from bhojanmata post, I was not aware of the fact that a Dalit woman can apply for this post. My reappointment for the post has given me the strength to raise my voice for my own right,” Devi said. Devi had joined as bhojanmata (midday meal cook) in the government inter college (GIC) at Sukhidhang on December 13. She replaced Shakuntala Devi, an upper caste woman who retired after turning 60. On Sunita Devi’s first day, all students had the midday meal together.But a day later, some 40 upper caste students in classes 6 to 8 -- out of a total of 66 pupils in these classes -- stopped eating the meals and started bringing their tiffin boxes from home, sparking a row over caste discrimination in the area.She was subsequently fired by the education department on December 22, citing “procedural lapses” in her appointment. Two days later, Dalit students in the school boycotted the midday meal cooked by the upper caste woman who replaced Devi. The incident sparked widespread condemnation and allegations of caste bias. On Thursday, Mukesh Kumar, chairman of the state commission for scheduled castes, met Devi and told the police to file a case in the matter.“We have booked six named and 18-20 other persons, including a woman, under the SC/ST Act on the complaint of a bhojanmata (cook). A probe will be conducted by a circle officer (CO),” said sub-inspector (SI) Devendra Bisht, in-charge of Chalthi police outpost in Champawat district.Devi praised the police action. ”These people created trouble in my appointment and threatened me. So I approached the police. I will take my case back if they promise me in writing that they will not create any problems in future and will live harmoniously in the village as earlier,” she said.Among those named in the FIR were BDC member Deepa Joshi, parents-teachers association(PTA) chief Narendra Joshi, Mahesh Chaurakoti, Babloo Gahtori, Shankar Datt and Satish Chand, said Bisht. The FIR was filed on Thursday.Deputy inspector general of Kumaon range, Nilesh Anand Bharne, who was directed by chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami to probe into the matter, confirmed the FIR. “The case will be investigated at a high-priority level,” he added.Deepa Joshi refuted the allegations. “We have done nothing except raising voice against procedural lapses in Sunita Devi’s appointment. But it was made a case of caste discrimination by some elements. These elements have provoked her to lodge an FIR against us. We have full faith in the police probe,” she said.“Education authorities have reinstated Sunita Devi as per government’s norms. We have no problem and want our village atmosphere as it was earlier. Villagers want their cooperation to be extended for the betterment of the college,” said Narendera Joshi, president, PTA, GIC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cook-who-was-fired-in-caste-row-reinstated-101640971308936.html
31-12-2021||India||Variant watch: Scotland study finds Omicron made a major shift||A new study by researchers in Scotland has found that the Omicron variant of the Sars-CoV-2 has undergone significant biological changes compared to older configurations of the virus, leading to not only the large immune resistance it is now established to have but even seemingly changing the way it infects cells. At the outset, these insights have an implication for the “pathogenesis (the way disease progresses) and clinical severity” of Covid-19 it causes, both of which have been seen to be milder. But it also demonstrates the coronavirus’s ability to be very highly adaptive, which means it can still significantly change the way it spreads and sickens us in the future. “The Omicron variant represents a major change in biological function and antigenicity of Sars-CoV-2 virus… Moreover, our work demonstrates that Sars-CoV-2 exhibits high antigenic and functional plasticity; further fundamental shifts in transmission and disease should be anticipated,” said the team led by researchers from MRC – University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research in the report.The researchers corroborate two findings that have been reported by several scientists in the last month – the variant is very resistant to antibodies from vaccinated people, and it is bad at infecting lung cells. The last factor is among reasons it may be leading to milder disease. ‘Switch in mechanism’ But, more importantly, they uncover a previously unknown insight into the mechanism by which it infects human cells. Normally, the Sars-CoV-2 has had two routes by which it does this. One involves an enzyme called TMRRS2 among the several steps from the point the virus latches on to cells till it fuses with the target. Till now, all variants have favoured this route.Omicron, however, takes the other route, using enzymes called cathepsins among the many steps of the infection process. The mechanistic difference has several implications. “This biological about-face may impact transmission, cellular tropism and pathogenesis,” the authors say in their report. In other words, it changes how it can transmit, which tissues it infects and how it grows in them, and the disease it leads to. We know it transmits faster, grows quickly in some parts of the respiratory systems but not the lungs, and leads to less severe disease.A particular implication of the mechanistic change is that the variant now no longer leads to the formation of syncitia, or giant cells -- at all. Even the variant that first spread around Wuhan, the epicenter of the pandemic, led to some syncitia. Syncitia refers to the forming of giant infected cells that is linked to severe disease. The Delta variant was particularly stark for how it led to syncitia, and as a variant of concern (VOC), it is regarded as most likely to cause severe disease.Like most early studies, the report is yet to be peer-reviewed.New UK estimates on vaccines hospitalisationThe UK Health Security Agency released a new variant update on Friday, presenting the first vaccine efficacy estimates against hospitalisation for people infected with the variant. The headline number for the country is that three shots appeared to provide close to 90% protection from needing hospital admission.But the assessment found the risk of hospitalisation for those with two doses may considerably more, especially if their last dose was more than six months ago. “When combined with vaccine effectiveness against symptomatic disease, this (hospitalisation risk) was equivalent to vaccine effectiveness against hospitalisation of 52% after one dose, 72% 2-to-24 weeks after dose 2, 52% 25+ weeks after dose 2, and 88% 2+ weeks after a booster dose,” said the briefing document.The data was based on a total of 815 individuals with laboratory-confirmed (sequencing, genotyping or SGTF) Omicron infections, who have been admitted or transferred from emergency departments. 
31-12-2021||India||GST Council defers tax hike on textiles||New Delhi The Goods and Services Tax Council on Friday deferred its decision to raise tax on textiles from January 1, but the bulk of footwear may become costlier from Saturday as GST on low-end products is set to jump from 5% to 12% on the first day of the New Year.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said the 46th meeting of the GST Council was convened on short notice under the “emergency provisions” after Gujarat approached her with a proposal to defer the September decision of the council to put certain textile items under a higher tax slab to correct the inverted duty structure.The GST Council on September 17 announced its decision to correct the duty inversion on textiles and the footwear value chain from January 1. The move could have made both garments and footwear costlier as GST on them would have gone up from 5% to 12% in order to correct duty inversion.Higher duty on raw materials as compared to finished products leads to an inverted tax structure that makes it difficult for manufacturers to claim input tax credit (ITC), and the burden is ultimately passed on to the consumer. ITC allows a GST-registered business to claim levies already paid on inputs before making a final sale of the product and services that aims to prevent cascading of taxes.The Union finance minister, who is also the chairperson of the GST Council, said at the emergency meeting held on Friday, the Council decided “to retain the status quo” and not to make duty correction from 5% to 12% from January 1 in the case of textiles. “Textile was the only issue of discussion in this emergency meet,” she said.She said that the committee, which is looking into “rate rationalisation”, will review the issue of tax anomalies in the complex textile sector along with other items and submit its report by February. The report will be circulated to all members before the Council will take up the matter either by the end of February or sometime in March, she added.At the 45th meeting of the Council on September 17, the apex decision-making body on indirect tax matters also decided to set up two groups of ministers (GoMs) -- one will examine ways to rationalise tax rates and review exemptions to boost revenues and the other to discuss ways and means of using technology to improve compliances.Bimal Jain, chairman of the indirect tax committee at PHD Chambers of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) said, “There is no deferment on GST rate from 5% to 12% on footwear w.e.f. January 1, 2022, which is also one of unorganised sector... this hike in GST rates will make footwear expensive for the common man.”MS Mani, partner at consultancy firm Deloitte India, said it is necessary to find out a solution to the problems of inverted duty structure in the textile sector. “The decision to roll back the proposed GST rate increase case of the textile products would also make the footwear sector expect a similar treatment in future,” he added.Sitharaman said although it was a “brief meeting” with “only one agenda” some of the ministers did raise the issue of extending compensation to states beyond June 2022. “We’ve heard them. That wasn’t in the agenda, so there wasn’t any response from our side on that,” she added.Several states are seeking extension of the indirect tax compensation system beyond June 2022. As the Covid-19 pandemic is far from over, they fear a sudden drop in their GST receipts after the five-year guarantee period will end in June 2022. They want this period to be extended under the unforeseen circumstances by amending the GST law, between two and five years.At the time of introducing the new indirect tax regime in July 2017, the GST law assured states a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years, and assured them that their revenue shortfall would be made good through the compensation cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and tobacco.The textile ministry thanked the PM and the FM for considering the requests of industry stakeholders, especially in the present challenging time when the sector is on the path of recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-council-defers-tax-hike-on-textiles-101640971008831.html
31-12-2021||India||Another muted New Year's Eve as Covid tally continues to rise||New Delhi: India rang in a muted New Year at midnight on Saturday as the number of new cases in several parts of the country continued on a sharp rise, with officials saying the Omicron variant is now in community transmission in many cities, a conclusion also corroborated by genome surveillance trends.In all, around 19% of sequences submitted by India to a global genome testing database were of the Omicron variant, which spreads an estimated three times faster than other variants but is believed to be less than half as likely as Delta to lead to serious Covid-19.Also Read | Amid Covid-19 surge, govt tells states to set up 24x7 testing booths“The trends for India show that 18.7% of the Covid-19 positive samples that have been whole genome sequenced so far since the time aggressive sequencing began earlier this month, were positive for the heavily mutated Omicron variant of Sars-CoV-2,” said a senior central government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.The India samples are both from international travellers and from within the community that tested positive for Covid-19. “These are results of tests performed in all labs across the country, and is a mix of travellers and sentinel surveillance samples,” said the official.Among the cities that recorded a sharp spike were Delhi and Mumbai. The two cities receive the highest numbers of international passengers and the surge was expected since the variant originated in South Africa and took hold in the UK, from where it has likely been imported by infected travellers.On Friday, Delhi reported 1,796 new cases – in terms of average daily cases over a week, the count has increased 567%. In Mumbai, there were 5,428 new cases, with the rate of average daily cases having risen 437% in the most recent seven-day period.The surge has caused most cities, including Delhi and Mumbai, to limit or cancel New Year’s Eve celebrations for the second straight year. In Mumbai, officials announced people will not be allowed to gather on beaches, seafront or gardens between 5pm and 5am for the next fortnight. In Delhi, New Year parties in public places and businesses have been prohibited.HT reported on Thursday that more than half of community samples analysed by one large hospital in the last week were of Omicron. The proportion in Mumbai’s case was around 37%, officials there said.The official quoted above said people should guard against believing Omicron’s rise was a good sign because it can lead to milder disease. “Delta infected population does not mean people will not get the infection when Omicron is in circulation. Whatever immune capacity we have, it has not been able to protect people from getting infected with Omicron even in a city like Delhi that has shown 80-90% seroprevalence in recent surveys,” said the official.The person added that the rapid nature of Omicron’s spread would complicate containment efforts. “This is far more transmissible variant than what we have seen before; therefore, after a point, containment measures or contact tracing will be pointless. Each of us will have to look out for ourselves,” the official added.The government also advised states to boost testing efforts.Experts around the wold have stressed on the need to focus on mitigation measures – steps that can help manage the disease for those that need attention the most, since the variant is causing a smaller proportion of people to become seriously ill than before. Strategies to contain infections that can be mild or asymptomatic will involve huge numbers, be difficult to carry out and cause significant disruption.Experts in India said the third wave is very much here. “There are early signs of third wave with consistently increasing rate of transmission and rising test positivity, especially in urban areas. With the way cases are multiplying truly exponentially, third wave is almost here,” said Giridhara R Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar went on record to say the third wave had begun in his state. “Bihar has recorded the first Omicron case. Everyone has to be alert. The state is witnessing a sharp rise in cases, with the maximum being registered in Patna and Gaya. A large number of people from other states reside in these two places, and this could be a reason behind the spike in cases in these areas. The third Covid wave has begun in the state,” Kumar said.Preventive measures remain the same — masking up, maintaining physical distancing and hand hygiene, and avoiding crowded spaces – and will remain crucial, a second expert added. “We also have tools we did not have before—drugs and vaccines that can be updated quickly if needed,” said Gagandeep Kang, vaccine expert, Christian Medical College, Vellore.
31-12-2021||India||High positivity rate due to active testing: Mizoram govt on Covid-19 figures||Mizoram’s high test positivity rate, which has remained a cause of concern for the Centre, is due to more active testing, state health officials maintained on Friday. On Thursday, Union health ministry joint secretary Luv Agarwal had flagged eight districts, which logged more than 10% weekly positivity rate. Six of these districts are from Mizoram. Agarwal also highlighted that weekly positivity rate in 14 districts was between 5-10%. Four of those districts are in Mizoram. “Data (on positivity rates and infections) changes every day. Since more of likely positive cases are tested, the rate may seem high,” Dr. Pachuau Lalmalsawma, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Mizoram stated. On Friday, Mizoram recorded 243 new Covid-19 cases, the highest among all states in the northeast and one death. There are 1,471 active cases in the state at present. Till date the state has recorded 141400 cases and 543 deaths. The state has not recorded any Omicron case till date, but the health department has taken measures to ensure that it doesn’t spread. “There’s regular screening at Aizawl airport with RAT tests done for arriving passengers. If tested negative, RT-PCR test is done. Those found positive are sent to quarantine for a week followed by another RT-PCR test. We have also set up separate facilities for quarantine and isolation,” said Dr Pachuau. 
31-12-2021||India||How Omicron is spreading so fast in Delhi, Mumbai. Here's what data reveals||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Friday revealed that Omicron has overtaken Delta in a specific group of samples which were sent for genome sequencing. This comes as experts opined that Omicron in India has begun to replace Delta. However, the health ministry on Thursday said that Delta still was the dominant strain in India.As much as 55 per cent out of 282 samples of coronavirus patients from Mumbai, sent for genome sequencing, have tested positive for the Omicron variant, the BMC said. This was the seventh batch of samples sent to a lab at the Kasturba Hospital of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the National Institute of Virology, Pune. Out of 282 samples, 156 (55 per cent) were found to be of Omicron variant, 89 (32 per cent) of Delta Derivative and 37 (13 per cent) of Delta variant."The trend of an increasing number of Covid-19 cases shows that it is due to Omicron, which is replacing Delta in India and globally as well," official sources told news agency ANI.Omicron, first detected in South Africa, is known to be more transmissible than other variants of the virus. With its immuno-evasive nature, it is infecting vaccinated people as well, though the severity of the cases is mild.The first cases detected in India were of foreign origin clearly establishing the fact that they got the variant abroad. But now people without any travel history are testing positive for the Omicron variant. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said Omicron is spreading in the community.The trend is not exclusive to Delhi. In Mumbai too, people without travel history are testing positive for Omicron. According to BMC's Thursday data, As many as 141 Mumbai residents who had not travelled abroad recently tested positive for the Omicron variant of coronavirus. BMC has not confirmed the community spread of Omicron. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani told PTI that the BMC would be sending 375 more samples for genome sequencing to check if there has been a community spread of the Omicron variant. Community spread can be confirmed only after the report arrives, Kakani added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-omicron-is-spreading-so-fast-in-delhi-mumbai-here-s-what-data-reveals-101640970384587.html
31-12-2021||India||Tamil Nadu imposes new curbs as daily tally skyrockets with 1,155 new cases||With Covid-19 cases in the state rapidly rising, the Tamil Nadu government on Friday announced fresh restrictions, limiting malls, theatres, jewellery shops, textile stores, beauty parlours, showrooms, amusement parks, and metro trains to operate at 50 per cent capacity.The announcement comes on a day when the state registered 1,155 new Covid-19 infections. Of these, there were 74 Omicron infections.The new cases included international returnees from domestic and overseas destinations. The returnees were from the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Sri Lanka, Oman and West Bengal, according to the state health department.Covid-19 infections have been increasing in Tamil Nadu over the last two days.Chennai and neighbouring Chengalpet accounted for most of the fresh infections with 589 and 137 cases respectively, while the remaining was spread across other districts.The cumulative caseload in the state rose to 27,48,045, while the death toll mounted to 36,776 with 11 more people succumbing to the contagion, according to the latest bulletin by the state's health Department.A total of 603 people were discharged in the last 24 hours, recording lesser recoveries compared to new infections today. The recoveries aggregated to 27,03,799, leaving 7,470 active infections.Ariyalur recorded the least with nil new cases, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-imposes-new-curbs-as-daily-tally-skyrockets-with-1-155-new-cases-details-here-101640966768140.html
31-12-2021||India||Centre extends validity of FCRA registration of NGOs till March 31||The ministry of home affairs on Friday extended the validity of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) registration of non-government organisations (NGOs) by three months till March 31.The validity was slated to expire on December 31.The relief, however, will not be extended to organisations such as Missionaries of Charity (MoC), as their applications for a renewal of FCRA have already been rejected, the ministry said.Also Read | Mother Teresa's charity denies bank account freeze after Mamata blames Centre“The Centre, in public interest, has decided to extend the validity of the FCRA registration certificates of NGOs up to March 31, 2022 or till the date of disposal of their renewal applications, whichever is earlier, in respect of only those entities that fulfill certain criteria,” the notice by the ministry said.The NGOs with FCRA registration certificates expiring between September 29, 2020 and March 31, 2022 and that have applied for renewal on the FCRA portal before the expiry of the certificates, in accordance with rule 12 of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Rules, 2011, are eligible for the benefits.“All FCRA registered associations are therefore advised to take note of the fact that in case of refusal of the application for renewal of certificate of registration, the validity of the certificate shall be deemed to have expired on the date of refusal of the application of renewal and the association shall not be eligible either to receive foreign contribution or utilise the foreign contribution received,” the notice said.According to the ministry, a total of 22,762 NGOs are registered under the FCRA and the renewal applications of about 6,500 have so far been processed.The NGOs that have valid registration certificates under the FCRA are eligible to receive funding from abroad.Earlier this week, a political controversy broke out over the Centre’s decision, taken on December 25, to not renew the FCRA licence of Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity (MoC) with Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressing shock, and the Union government clarifying its stand.Also Read | Missionaries of Charity’s troubles continueThe Missionaries of Charity is a Catholic religious congregation established in 1950 by Mother Teresa.The row began when Banerjee alleged that bank accounts of Mother Teresa’s foundation were frozen by the central government, a claim instantly denied by the ministry.The Union government issued a statement saying the request to freeze Missionaries of Charity accounts was made by the foundation itself to the State Bank of India. It acknowledged, however, that the renewal of FCRA registration of MoC was refused on December 25, citing “adverse inputs”, and that it has not yet applied for a review.The registration of Missionaries of Charity, under FCRA vide Registration No 147120001, was valid up to October 31, 2021, according to the ministry. It added that the validity was subsequently extended to December 31, 2021, along with other FCRA associations whose renewal applications were pending renewal.The organisation also, in a statement, clarified “that the FCRA registration has neither been suspended nor cancelled. Further there is no freeze ordered by the ministry of home affairs on any of our bank accounts”. “We have been informed that our FCRA renewal application has not been approved. Therefore, as a measure to ensure there is no lapse, we have asked our centres not to operate any of the FC accounts until the matter is resolved,” it said.The government amended the FCRA in September 2020 to make the law stricter. A new provision in the law mandated that non-government organisations receiving foreign funding will have to operate bank accounts in State Bank of India in New Delhi only.On Thursday, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik directed all district collectors to ensure that no unit of the Missionaries of Charity operating in the state faces any financial crisis and, if necessary, to use the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to help them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-extends-validity-of-fcra-registration-of-ngos-till-march-31-101640969328523.html
31-12-2021||India||These states in India have confirmed cases of Omicron Covid variant. Full list||Cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19 witnessed a whopping surge on Thursday taking the overall tally to 1,432 after multiple states, including Maharashtra and Kerala confirmed new infections. Bihar was the entrant in the nationwide tally with its first case reported in a 26-year-old man, who recently returned to the eastern state from Delhi.The highly transmissible new strain of coronavirus that has been categorised as a ‘variant of concern’ by the United Nations health agency World Health Organisation (WHO), has spread like fire and triggered multiple states and Union territories (UTs) across India to take measures to combat it.Also Read | More waves will come, Omicron fortunately less severe: Gagandeep KangDelhi, which is one of the top two most-hit regions in the country along with Maharashtra, has imposed a yellow alert and a night curfew between 10pm and 5am as part of its Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP). Maharashtra has also announced curbs that include banning gathering of more than five people between 9pm and 6am, and imposing Section 144 in Mumbai. Earlier in the day, the state government announced fresh restrictions wherein it capped attendees at social, political or religious events at 50 and those at funerals at 20. Similar curbs have been announced by other states as well such as Karnataka, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala, among others.Here's a list of states and Union territories that have so far reported Omicron cases:      1416||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-states-in-india-have-confirmed-cases-of-omicron-covid-variant-full-list-101640965216015.html
31-12-2021||India||CoBRA commando killed in encounter with Naxals in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma||Raipur: A commando of the CRPF’s jungle warfare unit CoBRA was killed in an encounter with Naxals in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district on Friday, a police official said.The skirmish took place in Palachalma forest under Kistaram police station limits when a team of the 208th battalion of the Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) was out on an anti-naxal operation, Sukma superintendent of police Sunil Sharma said.When the patrolling team was cordoning off the forest, located over 450 km, the exchange of fire broke out between the two sides, the SP said.“Constable Virendra Singh, belonging to CoBRA’s 208th battalion, suffered bullet injury on his chest and was shifted to the CRPF’s field hospital in Kistaram. Preparation was being made to airlift him to Raipur for further treatment but he succumbed,” Sharma added.Sukma falls in the state’s south Bastar region where the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and its CoBRA units are extensively deployed for anti-Maoist operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cobra-commando-killed-in-encounter-with-naxals-in-chhattisgarh-s-sukma-101640967888499.html
31-12-2021||India||1,796 Covid cases in Delhi, containment zones rise by more than 8 times in December||Delhi on Friday reported another jump in Covid-19 cases with 1,796 new cases recorded in the last 24 hours which took the positivity rate to 2.44%. The positivity rate shot over 2% after 221 days, the highest since May 24 (2.52%). On Thursday, Delhi recorded 1,313 cases and the positivity rate was at 1.73. The sharp rise comes as the national capital is welcoming the new year amid a mini lockdown. Data reveals the number of containment zones in Delhi has increased by more than 8 times in December. As on January 31, the number of Delhi's containment zones stands at 914. No fatality was reported on Friday. In December, the capital reported 9 deaths overall. The rise in cases in Delhi comes as the overall Covid tally of India is on a rise for the past few days. On December 1, when the national capital had logged 39 infections in a single day, the number of containment zones stood at 102. On December 30, the number of containment zones has increased to 823, while single-day infections have risen to 1,313.South district has the maximum number of active containment zones at 402, followed by west at 108 and New Delhi at 84 zones. Northeast district has zero active containment zones, with only 53 active cases. East district has six active containment zones, while the central district has 18 such zones.Southwest, northwest and Shahdara districts have less than 50 active containment zones at 33, 26 and 30, respectively. New Delhi, North and southeast districts have 84, 62 and 54 active containment zones, respectively.Within a span of 10 days, the containment zones have multiplied by five times, official data said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1796-covid-cases-in-delhi-containment-zones-rise-by-more-than-8-times-in-dec-101640967519192.html
31-12-2021||India||More waves will come, Omicron fortunately less severe: Virologist Gagandeep Kang||India's top virologist Dr Gagandeep Kang on Friday said many more waves of the Covid pandemic will come as it is a respiratory virus and such viruses have a great deal of seasonality. "I think it's very clear that we are going to have to learn to live with SARS-COv-2 virus and with the various variants that will continue to emerge from a virus that replicates at a very high level," Dr Kang said to news agency ANI, in an interview. The country is better prepared than it was two years ago and people should now learn to live of Covid-19, she said.The observation comes as India is on the threshold of a fresh possible wave likely to be driven by Omicron. In the last few days, the daily number of Covid cases has gone up remarkably, while Omicron cases are also shooting up. From January 3, India will be administering vaccines to children between the age of 15 and 18 years. From January 10, frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidities will be given precaution doses.Even if Omicron may cause less severe disease: WHO chief scientist's warning"I believe we should be sending children to school, as generally COVID-19 infections are not much severe in children. Data available to inform a decision as to which vaccine should be used as a booster dose in India is very little," Dr Kang added."The important thing to remember is that we are not today in the same situation that we were in two years ago. We have a lot of tools available to us, a better understanding of how to use testing, what kinds of treatments work, and how to use and how to make vaccines that are effective," Dr Kang said.The impact of Omicron seems to be somewhat less severe than other variants, the virologist said. "I think the important thing to remember about third and other waves is that there will be a third or fourth or fifth. When you have viruses that are respiratory viruses, what we tend to see of the viruses is a great deal of seasonality. These are viruses that keep coming back time and again," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-waves-will-come-omicron-fortunately-less-severe-virologist-gagandeep-kang-101640965205314.html
31-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Fever, body ache to be treated as Covid, says Centre and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.All cases of fever, body ache to be tested for Covid: Centre writes to states, lists 8 symptomsThe Union health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research on Friday wrote to all states and Union territories asking them to ramp up testing as RT-PCR results may take time due to huge pressure. Read moreTwo foreign-controlled mobile cos could face action for violating law: GovtTwo foreign-controlled mobile companies could face penalties of more than ₹1000 crore for not complying with the "regulatory mandate prescribed under the Income-Tax Act, 1961 for disclosure of transactions with associated enterprises", the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said on Friday. Read moreThane traffic cops use Google Maps to deal with traffic crisis in quick timeIn order to respond better and faster to traffic-related crisis in Thane city, the Thane Traffic Police have started using Google Maps to track the traffic situation in real time. Read more'Sometimes it hurts': Ravichandran Ashwin recalls hearing 'he is finished' murmurs, says people wrote him offHe may currently have 429 Test wickets under his belt but Ravichandran Ashwin has had his fair share of challenges in international cricket. Read moreSona Mohapatra slams ‘male privilege and stupidity’ of Twitter user who questioned her post on women’s safetySinger Sona Mohapatra shared a video from one of her live shows and commented on the predominantly male audience. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-fever-body-ache-to-be-treated-as-covid-says-centre-101640963970286.html
31-12-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: January 1, 2000 — Hostages home, happy new year; tearful reunions at Delhi airport||New Delhi: The two Indian Airlines aircraft carrying the hostages, officials and the Union External Affairs Minister Mr Jaswant Singh arrived at the Indira Gandhi International Airport tonight bringing to an end eight-days long hijack drama which ended earlier this evening following the release of three militants in Kandahar. Moving scenes were witnessed as the hostages were reunited with their family members. Some of the released passengers had to be rushed straight to hospitals as they needed immediate medical attention. While one plane carrying 101 passengers landed shortly before 9 p m. the second aircraft arrived 10 minutes later. Many of the passengers were reluctant to speak about their captivity and expressed happiness that they had reached the Indian capital safely. Some of the hostages were critical about the government’s inordinate delay in arriving at the settlement. “Our government has failed. It took more than three days for any government representative to even come to Kandahar and check out our well being”, said Daman Soni, soon after being embraced into the fold of his family. His son Satish, suffering from chronic kidney, was wheeled into a waiting ambulance on a wheel chair.Daman Soni, who was sitting next to the slain Ripun Katyal, recalled, “He kept crying for water for more than two hours before he finally bled to death in front of us. There was nothing we could do.” Among the significant details that the released hostages revealed was that the number of weapons carried by the hijackers increased at Kandahar. “Before the plane reached Kandahar the hijackers had only one pistol, two knives and grenades. But once there, they suddenly had more pistols and grenades,” recalled Chander Chhabra, another released passenger. While the hijackers were not harsh with the passengers, one of the released hostages said, “They would keep asking to put on the blind-folds on different occasions and whenever there was a stalemate in the negotiations with the Indian government refusing their demands, they would threaten us, put knives at our throats and pistols at our temples.” About the food and sanitation conditions, N Mahesh, who had gone to Kathmandu on his honeymoon, with his wife, Neelima, said, “Vegetarians were literally starving. They gave us only beef.” Sunil Sharma, a slightly built passenger, who appeared even more haggard after his ordeal, said, “Maybe we could have overpowered them if we had been able to talk freely with each other. But if a pistol is put to your head, you do feel scared.” In a highly surcharged atmosphere some cried, others tried to smile as they came out of the special aircraft. The passengers were put in cars at the Indira Gandhi Airport where stand-by ambulances were there to meet any emergency. Relatives were allowed to meet the freed passengers at the terminal where tight security arrangements had been made. The passenger, who had been released for a brief period at Kandahar for treatment of a stomach ailment, was the first to come into the arrival lounge. He looked pale. Relatives with bouquets in their hands and tears in their eyes lustily cheered the released hostages as they came out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-january-1-2000-hostages-home-happy-new-year-tearful-reunions-at-delhi-airport-101640960867932.html
31-12-2021||India||In 2021, a countrywide vaccination drive of immense value||December 31, 2021 marks exactly two years since the day that China confirmed that it was trying to ascertain the cause of an “unidentified pneumonia outbreak” in Wuhan. Since then, the Covid-disease causing coronavirus has redefined that world as we know it. In the first year of the Covid-19 pandemic, countries saw an unprecedented health crisis, which sparked lockdowns across the globe and led to widespread economic disruption whose effects we’re still reeling under. And while 2020 will be remembered about how the world grappled with containing a new virus, 2021 will go down in history as the year we fought back — it will be remembered as the year of the vaccines. In India, the first shot of the Covid19 vaccine was administered outside of a trial setting on January 16, 2021. The first recipients of the shots were the millions of health care and front-line workers who were directly dealing with Covid patients. A total of 191,181 people were given shots on the very first day. Through the next month-and-a-half, the phase one of the drive delivered shots to 11.8 million this group. Starting March 1, phase two of the drive partially opened it to the public — it covered those above the age of 60 years and people between the ages of 45 and 60 years with one or more qualifying comorbidities. To cover the normal populace, an online registration system was kicked off using the (till then) contact-tracing app Aarogya Setu and the Co-WIN website. The third phase of the drive made everyone above the age of 45 years eligible for a shot starting April 1. The biggest boost to the drive, however, was given when the drive was thrown open to all adults from May 1. On the first day of registration, nearly 13.3 million people booked their vaccine slots. By August 6, more than 500 million doses had been administered across the country under what was being dubbed as the world’s largest vaccination drive. In another two-and-a-half months, India’s dose administration had soared to a billion. In absolute numbers, the billion (100 crore) shots placed India as the second country in the world (next to China with 2.2 billion shots administered till October 21) in terms of total Covid-19 vaccine doses administered. The vaccines were administered in roughly 430,000 centres and a total of at least around 2 million health workers were directly involved in the process. At the time of this piece going to print, this number stands at nearly 1.44 billion doses. These 1,437,514,611 shots of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to 841 million people. When these numbers are seen alongside India’s projected adult population (according to the Census of India’s National Commission on Population) of 940 million by 2021, this means that nearly one in nine persons in the country (89.5%) above the age of 18 years have received a vaccine shot — 63.4% are fully vaccinated and another 26.1% partially vaccinated. But the headline number on coverage glosses over wide variations in coverage across the country. Himachal Pradesh leads the country in not only overall coverage, but also the proportion of people fully vaccinated — with the state’s entire adult population fully vaccinated with both doses. Among India’s major states, four — Jammu & Kashmir, Telangana, Delhi, and Andhra Pradesh — have achieved single-dose coverage of their entire populations, while their respective two-dose coverage stands at 92.7%, 66.9%, 72.8%, and 74.2%. At the other end of the spectrum, North-East states (excluding Assam) have the lowest overall coverage of their populations (69.9%) by at least one dose. They are followed by Jharkhand (74% coverage with at least one shot), Punjab (75%), Bihar (78.4%) and Tamil Nadu (85.8%), as per CoWIN data till late December 29.But despite all this, India’s vaccination drive has hardly been devoid of challenges. One of the largest issues that has plagued the drive has been the patchy rate of vaccination. At times, it has soared to averaging more than 10 million doses a day, and other times, it has dropped to under 1.4 million shots a day. By the end of September, when India was averaging administering 10 million shots a day, it looked like the country was set to hit its target of fully vaccinating everyone by the end of the year. But then, by early October this pace dropped to under 3 million (government officials attributed the festive season for the drop). Another reason for the patchy pace (at least in the initial weeks) was supply. At the start of Phase 4, several states, including Delhi, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh announced that they would delay their wider roll-outs of vaccines for all adults to later in May as they were apprehensive about supplies. States and the Centre were involved in public spats over supply issues. Both these issues, however, appear to be behind the country now. Average vaccination pace has been decent in recent weeks (around 7 million/day), while supply issues appear to have been sorted (at the time of writing this article, states have with them a surplus of 177 million doses). But such a massive surplus of supply with states may be pointing to a problem in itself. Even though close to 90% of the country has received first shots, the government has been trying hard in the past week to make the final 10%-or-so to come to the vaccine centres (which is evident in the fall in single dose administration rate – from 6 million/day in September to 1.6 million/day in the past week). Furthermore, several states are struggling to get the people who have their second dose overdue to come out and get fully vaccinated. To tackle both these issues, the government has kicked off a door-to-door campaign for last-mile outreach, which assumes a lot more importance at a time when the world is grappling with a new highly infectious variant of Sars-CoV-2. And this same surplus of doses may also hold the answer to a critical question being asked with the new variant placing the world on alert — what must be done about booster shots? 2022 will bring us answers.
31-12-2021||India||All cases of fever, body ache to be tested for Covid: Centre writes to states, lists 8 symptoms||The Union health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research on Friday wrote to all states and Union territories asking them to ramp up testing as RT-PCR results may take time due to huge pressure. In such cases, the governments should increase rapid antigen testing and encourage people to use self-testing kits that have been approved by the government. Any individual presenting with fever with/without cough, headache, sore throat, breathlessness, bodyache, recent loss of taste or smell, fatigue and diarrhoea should be considered as suspect case of Covid-19 unless proven otherwise by confirmation or another etiology. All such individuals must be tested, the Centre said. "A rise in Covid-19 cases accompanied by an increase in positivity rate is being documented in various parts of the country. Early testing of suspect patients and their contacts and isolating them expeditiously are one of the key measures to curb transmission of SARS-CoV-2," the letter said.Also Read | 14 cities in 8 states on govt’s Omicron watch"Based on the previous experience, it has been observed that if the number of the cases rise above a certain threshold, RTPCR-based testing leads to delays in confirming diagnosis due to its turnaround time of about 5-8 hours," it said.Listing out the symptoms which need to be tested, the Centre said while their results are awaited, they should be advised to isolate and follow the home isolation guideline of the health ministry.Starting from December 26, India is witnessing a sudden surge in the daily Covid toll, which is believed to be driven by Omicron, the latest variant of SARs-CoV-2. Experts believe Omicron has replaced Delta to be the dominant strain in the country as maximum cases reported now are of the Omicron variant. As on Friday, India's Omicron tally stands at 1,270 while the country recorded 16,764 new infections and 220 daily fatalities. The sudden rise in the cases has triggered apprehension that the third wave of the pandemic has begun in the country. The Centre on Thursday said the surge in India could be linked to the global surge but there is no need to panic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-cases-of-fever-body-ache-to-be-tested-for-covid-centre-writes-to-states-lists-8-symptoms-101640958252042.html
31-12-2021||India||Govt will not extend Dec 31 deadline for filing I-T returns: Revenue Secretary||The Union finance ministry on Friday said the last date for filing income-tax returns is December 31, 2021 and it will not be extended further due to the rising cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 as the entire process is online and has so far generated huge taxpayers’ response.“There is absolutely no proposal to extend the date,” Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj said. The extended deadline for filing income tax returns by individuals will end on Friday midnight.Bajaj said the number of income-tax returns (ITRs) filed this year is considerably higher compared to last year, signifying a smooth filing process; hence there is no reason for extending the deadline.“Look the ITR return filing is going on very smoothly. Let me tell you, by 3 pm [on Friday] 5.62 crore returns have already been filed in total, and today itself people have filed more than 20 lakh returns, which is the highest. And in the last one hour 3.44 lakh returns have been filed. So, if returns are being filed in such numbers, I see no reason for anybody to claim [missing deadline for technical reasons],” he said.He compared return filings this year with the previous year to prove the point that the system is efficient and several people have already met the deadline. “Last year, [as] on 30th of December, 4.83 crore returns were filed this year 5.43 [crore] returns have been filed. So, 60 lakh more returns have been filed on the same [period] as compared to the last year when the last year also the closing date was the same,” he said.Even as the filing will continue till Friday midnight, the ITR numbers have already crossed 5.62 crore by Friday afternoon as compared 4.93 crore figure achieved on December 31, 2020, he said.“I expect another at least 20-25 lakh returns to come by 12 in the night. And, I think, the figures that we are anticipating would have come... The return filing is going on very smoothly. There is absolutely no proposal to extend the date. And I’m sure, through this message the other people [those who have not yet filed returns] also would now be filing their returns,” he said.On a question that some people may have faced difficulties in filing their returns due to the latest spread of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, Bajaj said: “You tell me, ... how is Omicron stopping you?... You have to sit on your laptop to file the return. Your chartered accountant also has to do that. What is the reason that we are asking?” he said.“I am also OK if the returns are less by 1 crore. The returns are not less by 1 crore. The returns are more than last year,” he added.He said that there are no technical issues stopping people from filing returns. “I’m telling you, if there’s a technical glitch, I’m watching the figures every one hour. So the figures are going up to 2 lakh, 2.5 lakh, 3 lakhs, 3.5 lakh. Where are these numbers coming from?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-will-not-extend-dec-31-deadline-for-filing-i-t-returns-revenue-secretary-101640958173034.html
31-12-2021||India||Two foreign-controlled mobile cos could face action for violating law: Govt||Two foreign-controlled mobile companies could face penalties of more than ₹1000 crore for not complying with the "regulatory mandate prescribed under the Income-Tax Act, 1961 for disclosure of transactions with associated enterprises", the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said on Friday.The CBDT said officers of the Income Tax department carried out search and seizure operations across the country on December 21 on premises of “certain foreign-controlled mobile communication and mobile handset manufacturing companies and their associated persons”.The board said searches were conducted in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Assam, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Bihar, Rajasthan, Delhi and the national capital region (NCR).The search action revealed that two major companies have made remittances in the nature of royalty, to and on behalf of their group companies located abroad, which aggregates to more than ₹5500 crore. The claim of such expenses does not seem to be appropriate, the CBDT said.The tax sleeths found evidence with regard to the inflation of expenses, payments on behalf of the associated enterprises that led to the reduction of taxable profits of the Indian mobile handset manufacturing company. Such an amount could be in excess of R.1,400 crore, the I-T department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-foreign-controlled-mobile-cos-could-face-action-for-violating-law-govt-101640956180610.html
31-12-2021||India||India's Covid vaccination coverage exceeds 145 crore, Mandaviya says 'ending year on great note'||India's overall vaccination coverage against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday surpassed the 145 crore-mark. According to figures updated on the Cowin portal, as many as 145,07,42,576 vaccine doses have been administered to eligible beneficiaries till the time of writing this report.Union minister for health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya hailed the milestone and said that India was “ending the year on a great note” “My gratitude to our doctors, scientists, healthcare and frontline workers for displaying immense grit, determination and resolve in the challenging 2021 year,” he tweeted.Dr Bharati Pawar, the Union minister of state (MoS) for health and family welfare also took to the microblogging site to laud the achievement of the country. “Salute to our Covid warriors, our healthcare and frontline workers who have worked day and night to help us achieve it,” she wrote on Twitter.Ending the year on a great note by crossing the milestone of 145 crore #COVID19 vaccinations 💉My gratitude to our doctors, scientists, healthcare & frontline workers for displaying immense grit, determination & resolve in the challenging 2021 year.#SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine pic.twitter.com/Tjc4j1GJqyCongratulations India! We have achieved a landmark milestone of 145 Crore COVID-19 vaccination doses. Salute to our COVID Warriors, our Healthcare and Frontline Workers who have worked day and night to help us achieve it. #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine pic.twitter.com/jDBsjDiCywIn a press briefing on Thursday, joint secretary of Union health ministry Lav Agarwal said that approximately 90% of India's adult population has been inoculated with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine so far, while 63.5% of the eligible population has been jabbed with the second.As per Cowin updates, as many as 53,93,001 beneficiaries have been administered with coronavirus vaccine shots during the day till the time of writing this report.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 25 announced Covid-19 vaccine doses for children aged 15 and above from January 3 onwards, and “precaution dose” (booster dose) for healthcare and frontline workers, and those aged 60 with comorbidities from January 10 onwards.The vaccination ramp up comes amid the Omicron Covid-19 variant outbreak, which has spread like fire across the country with more than 1,000 infections in 24 states and Union territories (UTs). Maharashtra and Delhi remains the leading contributors with 450 and 320 cases, respectively.India has also maintained a consistent upward trend in single-day Covid-19 cases. On Friday, it reported as many as 16,764 fresh infections, up from Thursday's 13,154, thereby pushing the cumulative tally to 3,48,38,804, according to data shared by Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-vaccination-coverage-exceeds-145-crore-mandaviya-lauds-feat-101640949289126.html
31-12-2021||India||Chinese embassy's letter to MPs triggers strong reaction||A letter written by the Chinese embassy to several Indian lawmakers for attending a reception hosted by the Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile triggered sharp political reactions on Friday, with a prominent parliamentarian slamming the mission for commenting on a matter in which it does not have a locus standi.At least six MPs from various political parties attended the dinner reception in Delhi last week.The Chinese embassy, in a letter to some of the members of the All-Party Indian Parliamentary Forum for Tibet, expressed concern over their attendance at the event and asked them to refrain from providing support to Tibetan forces.Sujeet Kumar, the convenor of the forum, said the Chinese embassy has no locus standi to write to an Indian MP.There was no immediate reaction from the government on the issue. Generally, India does not approve of any foreign embassy commenting on the country's internal matters.The Chinese embassy's letter came in the backdrop of strain in ties between the two countries following the eastern Ladakh border row.Kumar, a BJD MP, said he himself has not received the letter but several other members of Parliament have got it."I personally treat the letter with the contempt it deserves. It is not the first time the embassy has written to me, it has written to me several times. The embassy does not have any locus standi to write to an Indian parliamentarian. If it had any issue, it could have written to the Ministry of External Affairs. It has violated the protocol," he told PTI.Underlining that the meeting of the Indian MPs with the Tibetan government-in-exile was not a political engagement, Kumar said it was aimed at promoting cultural and trade ties."We have not met the Tibetan government-in-exile on behalf of the Ministry of External Affairs or the Indian government. We attended the dinner as members of the All-Party Indian Parliamentary Forum for Tibet. Our meeting was aimed at promoting cultural and trade ties between India and Tibet."The forum is advocating for the preservation of Tibetan art, culture and philosophy. We do not want to engage in political activities but wish to increase people-to-people interaction," he said.Kumar added that as an Indian citizen, he can express his views and so can other MPs.He said the members of the forum do intend to visit Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh and meet the Dalai Lama.When contacted, Manish Tewari of the Congress, who is also a member of the forum, said, "My attention has been drawn to a report published in some English newspaper. Neither have I received any letter nor will I demean or diminish myself by responding to such imbecile missives. Had (Chinese Foreign Minister) Wang Yi written, perhaps I would have considered responding."After a failed anti-Chinese uprising in 1959, the 14th Dalai Lama fled Tibet and came to India, where he set up a government-in-exile.Beijing has in the past accused the Dalai Lama of indulging in "separatist" activities and trying to split Tibet, and considers him as a divisive figure.However, the Tibetan spiritual leader has insisted that he is not seeking independence but "genuine autonomy" for all Tibetans living in the three traditional provinces of Tibet.Kumar, who was recently appointed as the convenor of the All-Party Indian Parliamentary Forum for Tibet, said the forum was almost defunct for several years, but it is being revived now."The forum was very active when late George Fernandes was its convenor. Later, I think it got defunct, it was not very active. Now, it is being revived. We have plans to visit Dharamshala and meet his holiness the Dalai Lama. We also want to talk about the cultural genocide in Tibet," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-embassy-s-letter-to-mps-triggers-strong-reaction-101640954647037.html
31-12-2021||India||A TIME OF CHURN: HEALTH CRISIS TO FARM CHAOS||The year began with guarded hope. On the first day of 2021, the government cleared two vaccines for wide use, paving the way for the world’s largest inoculation drive. Infections were falling, the administration seemed to be in control of mitigation efforts, and the economy was looking up.The year ended with guarded hope. The Omicron variant of the coronavirus hit India and nudged cases upwards, but initial trends suggested the mutant doesn’t cause very severe disease or mass hospitalisation. Nearly two-thirds of the country is fully vaccinated, nearly 90% has got one shot, and most governments have oxygen supplies, hospital beds and ventilators ready. There is fear, yes, but also optimism that the country will get through the Omicron wave.In the months in between, though, the country lurched from normalcy to despair repeatedly as the brutal Delta wave of infections exposed the limitations of India’s political class and governmental machinery, cemented the importance of the higher judiciary in everyday life, and underlined the pitfalls of prioritising political compulsions over health concerns.There were some surprises, too. Unlike 2020, political developments were not intimately tied to the pandemic; the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) continued to be the primary pole in Indian politics but its expansive ambitions were checked by a cohort of feisty regional leaders. The most significant concession from the government was won not at the polling booth but from street-side protest sites.But largely, 2021 will be remembered for the second wave of the pandemic and the harsh lessons it had for the government, politicians and citizens. If 2020 was the year of the government, which determined when you could go out, which places you could visit and how you could travel, 2021 showed the limits of that power when faced with a once-in-a-generation health crisis.As cases and deaths rose steadily in March and April, depleting medicine stocks, oxygen supplies and hospital beds, ordinary people increasingly found that traditional support structures had collapsed. The poor and the underprivileged were, of course, the worst hit, but even middle-class folks in big cities found that phone calls to important people were not enough to assure them of quality medical help. The local politician receded from view and even senior leaders and ministers struggled to secure hospital beds or oxygen cylinders. Volunteer groups tried to fill the vacuum but it was clear that the government and political class were overwhelmed and found wanting.The impact of this was devastating in the short term, with reports indicating that several people died in their homes without adequate medical care and others struggled to even give a decent burial to their loved ones. But it is yet to be seen if this tragedy also engendered a fundamental breakdown in the trust compact between the citizen and the politician in the long term, or whether it was perceived simply as an incumbency issue that can be resolved by voting for another politician in the next election.This breakdown of trust between ordinary citizens and the political class was also manifested in the expanded role of the judiciary. When hospitals ran out of oxygen at midnight, they approached the courts. When deaths due to oxygen ravaged major hospitals, patients approached the courts. When people were outraged by election rallies or religious events in the middle of the second wave, they approached the courts. When the vaccination efforts were fumbling due to a complex web of rules and procurement problems, the courts stepped in.The story of governance in 2021, therefore, is one that must include its legal fraternity, for courts shaped the country’s pandemic response not only by its orders, but also by its criticism, advice and statements on critical policy initiatives. Be it oxygen-related deaths, inoculation efforts or Covid compensation, the court’s stamp of authority was visible everywhere.To be sure, this is not to say that politics receded to the background this year. Through most of the second wave, political parties fought a fierce election battle in West Bengal, considered by many as the BJP’s final frontier. Though polls were also on in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry, attention was focused on Bengal as Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) checked the BJP from breaching its citadel. The TMC’s resounding victory was a reality check to the BJP and a reminder to Opposition parties that while Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s hold on national politics was unmatched, regional parties with strong sub-national agendas and rooted leaders could hold their own against the country’s ruling party. Though the BJP retained power in Assam, the victories of Banerjee, MK Stalin in Tamil Nadu and Pinarayi Vijayan in Kerala energised the Opposition. Most of the subsequent months saw a realignment of Opposition politics with Banerjee seeking to chip away at the Congress’s strengths and position herself as a national leader.But the most significant political moment this year didn’t involve the organised Opposition at all. In a surprise speech in November, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the repeal of three controversial farm laws that his government had enacted last year, and vigorously defended for 12 months. The withdrawal of the laws — the government still maintains they were key for agri reforms, and the farmers contend they would have led to corporate monopolies — was a huge, if unexpected, moment of triumph for thousands of farmers who were camped outside the Capital since late last year. This government is not known to walk back its policies. Its only notable concessions remain the 2015 land acquisition bill and a controversial policy for promotion of SC/STs.The successful stir by an organised, cohesive group of farmers brought back memories of the 1980s, the heyday of farm politics, and reminded people that despite lopsided power structures, citizen protest was still a potent way to grab the bully pulpit, and therefore, the attention of the government.
31-12-2021||India||Reading a virus: From Alpha to Omicron||An insurrection at the heart of the American democracy, a giant container ship wedged across the Suez Canal, a coup d’état in Myanmar, and humanity’s first powered flight on another planet — much of what happened in the first three-and-a-half months of 2021 was conspicuously unrelated to the pandemic that defined 2020.And why wouldn’t it? A sense of hope dominated the last few months of 2020 after the first coronavirus vaccines were approved and administered in some parts of the world. Countries opened up as shots were delivered into outstretched arms, literally and figuratively.At the same time, between January and March 2021, a particular configuration of the Sars-CoV-2 virus began circulating in India, helped copiously by cavalier crowds at religious festivals, political rallies, and political leaders who declared a premature “victory” over the virus.The variant, then known as B.1.617 (eventually named Delta) was sowing the epidemiological seeds of what would turn into one of the most devastating outbreaks of Covid-19 in the world. This then was the story of 2021, which began in the shadow of Alpha, was consumed by Delta in spring, and spooked by Omicron at the end — evolutionary biology gave us a reality check and showed us that the pandemic is far from over. The year brought us a reminder of tribalism in a globalised world, where rich nations hoarded vaccines while poorer nations faced a severe lack of them.And along the way, some unanswered questions were addressed (How long will vaccines be effective for? Answer: six months, or less if the variant is Omicron), while some mysteries continued (Where and how did the Sars-CoV-2 originate? Answer: The jury is still out on that). The rise of the variantsThe first two variants of concern (VOC) designations came in the last days of 2020. On December 18, the World Health Organization (WHO) designated Alpha and Beta variants (the Greek letters were assigned in mid-2021). Alpha, because it spread much more rapidly than the ancestral variant first seen in Wuhan, and Beta because it was more immune resistant than the ancestral virus seen in early 2020. In early 2021, a variant similar to Beta’s properties was designated as Gamma.Among the three, Alpha remained the most worrying as it drove new waves in countries where it took hold, prompting the return of country-specific travel bans first targeted against China when the coronavirus was first found in early 2020.In the scientific community, the variants changed the pandemic equation, triggering a rush of new research on what made them dangerous and what their traits meant for pandemic modelling.If the biggest scientific mystery of 2020 was how the virus caused wildly varying disease in people, the conundrum of 2021 was to decode how changes in the coronavirus’s genetic constitution influenced the way it spread, infected, and sickened us.The variants also exposed a glaring lack of understanding. The Delta variant spread through Maharashtra for much of the second half of March before it took hold in other parts of the country. All this while, the people in India had no idea that the seemingly inexplicable surge in cases was the result of a variant that was 50% more transmissible and was nearly twice as likely as the Alpha variant to lead to hospitalisation. Molecular biologists would later discover new traits that the coronavirus could pick up. Delta, for instance, had a mutation known as P681R, which triggers the formation of giant infected cells (called syncitia). Such infected cells are exhaled more readily and caused a more serious infection.In November, the coronavirus changed again, becoming even more transmissible than Delta as it tore through a South African province. The variant, designated as Omicron on November 26, also lead to a huge drop in the efficacy of vaccine but, providentially, was significantly less severe. The increased transmissibility was the result of yet another trick the virus seems to have hidden up its sleeve: the ability to spread between cells.Missing vaccinesExcept for the United States and the United Kingdom, most countries began their coronavirus vaccination campaigns in 2021. Sometime in the first week of November, the world crossed a significant milestone — over 7 billion doses, enough to vaccinate the global population with one dose — had been delivered.At the same time, however, 81 low and low-and-middle income countries (LIC and LMIC), excluding India, had received a mere 864 million doses, according to estimates by the Unicef’s Covid-19 vaccine market dashboard on November 11.Two months prior to the Unicef’s assessment, science analytics company Airfinity released forecasts that showed the richest nations in the world — US, UK, EU and Japan — would together have 1.2 billion surplus doses by the end of the year, even if they gave doses to children and boosters to all adults.World leaders, including those from WHO, have repeatedly warned that the continuing vaccine inequity will prolong the pandemic, raising the chances of new variants arising as the virus continues to spread in large unvaccinated populations in poorer countries.“We have often said as long as vaccine inequity persists, the more opportunity the virus has to spread and mutate in ways no one can prevent or predict. And so, we have Omicron,” WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on December 5. As we move into 2022, our biggest challenge will be simply this — we must not let down the best human endeavour of our times.The breakthrough drugsDuring the first year of the pandemic, the only drugs that helped were steroids and interleukin (IL) inhibitors. While these significantly improved the chances of survival, it was not because they could target the virus itself, but because they suppressed the deadly immune reaction towards the virus. In 2021, Merck and Pfizer struck clinical trial success. Merck’s Molnupiravir reduced the chances of hospitalisation in unvaccinated people and with at least one comorbidity by 30% if administered early. Pfizer’s Paxlovid led to an 89% reduction in risk of hospitalisation and death. Both drugs limit the Sars-CoV-2 virus’ ability to replicate. Molnupiravir does so by introducing errors in the pathogen’s genetic code, while Paxlovid inhibits an enzyme crucial to the virus’ function and reproduction. Both will soon be available in high volumes after its makers released the patents to the United Nations (UN) patent pool, allowing generics makers around the world to churn out the pills.Protecting the childrenThis year, countries around the world began vaccinating children. The wave of child immunisations began in the summer shortly after Pfizer-BioNTech released data that showed that their vaccines were safe and effective in some younger age groups. By December, all of the European Union, the UK and the US have covered most of their 12-plus age group. The UK has even begun offering booster doses to anyone above the age of 16. The World Health Organization was initially reluctant to endorse the move due to vaccine supply inequity. Adults, who are at significantly higher risk of Covid-19 have not been covered adequately in many parts of the world. But by November, the agency changed its stance, saying countries benefitted from immunising children and adolescents in “their specific epidemiological and social context”. The gains of vaccinating children and adolescents go beyond the direct health benefits: it may reduce transmission, help reduce mitigation measures in schools, and minimize disruption to education.The waning of vaccinesThe year reinforced the undeniable benefits of the coronavirus vaccine even though there were large pockets of vaccine scepticism in some countries, like the US and in India. The UK, on the other hand, showed how much of a difference vaccines made: the deadliest wave UK had was in early 2021 with the Alpha variant, which while more transmissible than the Wuhan version was hardly the worst the country was hit with. That was Delta, which was almost as highly transmissible and significantly more virulent. But Alpha caused over 1,200 deaths a day and Delta’s force was blunted, with peak deaths around 200 a day. The difference? More people were vaccinated during the Delta wave. The big question is how long does this last? By July and August, studies began to show antibodies waning, especially in those whose doses were taken six months ago. Still, people remained significantly protected from severe disease. But the waning pushed many countries to start booster doses. As of December-end, at least 92 countries in the world have administered boosters, according to Our World in Data, and not all of them are rich western countries.The origins brouhahaHow did the Sars-CoV-2 come to be? Did it come from bats that perhaps infected a second unknown animal (likely a pangolin) before it made its way to humans in Wuhan? Was it created in a lab as part of research, or, worse still, deliberately? The controversy around the coronavirus’s genesis continued well into the second year of the pandemic, at times raising pertinent questions but often straying into the realm of the absurd. In March, the WHO released a much-awaited report of a fact-finding mission that went to China. The report concluded that the virus likely came from an animal, but further studies and data were required. The saga even drew in the new US President, Joe Biden, to a posture similar to his bitter rival and predecessor, Donald Trump. Science has signalled that the first theory — originating in bats followed by an intermediate host — is the most likely. In fact, a discovery in Laos, published in September, might just put a lid on the controversy for good. Scientists there found three viruses in bats that are more similar to Sars-CoV-2 than any other known viruses. Not only that, they are also directly infectious to humans via the same mechanisms the Covid-19 virus uses to infect human cells.
31-12-2021||India||Not a conman; was in a relationship with Jacqueline Fernandez, says Sukesh Chandrashekhar||Sukesh Chandrashekhar, the alleged mastermind of the ₹200 crore money laundering scam, which he reportedly planned and executed sitting behind the bars, has said that he is not a conman. His lawyer advocate Anant Malik has released a press statement in which Chandrashekhar said why the jail officials who took money from him are not probed. Why ex-Ranbaxy promoter's wife Aditi Singh who paid ₹200 crore to him was not being probed, Sukesh said in the statement, news agency ANI reported. Chandrashekhar said a lot is being said and dictated about him but it is wrong to say that he is a "conman" or "Thug" as he has not been convicted yet.In the statement, he said he was in a relationship with Bollywood actor Jacqueline Fernandez and his personal relationship has no bearing on the criminal case.Sukesh said he worked as a corporate lobbyist with multiple corporate houses in India and abroad. As a lobbyist, he served as a bridge between corporate houses and the government of different states. He claimed to have good relationships with several political parties and various business families, ANI reported.'Can't breathe': Conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar who ran extortion racket from jail says he's being harassed at TiharThe ED is investigating the ₹200 crore extortion case and during the course of the probe, several sensational details have been revealed by the central agency. Apart from Sukesh's closeness to Jacqueline Fernandez, Nora Fatehi and several other Bollywood actors whom Sukesh used to send expensive gifts, it has been revealed that Sukesh used a spoofing app to call his targets impersonating government officials. Jacqueline Fernandez has already been questioned in connection with the case. According to reports, the actor said she too was conned by Sukesh as Sukesh claimed to be the owner of Sun Tv and approached her with a film offer. ED investigation revealed that Sukesh called Aditi Singh, whom he met in the jail as Singh came to visit her husband, from his barrack in Rohini Jail, posing as a government officer. Promising help in early bail for her husband, he reportedly took ₹200 crore from Singh. All this happened from his spacious barrack inside Rohini where he used to pay crores to jail officials who were aiding him in running his racket. If jail officials took crores from him, if Aditi Singh paid ₹200 crore to him, then they should also be probed, Sukesh Chandrashekhar said in his statement. He also claimed that he is being pressured and extorted by jail officials but no action was taken against the officers involved. Chandrashekhar said that he will be approaching court against ED seizure of assets. Earlier, he said he was being tortured in Rohini Jail. It has been revealed that Sukesh and his wife actor Leena Maria Paul have been conning people for several years and have been arrested in past too. Sukesh's first major scam was the AIADMK bribery case in which he took money from the TTV Dinakaran faction promising that he would bribe Election Commission officials to give the two leaves symbol of the party to this faction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-conman-was-in-a-relationship-with-jacqueline-fernandez-says-sukesh-chandrashekhar-101640953323136.html
31-12-2021||India||MHA issues advisory against cybercriminals offering 'Free Omicron Test'||Amid a rise in Omicron cases, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has issued an advisory against cybercriminals targeting potential victims by offering them free tests for detecting Omicron variant of COVID-19.The cyber and information security division of MHA has issued an advisory that reads: "Cybercriminals are taking advantage of lowering of cyber defences due to the shift of focus to the health crisis. Cybercriminals are always finding new ways to defraud citizens. As nowadays Omicron variant themed cybercrimes are increasing every day. Cybercriminals are employing various tactics to perpetrate cybercrimes to capitalize on the rapidly evolving situation to defraud innocent victims."Further, it mentioned that fraudsters send emails regarding PCR testing for Omicron with the attached malicious links and malicious files."Government and Private Health Services are being mimicked (e.g. their names are used as senders) in such attempts to scam innocent citizens. Potential victims clicking on the links are pointed towards fake websites created by fraudsters that look similar to government/private health services, where citizens can apply for a COVID-19 Omicron PCR test"."The lure of a free Omicron PCR test allowing citizens to avoid Omicron related restrictions imposed by governments is presented to potential victims. Cybercriminals attain personal details and banking credentials through this method for committing further cybercrimes such as financial cyber frauds, identity theft, etc," it says.The government advised people to scrutinize the domain name and URL to check the authenticity of the websites and report any such incidents on the cybercrime.gov.in portal.Meanwhile, India's Omicron case tally has surpassed 1,200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-issues-advisory-against-cybercriminals-offering-free-omicron-test-101640952918227.html
31-12-2021||India||How the dreaded Suresh Pujari was caught after 15 years||On December 15, a team of four officers from the Mumbai police’s Crime Branch (CB) unit, including deputy commissioner of police Rajkumar Shinde, waited with growing impatience at the New Delhi international airport. A man that they had been tracking since 2018 was finally being deported by the Philippines government, after the Manila police had arrested him in October — an arrest that was a direct result of the CB investigation. 
31-12-2021||India||Kerala adds 44 more Omicron cases, state tally climbs to 107||Kerala on Friday reported 44 Omicron cases taking the total tally of the new variant in the state to 107, health minister Veena George said. The minister said out of 107, 29 people came from the United Arab Emirates, 23 from the United Kingdom and the others from different countries. Seven people contracted the new variant through contact. She said the maximum number of cases was reported from Ernakulam at 37 followed by Thiruvananthapuram district at 26. One person also recovered from the infection she said adding all tests were held at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology in the state capital. The minister asked people to be vigilant and exercise utmost caution during the New Year and other festivities. “There is no need for any panic. But we have to be extremely careful. We have to be vigilant and follow Covid-appropriate behvavior,” she said. New cases were reported a day after the state announced night curfew for four days, December 30 to January 2. People close to the government said the curbs are likely to be extended if the state reports more such cases. Kerala detected the first case of the new variant on December 7 and the number of infections crossed 100 in less than a month. Experts said Omicron cases are likely to peak in the state in two months. The government said it has taken enough precautions to meet the exigency. The minister indicated that the state will start vaccination of children below 18 from January 3 and all arrangements have been done. At least 98 per cent of the eligible population in the state received the first dose of the vaccine and 77 per cent have received both. Health experts said the good vaccination rate will help contain the new threat of Omicron but they have also warned that it is too early to lower guard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-adds-44-more-omicron-cases-state-tally-climbs-to-107-101640952647008.html
31-12-2021||India||Even if Omicron may cause less severe disease: WHO chief scientist's warning||Chief scientist of World Health Organization Dr Soumya Swaminathan on Friday said hospitalisation due to Omicron is rising across the world, mostly in unvaccinated people. Sounding an alarm for countries which are beginning to feel the heat of Omicron, Dr Swaminathan said, "Though Omicron may cause less severe disease, a small % of a huge number is still very large and can overwhelm health systems." Congratulating health workers, the chief scientist said vaccination protects against hospitalisation and death -- be it caused by Omicron, Delta or any other variant of covid. Hospitalizations are also rising, mostly in unvaccinated people. Though #Omicron may cause less severe disease, a small % of a huge number is still very large & can overwhelm health systems.Kudos to health workers around the world for two years of service! https://t.co/rP2ztb9itv'Tsunami' of Covid cases may lead to collapse of health systems, says WHO chiefThe warning comes as India is seeing a sudden increase in the number of daily Covid cases, possibly driven by Omicron. As of Friday morning, India's Omicron tally stands at 1,270 with experts apprehending that Omicron has started replacing the Delta variant in the country already. Reports said almost 80 per cent of cases in India are Omicron now.Talking about the effectiveness of vaccines, Dr Swaminathan earlier tweeted, "As expected, T cell immunity holding up better against Omicron. This will protect us against severe disease. Please get vaccinated if you have not". In its latest epidemiological update, the world body said the risks related to the Omicron variant is very high and the variant has overtaken Delta in the US and the UK.The Centre on Thursday observed that India is seeing a sudden surge which has started only three days ago. Alerting states to take utmost precaution against the spread of Omicron in the festive season, the Centre said that there is no need to panic as the country is prepared to handle a surge. India's surge could be part of the global surge driven by Omicron, the health ministry has noted.The health ministry observed that though the number of Covid infections is increasing rapidly, the fatality rate is stable. This may be because of India's extensive vaccine coverage or the nature of the new variant or both. Omicron, first identified in South Africa on November 24, is known to be spreading fast across the world. The first Omicron cases in India were detected on December 2 and within a month, the variant has spread to over 1,000 people, whose samples have been genome-sequenced. Many experts believe the actual spread of the variant could be more than this as all samples are not being sent for genome sequencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/even-if-omicron-may-cause-less-severe-disease-who-chief-scientist-s-warning-101640950496239.html
31-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mumbai police extends Section 144 till Jan 15 amid Omicron outbreak and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Section 144 in Mumbai extended till January 15 in view of rising Omicron casesSection 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) that bans the gathering of five or more people has been extended till January 15 in Mumbai in view of the new Omicron cases that are doubling on a daily basis. Read MoreLudhiana court blast: Woman cop who was bomber's aide suspended from dutiesThe senior superintendent of police (SSP) in Punjab's Khanna city on Friday suspended a woman cop, who was in a relationship with alleged bomber of Ludhiana court blast case Gagandeep Singh. Read MoreAssam police posts advisory with a quirky twist ahead of New YearMany are going to parties today to enjoy New Year’s Eve and say goodbye to 2021. For some, the parties also include drinking and that raises the risk of drunk driving. Read MoreI tried to ask Dhoni why, but wasn't given a reason. Realised there is no point asking: Harbhajan opens up on India snubFormer India spinner Harbhajan Singh has opened up on the disappointment of being left out of the Indian team ‘without being given’ a reason. Read MoreVir Das says he ‘got called traitor, terrorist’ as he sums up 2021, touches upon Two Indias controversyEarlier this year, actor and comedian Vir Das' video, I Come From Two Indias, was at the epicentre of a controversy. In a note on the last day of the year, Vir bid farewell to 2021 and acknowledged that the year gave him two court cases, an Emmy nomination, half a million followers and much more. Read MoreKarisma Kapoor's blue bellbottoms are easy style to sizzle Y2K pantsuit fashionClosing the year on a fashion high notes, Bollywood actor Karisma Kapoor left us swooning as she dropped latest pictures in a blue pantsuit where her bellbottoms laid easy cues to slay Y2K fashion. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mumbai-police-extends-section-144-till-jan-15-amid-omicron-outbreak-and-all-the-latest-news-101640947480907.html
31-12-2021||India||'Height of wall is height of money': Sitharaman talks on I-T raids, slams Akhilesh Yadav||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said when law enforcing agencies raid any place, they go only with actionable intelligence. Saying that the wrong man has been raided raises questions over the professionalism of the agency. "How does Uttar Pradesh former chief minister know that this is BJP's money? Is he the partner? Is he scared," Sitharaman said on the sidelines of the press conference of the GST council meet.Asserting that both the raids on the premises of Peeyush Jain which continued for almost a week and the raid on Pushpraj Jain on Friday have been based on specific inputs, the finance minister said, "Did they come empty-handed? Politicisation of such a thing is condemnable."On the timing of the raids coinciding with the election in the state, Sitharaman said, "Should we wait for a muhurtam to catch the thief?" The height of the wall is the height of the cash, Sitharaman said. On December 26, Kannauj-based perfume maker Peeyush Jain was raided and recovery of the huge amount of cash stunned the officials. Cash was hidden in underground bunkers, eyewitnesses accompanying the tax officials said. The finance ministry said the seizure of ₹177 crore unaccounted cash was the biggest ever seizure of cash by an enforcement agency.The raid became a political issue ahead of the Uttar Pradesh election as Peeyush Jain was linked with Samajwadi Party which the party denied.Akhilesh Yadav said the BJP got its own businessman raided by mistake. "By mistake, the BJP got its own businessman raided. Instead of SP leader Pushpraj Jain, it got Piyush Jain raided," Akhilesh said. Pushpraj Jain, on the other hand, is an SP MLC who launched Samajwadi perfume.Incidentally, Pushpraj Jain was raided on Friday as part of the income tax department's action on certain perfume traders in Uttar Pradesh. Searches were conducted on 30-40 premises in Kannauj, Kanpur, Delhi, Surat, Mumbai and a few other places.Both Peeyush Jain and Pushpraj Jain have their residential premises located at a distance of a few metres in the same locality in Kannauj."The raids were pre-determined. Information was coming here for the past few days that raids have started on SP leaders. Here, for the last two weeks, there have been raids on people associated with Samajwadi and whenever the BJP leaders from Delhi come to Uttar Pradesh they bring these agencies along. During this time, they are instructed to conduct raids," Akhilesh said on Friday. "Remember, when there were elections in West Bengal, all the agencies of Delhi had reached Bengal. It happened with Stalin in Tamil Nadu and the same thing happened in Bangalore," Akhilesh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-akhilesh-yadav-scared-nirmala-sitharaman-on-i-t-raids-in-uttar-pradesh-101640946361322.html
31-12-2021||India||‘Not a single patient required ICU…’: Delhi doctor says oxygen levels among Omicron patients stable||With the World Health Organization (WHO) and governments across the world warning and preparing for increased hospitalisations due to the Omicron variant (B.1.1.529) of Covid-19, a doctor at Delhi’s Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital (LNJP) said that most of those infected did not intensive medical support and their oxygen levels remained stable.The remarks seem to be a sliver of hope as a few other preliminary studies from countries like the United Kingdom and South Africa too have observed that the illness due to Omicron was moderate or ‘mild’. However, all have also cautioned about the lack of extensive data and the need for more study into the variant.“Till now, we've received 360 patients out of which 110 were Omicron affected. 89 of these patients have been discharged. All are stable. Not a single patient required ICU support because their oxygen saturation level was perfectly normal,” news agency ANI quoted Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of LNJP.Also read | India’s Omicron tally mounts to 1,270; daily Covid-19 cases rise again by 16,764Notably, this was not the first time the doctor has made the observation. On December 22, when Delhi had reported over 30 Omicron cases, he said that patients who were fully vaccinated (with two doses) did not have any major complications and did not require admission in the intensive care unit (ICU), according to a report by ANI.Meanwhile, on Friday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said that 320 Omicron cases have been reported from the national capital of which 57 have been discharged or recovered. Also, the total caseload due to the new variant stood at 1,270 in the country. Maharashtra added the maximum to the national tally with 450 cases.In its latest press conference regarding the pandemic, the WHO reiterated its warning on hospitalisations due to the variant. “Right now, Delta and Omicron are twin threats that are driving up cases to record numbers, which again is leading to spikes in hospitalisations and deaths,” said Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the director-general of the UN health body. “I am highly concerned that Omicron being more transmissible, circulating at the same time as Delta - is leading to a tsunami of cases,” he further said.Several countries, including the United States, the UK and several European nations, have reported surges in their daily Covid-19 infections. Lastly, France, where the infections have spiked, said on Friday that the Omicron has become the predominant variant in the country, the AFP reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-single-patient-required-icu-delhi-doctor-says-oxygen-levels-among-omicron-patients-stable-101640943333570.html
31-12-2021||India||Public hearing on January 27 for Great Nicobar development project||NEW DELHI: Great Nicobar’s development will have environmental impacts, the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report has said ahead of a public hearing on January 27 for a project involving the construction of an International Container Transhipment Terminal, a greenfield airport, a residential township and a 450 MVA gas/solar-based power plant there. NITI Aayog has conceptualised the Holistic Development of Great Nicobar Island in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands project. “The development of Great Nicobar will have environmental impacts. The holistic master plan enables environmentally and socio-culturally sustainable development and identifies effective mitigating measures for any anticipated negative impacts,” said the EIA. It added the development of Great Nicobar Island, which is one of India’s most ecologically fragile and biologically diverse regions. requires a sensitive, holistic approach. The EIA noted the island is home to a dwindling number of indigenous people. “Development plans must not only consider the impact of growth on these people but also generate benefits for them as well as for future in-migrants and investors.” Many reserved areas are expected to be de-notified for the project. They include land under the Great Nicobar Biosphere Reserve and a tribal reserve. Around 81.74% of the island covers national parks, reserves and forests. The EIA said 15.02% of the forest land has to be diverted for the project. An area of 166.10 sq km is required for developmental activities in the first phase. This includes 84.10 square km of land under tribal reserved areas ​inhabited by the Nicobarese and Shompen tribes with a population of 1094 and 237. An area of 11.032 sq km of the tribal reserve also falls within revenue villages and is required to be de-notified. The administration has proposed to re-notify 45.23 sq km of land in Campbell Bay and Galathea National Parks and 31.73 sq km of land outside the project area de-notified in 1972 to compensate for the loss. Greater Nicobar Island has tropical wet evergreen forests, mountain ranges reaching a height of nearly 650m above sea level, and coastal plains. “The tract is rich in plant diversity and fosters a number of rare and endemic species, including Cyathea albosetacea (tree fern) and Phalaenopsis speciosa (orchid). A total of 14 species of mammals, 71 species of birds, 26 species of reptiles, 10 species of amphibians, and 113 species of fish have been reported. The region also harbours a large number of endemic and endangered species of fauna,” the EIA said. There are 11 species of mammals, 32 species of birds, seven species of reptiles and four species of amphibians that are endemic including the Crab-eating Macaque, Nicobar Tree Shrew, Dugong, Nicobar Megapode, Serpent Eagle, salt-water crocodile, marine turtles and Reticulated Python. The region also has coral reefs with varied thicknesses and diversity. In a few areas, new coral recruits have also been seen. Along the coastal beaches of Nicobar Island, Leatherback and Olive Ridley turtles are known to nest. Each Leatherback turtle lays about 100 eggs, and the success rate of the hatchlings was around 63.5% in 2020. Andaman and Nicobar Islands Integrated Development Corporation (ANIIDCO), which is developing the project, has said it is critical because of the region’s strategic location adjacent to the Malacca Straits. Seven countries are close to Campbell Bay, which is the headquarters of the southernmost frontier of India. Also Read | Tweaks in green laws may dilute safeguards, warn expertsOfficials said foreign powers are strengthening and forging new diplomatic ties with other states in the Indian Ocean region, which India needs to counter by improving connectivity and the tourism sector as well as through economic development of the area. “We are conducting the public hearing on behalf of the project proponent ANIIDCO. It is mandatory to conduct public hearings for environmental clearance. People have a month to read the details of the project,” said an Andaman and Nicobar Pollution Control Committee member, requesting anonymity. Kanchi Kohli, a legal researcher at New Delhi’s Centre for Policy Research, said a proposal of this scale and intent required a socio-ecological assessment at the design and planning stage and not downstream in the decision-making process. “The public hearing and impact assessment process is being carried out in the shadow of the government’s intent to transform the demographic and ecological character of the islands. What will be up for the challenge will be whether the legal process and scientific assessments will be amenable to a predetermined outcome of the government’s version of holistic development.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/public-hearing-on-january-27-for-great-nicobar-development-project-101640943466176.html
31-12-2021||India||Serum Institute of India applies for full approval of Covishield Covid vaccine||Serum Institute Of India has applied to the country's drug regulator and the health ministry for full approval of its Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, the company's chief executive said on Friday.Serum Institute, which produces AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine under the brand name Covishield, has supplied more than 1.25 billion doses of the shot in India.The Indian government now has enough data to consider a full market authorisation, Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Twitter.Serum Institute, which is also the world's biggest vaccine maker, was granted approval for emergency use of Covishield in India at the beginning of the year.The country's inoculation drive so far has been dominated by Covishield and Bharat Biotech's inactivated vaccine Covaxin.Serum Institute has nearly quadrupled its monthly capacity of AstraZeneca's shots to as many as 240 million doses and is prepared to export "large volumes" from January, Poonawalla told Reuters in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-of-india-applies-for-full-approval-of-covishield-covid-vaccine-101640938579400.html
31-12-2021||India||Chennai rain: Waterlogging, traffic jam irk citizens even as CM Stalin promises quicker relief||Several residents complained of waterlogging and traffic disruptions across Chennai after heavy rain lashed the city on Thursday and is expected to continue for the next 48 hours.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast moderate rainfall and thunderstorms at coastal districts and a few interior districts over the next five days. The IMD issued an orange alert for the city, along with the neighbouring districts of Thiruvallur and Chengalpattu and a red alert for the day for the coastal district of Nagapattinam.“Extremely heavy rainfall is likely to occur at one to two places over Nagapattinam. Heavy to very heavy [rain] is likely to occur at one to two places over delta districts, Villupuram, Cuddalore, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram, Chennai, Tiruvallur districts of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal area,” news agency ANI quoted an official of the Regional Meteorological Centre in Chennai as saying.Also read | Heavy rains lash Chennai, 3 killed; IMD sounds red alertMeanwhile, Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin, who hit the ground overseeing relief operations following the shower, said that the situation will soon get normal.“According to data from the meteorological department, several parts of Chennai witnessed over 20cm of rainfall yesterday. All officials are working round the clock to set right the damage due to these unexpected rains,” Stalin said in a tweet. “I am also directly inspecting and monitoring the relief works. Soon the situation will improve,” he added.Schools, colleges and educational institutions and government offices, except those providing essential services, in Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts remained closed on Friday due to rain.Following the sudden rain on Thursday night, several users took to Twitter and shared video clips of a traffic jam in one of the city’s arterial roads. One such video, which garnered widespread attention, showed a long line of vehicles in Mount Road at 10pm on Thursday and office goers complained of taking several hours to reach home.At least three subways in the city were closed for traffic following the rains and power outages were also reported from some areas in the city such as Ashok Nagar, T Nagar and West Mambalam, according to local media reports.Notably, the city was crippled by heavy rain during late November and early December this year due to the northeast monsoon. Several areas in Chennai and its neighbouring districts remained inundated while people in low lying areas and near reservoirs were temporarily accommodated in special relief camps.In the 24 hours ending at 8.30am on Friday, 24cm rainfall was recorded at the DGP Office weather station, the highest in the city, followed by 23cm in Avadi of the Thiruvallur district, 21cm in MRC Nagar, Chennai, and 19cm rainfall in the Anna University station, according to the IMD’s data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-rains-waterlogging-traffic-jam-irk-citizens-even-as-cm-stalin-promises-quicker-relief-101640936138673.html
31-12-2021||India||Venkaiah Naidu seeks report on attendance at House panel meetings||NEW DELHI: Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has sought a report on attendance at parliamentary standing committee meetings when the lawmakers were entitled to a special allowance to attend them.People aware of the matter said the Rajya Sabha secretariat was asked to prepare the report after some lawmakers said at an informal interaction with Naidu that the allowance was an added incentive for many to attend the meetings regularly.Lawmakers get ₹2,000 as a daily allowance for attending Parliament and House panel meetings. They also received a special allowance amounting to 25% of the cost of their air travel to attend the meetings before it was done away with when late Arun Jaitley was the finance minister in 2018.“The Rajya Sabha chairman has asked the secretariat to find out the rate of attendance when this allowance was in place. While there is no plan to revive the allowance, the study is being done to see how the attendance of MPs (members of Parliament) can be improved,” said a Rajya Sabha official, who did not want to be named.Also Read | Rajya Sabha adviser to devise road map for reform of House processesLow attendance at parliamentary committee meetings came up during an informal meeting of senior lawmakers with Naidu at his chamber after Parliament’s winter session concluded on December 22.The issue was also discussed on December 21 at a meeting between Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and chairpersons of 16 House standing committees. Some leaders proposed that the quorum or minimum attendance of 10 (one-third of a panel) members should not be mandatory for all meetings.Also Read | Birla, Naidu discuss attendance of MPs in Parliament panel meets“At least three chairpersons suggested that the quorum should be required for preparing or adopting a report. They argued that often the witnesses, many of whom come from other places to Delhi, are forced to return without deposition because of a lack of quorum,” said a lawmaker, who attended the meeting.The lawmakers argued if quorum requirements are removed, then the hassles related to rescheduled meetings can be avoided. Birla told the members that this proposal would be sent to the Rules Committee and General Purpose Committee for approval.“At Naidu’s meeting, much time was spent on discussing attendance at these meetings after Leader of the House and Union minister Piyush Goyal raised the topic,” said a person, who attended the meeting.Naidu was quoted as saying he has been closely monitoring the attendance at the meetings of the eight committees of Rajya Sabha. He noted the attendance has improved substantially over the last three years. Naidu said the committees are complementing the Parliament in its functions.
31-12-2021||India||PM Modi to visit Meerut on Sunday, lay foundation of Major Dhyan Chand Sports University||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Meerut in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday to lay the foundation for the Major Dhyan Chand Sports University. According to an official release, the university will be established at an estimated cost of ₹700 crore at the Salawa and Kaili villages of the Sardhana town in Meerut.According to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the sports university will have the capacity of training 1,080 sportspersons, including 540 women and 540 men.Modi had earlier said that inculcating sporting culture and establishing a world-class sporting infrastructure in all parts of the country is one of the key areas of focus for his government. The establishment of the Major Dhyan Chand Sports University in the poll-bound state is expected to be a major step towards fulfilling this vision.Named after field hockey legend Major Dhyan Chand, the sports university has been planned with all the modern, state-of-the-art sports infrastructure – including a synthetic hockey ground, football ground, separate grounds for basketball, volleyball, handball, and kabaddi.It also includes a lawn tennis court, gymnasium hall, a synthetic running stadium, swimming pool, a multipurpose hall and a cycling velodrome.According to the government release, the university will also house facilities for shooting, squash, gymnastics, weightlifting, archery, canoeing, and kayaking, among other facilities.Major Dhyan Chand, widely regarded as one of the greatest field hockey players in history, scored three Olympic gold medals for India – in 1928, 1932, and 1936 – at a time when the country dominated field hockey. Although he played for India, ‘The Wizard’ extended his influence abroad in the West, too – where he was called the “hockey's equivalent of Muhammad Ali”.In 1956, India awarded Major Dhyan Chand the country's third-highest civilian honour – the Padma Bhushan – and his birthday on August 29 is celebrated as National Sports Day every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-meerut-on-sunday-lay-foundation-of-major-dhyan-chand-sports-university-101640934164957.html
31-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Countries gear up to celebrate New Year's amid Covid fear and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Countries around the world ready to welcome 2022 amid Covid fearThe world will usher in the New Year this weekend in the midst of another wave of the coronavirus pandemic and look for signs of hope in 2022 as several countries will allow celebrations and some banning festivities. Read MoreSamajwadi Party-linked perfume trader's premises raided in KannaujThe premises of several perfume traders, including Samajwadi Party MLA Pushpraj Jain in Kannauj, were raided by officers of the Income Tax department on Friday. Read MoreRanvir Shorey says ‘was almost hounded out of hotel room’ after he tweeted about son’s Covid-19 diagnosisActor Ranvir Shorey, who recently revealed that his son 10-year-old son Haroon tested positive for Covid-19, has shared a bunch of follow-up tweets. Read MoreHusband’s reaction to wife gifting him a ring will leave you emotional. Watch“Cherish the little things in life and you will be more fulfilled,” this is what the caption of a video, which has now left people emotional, reads. Watch NowIndian cricket Year in Review: World Cup low and captaincy row aside, phenomenal overseas success sums up stellar 2021Starting the year by conquering 'The Gabbatoir' and ending it with by breaching the Centurion fortress, 2021 has been a remarkable year for Indian cricket – quite possibly, the best ever. Read MoreWasim Rizvi's constant hate rants against Islam a concerted agenda? His responseFormer Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board chairman Wasim Rizvi has been making headlines for several weeks now after he converted to Hinduism and became Jitendra Tyagi. Watch Now||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-countries-gear-up-to-celebrate-new-year-s-amid-covid-fear-and-all-the-latest-news-101640932867534.html
31-12-2021||India||Ludhiana court blast: NIA files case against banned outfit member||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has registered a case against Jaswinder Singh Multani, a member of the banned Khalistani outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) and the prime suspect in the December 23 Ludhiana court blast, and others as part of a probe into a larger conspiracy for attacks in Indian cities, people familiar with the matter said.German authorities detained Multani at Erfurt in central Germany earlier this week on India’s request. Officials cited above said Multani, 45, has been charged with criminal conspiracy, waging war against India, and under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the NIA’s First Information Report (FIR) filed on Thursday.Alleged bomber Gagandeep Singh, a dismissed policeman, was killed while six people were injured in the December 23 blast at the districts and sessions court complex in Ludhiana. Preliminary examination has suggested that 1.5kg of explosives was assembled in a plastic container to carry out the blast. Agencies were analysing some international made from Singh’s phone in the last few months.Also Read | Ludhiana blast accused assembled bomb in court washroom: Punjab police chiefIt is suspected the blast was carried out at the behest of Multani, who allegedly arranged the logistics remotely with the help of his contacts in Pakistan. Multani was earlier under investigation for terror-related incidents in Punjab this year apart from allegedly sending consignments of weapons, explosives, drugs, pistols, and hand grenades with the help of Pakistan-based operatives. A close associate of US-based SFJ chief Gurpatwant Singh Pannu, Multani is known as an expert in radicalising Sikh youth to take part in extremist activities.The Punjab police lodged two cases against Multani in February and August. One of the cases pertains to an alleged plot to kill farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal to spread unrest.Multani and his Pakistani associates are believed to have been allegedly planning to target Delhi and Mumbai as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ludhiana-court-blast-nia-files-case-against-banned-outfit-member-101640934405407.html
31-12-2021||India||NEET-PG counselling delay: Resident doctors to withdraw weeks-long stir today||Resident doctors in Delhi will withdraw their days-long agitation against a delay in NEET-PG counselling at 12pm on Friday following a meeting with police. The doctors said the decision was taken in view of the suffering of patients. Emergency and all other services to resume soo Dr Manish of the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA) that is leading the protest said a meeting was held with the joint commissioner of police, Delhi, on Thursday night, adding the withdrawal process of FIRs registered against doctors was underway. The first information reports (FIRs) were registered over a clash with police during a protest rally earlier this week.“We had a meeting with Joint CP last night. Withdrawal of FIR process started (in connection with ITO protest). After 12 pm today we'll call off our strike against the delay in NEET 2021 counselling,” Dr Manish was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“Patients are already suffering, many surgeries have been deferred. Considering this situation, we are calling off the strike,” he added.The nearly two-week protest has affected healthcare services in several government-run hospitals across the country, particularly in Delhi.On Tuesday, FORDA had decided to continue the stir after a meeting between their federation's delegation and the Union health minister failed to make any headway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neetpg-counselling-delay-resident-doctors-to-withdraw-weeks-long-stir-today-101640926788569.html
31-12-2021||India||Bank holidays in 2022: Check full list from January to December||The list of bank holidays includes national holidays and those marked by the central and state governments. The country observes three national holidays—Republic Day, Independence Day and Mahatma Gandhi Jayanti.With the new year 2022 set to begin on Saturday, here is a look at the month-wise list of all major bank holidays in the upcoming calendar year.JanuaryJanuary 1: New Year’s dayJanuary 14: Makar Sankranti/Pongal/Imoinu IratpaJanuary 15: Uttarayaana Punyakaala Makar Sankranti Festival, Maghe Sankranti, Sankranti, Pongal, Thiruvalluvar Day, Gaan-Ngai, Magh BihuJanuary 26: Republic DayFebruaryFebruary 5: Vasant PanchamiMarchMarch 1: Maha ShivratriMarch 18: HoliAprilApril 10: Ram NavamiApril 13: Ugadi (Telugu new year)April 14: Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Jayanti, Mahavir Jayanti, Baisakhi, Vaisakhi, Tamil New Year's Day, Cheiraoba, Biju Festival, Bohag BihuApril 15: Good Friday, Bengali New Year’s Day (Nababarsha), Himachal Day, Vishu, Bohag BihuMayMay 1: May DayMay 3: Bhagvan Shree Parshuram Jayanti, Ramjan-Eid (Eid-UI-Fitra), Basava Jayanti, Akshaya TritiyaMay 16: Buddha PurnimaJuneJune 14: Sant Guru Kabir JayantiJulyJuly 10: Bakrid, Eid al AdhaAugustAugust 9: MuharramAugust 12: Raksha BandhanAugust 15: Independence DayAugust 16: Parsi new yearAugust 19: JanmashtamiAugust 31: Ganesh ChathurthiSeptemberSeptember 8: ThiruvonaOctoberOctober 2: Mahatma Gandhi JayantiOctober 3: Maha AshtamiOctober 4: Maha NavamiOctober 5: Vijaya DashamiOctober 9: Eid e MiladOctober 24: DiwaliNovemberNovember 8: Guru Nanak JayantiDecemberDecember 25: Christmas||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bank-holidays-in-2022-check-full-list-from-january-to-december-101640925947661.html
31-12-2021||India||India’s Omicron tally mounts to 1,270; daily Covid-19 cases see another spike at 16,764||India's Omicron count crossed the 1,000-mark as the highly-mutated variant of the coronavirus continues to spread at an alarming rate across the country, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday.The health ministry said there were 1,270 cases of Omicron detected so far from 23 states and Union territories, adding 374 of those patients have been discharged.Maharashtra and Delhi are leading the Omicron tally and have reported 450 and 320 cases respectively. On Thursday night, Bihar became the latest state to report a case of the new variant.Meanwhile, India's daily tally of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) also continued to spike for a third consecutive day after 16,764 cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, pushing the caseload to 34,838,804, according to the health ministry's update.More than 7,500 patients recovered and 220 succumbed to the viral disease, taking the cumulative count of recoveries and deaths to 34,266,363 and 481,080 respectively. Active cases of Covid-19 are up by nearly 9,000 and stand at 91,361, the health ministry also said.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 1,250,837 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and the total number has climbed to 677,878,255.The country's vaccination coverage has exceeded 1.44 billion with 6,665,290 doses administered in the last 24 hours. The health ministry informed on Thursday that 90 per cent of the adult population has been inoculated with the first dose.More than 1.5 billion vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union Territories (UTs) so far through the Centre's free of cost channel and direct state procurement category, the ministry said on Friday.It also added that nearly 170 million balance and unutilised vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-omicron-tally-mounts-to-1-270-daily-covid-19-cases-rise-again-by-16764-101640923543778.html
31-12-2021||India||Reports about highest tiger deaths in 2021 ‘lopsided’: Centre||The Union environment, forest, and climate change ministry on Thursday rejected as “lopsided” media reports that said the highest tiger deaths were recorded in the country in 2021.“While it is appreciated that figures as available on the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA)’s website have been used in these reports, the manner in which it has been presented causes alarm and does not take into account the gamut of processes that go into dealing with tiger death in the country and the natural gains that have been made in tiger conservation, as a result of sustained technical and financial interventions by the Government of India,” the ministry said in a statement.It said out of 126 reported tiger deaths, 60 were due to poachers, accidents, animal-human conflict outside protected areas. The ministry added the reports ignored the process involved in ascribing tiger mortality cause. It said NTCA has a stringent protocol to ascribe the cause to a tiger’s death. The ministry underlined only after detailed analysis, the causes of the deaths of 60 tigers outside tiger reserves could be ascertained.Also Read: No entry in Pilibhit Tiger Reserve sans Covid-19 samplingThe statement referred to the government‘s efforts through NTCA and added the tiger population has been taken from “the brink to an assured path of recovery”. It cited the quadrennial All India Tiger Estimation in 2006, 2010, 2014, and 2018 and added the big cat population has shown a healthy annual growth rate of 6%. The ministry said it offsets natural losses and keeps tigers at the habitats at the carrying capacity level in the Indian context.The statement referred to the 2012-2021 period and said the average tiger deaths annually hover around 98, which is balanced “by the annual recruitment as highlighted by this robust growth rate”. It added NTCA has taken several steps under the ongoing Centrally Sponsored Scheme of Project Tiger to address poaching, which too, is significantly controlled “as seen in the confirmed poaching and seizure cases”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reports-about-highest-tiger-deaths-in-2021-lopsided-centre-101640923424178.html
31-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Red alert in Chennai, 3 other districts in Tamil Nadu and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Red alert in 4 Tamil Nadu districts after heavy rain, Chennai inundatedA red alert has been issued in four districts of Tamil Nadu, including Chennai, Kanchipuram, Thiruvallur and Chinglepet, as heavy rainfall inundated roads and subways in the capital city and its suburbs. Read more3 terrorists, including 1 JeM operative, gunned down in Srinagar encounterThree terrorists were gunned down by joint security forces of the Indian Army and Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) police on Friday morning after an overnight encounter in Srinagar, police said. Read moreArvind Kejriwal to lead AAP's 'Shanti March' in Punjab's Patiala todayThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will take out a ‘Shanti March’ in Punjab's Patiala on Friday, which comes days after the state witnessed the Ludhiana district court bombing and the sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple in Amritsar. Read more 'Of all Indian pacers I've seen and played with, I would put Bumrah on top of the pack': India legend praises star quickThe legend of Jasprit Bumrah continues to grow. The star India pacer may not have picked too many wickets in the Centurion Test against South Africa, his spell in the fag end on Day 4 turned the match on its head and impressed an entire bunch of legends. Read moreBest Indian films of 2021: Karnan and Sherni to The Disciple and The Great Indian KitchenMalayalam cinema’s bull run with the most interesting Indian films continued in 2021. Tamil filmmakers weren’t far behind, showing deftness in combining mainstream filmmaking with high concepts and social issues. In comparison, quality Hindi films were few and far between. Read moreWife of slain terrorist, who returned to Kashmir, calls out Pak terror groupsWife of a slain Hizbul Mujahideen militant hits out at Pakistan-based terrorist groups for allegedly misguiding Kashmiri youth. Razia Bibi, a native of Bandipora in north Kashmir, was reportedly taken to Pakistan at a young age where she married a militant. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-red-alert-in-chennai-3-other-districts-in-tamil-nadu-and-all-the-latest-news-101640920244633.html
31-12-2021||India||Cold to severe cold wave likely in northwest India||Cold to severe cold wave conditions are likely in northwest India and Madhya Pradesh over the next three days while heavy rain is expected in peninsular India particularly Tamil Nadu until January 1, the India Meteorological Department said on Friday.Chennai’s MRC Nagar alone recorded 198.0 mm rain between 08:30 am to 7.45 pm on Thursday, prompting IMD to issue a red warning for extremely heavy rainfall in the city.In central India, minimum temperatures are likely to fall by 2-4 degrees Celsius during the next three days and rise by 2- 3 degrees afterwards. A fall in minimum temperatures by 3-5 degrees is also expected in east India.Dense fog is likely in isolated pockets in the night and morning hours in Uttar Pradesh during the next five days and in eastern and north-eastern India over two to three days.Also Read: Red alert in 4 Tamil Nadu districts after heavy rain, Chennai inundated“There was rainfall in northwest India and the Western Himalayan region due to a passing western disturbance last week. Now the wind direction is northerly which is bringing very cold air from the hills to the plains creating cold wave conditions. This cold cycle may be broken next week when another western disturbance approaches. But due to cloudy conditions, the daytime temperature may be low next week and there is likely to be scattered rain,” said DS Pai, IMD, Pune.An intense western disturbance is likely to affect the Western Himalayan from January 4 to 7 with a possibility of isolated heavy rain on January 5 and 6 in northwest India. Isolated to scattered rainfall or snowfall is expected in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, and Himachal Pradesh from January 1 to 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-to-severe-cold-wave-likely-in-northwest-india-101640921924074.html
31-12-2021||India||3 terrorists, including 1 JeM operative, gunned down in Srinagar encounter||Three terrorists were gunned down by joint security forces of the Indian Army and Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) police on Friday morning after an overnight encounter in Srinagar, police said.According to police officials, one of the killed terrorists has been identified as Suhail Ahmad Rather and he was affiliated with the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terror outfit. The proceedings to identify the other three terrorists are currently underway, the officials said, adding that arms and ammunition, along with other incriminating material, have been recovered from the site.“A terrorist identified as Suhail Ahmad Rather, affiliated with terror outfit JeM, along with two other unidentified terrorists neutralised in an encounter with security forces in Srinagar late night,” said Vijay Kumar, the inspector general of Kashmir Police.“Incriminating material including arms and ammunition recovered.”“As revealed during yesterday's Press Conference, terrorist Suhail was also involved in Zewan Terror Attack. All terrorists involved in the Zewan attack have been neutralised,” Kashmir Zone Police on Twitter quoted Kumar as saying.One of the killed #terrorists has been identified as Suhail Ahmad Rather of #terror outfit JeM. As revealed during yesterday’s PC, terrorist Suhail was also involved in #ZewanTerrorAttack. All terrorists involved in Zewan attack have been #neutralised: IGP Kashmir@JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/8qu081u8mVAccording to officials familiar with the developments, around four security force personnel—including three policemen and one of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF)—were also injured in the encounter, that started around midnight at Srinagar's Pantha Chowk.With this encounter, as many as nine terrorists have been killed in three separate encounters during the past 24 hours.General Officer Commanding (GOC) of 15 Corps, Lt General DP Pandey on Friday said the infiltration attempts from the other side of the border into Jammu and Kashmir have gone down this year, adding that terror groups are trying to recruit young children aged 15-16 years.Vijay Kumar said on Thursday the number of active terrorists in the Valley has come down to less than 200 and that of active local terrorists has reduced to less than 100, for the first time in history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-terrorists-including-1-jem-operative-gunned-down-in-srinagar-encounter-101640918106517.html
31-12-2021||India||Afspa can still be repealed, says Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma. There’s a rider||As the Centre extended the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (Afspa) for another six months in Nagaland, Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma on Thursday held out hope that the northeast could see the scrapping of the controversial law.“Even though there has been a six-month extension in Nagaland, it can still be repealed,” Conrad K Sangma told HT amid howls of protest in Nagaland that is still mourning the killing of civilians in a botched army operation and the ensuing violence.Sangma’s party, the National People's Party (NPP), is an alliance partner of Bharatiya Janata Party in Meghalaya which helped him come to power after the 2018 assembly elections. In Manipur, NPP which had four MLAs till recently - one of them crossed over to the BJP this week - supports the BJP government led by N Biren Singh. Conrad’s party plans to contest the Manipur elections scheduled for early next year on its own.Afspa doesn’t apply to Meghalaya any longer. For years, the law that kicks in once an area is notified as a “disturbed area”, was applicable within a 20 km wide belt of Meghalaya along the border with Assam.In 2018, the Centre completely removed Afspa from Meghalaya after 27 years. It is in force in Nagaland, Assam, Manipur (excluding seven assembly constituencies in Imphal) and parts of Arunachal Pradesh.Chief ministers of several northeastern states including Sangma spoke out against the law after 13 civilians were killed on December 4 in a botched counter-insurgency operation by the Indian Army in Nagaland’s Mon district.The central government subsequently decided to set up a committee to assess the possibility of withdrawing Afspa from the region.Sangma alluded to this panel to explain his optimism.“I am sure that when the situation comes where the review is done, and they (Centre) are actually able to take a decision, that it should be repealed then,” the chief minister said.Pointing out the extension of the ‘disturbed areas’ tag in Nagaland was just a routine procedure, he underscored: “Once that proposal or that review committee looks into it, the panel looks into it, I'm sure it'll come up separately.”In its notification extending the law, which shields security forces from prosecution without the central government’s sanction, the union home ministry said Nagaland was in a “disturbed and dangerous condition”.“The Central government is of the opinion that the area comprising the whole of the State of Nagaland is in such a disturbed and dangerous condition that the use of armed forces in aid of the civil power is necessary,” the government order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afspa-can-still-be-repealed-says-meghalaya-cm-conrad-sangma-there-s-a-rider-101640896017359.html
31-12-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal to lead AAP's 'Shanti March' in Punjab's Patiala today||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will take out a ‘Shanti March’ in Punjab's Patiala on Friday, which comes days after the state witnessed the Ludhiana district court bombing and the sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple in Amritsar.The AAP said its national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will lead the Shanti March on Friday and senior party leader Bhagwant Mann will also be present during the rally. Kejriwal is currently on a three-day visit to Punjab that started on Thursday and will end on Saturday.The AAP has said that both incidents of violence in Punjab were carried out under a conspiracy to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere in the state.The opposition party also hit out at the ruling Congress government by saying that its leaders are fighting amongst themselves. "Punjab needs an honest, strong government, which acts against those indulging in conspiracies," Arvind Kejriwal said on December 24.On December 18, a man lynched by a group of angry pilgrims after stepping inside the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple in Amritsar picked a sword and reached the area where a priest was reciting the holy Guru Granth Sahib.Hindustan Times reported last week that the deceased paid obeisance in the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine 17 times in the last four days before he committed the sacrilege bid on December 18.Five days later, one man died while six others were injured after an explosion took place inside the washroom on the second floor of the Ludhiana district court on December 23.The Punjab Police said that Gagandeep Singh, a former cop, was the bomber at the court complex. Singh, who was killed in the blast, was dismissed from service in 2019 in connection with a drugs case and spent two years in jail. He was released in September this year.Meanwhile, Jaswinder Singh Multani, a member of the banned outfit 'Sikhs for Justice', was arrested in Germany for his involvement in the Ludhiana court blast and plans to target locations in Delhi and Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-to-lead-aap-s-shanti-march-in-punjab-s-patiala-today-101640908956036.html
31-12-2021||India||Sameer Wankhede's eventful stint with NCB to end today. A look back at his tenure||The tenure of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Mumbai zonal chief Sameer Wankhede, which was marked by controversies, is set to end on Friday, December 31. Wankhede, a 2008-batch Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer, had found himself in a spot following the arrest of Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan in the drugs-on-cruise case.Earlier this month, Wankhede confirmed he will not seek an extension of his term with the NCB. It is not yet clear where he would be posted after his NCB deputation ends, as per officials following the matter.Sameer Wankhede's eventful tenure with the NCB is most notable for investigations into the alleged Bollywood drugs syndicate after actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death by suicide. Starting with actor Rhea Chakraborty, multiple high-profile Bollywood personalities were interrogated and arrested by the NCB under Wankhede, who was on a deputation to the central agency since September 2020.In October this year, a team led by Sameer Wankhede allegedly recovered drugs during a raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and arrested Aryan Khan along with others. But subsequently, questions were raised about the credentials of independent witnesses used by the NCB during the raid, and it was also alleged that there was an attempt to extort money from Shah Rukh Khan by officials of the anti-drug agency.Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik also raised a barrage of allegations against Wankhede, alleging that the officer was born a Muslim but later forged a caste certificate to get a job in the Scheduled Caste (SC) quota.Although Wankhede denied the allegations and his father filed a defamation suit against Malik, the allegations caused an uproar on social media. Several high-profile cases, including that of Aryan Khan and that of Nawab Malik's son-in-law, were transferred from the NCB Mumbai to a special investigation team formed by the head office.Between August and December 2020, Wankhede arrested 96 and registered 28 cases. In 2021, Wankhede made 234 arrests, registered 117 cases, seized over 1,791kg drugs worth around ₹1,000 crore, and froze properties over ₹11 crore, the NCB has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sameer-wankhede-s-eventful-stint-with-ncb-to-end-today-a-look-back-at-his-tenure-101640911519964.html
31-12-2021||NA||Highlights: Delhi records jump in Covid-19 cases with 1,796 new infections||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Delhi records jump in Covid-19 cases with 1,796 new infectionsTamil Nadu restricts malls, theatres at 50% capacity till Jan 31Amid rising COVID cases, Tamil Nadu Govt announces new restrictions effective till Jan 31 -- malls, jewellery & textile shops, malls, theatres, beauty parlours, showrooms, amusement parks, and metro trains to operate at 50% capacity.Maharashtra minister Yashomati Thakur tests positive for Covid-19माझी कोरोना चाचणी पॉझिटिव्ह आलेली आहे.मला कोणतेही लक्षणे नाही, तरीही डॉक्टरांच्या सल्ल्याने मी पुढील उपचार घेणार आहे.माझ्या संपर्कात आलेल्यांनी आपली कोरोना चाचणी करून घ्यावी. सगळ्यांना या निमित्ताने आवाहन करत आहे, आपण मास्क वापरावा, काळजी घ्यावी.Maharashtra Minister Yashomati Thakur says she has tested positive for Covid-19. The minister says she is asymptomatic and requests all who came in contact with her to get tested.Maharashtra reports massive spike in Covid infections, over 8,000 new cases in last 24 hoursMaharashtra reports 8,067 fresh Covid-19 cases, including 4 Omicron cases; 1,766 recoveries, and 8 deaths today.Active cases stands at 24,509 while the total recoveries are 65,09,096.Sikkim announces Covid restrictions till January 10Sikkim announces new restrictions till January 10, 2022 amid Omicron threat.Pubs, discos, cinema halls, restaurants, fast food centres, bakeries, gymnasiums, barbershops, spas, and salons to operate with only 50% of seating capacity.Mumbai's Dharavi reports 34 fresh Covid-19 cases, as per BMC data34 fresh COVID19 cases reported in Dharavi in the last 24 hours, active cases in the area rise to 95, says Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation.Karnataka logs 23 new Omicron cases, including 19 foreign returnees"23 new cases of Omicron confirmed in Karnataka today, of which 19 are international travellers from USA, Europe, Middle East and Africa," says state health minister Dr Sudhakar K.No proposal to extend ITR filing due date: GovtThere is no proposal to extend the date for income tax return filing, says Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj, Govt of IndiaGST on textile to remain at 5%, announces SitharamanThe GST Council meeting has decided to retain the status quo on GST rate on textile to 5% and not raise it to 12%. The issue of GST rate on textile will be sent to the tax rate rationalization committee which will submit its report by February, announces FM Nirmala Sitharaman. Read moreKerala's Omicron tally rises, 44 new cases recorded in last 24 hoursKerala records 44 fresh confirmed cases of Omicron, taking total cases of the coronavirus variant to 107 in the state, says Kerala Health Minister Veena George.Omicron has started replacing Delta variant in India, reports ANI quoting official sources#Omicron has started replacing Delta variant in India: Official SourcesSection 144 in Mumbai extended till Jan 15 in view of OmicronRestrictions under Section 144 of CrPC extended in Mumbai till Jan 15. Mumbai Police prohibits citizens from visiting beaches, open grounds, sea faces, promenades, gardens, parks, or similar public places, from 5pm to 5am.Centre to defer GST hike on textiles from 5% to 12%GST Council has decided to defer the hike in GST rate on textiles (from 5% to 12%). The Council will review this matter in its next meeting in February 2022: Bikram Singh, Industry Minister, Himachal Pradesh on GST Council meeting in Delhi pic.twitter.com/3BM4MJxeFJThe GST council has decided to defer the hike in GST rate on textiles from 5% to 12%.Serum Institute applies for full authorisation of CovishieldSerum Institute Of India has applied to the country's drug regulator and the health ministry for full approval of its Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, the company's chief executive said on Friday.Omicron is the main Covid variant in FranceAn official told news agency AFP on Friday that Omicron is the main Covid-19 variant in France. Covid-19 weakening in Uttar Pradesh, but vigilance necessary: CM YogiUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Friday Covid-19 is weakening in the state and urged people to not worry about the coronavirus pandemic situation. Read morePuducherry to observe night curfew till January 31Puducherry | Night curfew from 11 pm till 5 am have been imposed in the union territory with effect till 31st January 2022, except on the occasion of Vaikunta Ekadashi pic.twitter.com/OS6UG6fiVbThe Puducherry government said on Friday that a night curfew has been imposed in the Union Territory till January 31. Nirmala Sitharaman chairs 46th GST council meetUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday chaired the 46th meeting of the Central Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council in New Delhi. Read moreWaterlogging reported in parts of Chennai after heavy rainsTamil Nadu: Waterlogging in several parts of Chennai in aftermath of heavy rains; earlier visuals from Ashok Nagar pic.twitter.com/gBwn9trFOHDelhi's air quality in ‘very poor category’ The national capital's air quality slipped to the very poor quality on Friday. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the AQI was at 308 during morning hours. Bihar reports first case of Omicron variant; patient recently visited DelhiBihar has reported its first Omicron case in a 26-year-old man as the coronavirus variant continues to spread at an alarming rate across India. Read moreProtesting doctors call off strike after meeting with policeThe protesting doctors belonging to the Federation of Resident Doctors Association (FORDA) called off the strike following a meeting with the police, reports ANI. “We had a meeting with Joint CP last night. Withdrawal of FIR process started (in connection with ITO protest). After 12 pm today we will call off our strike against the delay in NEET 2021 counselling,” said Dr Manish, president of FORDA. He also said that patients were suffering and many surgeries have been deferred due to which the strike has been called off.1,270 Omicron cases in India, Maharashtra adds 450 to tallyCOVID19 | India reports 16,764 new cases, 7,585 recoveries and 220 deaths in the last 24 hours. Active caseload currently stands at 91,361. Recovery Rate currently at 98.36%Omicron case tally stands at 1,270. pic.twitter.com/zbKKRiP4kWThe number of Covid-19 cases pertaining to the Omicron variant in the country stood at 1,270, according to the Union health ministry. Maharashtra and Delhi with 450 and 320 cases respectively, added the most to the national tally.India sees major surge in daily Covid tally with 16,764 casesIndia's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) surged for a third straight day after 16,764 cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, pushing the caseload to 34,838,804. Nirmala Sitharaman to chair 46th meeting of GST Council todayFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will on Friday chair the 46th meeting of the GST Council in Delhi. The meeting will be attended by MoS finance Pankaj Chaudhary, Dr Bhagwat Kishanrao Karad, and finance ministers of States and Union Territories (UTs). Amit Shah in Ayodhya today, to visit temples and address rallyUnion home minister Amit Shah will be in Ayodhya on Friday where he will pay a visit to Ram Lalla and the Hanumangarhi temple and address a rally to bolster the Bharatiya Janata Party’s position ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh next year. Read moreMizoram reports 243 new Covid-19 cases; tally over 141,000COVID19 | Mizoram reports 243 new cases; Active caseload at 1,658, positivity rate at 9.69% pic.twitter.com/bYmW5PbMZIArvind Kejriwal to lead AAP's 'Shanti March' in Punjab's Patiala todayThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will take out a ‘Shanti March’ in Punjab's Patiala on Friday, which comes days after the state witnessed the Ludhiana district court bombing and the sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple in Amritsar. Read moreSpain sees record surge in daily Covid cases at 161,688Daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Spain saw a record surge after 161,688 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-december-31-2021-101640911501028.html
31-12-2021||India||Red alert in 4 Tamil Nadu districts after heavy rain, Chennai inundated||A red alert has been issued in four districts of Tamil Nadu, including Chennai, Kanchipuram, Thiruvallur and Chinglepet, as heavy rainfall inundated roads and subways in the capital city and its suburbs and three people were killed on Thursday.Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin visited the flood control room of Greater Chennai Corporation on Thursday night to review the rain, relief, and rescue works in various parts of the city.State revenue and disaster management minister KKSSR Ramachandran said three people, including two women and a boy, died of electrocution in Chennai after the intense spell of rain, which may be one of the heaviest witnessed in recent years."A red alert has been issued for four districts of Tamil Nadu including Chennai, Kanchipuram, Thiruvallur, and Chinglepet in view of heavy rainfall. Three people have died due to electrocution today," Ramachandran said.As roads and subways were flooded and led to traffic congestion in the city and suburbs motorists struggled to manoeuvre their vehicles.Police said three subways were closed and in view of inundation and traffic moved at a snail's pace in at least 14 arterial city thoroughfares. Greater Chennai Corporation said more than 145 pumps were used to de-clog inundated locations.Metro authorities extended the train services by an hour till 12am to help passengers reach their destinations safely.Most areas in the city and suburbs began receiving rainfall in the afternoon and it was heavy to very heavy in several locations. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the highest rainfall of 17.65cm was recorded in MRC Nagar in Chennai.The IMD said it was 14.65cm and 10cm at Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam respectively. In other areas, including those falling under neighbouring Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts, the showers ranged from 1cm (Madhavaram) to 10cm (Nandanam). The rainfall data was recorded between 8.30am and 6.15pm on Thursday.According to the weather department, isolated heavy to very rainfall activity is likely to continue over north coastal Tamil Nadu and adjoining areas of south coastal Andhra Pradesh during the next three days and decrease thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-alert-in-4-tamil-nadu-districts-after-heavy-rain-chennai-inundated-101640909842905.html
31-12-2021||India||Chhattisgarh cops arrest seer in MP, row erupts||The Chhattisgarh police on Thursday arrested controversial Hindu seer Abhijeet Dhananjay Saraag, alias Kalicharan Maharaj, from Madhya Pradesh and booked him for sedition for allegedly derogatory comments against Mahatma Gandhi at an event in Raipur last week. In the evening, a local court in Raipur sent Kalicharan to police custody till January 1, police saidThe arrest, however, led to a slugfest between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led MP government and the Congress government in Chhattisgarh.
31-12-2021||India||Omicron has spread in the community: Jain||The Omicron variant of the coronavirus has spread in the community, state health minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday, adding that most patients have had only minor symptoms, while none have so far needed oxygen support.Addressing a press briefing, Jain said more than half the positive samples analysed are of the Omicron variant, according to the latest genome sequencing report, which includes patients with no travel history.“The variant is gradually spreading in the community and its proportion will increase in the coming days,” said Jain.“None of the hospitalised patients have required oxygen... and most patients have only had minor symptoms. However, the most serious problem is that it is spreading much faster than the Delta variant,” he added.“There are around 200 [Omicron] patients hospitalised in Delhi, of whom 115 people who tested positive at the airport have isolated in hospital. Of these 200, 102 are from Delhi and 98 are from outside the city,” said Jain.Jain said that since the hospital occupancy is still low and most Omicron infections mild, the government will not issue a Level 2 [amber] alert under its Graded Response Action Plan for now.“A decision on imposing more curbs will be taken at a DDMA [Delhi Disaster Management Authority] meeting after monitoring the Covid-19 situation,” said Jain.The first phase of curbs under the action plan – the yellow alert - was triggered on Tuesday, putting in place a curfew from 10pm-5am, shutting schools, colleges, movie theatres and gyms, apart from curbs on public transit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/omicron-has-spread-in-the-community-jain-101640892842730.html
31-12-2021||India||‘Unhappy over long waits, restrictions’: Commuters vandalise buses in Delhi||Angry over long wait for buses and not being allowed to board due to Covid restrictions, some commuters vandalised six Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses in Badarpur and Sangam Vihar, the police said on Thursday, adding that six people have been arrested.Under the Yellow Alert of the Covid graded response action plan, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Tuesday enforced a range of restrictions in view of a spike in Covid cases. According to the alert, only 50% seating is allowed both Metro and public buses. No standing passengers are allowed. The restriction has severely limited the carrying capacity of the two modes of public transport.Additional deputy commissioner of police, south district, Mandava Harsha Vardhan said window panes of six DTC buses were damaged in two separate incidents. “Legal action is being taken in these cases,” he added. Five buses were damaged in Badarpur and one in Sangam Vihar, he added.The first incident was reported at about 8.15am, when the police received multiple phone calls about a traffic jam near Jamia Hamdard on south Delhi’s Mehrauli Badarpur Road. When the police reached the spot, they found that some bus commuters were instigating others to sit on the road as bus drivers and marshals were not allowing more than 17 passengers in each bus in line with the Covid-related curbs ordered by the government, a police officer aware of the case said.“The police tried to convince the agitated public to allow the traffic to pass by, but in vain. After some time, they went on a rampage, and damaged window panes of five buses,” the additional commissioner said, adding that the police did not use any force to disperse the crowd.“In the process one police person also sustained injury,” the officer said.The district police received a second report of passengers creating a ruckus at 10,30am, in Sangam Vihar, about 3km from the spot where the first incident was reported. Police officers said some commuters were angry over not being allowed to board the buses.The additional commissioner said a group of men blocked the road and broke the window panes of a DTC bus around 10.30 am. “Police dispersed the crowd and a case was registered at Sangam Vihar police station,” he said.Four men and two women were arrested under relevant IPC sections, and one juvenile was apprehended, in the two cases, Benita Mary Jaiker, DCP (south) said.Police said all those detained were workers at factories. There were a few passengers in one of the buses, but were quickly evacuated and moved to safety. None of them was injured, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/unhappy-over-long-waits-restrictions-commuters-vandalise-buses-in-s-delhi-101640892427202.html
31-12-2021||India||Odisha bans all New Year’s Eve parties, imposes night curfew in urban areas||BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha government on Thursday banned congregation of people at public places including tourist spots on New Year’s Eve and New Year’s Day.The government, which also revived night curfew in urban areas, has also ordered he Jagannath temple in Puri to be closed on December 31 and January 1, and the Maa Tarini Temple in Keonjhar district and Lingaraj temple in Bhubaneswar from December 31 to January 2.The restrictions were imposed as five more cases of the Omicron variant were confirmed on Thursday, raising the total number of the new coronavirus variant to 14 in Odisha. The state has 1,480 active cases, according to the union health ministry database.In a order issued by the special relief commissioner, the state government directed officials to carry out random checking of crowd and gatherings at public places such as picnic spots, malls, shopping complexes, hotels, clubs and restaurants.All social and religious gatherings will remain prohibited and no picnic in parks, nature clubs, beaches will be allowed. Also, no cultural and dance programmes of any sort would be organised in hotels or any other venue.“No educational institutions would organize excursions/ picnics till end of January 2022,” the notification said.The government also brought back night curfew in all urban areas of the state from 10pm to 5am. There will be no movement of vehicles except for exigencies on production of proper evidence.The government, however, has allowed political gatherings of not more than 100 people with full compliance to Covid protocols in view of panchayat polls scheduled to be held in February next year.The government said strict enforcement of Covid-19 safety protocols such as wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing of at least six feet between persons at public places will be ensured. In case of violations, penalties will be imposed. In Jagatsinghpur district, all temples, mosques, churches and other religious places will be closed between December 31 and January 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-bans-all-new-year-s-eve-parties-imposes-night-curfew-in-urban-areas-101640890003280.html
31-12-2021||India||Dec 31: What we know about the Omicron variant so far||New studies released this week now confirm what was thought to be the second reason why Omicron is likely to lead to milder disease than Delta did.The adaptive component of the human body continues to recognise cells infected by the new variant of concern (VOC), eliminating them before they multiply to such a large extent that the disease becomes severe.At play is what is known as the T Cell immunity, which has two sorts of cells – helper (CD4) and killer (CD8). These are different from antibodies, which are synthesised by B cells.The Omicron variant has mutations that can cheat the antibody response but, as the new studies show, they are still susceptible to the killer cells. At least partly, this explains why the disease is halted before it gets more serious.Studies published earlier this month showed the Omicron variant was significantly less capable in binding to lung cells and most of the people infected in hot spot regions of South Africa and UK were vaccinated or had a past infection -- two other factors attributed for the variant’s possibly decreased virulence.The first new study on T cells was carried out by researchers in South Africa, who took samples from a group of 70 people that included people with prior Covid-19 and full vaccination with the Pfizer-BioNTech and J&J vaccines.The researchers found that that “70-80% of the CD4 and CD8 T cell response to spike was maintained across study groups” and that the intensity with which the T cells reacted with the Omicron variant was similar to magnitude of when they reacted with Beta or Delta variants, “despite Omicron harbouring considerably more mutations”.There was a fear that this would not happen – a virus that has changed drastically will be better able to fool the body’s defences. Omicron has 32-36 mutations in the spike protein (the protrusion that latches onto target cells) while Beta, the most resistant variant prior to Omicron, had only 11.Thankfully, the T cell response recognises all of the spike.The second study, by another group that was based at the La Jolla Institute in California but collaborated with the first group, had a more detailed quantification of the T cell response. They found that “84% and 85% of CD4 and CD8 T cell responses were preserved”.How significant is this?It reinforces the need for vaccination. All vaccines elicit a repertoire of immune response, including B cell and T cell responses. People who may be completely immune naïve will lack the T cell response that the researchers found in their studies.The second is that the evolution of the S protein must be monitored to see the degree to which it changes. A spike that changes more of the “epitopes” – the locations that T cells recognise – would mean even this adaptive immune response would be lost.“The resilience of the T cell response demonstrated here also bodes well in the event that more highly mutated variants emerge in the future. We still need to see how long T cell immunity lasts, but after Sars1 it was still detectable after 17yrs,” said Wendy Burgers, one of the South African researchers in a tweet.The La Jolla team added in their report: “Nevertheless, the data also underline the need for continued surveillance and the potential danger posed by continued variant evolution that could result in further reduction of T cell responses.”
31-12-2021||India||SIT meets soldiers in Nagaland firing case||GUWAHATI: A special investigation team (SIT) set up by the Nagaland government on Thursday collected the statements of army officers and jawans who killed 14 civilians in a botched operation in the state’s Mon district earlier this month.The six-member SIT team recorded the statements at the Rainforest Research Institute at Jorhat in Assam, said army officials familiar with the matter. The proceedings are expected to continue on Friday.Also Read | Afspa renewed in Nagaland: GovtThe army and Nagaland Police refused to comment but people aware of developments said that the SIT collected the statements of seven to eight army personnel, including two officers who were allegedly part of the shooting at Oting in Mon district of Nagaland on December 4-5.“It is an ongoing (investigation). I can’t comment on it,” stated Nagaland director general of police T. John Longkumer. It was not clear whether the SIT interrogated the army personnel or only recorded their prepared statements.The 21 Para Special Force, which was part of the operation at Oting, are stationed in Jorhat. Nearly two dozen of its personnel are believed to have been part of the December 4 incident, when six villagers returning home from a local coal mine were shot dead, allegedly on suspicion of them being terrorists.Soon after the incident, angry villagers reached the spot and set ablaze two security vehicles, sparking off another round of firing by forces to “control the situation” in which at least six villagers and one soldier died. On the following day, a 14th civilian was killed and at least 35 people were injured in police firing when an angry mob went on a rampage and vandalised an Assam Rifles camp.The development came a day after the army court of inquiry (CoI) -- which is probing the incident -- recorded the statements of two witnesses at Tizit. The team headed by a major general also visited the site of the shooting.
31-12-2021||India||The year that was: BJP makes inroads, TRS takes on Centre in Telangana||The year began on a not-so-happy note for the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) headed by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, following the not-so-impressive show by the party in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls. The TRS, which won just 56 out of the 150 seats in the GHMC as against 48 by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), managed to grab the mayor and deputy mayor posts only with support of the Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, on February 11. The TRS, however, retained its supremacy, by winning two MLC seats under graduates’ quota in the elections held in March and also the by-election to Nagarjunasagar assembly seat held in April. However, the state politics witnessed a major turning point with the expulsion of state health minister Eatala Rajender from the KCR cabinet on May 1 on charges of land encroachments. Subsequently, Rajender quit the TRS and also his state assembly membership to join the BJP. In July, firebrand Congress MP from Malkajgiri A Revanth Reddy took over as the new president of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee. Though his appointment resulted in rumblings within the party, he soon took complete control of the party affairs and reconstituted the PCC completely. In the same month, a new regional party – YSR Telangana Party – was launched in Telangana by YS Sharmila, the sister of Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. She took up a series of protest dharnas prior to the launch of the party. On October 20, she kick-started a marathon padayatra (foot march) from Chevella, but had to suspend the same on November 10 due to the announcement of election schedule for the MLC elections under local bodies’ quota. She has not yet resumed her padayatra. Another interesting development in July was the announcement of a senior IPS officer RS Praveen Kumar that he was opting for voluntary retirement to enter politics. He joined the Bahujan Samaj Party a couple of weeks later and has since been attacking the TRS government. The launch of Dalit Bandhu, a major populist scheme by the KCR government, was yet another major development in Telangana this year. The scheme, aimed at direct transferring of ₹10 lakh into the accounts of eligible Dalit families, was launched on August 16, ahead of the by-elections to Huzurabad assembly seat aimed at defeating Eatala Rajender. However, the scheme did not fetch any electoral benefits to the TRS, as the party lost the by-elections to the BJP with Rajender winning the seat with a handsome margin on November 2. It was a huge setback to the TRS politically and the victory in the elections to 12 MLC seats held December was only a consolation for the ruling party. Following the defeat in the Huzurabad by-election, KCR entered into a direct confrontation with the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre on the latter’s alleged anti-farmer policies. He even announced payment of ₹3 lakh compensation to the families of north Indian farmers who lost their lives during the agitation on Delhi borders. Taking up the issue of the Centre’s indifferent attitude in paddy procurement from the state, the TRS staged agitations across the state and for the first time, KCR himself sat on a dharna in Hyderabad on November 18. His party MPs staged protests in Delhi and even joined the Congress-led opposition against the BJP. The TRS chief went to Tamil Nadu to hold talks with DMK leader and chief minister MK Stalin as part of building up anti-BJP front at the national level. As the year comes to an end, the TRS and the BJP have stepped up their offensive against each other, as the Congress party is struggling to overcome the internal wrangling. 
31-12-2021||India||14 cities in 8 states on govt’s Omicron watch||The Union government wrote to eight states and Union territories, asking them to enhance testing, strengthen hospital preparedness, and accelerate vaccinations after cities in their territories recorded a sharp surge in new Covid-19 cases, which officials said is likely to be because of the Omicron variant.India recorded 16,574 new cases on Thursday, the highest single-day tally in more than 70 days, with Maharashtra, Kerala, West Bengal and Delhi contributing the highest numbers. On Tuesday, the number of new cases was 12,987 and on Wednesday, it was 9,155, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.Also Read | Delhi, Mumbai's R-value exceeds 2 amid Omicron spike: What it means“We believe what we are witnessing is possibly part of the global rise in cases pushed by the Omicron variant,” said Niti Aayog member (Health) VK Paul, while speaking at the Union health ministry’s press briefing on Covid-19.
31-12-2021||India||Delays and virtual hearings, but rights and responses in focus||It was a defining moment for the Supreme Court this year as the unprecedented second wave of Covid-19 pandemic put to test the efficiency of virtual court hearings and efficacy of courts as guardians of people’s fundamental rights. While the virtual court experience changed for the better by overcoming the glitches experienced during the past year, the top court left a deep imprint on citizens’ minds and lives during the pandemic with their spate of rulings on vaccine roll-out, Covid death compensation, repatriation of migrant workers, and the mandate to secure education of children who lost their parents or caretakers due to Covid.Judicial activism was seen at the fore in a string of judgments delivered by the Court, including the Pegasus spyware case, where it stepped in to form a committee to enquire into the truth whether the government or any of its agencies had indeed pried upon its citizens using a sophisticated foreign surveillance technology. It was again the year of women as the court passed path-breaking decisions admitting women into the once-male bastions of the prestigious national defence academy (NDA), among other military institutions.The court also took the final call on policy matters of the government when it came to the prized projects of Central Vista, the Char Dham road expansion scheme, and the reservation policies. Gender sensitisation was high on priority in several decisions by the court. Judges even placed the lens on disability rights giving it a meaningful interpretation while implementing it in the context of disciplinary proceedings and competitive examinations.Explaining this and much more, we have categorised the highlights at the country’s top court and its notable decisions throughout 2021.Virtual Revamp The need for a better video conferencing platform was hugely felt as the year began with the Supreme Court hearing cases on the Vidyo videoconferencing app. This app was in use since March 2020 but faced limitations of participant strength, besides frequent glitches. However, this did not deter judges from taking up even Constitution bench matters. During this period, a five-judge bench of the top court took up and decided the constitutional validity of Maharashtra’s Maratha quota law. By August, the Court shifted to the Cisco Webex platform, providing a smoother experience to judges, lawyers and litigants.More than 150,000 virtual hearings were conducted by the top court since the pandemic began. The E-Committee of the Supreme Court came out with uniform rules for videoconferencing and applied it throughout all high courts. It even framed model rules for live streaming and recording of court proceedings, the work on which is still in progress. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court has opened for physical hearing of cases but the option of providing an online link is kept open for lawyers on all working days.Covid outreach The court made its presence felt in more than one way when the second wave of the Covid pandemic strained bed facility at hospitals, exhausted medical oxygen reserves, and essential drugs ran out of supply. At a time when the government was overwhelmed by the scaled demand across states, the top court stepped in by initiating a suo motu petition and formed a national task force on oxygen allocation to ensure smooth and transparent supply of medical oxygen across states. The court made a critical analysis of the vaccination policy by demanding an action plan on providing vaccination to the entire population. In separate suo motu proceedings, it ordered supply of dry ration and cooked food for stranded migrant workers and ordered states/UTs to ensure that financial distress does not come in the way of continuing education of children who lost their parents or caregivers due to Covid.Grief-stricken families who lost their near and dear ones due to Covid or Covid-related complications got ₹50,000 ex gratia, through the intervention of the Supreme Court, which also ensured that any death that took place within 30 days of testing Covid-positive, including death by suicide, will be entitled to this amount. This amount was meant to be over and above any central or state compensation schemes.Judicial activism In July, news broke about several Indian politicians, journalists and rights activists being part of a global list of persons whose phones were under surveillance using Pegasus, a sophisticated software developed by Israel’s NSO Group, which the company claimed to sell only to governments and not private individuals or groups. Amid concerns of whether the surveillance was State-sponsored, the Supreme Court entertained a clutch of petitions demanding an independent probe into the matter, terming any such action to be a violation of right to privacy and freedom of speech of a citizen. When the government spoke of national security and refused to reveal information, the court held that the State cannot get “a free pass every time” by raising the spectre of national security as it set up a three-member expert committee, supervised by a former Supreme Court judge, to ascertain the truth behind the controversy.A similar exercise of judicial activism unfolded when the court was unimpressed by the probe conducted by the Uttar Pradesh police into the mowing down of farmers by a car during farmer protests at Lakhimpur Kheri in October. Replacing a judicial enquiry panel formed by the state government with a one-man probe committee headed by a retired high court judge, the Supreme Court allayed concerns about a fair probe and revamped the special investigation team (SIT) probing the case by bringing in three IPS officers. The son of Union minister Ajay Mishra is among those arrested in this case.Armed forces The top court opened the gates of the prestigious National Defence Academy to women for the first time in 65 years. By a judicial order, it ended the discrimination existing at the premier military training institute and extended its order further to Indian Naval Academy and the Dehradun-based Royal Indian Military College. Forcing a mindset change in the army after its order last year that guaranteed permanent commission for women, the court fast-tracked preparations to admit women cadets to apply and get trained beginning this year itself.Even on the permanent commission (PC) front, the top court rallied in favour of women with order after order to call out as unrealistic yardsticks imposed by the Indian Army for women to get PC. Later, the court monitored the implementation of its orders to ensure full justice to women Short Service Commission officers.Reservation policies The reservation conundrum was up for debate in the top court, which questioned the criteria followed by the government to provide 10% reservation to economically weaker section (EWS) among forward castes for reservation in posts and admissions. The court made some searching queries on how EWS identification can be based on a uniform annual income criteria limit of ₹8 lakh, without accounting for disparities in income and purchasing power that varies across states. There was no answer on whether this limit takes into account income from other assets and landed property. The Centre formed a three-member committee to revisit this criterion and pending this exercise, put on hold the counselling for NEET-PG admissions where EWS quota was to apply from this academic year.In a separate judgment, the court insisted that seats allocated under the 27% quota for other backward classes (OBC) in local body polls has to be reserved seat-wise depending on empirical data gathered by an independent commission that can demonstrate backwardness of OBCs. In any event, the total reservation must remain within the 50% benchmark. The judgment has been applied to Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh with a direction to all state election commissions to implement this rule in future municipal polls.Gender sensitisation Taking a strict view on crimes against women and children, the Supreme Court ruled that “skin-to-skin” contact is not an essential requirement for convicting persons charged for sexual assault against children under the special legislation of Protection of Children against Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). The court set aside two judgments of the Bombay high court that prescribed this rule to release two accused persons who had touched the child inappropriately through her clothing and not her bare skin. By this, the court ended the escape route for sex offenders charged under this law.The court also stepped in to address a trend among some trial courts and high courts to trivialise sex crimes. It set aside an order by the Madhya Pradesh high court asking a man, who molested a woman, to get a rakhi tied on his hand by the victim. The court said such orders trivialised the trauma of the victim and may result in normalising a crime. The top court passed a slew of directions underlining the need for training modules to sensitise judges on this aspect.Policy scrutiny The year began with the Supreme Court clearing the Central Vista redevelopment plan. The project involving the construction of a new Parliament, central secretariat and residences of the Prime Minister and Vice President in the heart of the Capital was challenged on multiple fronts – environmental concerns, loss of heritage, lack of compliance with developmental regulations, and alleged the hurry shown by the Central Vista committee to invite objections and process plan for redevelopment without holding adequate consultation.The top court later allowed the Char Dham road expansion project on three feeder roads leading to India-China border keeping the interest of the Army in mind that required wide roads to move machinery, artillery to the border regions. By an earlier order, the top court had restricted the road width to 5.5 metres. The army sought a modification to extend this width to 10 metres.Backlog While highlighting the hits, a big miss cannot be ignored. The grouse over significant cases hanging fire in the top court remained pertinent in 2021. Cases involving scrapping of Article 370, validity of Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), validity of electoral bonds, and passage of crucial legislative amendments through the money bill route were some of the significant cases that could not be taken up this year too. With the threat of a third wave of Covid pandemic looming and the Supreme Court working in a hybrid mode, the possibility of early hearings in these matters in the near future appears bleak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delays-and-virtual-hearings-but-rights-and-responses-in-focus-101640889460028.html
31-12-2021||India||MBBS seat sale: Hurriyat leader among 9 charged||The Special Investigation Agency (SIA) of Jammu and Kashmir Police filed its first charge sheet against nine people, including a Hurriyat leader, in a case related to “selling” of MBBS seats in Pakistan to Kashmiri students and using the money to support and fund terrorism, officials said on Thursday. The case was registered by the Counter Intelligence Kashmir (CIK), a branch of the police’s CID, in July last year after receiving information through reliable sources that several unscrupulous people, including some Hurriyat leaders, were hand in glove with some educational consultancies and were “selling” Pakistan-based MBBS seats and seats in other professional courses in colleges and universities. The CIK, which has been designated as the SIA now, filed its charge sheet before a court against Mohammad Akbar Bhat alias Zaffar Akbar Bhat, the chairman of Salvation Movement, a constituent of hardline Hurriyat Conference. Others named in the chargesheet are Abdul Jabbar, Fatima Shah, Altaf Ahmad Bhat Qazi Yasir, Mohammad Abdullah Shah, Sabzar Ahmad Sheikh, Manzoor Ahmad Shah, Syed Khalid Geelani and Mohd Iqbal Mir of Mahaz Azadi Front. During investigation, oral, documentary and technical evidence was collected and in analysis it surfaced that MBBS and other professional degrees-related seats were preferentially given to those students who were close family members or relatives of killed terrorists, they said. Evidence also came on record to show that money had been put into channels that ended up supporting programmes and projects pertaining to terrorism and separatism, which included the unrest after the killing of Burhan Wani, the poster boy of banned Hizbul Mujahideen terror group, in 2016. The money was also used in failed efforts to disrupt peace after the abrogation of the erstwhile state’s special status in August, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mbbsseat-sale-hurriyat-leader-among-9-charged-101640889402288.html
31-12-2021||India||The year that was: Financial crisis and political bouts mark Andhra’s year||Landslide victories of the ruling YSR Congress party in the local body elections and by-elections, alleged witch-hunt of political opponents by the ruling party, continued confrontation with the constitutional bodies by the Jagan Mohan Reddy government and unprecedented financial crisis amidst implementation of welfare schemes are some of the major developments in Andhra Pradesh in 2021.Confrontation with state election commissionThe year began with the confrontation with the state election commission headed by Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, who announced the elections to the gram panchayats in February. The Jagan government strongly resisted the announcement and moved court, but failed to get a positive verdict.However, the ruling YSRC won the gram panchayat elections and subsequent municipal polls with a huge majority, decimating the main opposition Telugu Desam Party. In the block parishad, zilla parishad and municipal elections, the YSRC bagged more than 90 per cent of the seats.The ruling party also won the by-election to the Tirupati parliamentary seat held in April and to the Badwel assembly seat in November with a huge mandate. The YSRC also conquered all the local body elections in Kuppam, the bastion of TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu in Chittoor district.Setbacks on legal frontHowever, the Jagan government received a series of setbacks on the legal front. The state high court struck down the CID probe into the alleged insider trading in Amaravati, the state capital region. The government got a jolt even in the Supreme Court on the issue.The government witnessed similar setbacks in the high court in many other instances like striking down of the orders stripping former Union minister Ashok Gajapathi Raju of his post in the royal family trusts, closure of Sangam Dairy, and Amara Raja Batteries case.Following a high court order, the CBI also arrested several YSRC social media activists in the alleged abuse of judiciary on social media. The arrest of a few YSRC leaders close to Jagan’s cousin and Kadapa MP Y V Avinash Reddy caused an embarrassment to the state government.Witch-hunt of Jagan’s political rivalsThe alleged witch-hunt of Jagan’s political rivals was also a major highlight of the YSRC rule in 2021. The attack on TDP official spokesman K Pattabhi and his subsequent arrest, the attack on the residence of Chandrababu Naidu at Amaravati, the arrest of rebel YSRC MP K Raghurama Krishnam Raju in a CID case and his alleged torture in the CID custody hit the headlines during the year.The year also witnessed two major movements – one the year-long agitation by workers of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant against the Centre’s decision to privatise it and the 400-km-long padayatra by the farmers of Amaravati to retain the capital city at their place. Both the agitations are still continuing with all the political parties joining the stir.U-turn on laws on three capitalsThe Jagan government took a U-turn on two major issues. It repealed the laws seeking to create three capitals for Andhra Pradesh, but vowed to bring them back without legal issues. Secondly, it also sought to restore the state legislative council, which it wanted to abolish last year.For the TDP, which lost most of the elections it had contested in the year, the biggest shock was the way the YSRC humiliated Chandrababu Naidu on the floor of the assembly by allegedly passing vulgar comments against his wife. A visibly shaken Naidu broke down before the media and vowed to enter the assembly again only after becoming the chief minister in the next elections.Welfare schemes and financial crisisDuring the course of the year, the Jagan government has implemented a majority of its welfare schemes, but at the same time, faced an unprecedented financial crisis. It was accused of resorting to indiscriminate borrowings, selling public assets and diverting funds from central government schemes and panchayat raj bodies to fund its welfare schemes and manage day-to-day expenses.The latest scheme launched by Jagan to mobilise funds from people in the name of regularising the houses of the poor under One Time Settlement (OTS) scheme has also come under sharp criticism from the opposition parties.
31-12-2021||India||Foxconn plant:Dismal working conditions that fanned a stir||Fifteen women in a room meant for five. A limit on the use of water, exceeding which the use of restrooms was banned, and unsanitary food that left 159 factory workers in hospital. These were the living conditions at the dormitories at a plant operated by Foxconn, a Taiwanese multinational electronics manufacturer in Sriperumbudur on the outskirts of Chennai, where iPhones are assembled. Anger against these conditions burst into a protest that blocked the Chennai-Bengaluru highway for 8 hours in the middle of December, prompting the Tamil Nadu government to form an inspection team led by two ministers. The protest forced the tech giant Apple to issue a statement and put the facility on probation. On the night of December 18, hundreds of workers of the Foxconn plant blocked the highway at Sriperumbudur, after over 200 workers at the factory fell ill and 159 people were admitted to the district hospital, after what the Thiruvallur district administration described as an outbreak of an “acute diarrhoeal disease.” But workers at the Foxconn plant told HT that this was only the latest instance of exploitative working and living conditions that caused the outpouring of anger. A 21-year-old worker at the plant, who lived in one of the company’s dormitories, said, “In a room where more than five people can’t sleep, 15 of us sleep together on the floor. We stick to one another. Water is opened for us only one-and-a-half hours before our shift. If we don’t save water for later use, we cannot use the restrooms,” she said. The worker, who did not want to be identified, said she earned ₹11,500 per month and paid ₹130 per month for the hostel and food. “Several others and I have had stomach pains and urinary tract infections before. They serve us food on time but very little. Some women stay hungry throughout the day. There have been worms in our food before and we sent photos to the supervisor, but no action was taken. If I ask for leave to go home because of a death, my supervisor will ask me to show video proof,” she said. The 21-year-old was part of the protests against the living conditions and food poisoning, and has been home in her village in Tamil Nadu since the plant’s closure on December 18. She does not intend to return. On December 26, an inspection team of the Tamil Nadu government, comprising of administration officials and led by two ministers TM Anbarasan and CV Ganesan, visited the hostel facilities where the mass food poisoning took place, and looked at the amenities. One of the two ministers said that they had conveyed their recommendations to the Foxconn Technology Group to “improve infrastructure.” “We have also asked for action to be taken against those responsible for food poisoning,” the minister said. The government has asked the company to provide a minimum of four litres of drinking water per employee a day, provide water for bathing, increase washrooms to match the strength of the workforce, which is more than 15,000 employees out of which more than 10,000 are women, and provide inverters in case there are disruptions in power. “After we inspected the facilities, we have asked the management to not cram too many people in a room. They shouldn’t house more than five people in a 300 sq feet room and four people within a 250 sq ft room,” the minister said. The Foxconn management has agreed to comply, he said. Foxconn, which opened the plant in 2019, has admitted to lapses in living conditions, and apologised. “The safety and well-being of our employees is our top priority. We are very sorry for the issue our employees experienced and are taking immediate steps to enhance the facilities and services we provide at the remote dormitory accommodations,” the Taiwanese company said in a statement on Wednesday, adding that they were also restructuring their management team. They have also assured all employees that they will continue to be paid during the time it is closed while improvements are being made before restarting operations. An Apple spokesperson said that following the recent concerns about food safety and accommodation conditions at Foxconn, they have dispatched independent auditors to undertake additional detailed assessments. “We hold our suppliers accountable to the highest standards in the industry and regularly conduct assessments to ensure compliance,” the spokesperson said. “We found that some of the remote dormitory accommodations and dining rooms being used for employees do not meet our requirements and we are working with the supplier to ensure a comprehensive set of corrective actions are rapidly implemented. Foxconn’s Sriperumbudur facility has been placed on probation and we will ensure our strict standards are met before the facility reopens. We will continue to monitor conditions closely,” the Apple spokesperson said. There is no word from the two companies on when the factory will reopen. 
31-12-2021||India||Heavy rains lash Chennai, 3 killed; IMD sounds red alert||Three people died after sudden heavy rains lashed Chennai on Thursday flooding several parts of the city, a Tamil Nadu minister and officials said.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a red alert for Chennai and three adjoining districts following the downpour that came after record-breaking rains crippled the capital in November. The weather stations in Chennai’s MRC Nagar and Nungambakkam recorded 200 mm and 160 mm of rainfall in a span of a few hours up to 8 pm, according to IMD. For December, this is the highest rainfall recorded within 24 hours after 110 mm was recorded on December 13, 2016. The all-time record for December in Chennai, according to IMD’s data, is 290 mm recorded on December 2, 2015. “All of them (three) died due to electrocution,” minister for disaster management KKSSR Ramachandran told a press conference in Chennai. The minister requested people not to step out in the night, assuring that the situation will improve by Friday morning. The deceased included a 70-year-old woman, a 40-year-old woman and a 13-year-old boy, all from Chennai. The minister said that nature’s fury was more than what was anticipated but authorities of the four affected districts began working instantly. “Shelters are open and people can move there to avoid any mishap and Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) is also evacuating people from flood-prone areas,” the minister said. GCC commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said heavy duty pumps were being used across the city to drain out water. “Over 145 pumps are running and installation of pumps in process at other places also,” Bedi said.Thursday’s rains inundated localities, such as T Nagar, Ashok Nagar and Anna Nagar, among others. “This was our situation when the first heavy spell occurred on November 7 and our situation is the same now,” said V S Narayanasamy, a resident of Motilal Street in T Nagar. The water levels here submerged half the height of their two-wheelers and entered the ground-floor homes in the apartment. The rains brought traffic to a standstill. Four subways were closed in the city. Visuals showed a white car floating in the Madley subway near T Nagar. Chennai’s MetroRail extended services by an hour from 11:00 pm to 12:00 am as commuters got stuck on roads for hours due to the heavy rain.Weather models had not forecast the rains. The IMD on Thursday evening issued a heavy-to-very heavy rainfall warning for Chennai and its adjoining districts of Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu. “Convective cells present over Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kanchipuram and Chengalpattu districts are likely to cause significant rain spells in these districts during the next 3 hours,” the IMD said in its statement. The weather department has forecast heavy rain likely to occur at isolated places in Cuddalore, Villupuram and Mayiladuthurai districts and moderate rain at many places in the rest of the coastal districts on December 31 and January 1. “It is apt to call it a cloudburst,” said independent weather watcher and blogger, Pradeep John, who goes by the moniker Tamil Nadu Weatherman. “One of the craziest spells of (a) lifetime. Though I expected rain today in the city, what happened today was a completely freak event and some crazy stuff. This has never happened in the 15 years and has caught us all by surprise. We have seen a 5 mm forecast giving 50 mm rains but not 200 mm rains.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-lash-chennai-3-killed-imd-sounds-red-alert-101640889222489.html
31-12-2021||India||BJP seeks renaming of Andhra’s Jinnah Tower||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday demanded the Andhra Pradesh government to change the name of a popular landmark in Guntur town named after Mohammad Ali Jinnah, the founding father of Pakistan. The Jinnah Tower, located in the heart of Guntur on Mahatma Gandhi road, is a tall monument built around 1945. The tower consists of six pillars with a dome-shaped structure atop and is considered a symbol of harmony and peace by the locals. The location is also referred to as Jinnah Centre.BJP leaders demanded that the state government remove the name “Jinnah” from the monument and the location, as it symbolises the name of a person responsible for the partition of India.It all started with a tweet by BJP national secretary Y Satya Kumar on Thursday morning, which said, “This tower is named after Jinnah & area as Jinnah Centre. The irony, it’s not in Pakistan but the Guntur City of AP. A centre that still carries the name of a traitor of India. Why shouldn’t it be named after Dr Kalam or son of the soil, a great Dalit poet, Gurram Jashuva? Just an idea!”Within no time, BJP Andhra Pradesh unit president Somu Veerraju issued a statement saying the party was strongly opposing Jinnah’s name for the monument in Guntur. “Jinnah was responsible for the formation of Pakistan by dividing India. He had sown the seeds of enmity among the people of the country,” he said.The BJP state president demanded that the state government rename the tower after any other patriot who had strived for the independence of India. “Not just in Guntur, the government should change the names of all the places in the country that are named after those responsible for the partition of India,” Veerraju said.BJP state vice-president S Vishnuvardhan Reddy also put forward a similar demand, while Telangana BJP lawmaker T Raja Singh went a step ahead and threatened to pull down Jinnah Tower, which he said, was the symbol of India’s partition. He demanded that the location be named after Abdul Kalam.Reacting to the demands, the ruling YSR Congress party alleged that the BJP leaders were raising the issue of a historic monument named after Jinnah, only with a motive of disturbing the communal harmony in the state and creating troubles for the Jagan Mohan Reddy-led government.YSRCP general secretary and legislator Lella Appi Reddy, who hails from Guntur town, said the Jinnah Tower was built before India got the independence and wondered why the BJP leaders were suddenly concerned about its name.He pointed out that veteran BJP leader L K Advani, during his visit to Pakistan in 2005, had praised Jinnah as the most secular freedom fighter and an ambassador for Hindus and Muslims. “Advani had even refused to take back his comments about Jinnah when some media persons questioned him,” Reddy recalled.“Unfortunately, the BJP leaders are kicking up controversies for their political gains,” he alleged.In 2017, the Pakistan government acknowledged the Jinnah Tower in an official tweet. “#Jinnah Tower is a landmark monument in the city of #Guntur in Andhra Pradesh. It is named after the father of #Pakistan, Muhammad Ali Jinnah and is located on Mahatma Gandhi Road of the city as a symbol of peace and harmony. #QuaidEAzam #JinnahKaPakistan” it tweeted.
31-12-2021||India||Kerala governor refuses to accept HC notice on V-C’s reappointment||Kerala governor Arif Mohammad Khan on Thursday clarified that he will not return as the chancellor and has asked the Pinarayi Vijayan led-government to deal with the notice issued by the Kerala high court seeking clarification on the re-appointment of Kannur vice-chancellor Gopinath Raveendran. Talking to newsmen Khan said he abdicated his position as the chancellor on December 8 and there is no plan to withdraw the decision. “The court has issued notice to the chancellor, not Arif Mohammad Khan. You know, from Dec 8 onwards I am not the chancellor,” he said, suggesting the tiff with the Communist Party of India (Maoist) or CPI (M) government is far from over. Earlier, he had asked his office not to accept any files regarding universities in the state. “I am no more in that position. Let the government decide,” he said. Governor Khan reappointed Raveendran as the Kannur University V-C for four more years on November 24, the first in the state’s higher education sector history, despite the government constituting a search committee to select a new candidate. Khan had pointed out that the government “pressurized him to sign the re-appointment order”. Following this, the Save University Campaign Committee, a whistleblower in the higher education sector, sent several letters to Khan indicating the political appointments in universities, bypassing eligible candidates. On December 8, Khan sent a strongly-worded letter to CM Pinarayi Vijayan, saying that he was hurt over the “dipping standard” of the higher education sector and blamed “brazen political interference” as a reason in varsities for this. He asked the government to take up the chancellor’s post if political interference continued and he can’t bend further. He also slammed state higher education minister R Bindhu for prompting Raveendran’s reappointment through several letters. After the reappointment of Kannur VC, syndicate member Dr Premachandran K and academic council member Shino Jose moved the high court to quash the re-appointment. But on December 15, the court rejected the plea after the government contended that all procedures were met by the governor. After the governor’s outburst, an appeal was filed in the division bench, which sent notices to all respondents, including Khan.On Thursday, the ruling CPI (M) and opposition Congress took strong exception to the governor’s statements. “If the state assembly wants, the government can take up the role of chancellor, but we want the governor to continue in his post. We hope he will have a rethinking,” said CPI (M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. Congress also said Khan cannot abdicate his power after making all appointments. “He can’t run away from his responsibility like this. After making all appointments, he can’t protest now. It will vitiate the higher education sector further,” said opposition leader V D Satheesan. The state government has come under heavy criticism recently over the appointment of relatives of party leaders at high positions in the Kannur University. Vijayan’s political secretary K K Ragesh’s wife Priya Varghese was appointed as the associate professor in November this year. Though many contenders to the post questioned her appointment, saying that she did not meet the UGC’s prescribed term of teaching period, she was finally appointed, ignoring six others. In April this year, the Kerala high court quashed the appointment of party legislator A N Shameer’s wife Shahala as the assistant professor in the university. Arif Mohammad Khan is the third governor of a non-Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled state where a clash has erupted over the running of state universities. As per norms of higher education institutions, the governor is chancellor of state universities, same as the president is the chancellor of Central universities. In the past few months, governors of West Bengal (Jagdeep Dhankar), Maharashtra (Bhagat Singh Koshyari) and Kerala (Khan) have taken umbrage, alleging that the state governments were undermining their position as chancellor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-governor-refuses-to-accept-hc-notice-on-v-c-s-reappointment-101640889160697.html
31-12-2021||India||Use relief from Odisha CM fund to help Missionaries of Charity if required: Patnaik||Days after Missionaries of Charity asked the central government to freeze its bank accounts following refusal of the Union home ministry to renew its FCRA licence, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday directed district collectors to ensure that no shelter or orphanage under the organisation suffers and added that money from the chief minister’s relief fund can be used for aid, if needed.On Monday, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had claimed that all bank accounts of the Mother Teresa-founded Missionaries of Charity have been frozen by the Centre leading to distress among 22000 inmates of the organisation across the country. However, it was later revealed that the NGO had sent a request to State Bank of India to freeze the accounts in view of MHA’s denial of its request to renew its FCRA licence.Also Read | Mother Teresa's charity denies bank account freeze after Mamata blames CentreOfficials from the CM’s office said Patnaik directed district collectors to use funds from Chief Minister’s Relief Fund for food and treatment of inmates in orphanages and the leprosy home run by the organisation. Organisations involveed in philanthropic work can receive donations from foreign countries if they are registered according to provisions under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA), 2010.Missionaries of Charity runs a leprosy home on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar housing 300 inmates. It also runs 12 orphanages with 600-odd inmates. Besides, there are 87 sisters who look after the day-to-day affairs of these institutions.Also Read | Bengal-Centre row over Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of CharityOn December 25, the Ministry of Home Affairs had said that Missionaries of Charity’s request for renewal of their certification under FCRA was refused, for “not meeting the eligibility conditions under the FCRA, 2010 and Foreign Contribution Regulation Rules (FCRR) 2011”.Also Read | Missionaries of Charity’s troubles continueThe registration was originally set to expire on October 31, however, its license was extended till December 31 to give them time to complete the renewal process, due to Covid-19 disruptions.BJP spokesperson Sajjan Sharma saidthe state government should do the same thing for other organisations in the state facing similar problems.Also Read | Mamata's intention mala fide: BJP on Missionaries of Charity's a/c freeze claim“The FCRA renewal of Missionaries of Charity was not done due to audit irregularities. So in this context, what message is the chief minister sending? Does he mean to say that his government would stand for whatever Missionaries of Charity does irrespective of its legalities and proprieties. In a federal government, when the Centre takes certain steps, the states should respect it. But the move by Patnaik is against cooperative federalism,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-relief-from-odisha-cm-fund-to-help-missionaries-of-charity-if-requiredpatnaik-101640888740593.html
31-12-2021||India||Covaxin safe, immunogenic in 2-18 age group: Bharat Biotech||Days after the Centre allowed the use of Covaxin (BBV152) among 15-18 year-olds, Bharat Biotech on Thursday said that its vaccine was found to be “safe, well-tolerated, and immunogenic” in phase 2/3 clinical trials on children in the 2-18 years age group. The Hyderabad-based firm, in a statement, also said that neutralizing antibodies in children, on average, were found to be 1.7 times higher than in adults. No serious adverse event was reported during the trials, it added. “Covaxin clinical trial data from the paediatric population is very encouraging. Safety of the vaccine is critical for children, and we are glad to share that Covaxin has now proven data for safety and immunogenicity in children. We have now achieved our goal of developing a safe and efficacious Covid-19 vaccine for adults and children,” firm chairman and managing director Krishna Ella said. “Vaccines are a great preventive tool; the power of vaccines can only be harnessed if used prophylactically,” Ella added. As part of the firm’s phase II/III clinical trials and multicentre studies, as many as 374 subjects in the concerned age group were inoculated two 0.5 ml doses of Covaxin, which was the same formulation used in adults. “Immunogenicity analysis (by PRNT) shows superior antibody responses were observed in children compared to adults, suggesting that BBV152 will also be efficacious in this age group,” the study uploaded in open access journal medRxiv said. The trials in the paediatric population were conducted between June and September, and have shown robust safety, reactogenicity, and immunogenicity, it added. While no serious adverse event took place, the subjects reported either mild or moderate severity symptoms, with 78.6 per cent getting resolved within a day. Pain at the injection site was the most commonly reported adverse event, the company said. For the trial, 976 subjects were screened for Sars-CoV-2 using RT-PCR and ELISA testing (enzyme-linked immunoassay), out of which, 525 eligible participants were enrolled. Based on the age, participants were distinguished into three groups in an age de-escalatory manner.Researchers involved in the trial said the report presents data obtained up to four weeks after the second shot, but the study is ongoing to collect safety data up to six months after the last vaccination, which will be reported separately.The data was submitted to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) during October 2021 and received emergency use nod for children aged 12-18 from Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) recently.The approval on December 25 from DCGI came nearly 10 weeks after the subject expert committee of CDSCO recommended Covaxin’s use in children on October 12. 
31-12-2021||India||Afspa renewed in Nagaland: Govt||New Delhi/Kohima: The Centre on Thursday extended the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) for another six months in Nagaland, a routine move that sparked criticism in the northeastern state still mourning the killing of 14 civilians in a botched army operation.The decision came days after the Centre set up a panel to explore the possible removal of the controversial law that gives security forces sweeping powers and immunity in disturbed areas. This came after the state assembly passed a resolution against AFSPA amid mounting outrage among the state’s population over the special law.A senior officer who didn’t want to be named said renewing such notifications on their expiry was a routine practice depending on the ground situation.“Any decision on removal of AFSPA from Nagaland will only be taken only after the report of high-level committee led by Vivek Joshi (the registrar general and census commissioner of India) submits its report,” the officer added. The panel is expected to submit its report in 45 days.
31-12-2021||India||Vaccine for third dose to be decided by January 10: ICMR||The Centre will take a decision before January 10 on whether the precautionary dose against Covid-19 for healthcare and frontline workers and citizens above 60 years with comorbidities should be as the first two doses or a mixed one, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Thursday. “We are analyzing all the data that is available in terms of which vaccine can be given to which beneficiary — whether it is going to be the same one or is it going to be a different one. Before the 10th (January), we will have clear cut recommendations on the same. The drugs controller and the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) are meeting, and that decision will be taken soon,” ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava said at the weekly media briefing here. “We are having an extensive debate (on which vaccine to be given as a precautionary dose). We’ve had a series of meetings of NTAGI yesterday, day before, today and we are deciding for the population group that will require this precaution dose… which vaccine can be given for in terms of safety and efficacy,” he added.Experts believe that mixing and matching of vaccines is likely to be more effective. “For precaution dose, it is likely to work better, but both safety and effectiveness need to be monitored,” Gagandeep Kang, senior vaccine expert, Christian Medical College, Vellore, said. Besides this, the ICMR director general said the durability of immunity post Covid-19 vaccination persists for nine months or more and a precautionary dose of vaccine which will be administered to the concerned population is to mitigate the severity of infection, hospitalisation and death. He said hybrid immunity, which is developed as a result of vaccination and natural infection, mounts a stronger response and robust antibody titres after the second dose.“If you have had an infection and vaccination, your immune response is more than only infection or vaccine. So the important thing is that vaccination is absolutely essential,” he said. Citing a few global and Indian studies, Bhargava said: “This is from the US published in Science, and there is antibody and cellular response more than nine months after infection from China. Then longitudinal investigations in the US have multiple studies have shown that the antibody responses persists for more than 13 months post infection and the systematic review of 10 studies from Israel, England, Denmark, US, Austria and Italy have shown more than 90% reduction in reinfection up to 10 months.” “... We like to say that up to nine months and take a slightly conservative estimate of that and that is what is the evidence. From India there are three studies two from ICMR and one from Mumbai, on 284 patients, on 755 patients and 244 that it persists for up to eight months, seven months and six months (respectively) and these are all published data from infection that occurred in 2020, 2021,” he added. Precaution dose is primarily to mitigate severity of infections, hospitalisation and death, he reiterated. . “Now this is very important for individuals who are elderly, immune compromised or on chemotherapy, or patients who have chronic obstructive lung disease. So these are patients where a precautionary dose would be useful to prevent serious disease hospitalization and death,” he said. 
