10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||No significant rate of increase in COVID-19 positive cases: ICMR||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Thursday said the country has maintained a steady rate of COVID-19 positive cases — 3% to 5% over the past month and half — and has registered no significant increase in this trend so far. The country currently has 5,865 confirmed cases and 169 deaths. This includes 591 new cases and 20 deaths in the last 24 hours, Joint Secretary in the Union Health Ministry Lav Agrawal said at the daily press briefing. He added that 473 people had recovered and been discharged so far. The ICMR noted that 1,44,910 samples from 1,30,792 individuals had been tested as on April 9. Of these, 5,734 samples tested positive till date. “Positivity rate ranges between 3%-5% with no major increase. On Wednesday, we tested 13,143 samples,’’ said ICMR official Manoj Murhekar. Plasma therapy Dr. Murhekar added that the Council was in the final stages of drawing up a protocol for trial on convalescent plasma therapy, for which approvals have to be taken. “In this therapy, plasma from a COVID-19 recovered patient is transfused into an infected severely ill patient so that the specific antibodies in the blood of the recovered patient can help fight the infection. This is done for very ill patients on ventilators and has given good results in some studies abroad,” he said. The nationwide death toll touched 205 on Thursday, State Health Departments reported. The number of active cases was 5,815. Maharashtra continued to report the maximum number of deaths, at 97, as well as active cases at 1,142. Tamil Nadu reported 799 active cases, with 96 new cases, while Delhi has 683 active cases with more three deaths since Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-significant-rate-of-increase-in-covid-19-positive-cases-icmr/article31304451.ece
10 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha becomes first State to extend lockdown till April 30||Odisha on Thursday extended the lockdown till April 30. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik made the announcement after a Cabinet meeting held through videoconferencing. He said one had to decide between protecting the lives of the people and economic activity at this crucial juncture, and the Cabinet decided that saving lives was the topmost priority now. In a video message, Mr. Patnaik announced that the State would recommend to the Central government to extend the national lockdown up to April 30. “We will also request the Centre not to start airline and railway services till April 30.” Educational institutions in the State would remain closed till June 17, he noted. Help for those stranded As regards the people from Odisha who are stranded in various parts of the country, Mr. Patnaik said his government’s intervention for their well-being would be through the State governments concerned. “We will take care of all the people who are stranded in Odisha.” Activities related to agriculture, animal husbandry and MGNREGS would be facilitated during the lockdown period, he said. Food security was a major priority of the government. “There will not be any problem in transport of goods.” The government was leaving no stone unturned in scaling up testing and treatment facilities. “We propose to do one lakh rapid tests in the State in the earliest possible time,” he said. He thanked doctors from all over the country who had offered their services for the telemedicine helpline launched on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odisha-becomes-first-state-to-extend-lockdown-till-april-30/article31304455.ece
10 April 2020||New Delhi,||2 cardiac patients test positive at premier Delhi hospital||Two persons, admitted to the East Block of Max Hospital, Saket with cardiac problems and later shifted to Max Smart Super Speciality Hospital after the former was turned into a dedicated COVID-19 treatment facility, tested positive for the virus on Thursday. “Two patients admitted to Max Hospital, Saket, for cardiac problems have tested positive for COVID-19 this morning [Thursday]. The patients, who were admitted at Max Smart hospital, have been moved back to Max Hospital, Saket, East Block, which is a dedicated COVID-19 facility. The contact tracing for these two persons has started and we propose to test the primary contacts immediately. All those presently identified as ‘in contact’ have been quarantined, awaiting their test results, which are expected by Friday,” a hospital spokesperson said. The functioning of both the hospitals, which are on the same road separated by an empty plot, has not been affected as the two persons were kept in isolation, the spokesperson said. Patients not related The two patients are unrelated and were admitted 10 days ago at the East Block of the hospital. They were then moved to Max Smart hospital. “There is no chance that they would have contracted the virus from COVID-19-positive patients at the East Block, as such patients were kept in isolation wards,” the hospital spokesperson told The Hindu . Six healthcare staff, one doctor and five nurses have been quarantined as of Thursday afternoon after the two patients tested positive. According to hospital officials, the two patients were tested before they were moved to Max Smart hospital as a precautionary measure. “They did not have any symptoms at that time. Since their results were awaited, both of them were kept in isolation at Max Smart hospital,” the hospital spokesperson said. Max Smart has sent samples of more people for COVID-19 testing and the results are awaited. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain and Secretary of Department of Health and Family Welfare Padmini Singla did not respond to multiple calls and messages seeking comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-cardiac-patients-test-positive-at-premier-delhi-hospital/article31304640.ece
10 April 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal launches ‘Operation SHIELD’ against COVID-19||The Delhi government will carry out ‘Operation SHIELD’ at 21 locations identified as containment zones in the Capital, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced here on Thursday. ‘Operation SHIELD’, which includes sealing, identifying and quarantining people in containment zones, doorstep delivery of essential items and door-to-door chec-king of people in those areas, will be undertaken by the Delhi government, he said. “We have begun Operation SHIELD… S for sealing of the immediate area after geographical marking, H for home quarantine of all in the area, I for isolation and tracing of people who have been first and second contacts, E for essential supplies, which involves doorstep delivery of essential items to the people, L for local sanitisation and disinfection of those areas, and D for door-to-door checking so that people having symptoms of COVID-19 are isolated and testing can be done after taking samples,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal also spoke about the need to wear masks before stepping out of homes. “This has been advised based on recent observations and news from across the world where authorities are advising everyone, and not just people infected with coronavirus, to wear masks to protect themselves,” he said. “We have issued orders that everyone stepping out of their homes in Delhi should wear masks. If you do not have a mask, you can use a clean cloth or a handkerchief to cover your nose and mouth,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kejriwal-launches-operation-shield-against-covid-19/article31304645.ece
10 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||One more succumbs to COVID in Telangana||The spike in persons testing positive for coronavirus is continuing with the total number of cases touching 471 on Thursday. The State registered 18 coronavirus positive cases during the day with one more person succumbing to the virus while undergoing treatment, taking the total number of casualties so far to 12. According to Health Minister Eatala Rajender, 385 out of the 471 cases pertained to people who attended the religious meeting at Nizamuddin Markaz and their close contacts. In all, 45 affected persons have been discharged after treatment. The Minister was hopeful that the persons undergoing treatment in different hospitals would recover by April 22 and said the State would have been corona-free by now but for the developments in the aftermath of the Nizamuddin Markaz congregation. The Minister told reporters that of the 471 cases identified so far, 414 were undergoing treatment in different hospitals and the health condition of all patients, except one, was satisfactory. He said that testing of people including those who returned from the Nizamuddin Markaz was completed on Thursday and 18 positive cases were reported from the 665 samples tested during the day. The government had identified 101 hotspots across the State where restrictions were imposed on movement of people and those residing in these areas should remain cautious and cooperate with the Health department. The government would put in place telemedicine facility from Friday, enabling people to take medical advises sitting at home and experts engaged in telemedicine facility would also help people who were in distress due to the lockdown. The government had been receiving generous contribution towards the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund, he said requesting the donors to consider donating material required rather than cash. Mr. Rajender said he along with Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao reviewed the situation on Thursday afternoon and it was informed during the meeting that relief material worth Rs. 70 crore had been collected so far. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was firm that lockdown was the only way to check the spread of the virus and Telangana was the first State to take a decision in this direction in the interest of the people’s health and safety. Appreciating the health, sanitation and police staff for their uninterrupted services in the crisis period, he wanted the cooperation of the people to continue till the State tides over the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-more-succumbs-to-covid-in-telangana/article31304711.ece
10 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Disease transmission under control in State, says Pinarayi||Exactly 100 days after the first COVID-19 case was reported in Kerala and a total of 357 cases later, the State is cautiously optimistic that it can keep disease transmission under control, provided the lockdown norms and other deterrents such as social distancing and universal wearing of masks are imposed strictly. Briefing media here on Thursday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the State had been winning much praise from foreign tourists — eight of them, including those well into their 70s and 80s — who had tested positive for COVID-19 while in Kerala and treated and nursed back to good health. The condition of one of them, Brian Neil from the U.K., had been quite serious and had required special treatment which fortunately worked well for him. Except for one tourist who was treated at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) at Thiruvananthapuram, the rest were cared for by the Ernakulam MCH. Even as 12 new positive cases were reported on Thursday, taking the total number of cases so far in the State to 357, Vijayakumar, 62, from Nedumprom, who had been home-quarantined for the past 18 days died at the Taluk Hospital in Thiruvalla on Thursday night. He had come from Ahmedabad. Though he did not show any symptoms of COVID-19, authorities had taken his throat swab for clinical examination a day before. He was taken to the Taluk Hospital reportedly due to chest pain and died at the hospital in the evening. Hospital sources said the deceased was a cardiac patient and a chronic diabetic. Of the 12 new cases, 11 cases turned out to be contacts and mostly members of a family, while one case was of a person who had returned from abroad. While four cases each were reported from Kannur and Kasaragod, Malappuram reported two while Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam had a case each. Those currently in treatment in various hospitals number 258.   Mr. Vijayan said that 13 patients who were undergoing treatment had tested negative on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/disease-transmission-under-control-in-state-says-pinarayi/article31304767.ece
10 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,||Amid a pandemic, a salute to selfless service on the streets||Celebrations have not been part of conservancy worker M. Lakshmi’s routine at the Tirunelveli Corporation. Even during events such as Independence Day, Ms. Lakshmi and her colleagues always had to finish their work of sprucing up the VOC Stadium in Palayamkottai ahead of the actual celebrations and leave. The workers would watch from a distance as the Collector hoisted the national flag and received the guard of honour from smart uniformed policemen with gleaming arms, and come back to clean up the premises again. 'But on Thursday, when the police accorded a guard of honour to the conservancy workers of the Tirunelveli Corporation for their selfless work amid the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak and nationwide lockdown, it was an emotional moment for Ms. Lakshmi. “Since we felt that the conservancy workers’ job should not go unnoticed, the police decided to honour them in recognition of their work for the well-being of others, as instructed by City Police Commissioner Deepak M. Damor,” said S. Saravanan, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Tirunelveli City. As the City Health Officer (CFO) of Tirunelveli Corporation, Sathish led the conservancy workforce with their protective face masks, the police presented the honour in the presence of Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan and Assistant Collector (Training) Sivaguru Prabhakaran at the Corporation’s administrative office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amid-a-pandemic-a-salute-to-selfless-service-on-the-streets/article31304453.ece
10 April 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. risks slipping to stage 3 of COVID-19 pandemic, says CM||Tamil Nadu was in stage 2 of the COVID-19 pandemic, with the possibility of moving to stage 3 (community transmission), Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Thursday. After chairing a review meeting with members of 12 coordination teams at the Secretariat, he said that the government was taking proactive steps against the disease. “Measures to contain it at stage 2 are being taken,” he added. About the possibility of extending the lockdown beyond April 14, Mr. Palaniswami said: “A decision will be taken only on the basis of the severity of the spread [of the pandemic]. The spread has been increasing day by day... Every other day, the coronavirus tally is on the rise.” Inputs of the 19-member medical experts’ team, along with recommendations from the 12 coordination teams, which include IAS officers, would be considered before deciding on extending the lockdown, he said. Mr. Palaniswami called upon people with COVID-19 symptoms to go to nearby hospitals for treatment. “People should not step out unnecessarily except for essentials. As I said earlier, shop and stock for a week... We don’t want to lose even a single life to this,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-risks-slipping-to-stage-3-of-covid-19-pandemic-says-cm/article31304546.ece
10 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Govt. to airlift Kasaragod patients||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said the State government would airlift critically ill persons from Kasaragod to well-appointed hospitals in other parts of Kerala. Mr. Vijayan said Karnataka continued to obstruct the passage of ambulances carrying seriously ill persons from Kasaragod to hospitals in nearby Mangaluru. The blockade had caused the death of more than 10 people. The government has petitioned the Centre to accord Kerala permission to issue sovereign bonds to raise money from the open market to mitigate the economic fall out of the COVID-19 epidemic. Mr. Vijayan said the country required a stimulus package to revitalise the epidemic-hit economy. The Reserve Bank of India should further extend its three-month moratorium on repayment of loans. States were facing a sharp drop in revenue and a steep hike in health expenditure. The Centre has to allow States to raise their credit ceiling to 5% of the State Gross Domestic Product. Moreover, he asked the Centre to exempt loans raised from foreign markets from the respective State’s credit limit. GST backlog The government asked the Centre to clear the State’s GST backlog at the earliest. Mr. Vijayan said cancer patients would soon receive follow-up consulting, treatment and medication at nearby hospitals. The cargo movement into Kerala has picked up marginally. The government allowed fertilizer, seed and pesticide shops to open for business from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. daily. It would also allow bookshops to open from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. once a week. He flagged the import of stale fish from neighbouring States via sea. The police and port authorities should step up their vigil. Fish vendors could ply their trade unimpeded. He warned banks against realising debts until further notice. Rubber plantations could fix rain guards on trees. The government has brought the plight of Non-Resident Keralites caught in the global lockdown to the notice of the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-airlift-kasaragod-patients/article31304766.ece
10 April 2020||Mumbai,||Lockdown robs Mumbai’s dabbawalas of lunch||Less than a month ago, they ensured that home-cooked food reached thousands everyday on the dot across this bustling megapolis. Yet, today the iconic dabbawalas of Mumbai are staring at starvation as the 21-day nationwide lockdown has left them without a livelihood. On March 19, the dabbawalas , who have been an integral part of the city’s history for more than a century, had announced that they would be suspending services in light of the coronavirus crisis. Less than a week later, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the complete lockdown. With almost all workplaces switching to work-from-home, there is now no demand for their services. “We are facing an unprecedented situation for the first time in the 130 years that we have been operational. If we have no customers, we have no earnings. Our stomachs depend on the stomachs of our customers,” said Ulhas Muke, president of the Nutan Mumbai Tiffin Box Suppliers Trust. Depending on how far a tiffin box had to be delivered, a dabbawala could earn between Rs. 13,000 to Rs. 15,000 a month. “This amount, along with whatever our spouses could earn, had to suffice for all expenses, including house rent, children’s education and other expenditure, including emergencies,” Vinod Shete, spokesperson of the Trust said. “A lot of us hail from Pune and nearby areas; about half of us managed to return just before the lockdown. The rest are stuck in Mumbai, unable to arrange for two meals a day,” he added. The dabbawalas’ predicament is exacerbated by the fact that many of their wives, who worked as cooks or domestic help, have also been laid off due to the need for minimal outside contact and social distancing with the virus outbreak. The dabbawalas have now approached charitable trusts and institutions they once visited as guest lecturers to speak about supply chain management, for help. On Thursday, they also sent out a WhatsApp SOS. “There are 5,000 of us and we have always enjoyed a wonderful relationship with this city. We are not expecting much but every small effort counts in times of crisis and this city always takes care of its own,” Mr. Shete said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-robs-mumbais-dabbawalas-of-lunch/article31304439.ece
10 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Death toll 6, positive cases touch 363 in State||The State has reported one more death due to COVID-19 from Narsaraopet in Guntur district and 15 more positive cases from four districts taking the death toll to six and tally to 363 as of Thursday evening. The Narsaraopet man, a 45-year-old, died two hours after he had approached the Government General Hospital, Guntur on April 7 and had no history of travel to abroad or any hot spots, officials say. He was a tuberculosis patient and was in a critical condition when he visited the GGH. It was revealed that he succumbed due to COVID-19 after his samples taken after the death tested positive. On the other hand, Prakasam district reported 11 new cases while Guntur reported two new cases (including the death case) and East Godavari and Kadapa districts reported one case each on Thursday. Worst hit Kurnool district has a high incidence of the cases as it reported 74 in five days recently. However, no new cases came out in the last two days. Meanwhile, Guntur district has reported a total of 51 cases – 31 in the past one week and one death. Nellore district saw over 45 cases within a week and no new cases in the last two days. The cases surged after the government began testing hundreds of Delhi returnees who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meeting and their close contacts in the past week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/death-toll-6-positive-cases-touch-363-in-state/article31304443.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Every inch matters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/every-inch-matters/article31304457.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 15,000 crore sanctioned to States||The Centre on Thursday announced that Rs. 15,000 crore has been sanctioned to States under the India COVID-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package. The 100% Centrally-funded scheme will be utilised for immediate COVID-19 Emergency Response (Rs. 7,774 crore) and rest for medium-term support (1-4 years). This is to be provided under a mission mode approach. Announcing this, the Union Health Ministry noted that the key objectives of the package include mounting emergency response to slow and limit COVID-19 through the development of diagnostics and dedicated treatment facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-15000-crore-sanctioned-to-states/article31304437.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Ahmedabad adopts South Korean model||The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has adopted the South Korean model of aggressive testing to ascertain the scale of the pandemic. “On April 4, the number of samples tested from the city were 57 while on April 8, we tested 840 samples,” Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra said. So far, 141 cases have been reported from Ahmedabad.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ahmedabad-adopts-south-korean-model/article31304445.ece
10 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||4 fishermen drown, 2 missing||At least four fishermen drowned and two others were missing in separate boat mishaps that occurred due to rough weather in the Peddalanka drain and in the Bay of Bengal, in the early hours of Thursday in Kruthivennu mandal of Krishna district. “About five fishermen from Varla Gondi Tippa village and 10 fishermen from Gudidibba Pallepalem ventured into the Peddalanka drain close to the Bay of Bengal from two separate locations in multiple boats,” said Kruthivennu SI V. Ravi Kumar. At about 4 am, the boats capsized when the weather suddenly turned hostile. Six of them went missing, while others managed to escape, he added.  Minister consoles kin Two bodies each were retrieved at Pallepalem and Varla Gondi Tippa and local fishermen and rescue teams were searching for the remaining two fishermen, Mr. Ravi Kumar told The Hindu . I&PR and Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah, Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu and MLA Jogi Ramesh visited Varla Gondi Tippa village and consoled family members of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4-fishermen-drown-2-missing/article31304442.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Final decision on April 11’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said a final decision on extending the lockdown would be taken on April 11 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in consultation with all CMs. “My understanding is that stringent restrictions would need to be continued for some more time.”Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/final-decision-on-april-11/article31304446.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Study points to community transmission||There was evidence for community transmission from as early as March 22, as per a study authored by several ICMR scientists — including its head Balram Bhargava — and made public late Thursday. Of the 102 COVID-19 positive patients with severe respiratory illness, 40 did not report any history of contact or international travel, it says.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/study-points-to-community-transmission/article31304447.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Paper doubted lockdown||A few scientists of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in a study in February, questioned the efficacy of a lockdown, saying that it could lead to “long-lasting adverse health outcomes”. Instead, they favoured “civil society-led self-quarantine and self-monitoring”.page 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/paper-doubted-lockdown/article31304444.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,||State to decide on extending lockdown after PM’s meeting||The State Cabinet will take a decision on extending the lockdown based on suggestions by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during his videoconference with Chief Ministers to be held on Saturday. The Cabinet on Thursday held detailed discussions on the impact of COVID-19 on the economic activities and the daily lives of people. “Almost all Ministers are of the opinion that the lockdown should continue for another 15 days after April 14. However, we will take an appropriate decision after Mr. Modi’s meeting on April 11 and chart out the future course of action,” said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa after chairing the Cabinet meeting. “We will decide on whether to continue the lockdown or control hotspot districts.” The Cabinet discussed recommendations by various task forces on relaxing the lockdown. The task force on health recommended the closure of all educational institutions till May 30; operation of industries, IT/BT and garments units at 50% strength; continuation of the lockdown in hotspot areas, and stopping mass transport — such as Namma Metro, buses, trains, flights — till April 30. However, it permitted the plying of autorickshaws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-decide-on-extending-lockdown-after-pms-meeting/article31304492.ece
10 April 2020||New Delhi,||3 deaths, 51 new cases reported in the Capital||Three deaths due to COVID-19 and 51 new cases were reported in Delhi on Thursday, pushing the toll to 12 and the total number of patients to 720, stated a daily health bulletin of the Delhi government. A total of 2,664 people are in different quarantine facilities, while around 18,500 people are home-quarantined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-deaths-51-new-cases-reported-in-the-capital/article31304642.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Arrivals at Azadpur Mandi drop over 50%||The COVID-19 lockdown caused a 53% drop in the volume of major fruits and vegetables arriving at the Azadpur Mandi, according to an analysis of the market’s arrivals data. Even for kitchen staples such as onions, potatoes and tomatoes, volumes are down over 40%. The Azadpur Mandi is Asia’s biggest vegetable market and handles almost 50 lakh tonnes of produce every year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/arrivals-at-azadpur-mandi-drop-over-50/article31304643.ece
10 April 2020||Tiruppur,||Containment zones in Tiruppur increase||The number of containment zones in Tiruppur increased to seven following fresh COVID-19 positive cases as of Thursday, according to the Corporation officials. N. Boopathy, City Health Officer with Tiruppur Corporation, said that a door-to-door survey had been carried out in these zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/containment-zones-in-tiruppur-increase/article31304593.ece
10 April 2020||MADURAI,||Drone used to spray disinfectant||Madurai Corporation deployed a drone to spray disinfectant near the coronavirus speciality wing of Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) here on Thursday, as a measure to control the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said the drone was also used to spray disinfectants at containment zones in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drone-used-to-spray-disinfectant/article31304835.ece
10 April 2020||UDUPI,||13 with symptoms admitted in Udupi||As many as 13 persons with symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to hospitals in Udupi district on Thursday. According to a press release from the Department of Health and Family Welfare, of the 13 persons, six were suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). Of these 13, nine were male and four female.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/13-with-symptoms-admitted-in-udupi/article31304676.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,||With better testing, positive cases may rise||There was a span of 16 days between the first reported COVID-19 case in Karnataka on March 8 and the 50th case on March 24. Over the next 16 days (till April 9), however, the number in the State surged by 147, taking the total to 197. Health experts believe that in the next two to three weeks, there will be a spike in the number of cases, once the number of tests increase, as per the new testing protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-better-testing-positive-cases-may-rise/article31304493.ece
10 April 2020||Chennai,||State to purchase four lakh rapid test kits||The State government has placed orders to purchase four lakh COVID-19 rapid test kits, said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. “Over 50,000 rapid test kits will arrive by tonight (Thursday)," he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-purchase-4-lakh-rapid-test-kits/article31304549.ece
10 April 2020||Chennai,||Class X exams will not be cancelled, says CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday said the State Board’s Class X examinations will not be cancelled. “It is the duty of the students to study. Only if they appear in exams, we will know who has excelled," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/class-x-exams-will-not-be-cancelled-says-cm/article31304547.ece
10 April 2020||Chennai,||Corporation launches mobile retail outlets||The Chennai Corporation on Thursday launched mobile retail outlets in residential areas to sell essential commodities at affordable rates. In addition to permitting 7,000 mobile units to sell groceries, 3,348 shops in 76 markets have been shifted to alternative locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/corporation-launches-mobile-retail-outlets/article31304550.ece
10 April 2020||Chennai,||The facts about furry friends and COVID-19||While the WHO has initiated a study into the possibility of the novel coronavirus infection spreading from humans to domestic animals after a four-year-old female Malayan tiger at the Bronx Zoo became the first of its kind to test positive for the virus, some veterinarians have argued that there is so far no clear evidence of human-to-animal reverse transmissions. At the Bronx zoo, a total of four tigers and three African lions were also said to have developed a dry cough, a typical symptom of COVID-19 patients. Further, a study published this week on the website of the journal Science, found that ferrets could also potentially become infected with SARS-CoV2, the virus that causes the COVID-19 disease. The study, however added that dogs, chickens, pigs and ducks are not likely to get infected. Juliet Decaestecker, an India-based veterinarian from Belgium, and author of the book Healthy Dog, Happy You , said, “Despite the number of global cases of COVID-19 surpassing the one million mark… we have only seen examples of two dogs and one cat in Hong Kong, and a tiger in New York, that had positive results of tests for infection.” Speaking to The Hindu, Dr. Decaestecker said PCR testing conducted in these cases only concludes that virus material is present — a case of passive contamination — but that does not necessarily imply an ongoing infection in the animal that could be further transmitted. To be sure that there is an infection in the animal, antibodies testing must be performed. The presence of the coronavirus in case of the Bronx zoo tiger, Nadia, was said to be due to the animal’s exposure via contact with a zoo employee who was actively shedding the virus. At the broader, species level, “We can find virus fragments in the stomach or aerial pathways in dogs, but this could also be the virus… of the sick owner in close contact with the dog,” Dr. Decaestecker noted. Different viruses In fact, domestic animals including dogs naturally carry other coronaviruses in their gastro-intestinal, respiratory tract, which are different from the novel coronavirus behind COVID-19, she said. Even if a companion animal presents respiratory or gastro-intestinal signs they should not be routinely tested for COVID-19 at this time, lest it exacerbates the scarcity of testing kits for humans, Dr. Decaestecker said. Instead, the animal’s owner should first consult with the veterinarian via phone to determine whether an in-clinic examination is needed. Where appropriate, testing for infectious diseases that commonly cause companion animal illness should be conducted. If a new, concerning illness is observed that cannot be otherwise explained, and the companion animal has had close contact with a person with confirmed or suspected COVID-19 infection, the vet should contact the state public health veterinarian or designated health official to discuss whether or not there is a need to test that animal for COVID-19, Dr. Decaestecker said. She said that in many cases there would be no reason to remove pets from homes even if COVID-19 has been identified in members of the household, unless there is risk that the pet itself is not able to be cared for appropriately. “During this pandemic emergency, pets and people each need the support of the other and veterinarians are there to support the good health of both,” Dr. Decaestecker pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-facts-about-furry-friends-and-covid-19/article31304418.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Study flagged lockdown impact||Multiple scientists of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), currently coordinating the fight against COVID-19, co-authored a research study in February that questioned the effectiveness of a lockdown. The study, The 2019 novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic: A review of the current evidence, appears online in the Indian Journal for Medical Research, which is affiliated to the ICMR. It described lockdown as a “drastic public health measure” that could lead to “long-lasting adverse health outcomes.” The review paper recommended against “coercive top-down quarantine approaches, which are driven by the authorities” and pitches for “community and civil-society led self-quarantine and self-monitoring that could emerge as more sustainable and implementable strategies in a protracted pandemic like COVID.” The piece, however, was written before February 29, when India was yet to announce the suspension of new visas, compulsory screening of all international passengers and the eventual lockdown from March 25. Though India had recorded its first cases on January 30, a steady, discernible escalation of confirmed new cases had begun only from March 3. The study has as its lead author Pranab Chatterjee of the Translational Global Health Policy Research Cell, which is an interdisciplinary unit set up with the ICMR and the World Health Organisation (WHO). Other authors are Nivedita Gupta and Raman Gangakhedkar—the latter being the ICMR spokesperson at the Health Ministry's daily briefings—of the Epidemiology Division at the ICMR; Bhabatosh Das of the Translational Health Science and Technology Insitute, Faridabad; Nazia Nagi of the Department of Microbiology at the Maulana Azad Medical College and Sayantan Banerjee of the WHO. The review paper also didn’t appear to be a votary of travel bans. “The medium and long-term impact of such travel bans remain to be seen but modelling studies suggest that in the short-term, these are unlikely to have meaningful impact on global transmission of SARS-CoV-2, unless sustained 90% travel restrictions are implemented in combination with more than 50% reduction in local transmission. Such bans may only provide a symbolic shield unless the ongoing outbreak is staunched. Ethical concerns of imposing such travel bans have also been questioned,” it said. Citations from studies For their view on bans, the paper cited evidence from a study in the Lancet and another paper, which was still being reviewed, at the time it was written. Their assertions also appeared to rest heavily on the experience of measures in Wuhan, China. Scientists say the effectiveness of the lockdown in curtailing the spread of the disease would be apparent only two-three weeks after, given the average incubation period of the virus. Since the lockdown was announced, cases rose 10-fold to around 5,700 on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/study-flagged-lockdown-impact/article31304358.ece
10 April 2020||Pune,||Virus surges in Maharashtra||Maharashtra recorded a new high of more than 25 deaths and 200 cases over a 24-hour span as the cumulative death toll shot to 97 and the total number of positive cases on Thursday stood at 1,364, the highest in the country, said health officials. Nearly 50% of the country’s deaths due to COVID-19 have been reported from Maharashtra. Among the 25 new deaths 84% had high-risk co-morbidities like diabetes, asthma and hypertension, said officials while 125 persons have recovered and have been discharged so far. New deaths Nine new deaths were reported from Mumbai taking the city’s death toll to 54, while health authorities in Pune district reported 14 deaths since Wednesday taking the district’s death toll to 24. Malegaon in Nashik and Ratnagiri in the Konkan reported their first deaths. Malegaon also reported five positive cases, all said to have participated in the Tablighi Jamaat conclave in Delhi last month. The bulk of the 229 new cases were from Mumbai, where more than 160 persons tested positive on Thursday. Health authorities struggled to rein in the spread of the contagion in Maximum City as the tally soared to 876 cases. Pune registered 12 more cases, taking the district’s tally to 210, while three more cases were reported from Aurangabad. Fresh cases were reported from Kolhapur, where the number of positive cases has risen to five, while eight new cases were reported from Akola, and other cases from Buldhana, Aurangabad and Yavatmal districts. Kolhapur’s latest patient, a youth from from Shahuwadi is believed to have been part of the Jamaat conclave. Sangli exception One silver lining was that Sangli district in western Maharashtra, where 24 members of a single family from Islampur tehsil had tested positive, has not yet shown any surge, while 14 of the 26 people have recovered and been discharged. “We had 26 people from the same cluster who were infected with the virus of whom 24 were of the same family. However, with an effective containment strategy and the sealing-off of Islampur tehsil [the origin of these case], the number has not increased so far. We have already discharged 14 people and the remaining cases have tested negative following their 14-day incubation period test. The results of their repeat samples are now awaited,” said Sangli Collector Abhijeet Chaudhari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/virus-surges-in-maharashtra/article31304385.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Study points to community transmission||There was evidence of community transmission — or instances of COVID-19 in patients who had no established contact with someone who had picked up the disease from abroad — from as early as March 22, suggests a research study in the Indian Journal of Medical Research, authored by several ICMR scientists, including its head Balram Bhargava, and made public late on Thursday. On March 24, Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed a nationwide lockdown for three weeks. The ICMR’s official position continues to be that there is no evidence for community transmission. With the case load increasing on an average of 500 per day for nearly a week, the Health Ministry and the States have stepped up surveillance and testing at hotspots and announced indefinite extensions of the 21-day lockdown. The ICMR’s testing strategy has been to check those who showed symptoms of the disease — cough, fever and laboured breathing — in those with international travel history, their contacts and health-workers tending to those with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI-a syndrome of COVID-19). To check whether there was a wider prevalence of COVID-19, it began to randomly test samples of hospitalised SARI patients from February 15, and from March 20, all patients who exhibited the syndrome. “When the COVID testing strategy was expanded to include all SARI patients (from March 21), a total of 4,946 samples yielded 102 (2.1%) cases. The positivity increased from zero during the initial weeks to 2.6% in the 14th week,” the report notes. A total of 102 of these cases were from samples gleaned from March 22 to April 2. “Of the 102 COVID-19 positive SARI patients, 40 (39.2%) did not report any history of contact or international travel,” the study underlines. Only two of the samples from February 15 to March 20 later turned positive. Details of the States from which these cases were emerging also point to why certain districts are under increased surveillance. In 15 States, more than 1% of SARI patients were COVID-19 positive. About a third of the COVID-19 positive SARI cases did not have any history of contact with laboratory-confirmed cases or international travel, and such cases were reported from 36 districts in 15 States. These districts need to be prioritised to target COVID-19 containment activities, the study underlines. 2.3% of those SARI patients who tested positive were male, and positivity among women was only 0.8%. The 50-59 age group was most likely to test positive for the infection. A majority of the SARI patients were tested from Gujarat (792), Tamil Nadu (577), Maharashtra (533) and Kerala (503). These are also the States with the highest prevalence overall of COVID cases. “Tracking the spread of COVID-19 is critical to inform response activities, including testing, containment and mitigation measures. The current SARI testing strategy will complement and strengthen the routine COVID-19 surveillance activities,” the study added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/study-points-to-community-transmission/article31304403.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||‘PM will take a call on lockdown’||Amarinder Singh, Punjab Chief Minister,  said a “final decision” to extend the lockdown beyond April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modu had stated, would be taken on April 11 in consultation with the Chief Ministers. According to him, any bid to give a “communal touch” to the spread of COVID-19 from the Tablighi Jamaat centre in New Delhi would be “highly damaging” to the efforts to fight the pandemic. Excerpts from an email interview:  Do you favour continuing the current stringent lockdown after it ends at the midnight of April 14? It all depends on how things stand at that time, but there is a general sense among various Chief Ministers that, given the current graph of the virus, the lockdown may need to be extended. The Prime Minister has said a final decision will be taken on April 11, in consultation with the Chief Ministers. My understanding is that stringent restrictions would need to be continued for some more time, in whatever form. If not, what are the other kinds of curbs that can be put in place by Punjab and other States to deal with the pandemic? Well, as I said, some restrictions would need to be put in place if we decide against extension of the curfew/lockdown. Apart from creating containment zones in the hotspots and sealing them, we need to ensure that strict social distancing is strictly implemented, which means not everyone can go to their offices/businesses/shops at the same time. We may need to open some more industries, but that would also depend on the safety protocols and the situation, as we go forward. In any case, COVID-19 is unlikely to disappear overnight, so whenever things improve the restrictions will have to be lifted in a staggered manner to ensure there is no overcrowding, safe distance continues to be maintained, people wear masks when going out. There’s little doubt that the Tablighi centre in Nizamuddim added to the spread of the novel coronavirus in Delhi. But Hindutva elements are trying to give it a communal colour. What’s your view on this? We are all facing an unprecedented crisis, which governments around the world are coming together to tackle. To give the matter a communal touch at this critical time is not only irresponsible but also highly damaging to our efforts to combat the pandemic. Of course, what happened in Nizamuddin was a disastrous and total failure of the Delhi government. Let us not divert ourselves from the main task — of fighting the virus and overcoming it — by making it a communal affair. Are you satisfied with the quantum of assistance being provided to the States by the Centre? Not at all. The Central government needs to understand that everything, from medical assistance to the people to setting up of necessary facilities and ensuring equipment, as well as managing the lockdown/curfew, has to be done by the States on the ground. That needs a huge amount of resources, which the States do not have. In Punjab, for instance, we have not even received our pending GST arrears, despite our repeated requests and despite the fact that we have no other source of income right now, given that VAT and taxes have all dried up. The Centre has to pitch in. What they have given us so far is nowhere close to what we need. We have only received Rs. 296 crore against the MGNREGA account, Rs. 632 crore towards the Finance Commission grant. On account of disaster relief, we have received a meagre Rs. 225 crore. How do we manage with this? The GST sum pending with the Centre is Rs. 6,752.83 crore, which is the bulk amount pending with them. We need that urgently and we need a special economic package to tide over the immediate crisis and then to revive economy/industry in the post-COVID-19 scenario. Have you been able to provide personal protection gear to doctors and hospitals on COVID-19 duty? Yes, we have provided protective gear at all government hospitals. We had purchased 15,000 PPE kits, and 14,000 have been distributed. We have ordered another 2 lakh kits to prepare for bigger exigencies. Of the 80,000 N95 masks, 60,000 have been distributed, while of the 42 lakh triple-layer masks purchased, 40 lakh have been distributed. We have ordered another 2 lakh N95 and 55 lakh triple-layer masks. Not just the doctors, we want to ensure that all our front-line warriors, including police personnel and sanitation workers, are fully protected. Delhi has gone in for random testing. Will Punjab follow suit? Definitely. Now that the ICMR has given permission for rapid testing, we will be starting that in a couple of days, as soon as we start getting the first set of kits from the Centre. We have ordered nearly 10 lakh such kits, and we expect the first bunch in the next two days. We will be focussing on the hotspots first and then maybe expand to other areas. As of now, hotspots have been seen in certain pockets of SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Pathankot and Mansa districts, along with two areas of SAS Nagar. Punjab has a large number of people living abroad. Have you been able to do contact-tracing of all those people who have come from abroad? Approximately 95,000 persons were screened at international airports and land checkposts in the State before curfew. Self-declaration forms of all passengers were filled and all were examined. All passengers were home-quarantined, while five symptomatic persons were traced during screening and were admitted to isolation wards of hospitals. Subsequently, the Government of India shared a list of around 55,000 passengers with us — these were people who had arrived since January 2020. The passengers were home-quarantined, and posters have been pasted outside these houses and they are being tracked by the police. We have appealed to all passengers who have come to Punjab to self-report.  Stringent restrictions will need to be continued for some more time, in whatever form||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-will-take-a-call-on-lockdown/article31304393.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Outfit with LeT link under scanner||A newly floated outfit, the Resistance Front, has come under the scanner of enforcement agencies for its suspected links with the banned Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). Its five alleged terrorists were gunned down by security forces in an encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara on April 5. “We have reason to believe that the outfit is a front for the LeT. It has been launched to evade the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) scrutiny and avoid further sanctions. The FATF is to review Pakistan’s performance in acting against terror funding at its meeting in Beijing to be held from June 21 to 26,” said an official of the Enforcement Directorate. The agencies are trying to unearth the channel of funding to the new outfit, which is also called JK Fighters, to identify all those involved. Three of those killed in the encounter were from Kashmir, identified as Sajad Ahmad, Aadil Hussain and Umar Nazir. It is suspected that they crossed over to the other side in 2018 and infiltrated the Indian territory days before the encounter. On March 23, the J&K police arrested four alleged members of the same outfit and seized weapons from them. They were identified by the police as Shafqat Ali, Ahtesham Farooq, Nisar Ahmad and Musaib Hasan. Investigations revealed that they were allegedly receiving instructions from a Pakistan-based handler through a mobile app. The accused had also been told to recruit locals. “Attempts are being made to project that Pakistan-based elements are not involved in any terror activity in Kashmir. However, recent encounters have revealed that regular infiltration attempts are being made,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/outfit-with-let-link-under-scanner/article31304362.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Navy chief advises forces to take extra precaution||Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh has asked the rank and file of the Navy to redouble current efforts to ensure that all personnel and their families are safe. The Services were the last bastion and “if the caregivers become care-seekers, it would be a big problem.” “We have to ensure that our operational assets, specifically ships and submarines, remain free from the virus. It is a very difficult task because physical distancing onboard ships and especially submarines is very tough… but physically we will maintain the required distance of six feet,” he said in a video message released to the force. The challenge was not over yet and it was only going to intensity in days and weeks ahead, Adm Singh said. “It will require us to augment our preparedness. It can be no longer business as usual. We need to take concrete measures so that we are geared and prepared to tackle the full onslaught of this deadly virus.” Adm Singh outlined priorities to all naval personnel: redouble the current efforts to ensure that the personnel and their families are safe; ensure operational assets, specifically ships and submarine, remain free from the virus; support the overall national effort, which the Navy is already contributing in a big way across all stations. Adm Singh said everyone should keep the guard up and “retain our sights on being combat ready.” “Operational readiness must remain an important priority. We should hope for the best and plan for the worst. We need to be ready for the worst case scenario. It is going to be a long battle,” he added. In case the situation worsens, the Navy should scale up facilities to handle people, facilitate movement from one coastal State to another, assist the local authorities in law and order, prepare short vehicles for movement and intensify efforts for community kitchens and support groups among other measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/navy-chief-advises-forces-to-take-extra-precaution/article31304364.ece
10 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Operation SHIELD’ at 21 locations in Delhi||The Delhi government will carry out ‘Operation SHIELD’ at 21 locations identified as containment zones in the capital, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said here on Thursday. The operation involves sealing, identifying and quarantining people, doorstep delivery of essential items and door-to-door checking of people, he said. “We have begun Operation SHIELD… S-Sealing of the immediate area after geographical marking, H-Home quarantine of all in the area, I-Isolation and tracing of people who have been first and second contacts, E-Essential supplies delivered at the doorstep, L-Local sanitisation and disinfection and D-Door-to-door checking, so that people having symptoms of the novel coronavirus infection are isolated, and testing can be done after taking samples,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal also underscored the need for wearing masks by all those stepping out of their homes. “This has been advised based on recent observations and news from across the world where authorities are advising everyone, and not just people infected with the coronavirus, to wear masks to protect themselves,” he said. “Based on the experiences of other countries, we have issued orders that everyone stepping out of their homes in Delhi should wear masks. If you do not have a mask, you can use a clean cloth or a handkerchief to cover your nose and mouth so that you are not infected,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal said the government would take strict action against those misbehaving with healthcare professionals, after two women doctors of Safdarjung Hospital were mistreated by a local at Gautam Nagar on Wednesday. He said the pandemic would necessitate tough decisions. “As no economic activities are taking place, tax collection has stopped. In view of this, we have decided that except for the expenses to contain the spread of the virus and provide free ration and food, no other expenses will be incurred by the government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/operation-shield-at-21-locations-in-delhi/article31304380.ece
10 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,||Amid a pandemic, a salute to selfless service on streets||Celebrations have not been part of conservancy worker M. Lakshmi’s routine at the Tirunelveli Corporation. Even during events such as Independence Day, Ms. Lakshmi and her colleagues always had to finish their work of sprucing up the VOC Stadium in Palayamkottai ahead of the actual celebrations and leave. Before leaving the stadium, their supervisor would tell them to return once the celebrations were over. The workers would watch from a distance as the Collector hoisted the national flag and received the guard of honour from smart uniformed policemen with gleaming arms, and come back to clean up the premises again. But on Thursday, when the police accorded a guard of honour to the conservancy workers of the Tirunelveli Corporation for their selfless work amid the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak and nationwide lockdown, it was an emotional moment for Ms. Lakshmi. The honour was given to all of them in recognition of their selfless service — the brave cleaning operation she and her colleagues are carrying out across the city when others remain indoors amid the COVID-19 threat. “Since we felt that the conservancy workers’ job should not go unnoticed, the police decided to honour them in recognition of their work for the well-being of others, as instructed by City Police Commissioner Deepak M. Damor,” said S. Saravanan, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Tirunelveli City. As City Health Officer of Tirunelveli Corporation Sathish led the conservancy workforcewith their protective face masks, the police presented the honour in the presence of Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan and Assistant Collector (Training) Sivaguru Prabhakaran at the Corporation’s administrative office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-a-pandemic-a-salute-to-selfless-service-on-streets/article31304649.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,||BEL, AIIMS develop remote monitor||A remote patient health monitoring system that can be installed at homes or hospitals promises to spare healthcare workers the risk of exposure to COVID-19, while attending to persons undergoing isolation either for suspected infection or as precautionary quarantine. Jointly developed by Bharat Electronics Ltd. and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh, the system reduces the need for scarce personal protective gear. “The solution aims to significantly reduce the risk of exposure to infection for healthcare workers,” BEL said in a statement on Thursday. “It is also expected to reduce the increasing demand of PPE [personal protective equipment] and logistics,” the public sector company added. The device has non-invasive sensors to measure the main parameters of a person who may be a COVID-19 patient: temperature, pulse rate, SPO2 or saturated oxygen level, and respiration rate. BEL said it developed a proof of concept model of the system based on inputs given by AIIMS - Rishikesh. The public enterprise used its expertise in network centric and IoT (Internet of things) systems. A mobile app and Web browser have been developed. People who show symptoms of infection get enrolled with AIIMS - Rishikesh. “Patient health parameters, along with patient location, are uploaded to a centralised command & control centre on cloud using either the patient’s mobile phone or integral GSM SIM card,” BEL said. “The use of cloud will facilitate seamless scaling of the database of COVID-19 suspects/patients,” it added. When the monitored parameters exceed preset thresholds, the software would send out alerts to the medical officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bel-aiims-develop-remote-monitor/article31304408.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||50 trains to carry perishable goods||Fruit and vegetable farmers have been among the hardest hit by the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19, facing major losses due to obstacles in harvesting and marketing their perishable produce. The Centre has now directed all the States and Union Territories to implement the Market Intervention Scheme to ensure good prices for perishable crops. It has also begun a train service to transport perishable agricultural and horticultural commodities to markets due to the obstacles in road transport. On Thursday, 50 trains were deployed for this purpose, an Agriculture Ministry statement said. This was among the major issues raised by the State Agriculture Ministers at a videoconference with Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday. The Market Intervention Scheme is meant to protect the growers of perishable commodities from making distress sales, especially at times when prices fall below the cost of production. The scheme can be invoked by a State which is willing to bear half the losses of procurement, with the remainder being borne by the Centre, whenever there is a 10% fall in ruling market prices in comparison to the previous normal year. The Agriculture Ministry also took steps to aid pulses and oilseeds farmers, most of whom are in dry-land areas. Farmers have been complaining that market prices for toor and urad dal, chickpeas and soyabean have been far below the minimum support prices. The Centre has extended the procurement window for its Price Support Scheme, under which the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd. (NAFED) and other agencies procure pulses and oilseeds, up to 90 days from the date of commencement of the scheme in each State. It has also hiked the daily procurement limit from 25 quintals to 40 quintals per farmer for the rabi season. The limit ensures that all farmers get an equal chance to sell their produce. Buttransport restrictions make it difficult for farmers to repeatedly bring their produce for procurement, leading to this relaxation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/50-trains-to-carry-perishable-goods/article31304398.ece
10 April 2020||Mumbai,||Russian rescued from cave||Lifeguards rescued a Russian national from a rapidly flooding coastal cave at Keri in north Goa on Thursday. Officials said lifeguard Girish Talkar of Drishti Marine stationed at the Keri beach area spotted the man in a small narrow cave along the shoreline during a routine patrol. The Russian, later identified as Valenti, was in obvious distress as the cave was flooding quickly due to the high tide. He also appeared to be physically challenged and was unable to walk. Mr. Talkar immediately called for back-up. Meanwhile, ambulance and police patrol team were alerted. Soon afterwards, lifeguards Dhako, Jayesh and Vikram joined Girish in the rescue operation. Valenti was evacuated on a spine board and brought to shore. His vitals were checked and he appeared to be normal. He was shifted to the ambulance and transported to the Public Health Centre at Mapusa. Contact was later established with Valenti’s brother who lives in Russia. The Russian embassy was also informed. Many tourists have been stranded in Goa due to the lockdown to curb the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/russian-rescued-from-cave/article31304416.ece
10 April 2020||PATNA,||Siwan in Bihar emerges as a COVID-19 hotspot||Siwan district has emerged as a COVID-19 hotspot in Bihar, with 20 of the 51 positive case in the State coming from this district alone. Many of Siwan’s positive cases have travel history to Gulf countries, and the villages they come from have been sealed by the district administration. On Thursday, 10 of the 12 COVID-19 positive cases detected in Bihar were from Siwan district — nine from the same family and most of them women. “They all came into contact with a person who had a travel history to Oman and whose sample had earlier tested positive,” said the State’s Principal Health Secretary Sanjay Kumar. Many of the district’s positive cases are from Raghunathpur, Barharia, Darauli and Hasanpur blocks. A large number of residents from these areas bordering the neighbouring district of Gopalganj go to Gulf countries every year to work as masons, constructions labourers and unskilled workers. “The borders of villages from which the highest number of COVID-19 positive cases have come have been sealed and there is strict monitoring by district officials... it’s a curfew-like situation there,” Bihar’s Director-General of Police (DGP) Gupteshwar Pandey told presspersons in Patna. The district administration has sent samples of over 90 people from the affected areas for test in Patna. “Local people have been asked to cooperate with officials and come forward to test,” State Health Minister Mangal Pandey, who is himself from Siwan, said. Bihar has, so far, reported 51 COVID-19 cases. While its ‘patient zero’ from Munger district has died, 16 patients have recovered from the disease. Meanwhile, the State’s Disaster Management Department has said that strict action would be taken both against migrants who go missing from quarantine centres and the officials in charge of the centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/siwan-in-bihar-emerges-as-a-covid-19-hotspot/article31304375.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||MSMEs need huge package: Jairam||Warning that the COVID-19 lockdown has thrown MSMEs — Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises — into deep distress, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh has urged the Centre to set up a Rs. 1 lakh crore corpus fund as part of a relief package for the sector. In a letter to MSME Minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday, Mr. Ramesh called for tax sops and other measures to ensure liquidity, preventing mass unemployment, deferring payment of dues and pausing litigation against MSMEs, apart from post-lockdown steps to improve consumer sentiment and investment appetite. The Rajya Sabha MP noted that there were over 6.3 crore MSMEs in the country, which account for almost half of all exports and a third of the national GDP. They employed 11 crore people, and were struggling to pay wages, given the shutdown of many businesses, the sharp depression in demand and a massive cash crunch. With the vast majority of MSMEs not obligated to have PF accounts for their workers, the measures announced by the Finance Minister to support organised sector workers would not give them any relief, he said. To ensure liquidity, Mr. Ramesh suggested loan restructuring options, and a 6-month moratorium on payment of dues. Tax payments could also be deferred for six months, while property taxes and other local body taxes could be waived for three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/msmes-need-huge-package-jairam/article31304373.ece
10 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Ahmedabad adopts South Korean model||As COVID-19 cases surge, Ahmedabad is battling to contain the spread of the pandemic with intensive surveillance and aggressive testing to detect the maximum number of cases of infected people, and isolate them to curtail further spread of the disease and break the chain of transmission. So far, 141 cases have been reported from Ahmedabad, with 58 reported on Thursday morning alone. Six persons have succumbed to their infection in the city. “Intensive surveillance and aggressive testing — these two approaches will ensure we detect as many cases as possible. One case proactively detected can mean up to ten lives saved, assuming one positive undetected person can infect around 400 people and considering about 3% mortality rate,” Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra said on Thursday. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has now adopted the South Korean model of enhanced testing to ascertain the scale of the epidemic in the city of 6.5 million people. “On 4th April, the number of samples tested from the city were 57 while after four days on 8th April, we tested 840 samples,” Mr. Nehra said. He posted details of samples tested on his Twitter handle. Along with aggressive testing, the civic body has hardened social distancing measures by strictly regulating goings and comings in the entire walled city area, from where the maximum number of cases have emerged. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has identified 14 clusters or hotspots where intensive surveillance, mass testing and contact tracing of infected persons will be carried out with enhanced focus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ahmedabad-adopts-south-korean-model/article31304387.ece
10 April 2020||Bhopal,||Doctor shifts to hotel after ‘car quarantine’||After living in his car for weeks outside his home, Sachin Nayak moved into a hotel in Bhopal on Tuesday after his hospital made the arrangements. The doctor was worried that his wife and three-year-old daughter could contract COVID-19 from him. As cases spiralled in Bhopal, he slept in the car across the road and spoke on the phone with his family. He read, too, if time permitted, or took a stroll on the road. After returning from duty at the government-run J.P. Hospital each day, he would plonk himself on a mattress spread over the reclined back seat. Soaps, laptops, chargers, clothes, tooth brush, towel were all inside the car. “It was a compulsion... I didn’t have a choice,” Dr. Nayak from the Anaesthesia Department at the hospital told The Hindu . The hospital first tended to incoming patients, which overwhelmed its resources, and then made arrangements for doctors as other city-based hospitals eased its initial load. After performing duty in isolation wards for a few days, doctors are required to quarantine themselves to rule out the possibility of infecting patients and family members. “Of course, you can’t go back home after working in such a hazardous environment. Therefore it’s better to be away,” chuckles Dr. Nayak. CM’s praise The doctor even earned the praise of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who said he saluted such “warriors”. He wrote on Twitter: “I and the whole of Madhya Pradesh greet warriors like you who are fighting the war against corona. If we all continue with such resolve, we will be able to win this great war more quickly. Sachin ji, salute your spirit.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doctor-shifts-to-hotel-after-car-quarantine/article31304391.ece
10 April 2020||New Delhi,||News channels seek time to pay Prasar Bharati carriage fee||Amidst the ongoing lockdown, the News Broadcasters Association (NBA), an association of 77 news channels in India, has sought delayed payment of the carriage fee for slots on the DD Free Dish from the Information and Broadcasting Ministry . The DD Free Dish reaches 30 million households, who get 80 channels without paying any monthly subscription fee to cable TV providers. DD Free Dish has slots for 80 channels, out of which 26 slots are reserved for Doordarshan-run channels and the remaining 54 slots are open for bidding by private channels. In a recent letter, NBA President Rajat Sharma wrote to the Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar that against the backdrop of the coronavirus pandemic and lockdown, news broadcasters were facing a financial crisis as operation costs have shot up while advertising release orders are being cancelled. “Advertising inventory bookings are lower than 50% even for the top-rated news channels — advertising is a single source of earning for news broadcasters and this will lead to a serious cash flow problem,” Mr. Sharma wrote. The payment for slots on carriage fee was due on March 31 and the NBA sought it to be deferred until July. According to sources, the NBA and Prasar Bharati are working out an alternative model which, sources said, would require the channels to pay an interest of 5.7% per annum. This has left the broadcasters miffed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/news-channels-seek-time-to-pay-prasar-bharati-carriage-fee/article31304400.ece
10 April 2020||Guwahati,||‘Gamosa’ evolves from memento to mask in Assam||The COVID-19 pandemic has made the ubiquitous gamosa , a decorative cotton towel, evolve from memento to mask. For Pratibha Das, Mamani Malakar, Rebati Baishya and other members of the non-profit Hargila Army in Pacharia, a village 25 km northwest of Guwahati, sewing the gamosa masks is more than just keeping themselves engaged to beat the lockdown inactivity. They have been designing the masks with motifs of the endangered hargila (greater adjutant stork), rhino and elephant to add a dash of wildlife conservation to the protection of human faces. “We had ordered thousands of gamosa s to be made and sold by the women during the Rongali Bihu festival. Since lockdown has put paid to the Bihu celebrations, the women turned the towels into masks for use during the COVID-19 crisis,” Purnima Devi Barman, stork conservationist and founder of the Hargila Army, told The Hindu on Thursday. The Hargila Army women, however, were not the first to improvise. A Fine Arts student named Phanindra Pradhan had transformed the gamosa after pharmacies in his town of Gohpur ran out of masks. “We wash the gamosa s in disinfectant before ironing and stitching them into masks that are sold at Rs. 50 apiece,” Mr. Pradhan said, adding that he has been receiving regular orders. Assam has traditionally had two types of gamosa s — the uka or plain kind used to wipe sweat or dry the body after a bath, and the phulam , which is decorated with floral motifs to be gifted as a memento or during festivals such as Bihu. Cultural identity Cultural historians say the gamosa came to symbolise Assamese nationalism in 1916 when the Asom Chatra Sanmilan, a students’ organisation was formed, followed by the Assam Sahitya Sabha, a literary body. Wearing the phulam gamosa around the neck became a standard for cultural identity. “The Assamese way of life is woven in the gamosa , whether plain or decorative. From a cultural symbol, it became a political symbol before designers explored its potential as dress material such as distinctive shirts,” said B.K. Goswami, a retired banker and writer. The  gamosa ’s graph as a symbol of protest rose during the anti-foreigners Assam Agitation from 1979 to 1985. The extremist United Liberation Front of Asom too used the towel with “revolutionary” motifs. The gamosa staged a comeback as a political statement with the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act from mid-December 2019. The protests have continued intermittently after the COVID-19 pandemic struck.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gamosa-evolves-from-memento-to-mask-in-assam/article31304406.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Baghel blames Centre for COVID-19 outbreak||The country could have been spared of all the problems arising out of the COVID-19 outbreak if the Union government had quarantined all those coming from abroad, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said on Thursday. He said that had the Centre taken the COVID-19 seriously, the country may have been spared from an extensive outbreak. “Had the government stopped international flights and kept all those coming to the country in quarantine, this virus could not have spread across the country and a lot of problems people are facing today could have been averted.” Though Chhattisgarh was among the States with lowest reported COVID- 19 cases, Mr. Baghel said, a final decision to lift the three-week lockdown would be taken only after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with Chief Ministers on April 11. “We are looking forward to the Centre's response on April 11 on the extension of the lockdown, and thereafter, a meeting of the Chhattisgarh Cabinet will be held on April 12 to decide the future course of action,” Mr. Baghel said. “There should be more discussions with the States and their views should be taken by the Centre before arriving at a decision on the lockdown extension.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/baghel-blames-centre-for-covid-19-outbreak/article31304369.ece
10 April 2020||Mumbai,||Indian seafarer dies of COVID-19 in Florida||Even as 17,000 Indian seafarers wait for a policy to be finalised for their return, a Mumbai family has lost a 48-year-old earning member, Andrew Fernandes. A Kalina resident, Mr. Fernandes, working as an assistant security officer on cruiseliner Costa Favolosa, died of COVID-19 in Miami, Florida on April 5. He is survived by wife Maria and two sets of twins, boys studying in classes I and girls in class V. On March 29, Mr. Fernandes was medically disembarked and transferred through a tender boat to Larkin Community Hospital in Miami, Florida. Mr. Fernandes’s family and friends said his condition worsened and the doctors had to sedate him and put him on ventilator support after he contracted pneumonia and lung infection. The shipping company in an email to Ms. Adelaide said they did all that was possible to assist in transferring her brother to another hospital but could not accelerate the process as there were no beds available due to COVID-19. Reports said 400 Indians are stuck off the Miami coast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indian-seafarer-dies-of-covid-19-in-florida/article31304401.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Impersonators pose as policemen and doctors||COVID-19 may not have hit Assam badly but has led to a rise in cases of impersonation for making a quick buck. In the past two days, the police caught at least eight people across the State for impersonating the men in uniform and other government officials to extract money from trucks carrying essentials and shops in the rural areas that open on the sly. On Wednesday, the police in eastern Assam’s Jorhat district arrested three men who had taken fraudulence to another level – by posing as doctors assigned to disseminate awareness and test people for possible infection for a fee. The trio had been operating for some days in villages around Jorhat town. “We caught them from the Titabor area on the basis of public complaints. Apart from conning people by posing as doctors and showing them their photos with ambulances, they also tried to pass off as officials and seized gutkha packets to demand money from shops,” Jorhat Superintendent of Police Mrinal Talukdar said. Diganta Neog (25), Ujjwal Bora (24) and Biswajyoti Dutta (18) were produced before a court and sent to jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/impersonators-pose-as-policemen-and-doctors/article31304414.ece
10 April 2020||Mumbai,||Goa denies entry to liner with Indian crew||The Goa government on Thursday refused berthing permission to a cruise liner with 500 Indian crew members on board citing guidelines of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. The State government held a meeting after the cruise liner with the Indian crew members turned up off its coast. Following the meeting, Goa’s Ports minister Michael Lobo said that the ship would now sail to Mumbai where the crew would be quarantined at the port. There were 100 Goan seafarers on board and the government would send buses to bring them back to the State, Mr. Lobo added. “The cruise ship with 100 Goan crew members, which is anchored off Goa coast, will be sent to Mumbai where they will be off loaded and quarantined for 14 days. Once in Goa they will be quarantined for another 14 or 21 days and tested for COVID-19,” Mr. Lobo said. Mumbai Port Trust officials, however, said that permissions were yet to be received with regard to allowing the vessel to berth at the port and letting its crew disembark, the checks they would need to undergo and for the quarantining within the port premises. “There is a proposal and that is about it,” said a senior port official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. “Verifications are on and no permissions have been granted,” the official added. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said that the Captain of Ports had received a message about the vessel on Thursday. “We are following protocols of the Ministry of Home Affairs in regard to this issue,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/goa-denies-entry-to-liner-with-indian-crew/article31304412.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Kejriwal launches ‘Operation SHIELD’||The Chief Minister said the Delhi government will take strict action against people misbehaving with healthcare professionals, after an incident came to light where two female doctors were mistreated at Gautam Nagar area in Hauz Khas. “Two female doctors from Safdarjung Hospital were mistreated yesterday [Wednesday] by the locals near their residence out of a belief that they were endangering others and spreading coronavirus in the area. Instances like these will not be tolerated. These doctors and nurses are saving our lives, they are treating our people for coronavirus,” Mr. Kejriwal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kejriwal-launches-operation-shield/article31304646.ece
10 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Cut salary of Ministers, MLAs, says Kerala BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran has demanded that the State government slash the salary of Ministers and MLAs and also axe redundant posts. Mr.Surendran told reporters here on Thursday that the government should contain splurge and direct the resources for the welfare of the people. He accused Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Finance Minister T.M.Thomas Isaac of hushing up information about Central assistance and spreading canards. The Centre had provided Rs. 1,277 crore as the first tranche of the revenue deficit grant but Dr.Isaac was silent on it. The Centre had allotted Rs. 1,064 crore for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and shared Rs. 238 crore as advance, which was unprecedented. The State could expend only Rs. 2,000 crore from the Rs. 4,750 crore provided by the Centre as flood relief. The kit of essentials being distributed by the State would cost only Rs. 700 but the governmentput the cost at Rs. 1,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cut-salary-of-ministers-mlas-says-kerala-bjp/article31304768.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Rs. 15,000 cr. sanctioned to States to fight COVID-19||“We also expect States to use this money for centralised procurement of essential medical equipment and drugs required for treatment of infected patients, strengthen and build health systems to support prevention and preparedness for future disease outbreaks, setting up of laboratories and bolster surveillance activities, bio-security preparedness, pandemic research and proactively engage communities and conduct risk communication activities,” Joint Secreatry in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said. A release issued by the Ministry added that it was authorised to re-appropriate resources among components of the package and among the various implementation agencies — the National Health Mission, Central Procurement, Railways, Dept of Health Research/ICMR, National Centre for Disease Control — as per the evolving situation. “We have now rapidly increased our health sector response with the rise in number of COVID-19 cases. As on date, a total of 223 labs comprising a network of 157 government and 66 private laboratories are conducting rigorous screening process. Also we has already disbursed Rs. 4113 crore to all the States and UTs for dealing with the emergency COVID response,” the release added. “ The allotment will allow for rapidly ramping up the number of corona testing facilities, buying Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), isolation beds, ICU beds, ventilators and other essential equipment. The major share of the expenditure will be used for mounting robust emergency response, strengthening pandemic research, community engagement and risk communication and implementation, management, capacity building, monitoring and evaluation component,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-15000-cr-sanctioned-to-states-to-fight-covid-19/article31304356.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||No significant rate of increase, says ICMR||The Health Ministry added that two of its labs have started whole genome sequencing of the COVID-19 virus. Mr. Agarwal said there was no need to panic over the availability of COVID-19 personal protective equipment (PPE), but stressed these should be used rationally. “Twenty companies are manufacturing PPE in India and orders for 1.7 crore PPE have already been placed with them. There is no reason to believe any rumoursregarding PPE. Our guidelines state when, where and who should use the PPEs,” he said. “It (PPE) should be used as per requirement. We can use four N95 masks within a day, or use just one within a day. While the central government is augmenting supplies to the States, we are also requesting people to use them rationally,” he said. He added that orders for 49,000 ventilators have been placed and their supply was underway. Mr. Agarwal said 10 teams of COVID-19 specialists have been sent to nine States including — Bihar, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat — to over see preparedness and ensure maximum containment of cases. “Indian Railways has produced about six lakh reusable face masks and over 4,000 litres of hand sanitiser; it has also converted 3,250 coaches into COVID-19 isolation units with beds. Total 5,000 coaches are to be converted,” Mr. Agarwal said. Punya Srivastav, joint secretary, Home Ministry said State governments are extending support through shelters and food camps for those stranded by the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-significant-rate-of-increase-says-icmr/article31304360.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||A salute to selfless service on the streets||“Since we felt that the conservancy workers’ job should not go unnoticed, the police decided to honour them in recognition of their work for the well-being of others, as instructed by City Police Commissioner Deepak M. Damor,” said S. Saravanan, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Tirunelveli City. As the City Health Officer (CFO) of Tirunelveli Corporation, Sathish led the conservancy workforce, the police presented the honour in the presence of Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan and Assistant Collector (Training) Sivaguru Prabhakaran at the Corporation’s administrative office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-salute-to-selfless-service-on-the-streets/article31304365.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Swiss flight to evacuate citizens and Europeans||Switzerland’s airline Swiss on Thursday launched a special flight from Zurich to Mumbai and New Delhi to repatriate its citizens and European nationals. The flight is being operated on behalf of the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs (FDFA), the airline said. An empty Airbus A330 plane arrived in Mumbai on Thursday morning and is scheduled to reach Delhi shortly after midnight. The flight from Delhi to Zurich is scheduled to leave 90 minutes later. Earlier, the Lufthansa Airlines — which along with Swiss, Austrian Airline and Eurowings is part of the Lufthansa group — also operated nine flights to Frankfurt to help European citizens return home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/swiss-flight-to-evacuate-citizens-and-europeans/article31304366.ece
10 April 2020||LAHORE,||Pak. Army shoots down Indian quadcopter||The Pakistan Army on Thursday claimed to have shot down an Indian quadcopter for violating the country’s airspace. According to a press release issued by the Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) in Pakistan, “The Indian quadcopter intruded 600m inside Pakistan’s territory for conducting surveillance.” The release said this “blatant act was aggressively responded to by Pakistan Army troops” that shot down the quadcopter. “Such unwarranted acts by the Indian Army are a clear violation of the established norms and the existing air agreement between the two countries and reflect the Indian Army’s consistent disregard for the Ceasefire Understanding of 2003,” the ISPR press release added. India rejects claim Rejecting the Pakistan Army’s claims, Army sources denied any quadcopter having flown from the Indian side. The veracity of the picture of the quadcopter and its impact on snow when it was shot down had to be verified, a source in the Army said.  (With inputs from    Dinakar Peri)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pak-army-shoots-down-indian-quadcopter/article31304370.ece
10 April 2020||Srinagar,||J&K tightens lockdown in wildlife zones||The J&K wildlife department on Thursday decided to implement a tightened lockdown in the peripheries of wildlife zones and zoos in the Valley to prevent any transmission of SARS-CoV-2 from humans to animals, especially the wild cats. “People living close to forested and wildlife areas should refrain from moving into these areas to avoid human-wildlife interface to prevent the possibility of transmission of this infection,” Rashid Naqash, Regional Wildlife Warden, Kashmir, told The Hindu . “The move is made after an increased frequency of COVID-19 cases reported in Jammu and Kashmir, and the report of a tiger housed in Bronx Zoo, New York, contracting the virus,” he added. Of the 15 major types of big cats, Kashmir is home to a number of species of lion, tiger, and leopard, including the snow leopard. The lockdown has already helped in their movement to lower areas of the wildlife zones “Mammals like leopards, big cats and primates face potential threat of spread of the infection and also transmission from humans to wild animals. People living in the fringes of forest and wildlife areas still venture into these areas for collection of firewood, morels (wild mushrooms) and other minor forest produce,” said Mr. Naqash. Umar Nazir, Veterinarian, Department of Wildlife Protection, Srinagar, said there was a need for extra precaution because the SARS-CoV-2 mutates fast and it would be difficult to know the trajectory of mutation once it travels from humans to animals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-tightens-lockdown-in-wildlife-zones/article31304371.ece
10 April 2020||Bhopal,||NSA invoked against four for attacking policeman||The Indore police have invoked the National Security Act against four persons who allegedly attacked a policeman while he was on lockdown enforcement duty on Tuesday. “We have arrested six of the accused and the law has been invoked against four,” said Vivek Sharma, Inspector General of Police, Indore Zone. The constable had told the accused, who were in a vehicle, that they cannot pass through Chandan Nagar in view of the lockdown on Tuesday, but they got out and started throwing stones at him, said Mr. Sharma. “As he was alone at that point, he had to flee and call for reinforcements, which arrived immediately and arrested them,” he added.  Last week, the city’s police had invoked the Act against four persons for instigating residents of a locality to pelt two doctors who were tracing contacts of a patient suffering from COVID-19 with stones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nsa-invoked-against-four-for-attacking-policeman/article31304383.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Glory follows suffering||The Red Cross is an expression of caring for soldiers wounded in a war field, and the Blood-wet Cross of Lord Jesus Christ on Good Friday is an expression of God’s “agape” love for mankind battling their sinful nature that leads to eternal death. The Bible says that the “wages of sin is death” and also that “without shedding of blood there is no remission” (Hebrews 9:22), and mankind’s redemption from this precondition is made possible by the sinless precious blood of Lord Jesus shed on Calvary’s Cross. Christ died a painful death on the hill of Calvary, hanging on a rugged cross, pinned to it by three nails, his head pierced by a crown of thorns; and bleeding from head to toe. But the Cross is not a symbol of shame but one of glory for anyone who accepts the salvation provided by the sacrificial death of the Son of God. There was no sin in Jesus, declared Pontius Pilate the Governor; yet He was condemned due to the jealousy of the Chief Priests, but these events fit perfectly into God’s eternal plan for mankind’s redemption. Lord Jesus became triumphant over death, when he rose from the dead on the third day (celebrated as Easter), leaving the sealed sepulchre (guarded by Roman soldiers) empty. The mystery and message of Good Friday and Easter will unfold in the life of anyone seeking the living and loving saviour with a childlike heart. The life of Mother Teresa, who saw God in the suffering masses, is an example. To carry one’s cross daily is not easy, but the message from Good Friday and Easter is that there is glory awaiting anyone who would wear the crown of thorns on earth in a spirit of service.  T. Prabhakara Rao||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/glory-follows-suffering/article31304404.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Tata Sky, Airtel to air channels on education||With schools remaining shut, the government has coaxed two leading DTH providers — Tata Sky and Airtel — to air the educational channels Swayam Prabha it runs. The channels were earlier available only on Doordarshan-DTH, Dish TV and Jio TV App. “The learners can continue their education and learning even sitting at home in this difficult situation arisen due to unfortunate outbreak of COVID-19,” HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tata-sky-airtel-to-air-channels-on-education/article31304413.ece
10 April 2020||Mumbai,||Uddhav recommended for MLC post||The Maharashtra Cabinet held a special meeting, led by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, on Thursday to recommend to Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to appoint Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray as MLC to one of the vacant posts in the State Council. Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said that no council election could be held for other vacant MLC seats due to the COVID-19 epidemic. “There are two vacant MLC posts which the Governor appoints, and the Cabinet requested Mr. Thackeray be appointed as the MLC,” he said. Mr. Thackeray is not a member of any House of State legislature and as per the Constitution he needs to be a member of either Assembly or Council within six months of taking oath. He took the oath on November 28 and has time till May 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uddhav-recommended-for-mlc-post/article31304359.ece
10 April 2020||Mumbai,||Toll rises to three in Dharavi||A 70-year-old woman from Kalyanwadi in Dharavi died of COVID-19 at the KEM Hospital on Thursday morning, taking the death toll in the area to three. Dharavi also reported three new cases in the evening, increasing the tally to 17. The woman’s immediate contacts are being traced, while Kalyanwadi has been declared a containment zone. Among the new cases, two men, a 58-year-old and a 30-year-old, are residents of Mukund Nagar, which has already reported two cases. However, they have no link to the earlier cases. The other new patient is a 55-year-old man from Dr. Baliga Nagar, which reported the first COVID-19 case in Dharavi. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, which has not yet identified the index patients in the two recent deaths, has decided to screen residents of Dharavi showing symptoms of COVID-19. “I have demanded health check-ups for every resident with rapid testing,” Dharavi MLA and Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/toll-rises-to-three-in-dharavi/article31304376.ece
10 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. to seal hotspots in other districts||After sealing over 100 hotspots in 15 COVID-19 most-affected districts till April 14, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday asked officials to enforce similar measures in other districts as well even if they reported just one positive case. Meanwhile, the number of positive cases in Uttar Pradesh reached 410 across 40 districts, said Amit Mohan Prasad, Principal Health Secretary. In a videoconference meeting with district and health officials, Mr. Adityanath said hotspots should be sealed in all those districts that report positive cases. He expressed concern saying the virus had spread to 40 out of the 75 districts in just a month. “Even if a single case is found in a district, identify the hotspot and seal the areas around it through barricades,” Mr. Adityanath said. While all movement within these areas would be prohibited, only medical and sanitation teams, along with those ensuring door-step delivery of essential items like milk, vegetables and other food will be allowed to operate. No laxity Mr. Adityanath directed officials to strictly enforce the total lockdown in the affected areas and warned them against laxity. Pointing out that some districts were yet to conduct tests or collect samples, he asked officials to open sampling centres in all districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-to-seal-hotspots-in-other-districts/article31304381.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC tells Centre to reply to plea for 4G in J&K||The Supreme Court on Thursday sought a response from the government on a petition to restore mobile Internet data services in Jammu and Kashmir to 4G speed as doctors, patients and the general public are unable to access the latest information, guidelines, advisories, daily updates and restrictions about COVID-19. A Bench, led by Justice N.V. Ramana, via video conferencing, issued formal notice to the government and sought a response in a week. The petition, filed by Foundation for Media Professionals through its president and journalist Paranjoy Guna Thakurta and represented by advocate Shadan Farasat, said the “citizens in Jammu and Kashmir should not be deprived of facilities that are already available to Indians across the country, i.e., effective and speedy internet, an indispensable tool in the struggle against COVID-19”. The plea said, “The restriction in respect of mobile internet speeds effectively amounts to a targeted rollback of such rights in respects of the residents of Jammu & Kashmir.” It pointed out that Internet in Jammu and Kashmir had been restricted for over seven months following the abrogation of the special status of the Kashmiri people under Article 370 in August 2019. It specifically challenged an Internet restricting government order of March 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-tells-centre-to-reply-to-plea-for-4g-in-jk/article31304367.ece
10 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi High Court cancels summer vacation||The Delhi High Court on Thursday decided to cancel its summer vacation and function through the month of June to make up for the loss of court working hours due to the lockdown imposed over the coronavirus pandemic. The High Court and its subordinate district courts in the capital had suspended its functioning following the imposition of 21-day lockdown in March. However, “extremely urgent matters” are being heard by the court through video conferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-high-court-cancels-summer-vacation/article31304399.ece
10 April 2020||New Delhi,||Sanitation app updated with pandemic-related features||Sanitation app ‘Swachhata-MoHUA’ has been updated to include features such as reporting of suspected cases of COVID-19 and lockdown violations, a statement from the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) said on Thursday. The app’s primary use was to report sanitation-related grievances but nine features have been added to support citizens, it said. At a videoconference, MoHUA Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra announced the features.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sanitation-app-updated-with-pandemic-related-features/article31304395.ece
10 April 2020||Guwahati,||Assam court rejects bail plea of MLA, orders quarantine in custody||The District and Sessions Court in central Assam’s Nagaon has rejected the bail peal of All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) lawmaker Aminul Islam, arrested on Tuesday for sedition. The court also prescribed quarantine for him in jail. Mr. Islam was arrested under various Sections of the Indian Penal Code, including sedition, for making objectionable remarks over the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-mla-orders-quarantine-in-custody/article31304396.ece
10 April 2020||Kolkata,||Tea gardens to open in West Bengal||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday gave a nod to open tea gardens in the State but urged the planters to observe social distancing while plucking leaves. “People in the tea gardens usually maintain distance. But I will ask only 15% of workers to work at one time. Social distancing should be strictly maintained,” Ms. Banerjee said at a meeting called at the State Secretariat in Kolkata where representatives of different industries were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tea-gardens-to-open-in-west-bengal/article31304650.ece
10 April 2020||Bhopal,||AIIMS doctors beaten up by policemen in Bhopal||Police allegedly thrashed two junior resident doctors of AIIMS, Bhopal, with batons as they were returning home after performing emergency duties on Wednesday. The two doctors were stopped by two policemen patrolling the Bag Sevania area and asked what they were doing outside. As the two doctors didn’t wear face masks, the policemen told them they were a threat to society. The two then proceeded to land batons on them. An inquiry has been initiated against the policemen, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aiims-doctors-beaten-up-by-policemen-in-bhopal/article31304382.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man assaults two women doctors in Hauz Khas market for ‘spreading’ coronavirus||Two women doctors of Safdarjung Hospital were allegedly beaten up on Wednesday by a man after an argument ensued when he accused them of not maintaining social distancing and spreading COVID-19. The incident occurred at Hauz Khas market in south Delhi. A complaint was received at the Hauz Khas police station regarding the incident, after which police registered an FIR and arrested the man.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-assaults-two-women-doctors-in-hauz-khas-market-for-spreading-coronavirus/article31304389.ece
10 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation launches mobile retail outlets for essentials||The Chennai Corporation on Thursday launched mobile retail outlets in residential areas to sell essentials at affordable prices. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash launched the outlets on P.T. Rajan Salai in K.K. Nagar, in Kodambakkam zone. “Residents will get a combo pack of rice, dal, cooking oil, spices, salt and other commodities, at a price of Rs. 850. The products can be used by a family of four, for 15 days. Residents have been requested not to violate lockdown norms and buy from traders of the mobile retail outlets, once in 15 days,” said Mr. Prakash. On Thursday, residential areas in Kodambakkam received groceries from 80 retail outlets, set up in vehicles such as mini lorries. “Other zones will get 450 more vehicles for selling groceries to residents. Traders have been asked to sell groceries in each residential area. The initiative will prevent crowding of residents in markets. Residents have to maintain physical distancing to prevent the spread of COVID-19,” said Mr. Prakash. The Corporation will continue issuing more passes for traders to sell groceries in each residential areas of the city. “The idea is to permit at least 7,000 vehicles to sell groceries. Traders can visit zonal offices or the Ripon Buildings to get permission for vehicles,” said a civic official.  Physical distancing In addition to permitting 7,000 mobile units to sell groceries, 3,348 shops, in 76 markets, have been shifted to alternative locations to adopt physical distancing. “All congested markets have also been shifted to alternative locations to promote physical distancing. Many markets have been closed,” said the official. Traders have been requested to call 044-25384520 to get passes and banners for the vehicles. The Corporation has also released phone numbers of officials in each zone Tiruvottiyur-9445190201; Manali- 9445190202; Madhavaram- 9445190203; Tondiarpet- 9445190204; Royapuram- 9445190205; Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar- 9445190206; Ambattur- 9445190207; Anna Nagar- 9445190208; Teynampet- 9445190209; Kodambakkam- 9445190210; Valasaravakkam- 9445190211; Alandur- 9445190212; Adyar- 9445190213; Perungudi- 9445190214 and Sholinganallur- 9445190215.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-launches-mobile-retail-outlets-for-essentials/article31304558.ece
10 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||96 persons test positive in State||Tamil Nadu reported 96 more positive cases of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) on Thursday, taking the total number of cases in the State to 834. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said of the 96 persons, 84 were connected to the “single source event” (Delhi conference) — both participants and their contacts. Of the remaining 12 patients, three had inter-State travel history and nine, including a doctor, had a history of contact with COVID-19 patients. “There have been no deaths in the last 24 hours in the State,” she told reporters. As on date, 27 patients were discharged after treatment. Among those hospitalised with COVID-19, six were ill with symptoms but did not require critical care. One patient, who was admitted to a private hospital, was put on a ventilator. The number of persons who had attended the single source event was increasing in a phased manner. Many reported after the government made an appeal. We first had 1,000 persons, and then the number went up to 1,103 and then to 1,131. As on date, there are 1,480 persons who had attended the event. A total of 763 persons — 554 participants and 188 of their contacts and seven foreigners and 14 of their contacts — have tested positive,” she said. The remaining 71 had a history of travel or contact history, she added. Erode reported the highest number of cases on Thursday. Twenty six patients — 14 women and 12 men — were from the district, taking the to 58. In Tirunelveli, 16 persons tested positive — 14 women and two men. Eight persons (three women and five men from Namakkal), eight persons (four women and four men from Kanniyakumari), seven persons (one woman and six men from Chennai) reported positive. Five persons each from Tirupattur, Thoothukodi and Vellore, four persons each from Chengalpattu and Tiruppur, and one person each from Kallakurichi, Madurai, Nagapattinam, Salem, Sivaganga, Tenkasi, Theni and Tiruvarur have tested positive. With 163 cases, Chennai continued to top the list of patients followed by Coimbatore with 60 patients. The number of samples tested till date was 7,267 and 485 of them were under process. In fact, the number of samples has increased by 1,172 since Wednesday, the highest single-day increase till now. A total of 2,042 persons were admitted to isolation wards in hospitals, while the number of beds in isolation facilities was 29,074. Results in 30 minutes Dr. Rajesh said the rapid test kits would provide results in 30 minutes. “These tests will be done on the field. This is to understand the prevalence of COVID-19 in the community. We will be able to assess how many people have been exposed to infection. The kits are from China, and were approved by an expert screening committee and the Indian Council of Medical Research. This is an antibody test specific to COVID-19. If found positive for antibodies, we may still have to confirm the result by RT-PCR test,” she said. The Health Secretary said the containment strategy was going on in 34 districts. So far, 16,61,487 households were covered, and a total of 58,77348 persons were screened. A total of 32,807 field staff were involved in the containment activities. She added that they continued to test persons hospitalised for severe acute respiratory infection, while the National Institute of Epidemiology had undertaken a prevalence study. She urged the public to cooperate with the government. “It is important to follow guidelines on hand washing and physical distancing. If anybody has symptoms, approach the hospital for help,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/96-persons-test-positive-in-state/article31304579.ece
10 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Speedy nod to manufacture HCQ||In the last three weeks, the Tamil Nadu Drugs Control Department has granted approvals to as many as 15 pharmaceutical units across the State for the manufacture of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) tablets. Officials of the Health Department said the 15 units, which had applied for permission to manufacture the tablets, were given the nod in a day. A bulk drug manufacturer in Hosur had also sought approval, which was granted the same day. “The government has declared that the conditions for Schedule H1 drugs will apply to HCQ tablets. The role of the Drugs Control Department is to see to it that the drug is sold as per Schedule H1 conditions. This means pharmacists should maintain a separate registry for the sale of HCQ and should sell it only based on the doctor’s prescription. Schedule H1 includes antibiotics and anti-tuberculosis drugs,” an official said. Once these manufacturers get the approval for production, they can place orders for the supply of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients, i.e., the raw materials, he said. As of now, there is a minimal stock of HCQ in districts across the State. Doctors are not prescribing the drug to people, officials said. J. Jayaseelan, chairman, Indian Drugs Manufacturers’ Association, Tamil Nadu, said the country had an adequate quantity of the anti-malarial drug, and there was no chance of stocks running out. “Tamil Nadu has not started prescribing the drug as a prophylactic. Even if it does, the State government will be in a position to buy the drug easily,” he said. The Centre had fixed the price of HCQ, he said, adding, “The rate - Rs. 5.80 for a 200 mg tablet - is below the MRP. The raw materials cost more, and hence, many are unable to manufacture the drug immediately. Pharmaceuticals are in the ‘essentials’ category. As of now, there is restricted manufacturing, and about 25% to 30% of our capacity is functional. However, we will have enough drugs considering the capacity of leading manufacturers in the country.” He said India was the main supplier of HCQ to the world, and barring one or two components, all the raw materials were manufactured here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/speedy-nod-to-manufacture-hcq/article31304585.ece
10 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sharp showers lash city||Sudden showers lashed many parts of the city on Thursday evening, bringing relief from the relatively warm weather during the day. Several areas in and around the city, including Vandalur, Porur, Velachery, Ashok Nagar and Avadi, received sharp spells for nearly an hour in the evening. Some localities experienced gusty winds as well. N. Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, Chennai, said that a trough was running from Madhya Pradesh to south Tamil Nadu, extending up to 900 m above mean sea level. This weather system and convective activity led to thundershowers in many areas. However, dry weather may return to Chennai from Friday. A change in wind direction from the present south easterlies to easterly winds will help keep day temperatures close to normal in the city, he said. Temperature to soar There are chances of rain in one or two places in south coastal Tamil Nadu. Temperature is set to soar in places in interior parts of the State, as cool easterly winds may not penetrate to that extent, Mr. Puviarasan added. The Meteorological Department forecast a generally cloudy sky and day temperature around 35 degrees Celsius on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sharp-showers-lash-city/article31304560.ece
10 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||4 lakh rapid test kits ordered||The State government has placed orders to purchase 4 lakh COVID-19 rapid test kits, according to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. “Over 50,000 rapid test kits will arrive by tonight (Thursday) and another 20,000 kits will be received from the Centre,” he told journalists in Chennai. Once the test kits arrive, family members of those who have tested positive for COVID-19 would be made to undergo testing in the first phase. Second phase In the second phase, those who were in contact with these COVID-19 positive persons and their family members would be tested, Mr. Palaniswami said. Eventually those in their outer circle would be tested. The State government had sufficient stock of masks and personal protective equipment, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4-lakh-rapid-test-kits-ordered/article31304576.ece
10 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||CM launches IVRS facility for COVID-19||An Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS), jointly developed by the State Health Department, Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency, IIT-Madras and Department of Telecom, Government of India, was launched in Chennai on Thursday. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Union Minister for Communications, Electronics and Information Technology Ravi Shankar Prasad launched the IVRS facility through videoconferencing. The Chief Minister said this was one more step towards controlling COVID-19 pandemic. The advantage of this system is that it does not require internet connection and people can converse in their mother tongue, a press release said. According to the release, anyone can give a missed call to 94999 12345. The system would call them back and ask simple questions. Based on the replies provided by them, it would give the appropriate advice on COVID-19. People can provide information on their health status, symptoms of COVID-19, and if they had conditions such as diabetes and hypertension. Based on the replies and by analysing their place of residence, the initiative would facilitate transfer of information for further action. The district emergency control room would step in for providing appropriate assistance including despatch of ambulance depending on the condition of the callers. It would categorise them as low-risk beneficiaries, medium-risk beneficiaries and high-risk beneficiaries. For those in the low-risk category, health advice on hand washing, physical distancing and keeping surroundings clean would be provided. For those in the medium-risk category, the district emergency control room would provide required medical assistance. Disease prevention and control measures would be carried out through the control room for high-risk category persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-launches-ivrs-facility-for-covid-19/article31304571.ece
10 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||15 cows drown in Kanchi lake||Over 15 cows, grazing near the Thenneri lake in Walajabad, Kancheepuram district, drowned after they ran into the middle of the waterbody, frightened by the sound of thunderstorms on Thursday evening. According to villagers, more than 50 cows from villages like Surameni Kuppam, Sirupagal, Athivakkam, Chinnivakkam and Alapakkam usually graze near the lake, every day. On Thursday evening too, they were spotted near the waterbody. Around 4.30 p.m., when it started raining heavily, the bovines were frightened by the sound of thunder and lightning. Rescue operation Some local residents claim that the cows ran into the middle of the lake, and got stuck, as the water level rose. “The cowherds ran to the nearby village, asking for help. We went on four boats and rescued a few buffaloes and cows. Close to 15 of them had drowned by then,” said S. Ramaraj, a resident of Surameni Kuppam. “Though we informed the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS), they did not come immediately. They reached around 8 p.m.,” he said. Mathi Adhavan, VCK district spokesperson, said: “The government should provide Rs. 40,000 for each cow”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-cows-drown-in-kanchi-lake/article31304556.ece
10 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Creative activities to keep students engaged||While schools have largely trained their focus on live online classrooms and worksheets for secondary and senior secondary students during the lockdown, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has also been encouraging them to recommend creative activities for students, especially for younger classes. From helping out in maintaining kitchen gardens to trying out small do-it-yourself craft projects, teachers from schools in the city have been giving suggestions to parents who are looking for ways to keep their children occupied. “After our initial focus on online learning of academic subjects, we realised that students need to be encouraged creatively as well. With the help of our art teachers, we’re putting together one minute videos that will detail easy crafts that the students can try at home,” said Lakshmi Prabha, principal, Prasan Vidya Mandir. Guiding parents Ms. Prabha said with parents also working from home, they can allot time during the day to work on any interesting projects or activities with the children. “Teachers have been interacting and guiding parents who have reached out for ideas to keep the children engaged at home,” she added. Schools are also recognising the need to keep the children active. “We’ve partnered with a support organisation to conduct short online fitness classes in yoga and simple exercises every morning that students and parents can follow,” said Maheshwari Natarajan, principal, Vidya Mandir Estancia. The CBSE Chennai region has also called all its affiliated schools to send in creative projects of students during the lockdown, which can be showcased online. Schools too have been asking students to send their ideas so that it can be shared among parents and students who are looking for ideas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/creative-activities-to-keep-students-engaged/article31304555.ece
10 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Case burden high; next stage of intervention to begin||As the number of positive cases continues to climb in Tamil Nadu, with a moderate dip for a day on Apil 7, it is clear the “big task” is still ahead of the health teams and continues to be imposing. The bulk of the cases reported every day is derived from what the State government calls a “single source”. This is the group of people who attended the conference at Nizamuddin in Delhi. If the numbers continue to be high, has the State government not completed testing the participants? In effect, who are actually being tested now, contributing to the high figures? According to sources in the Health Department, the bulk — the actual travellers — have been tested, and the contacts among those who tested positive have also been tested. There are about 1.500 contacts of these patients who tested positive. This will now be taken to the next level with aggressive containment/testing methods in the zones already identified. These include areas that the participants, both groups — those who tested positive, and those who tested negative — resided in. Families, neighbours and close associates will be included in this exercise. Sources said the task had begun to identify these groups and bring in people for testing and enforce strict containment rules. The idea, according to officials, is to ensure that every such case is identified, traced, tested and contacts examined within the lockdown period. Sources hinted that the State government was looking at the public health angles and various models to be followed with regard to post lockdown protocols. Global health experts would be consulted, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-burden-high-next-stage-of-intervention-to-begin/article31304588.ece
10 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||8.20 lakh unorganised sector workers to get Rs. 1,000 aid||Over 8.20 lakh workers, who have registered as members in various labour welfare boards, will be granted cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 each, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said in Chennai on Thursday. Mr. Palaniswami told presspersons that over seven lakh members of these boards for the welfare of sanitation workers, fishermen, transpersons, tribal people, small traders, artisans, nomadic tribes and film industry, would benefit from this decision. Besides, over 1.20 lakh workers attached to the ESI would benefit. Condoling the death of a 33-year-old traffic policeman Arun Gandhi, who died of cardiac arrest, while on duty in Foreshore Estate in Chennai on Wednesday, Mr. Palaniswami announced a solatium of Rs. 10 lakh from the CMPRF for his family. The Chief Minister said one of his family members would be provided with a government job. He announced that in case the government staff died during COVID-19-related work, a solatium of Rs. 10 lakh would be granted to their families from the CMPRF. Assistance distributed Cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 (for each rice family cardholders) had been distributed to 96.3% of the eligible beneficiaries across the State. The mobile vegetable units operated by the Agriculture Department had sold about 2,000 tonnes of vegetables on April 8 alone and Uzhavar Sandhais sold about 1,700 tonnes of vegetables. The Chief Minister said the Cooperation Department would acquire provisional supplies from the neighbouring States to counter the possibility of a rise in prices of essential commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/820-lakh-unorganised-sector-workers-to-get-rs-1000-aid/article31304581.ece
10 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||29 taken for screening||Twenty-nine persons from a seminary in Basin Bridge police station limits were taken by authorities to a hospital, after one of the clerics tested positive for COVID-19, said sources. The 29 persons came in two different groups from Ahmedabad, on March 9, and stayed in mosques in the city. They were involved in religious activities, the sources added. After an 80-year-old person who stayed with them tested positive, health authorities, with the help of the police, took the 29 persons in two buses for screening to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/29-taken-for-screening/article31304551.ece
10 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin provides buttermilk to policemen on duty||Aavin has been providing 200-ml packets of buttermilk for distribution among policemen manning the roads every day. “We have been asked to supply an additional 6,000 packs for policemen out on the streets. For now, orders have been placed for 15 days, following the request of Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan,” said an official. The milk major usually provides 5,000 packs of buttermilk for supply among traffic policemen, during April, May and June, at Rs. 5 a pack. It has also been supplying packs with cookies, flavoured milk and chocolates to the Social Welfare Department, to be provided to various homes for special children in the State. Official sources said that the Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation, popularly known as Aavin, had so far provided around 2,000 packs, every day, with these products. “We began distribution on Wednesday. We have received orders for around 6,000 packs so far. These are being distributed in various districts by Aavin,” said an official. Four varieties of cookies manufactured in Aavin’s product dairy, are being provided. On its own, Aavin has also been supplying milk powder, buns and cookie packs to institutions that sought the milk major’s help with milk supply. “So far, 400 kg of milk powder and 700 cookie packs, along with buns from Modern Bread, have been supplied,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-provides-buttermilk-to-policemen-on-duty/article31304552.ece
10 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Class X exams unlikely to be cancelled||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday said the State Board Class X examinations will not be cancelled. “It is the duty of the students to study. Only if they appear in exams, we will know who has excelled. It is not like other classes,” he said and added that the government had decided to promote all students till class IX. “But, Class 10 is for going to the next stage. It is an important exam. The government is scrutinising the issue,” he told a press conference in Chennai. To a question, he said action would be taken against a group of men from Gujarat who allegedly visited Tamil Nadu for religious purposes and tested positive for the infection. He reiterated his appeal to the people and corporates to contribute generously to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. “As of now, funds to the tune of Rs. 101 crore had been received,”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/class-x-exams-unlikely-to-be-cancelled/article31304582.ece
10 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Avadi gets 2 disinfection tunnels||The Avadi Municipal Corporation installed disinfection tunnels at two places — near the Thandurai market and near the old Municipality office — on Thursday, as a precaution against COVID-19. Corporation Commissioner N. Ramachandran said that there were plans to install them in six more places, including Paruthipattu, Kovilpadagai and Thirumullaivoyal, soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/avadi-gets-2-disinfection-tunnels/article31304553.ece
10 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Railways defend move to convert coaches into isolation wards||The Ministry of Railways on Thursday defended its decision to use as many as 5,000 rail coaches as isolation/quarantine facilities to fight COVID-19. It told the Madras High Court that the decision was taken due to the flexibility the coaches offered in terms of being moved to any part of the country as and when required. Justice S. Vaidyanathan recorded the submissions made by P. T. Ramkumar, standing counsel for Southern Railway, and reserved his verdict in a case filed against such conversion.  Primary idea behind the move was to deal with eventualities that might arise due to non-availability of beds in hospitals. In such situations, those requiring intensive care could be accommodated in hospitals and the rest could be shifted to the rail coaches. “A unique feature of these coaches is that they can be moved on wheels and deployed in any region in the country,” the counsel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railways-defend-move-to-convert-coaches-into-isolation-wards/article31304562.ece
10 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Police vandalise vehicles: SHRC seeks report||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has sought a report from the Director-General of Police over an incident in Dharmapuri district, wherein police personnel vandalised a vehicle of a person on charges of violating prohibitive order. Taking suo motu cognisance of a media report in this regard, the SHRC acting chairperson D. Jayachandran has called for a report from the DGP and Dharmapuri SP within two weeks. It said police personnel vandalised vehicles that were found to be violating the prohibitory orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-vandalise-vehicles-shrc-seeks-report/article31304594.ece
10 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Police register cases for violation of prohibitory orders||The police, across the region, have been registering cases, seizing vehicles and arresting people who violate the prohibitory orders issued as part of the lockdown enforcement. In Coimbatore, the police arrested 668 persons on charges of violating the prohibitory orders on Wednesday. They seized 558 vehicles from the violators who were released on bail. The Coimbatore City Police arrested 185 persons in 183 cases and seized 124 vehicles, including three cars from them. Similarly, the Coimbatore Rural Police registered 437 cases and arrested 483 persons for violating the prohibitory orders. As many as 434 vehicles were seized from them. In Tiruppur, the city police said that 1,156 cases were filed as of Thursday for violation of prohibitory orders. A total of 709 vehicles were seized and 1,187 persons booked for the violations. In the Nilgiris, a total of 1,623 cases have been registered so far since the beginning of the lockdown, and 607 vehicles seized. On Thursday, the Nilgiris district police registered 72 cases against people for violating prohibitory orders and seized 36 vehicles. The Erode police officials said that despite warnings and barricades placed on the roads to prevent movement of vehicles, motorists continue to come out on the road. They said that genuine cases were let off after warning while motorists without valid reasons were booked for violation. A total of 5,010 cases were registered and 3,150 vehicles detained. Later, the motorists were released on bail along with the vehicles, they added. In Salem, Deputy Police Commissioner (Crime and Traffic) S. Senthil said that since the lockdown began, till Wednesday, they had registered over 1,000 cases. “About 1,100 persons have been arrested and 535 vehicles seized of which 488 are two-wheelers, 39 autorickshaws and eight four-wheelers. These vehicles will be returned only after due legal process,” he said. A total of 3,112 cases have been booked and 3,325 persons arrested and released on bail for lockdown violations since March 25 in Krishnagiri district. As many as 1,963 vehicles have been impounded across the district. In Dharmapuri, 2,557 cases have been booked and 1,648 persons arrested for the violations. However, the arrested were released on bail. A total of 1,448 vehicles have been impounded as of Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-register-cases-for-violation-of-prohibitory-orders/article31304609.ece
10 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Will shut market if norms violated: Corporation||Coimbatore Corporation has warned of shutting down the MGR Wholesale Vegetable Market on Mettupalayam Road if the traders failed to adhere to personal distancing norms. The warning came after the Corporation seized 105 bags of onion and 21 crates of tomato from traders on Thursday after it found them repeatedly violating personal distancing norms, ignoring messages and warning from officials. The Corporation would shut down the market if the norms were flouted, said a release from the civic body. A team led by Assistant Commissioner, West Zone, A.J. Senthil Arasan, Zonal Sanitary Officer R. Gunasekaran, Sanitary Inspector K. Rangaraj, Assistant Engineers R. Thirumoorthy, S. Balachandar and a few police officers inspected the market earlier in the day. The Corporation sent the seized onions and tomatoes to its budget canteens (Amma Unavagam) which provide free food to the homeless and poor people during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-shut-market-if-norms-violated-corporation/article31304595.ece
10 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Crime, accidents almost nil in Coimbatore during lockdown||The number of major crimes and fatal accidents is nil in Coimbatore city during the lockdown period from March 24 to April 7 as per statistics given by the police. While city did not have any case of murder, murder for gain, robbery, chain snatching, housebreak during day, vehicle theft and fatal accidents during the period, only one case of housebreak in night was reported. The Coimbatore Rural Police limits had one murder. Fatal accidents were not reported as vehicle movement was minimal. While drunken brawl used to be the reason for several murders, the situation differed as bars and liquor outlets were shut after business hours from March 24. Though several cases of suicides by those addicted to alcohol were reported in the district during the lockdown, the police did not attribute alcohol dependence and psychological problems due to unavailability of liquor as reason for any suicide. Several cases of suicides were reported in city and rural limits. While the Coimbatore City Police had one case of domestic violence, the Coimbatore Rural Police did not have any case. The rural police had six cases of domestic violence between February 25 and March 8. A city-based psychiatrist with whom The Hindu spoke to said that there was an increase in tele-counselling sessions with regard to domestic violence during lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crime-accidents-almost-nil-in-coimbatore-during-lockdown/article31304620.ece
10 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Tiger, tigress found dead in Anamalai reserve may have been poisoned’||A tiger and a tigress that were found dead in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) in Coimbatore on Wednesday may have been poisoned, officials have said. A group of forest officials attached to ATR and veterinarians found a poison-laced carcass of a wild boar near those of the two carnivores on Thursday. Remains of the boar were also found inside the stomach of the tiger and the tigress, both aged around 10, during the post-mortem that was performed as per the protocol of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) on Thursday. The animals were found dead in the Pothamadai forest beat, falling under the Pollachi forest range of ATR. Forest Department staff found the carcass of the tigress on the bed of a stream just outside the forest area on Wednesday afternoon. They later found the remains of a tiger on another location along the stream, less than a kilometre away. Both carcasses were at least three days old. Veterinarians autopsied the carcasses in the presence of Additional Principal Conservator of Forests Debasis Jana (also Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore circle, and in charge as Field Director of ATR) and Arockiaraj Xavier, Deputy Field Director of ATR, on Thursday morning, in the presence of Sankararaman from NTCA and representatives of NGOs. They ensured that parts of the two big cats, such as teeth and claws, were intact. Samples were collected from the two carcasses for examination at a laboratory. Mr. Jana said the department had ruled out the possibility of poaching. “Going by prima facie evidence, we suspect that the tiger and the tigress had been together during the mating period and had ingested the flesh from the wild boar’s carcass, which contained poison,” he said. K. Kalidasan of the NGO Osai, also a former member of the Tamil Nadu State Board for Wildlife, who was present during the autopsies, said that the carcass of the wild boar was found very close to a farm. In the NTCA’s Management Effectiveness Evaluation (MEE) Report of Tiger Reserves, 2018, the ATR, with a core area of 958.59 sq km, was ranked fourth among the 50 tiger reserves in the country, with an MEE rating of 89.06%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiger-and-tigress-found-dead-may-have-been-poisoned/article31304572.ece
10 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Personal distancing norms given a go-by at launch of COVID-19 initiatives||From the moment the COVID-19-induced lockdown came into force, elected representatives from the AIADMK, including Minister S.P. Velumani, have been going around the city, participating in one programme or the other. The lone DMK MLA, N. Karthik from Singanallur constituency, has also been going around his constituency. Mr. Velumani, in his capacity as the Municipal Administration Minister, has also participated in a few functions to launch COVID-19 fighting measures. And, in almost all the instances, personal distancing norms appear to have been given the go-by if photographs from the events are anything to go by. In the past few days, Mr. Velumani has participated in events to launch vehicles to supply vegetables door-to-door, vehicles to be used in spraying disinfectants and disinfectant tunnels at vegetable markets. At all these functions, he is seen with a few of his party MLAs, former councillors and officials, all standing in close proximity. In food distribution drives the DMK organised in Singanallur, the MLA is seen with party men and also members of the public, which appear to be in violation of the lockdown. Officials in the district administration and Corporation say while Mr. Velumani’s leading-from-the-front approach is welcome, he will do well to hold review meetings or supervise the virus containment measures. His launching of the schemes invariably turns into photo opportunities and people, thereby, crowding the place. When the Minister or MLAs participate in such launch events, the presence of officials also becomes necessary, drawing them away from their work. DMK MLA Mr. Karthik says his party men or he have not violated any norms. “We ensure that personal distancing norms are followed in food or relief material distribution.” Consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon says the Minister leading from the front by holding review meetings cannot be faulted as that is his duty. But he may very well avoid participating in launch events as that draws crowd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/personal-distancing-norms-given-a-go-by-at-launch-of-covid-19-initiatives/article31304604.ece
10 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Minister gives vegetable kits to tribal people||Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani on Thursday presented packets containing vegetables to residents of tribal settlements in Thondamuthur panchayat union, to help them tide over the impact of the COVID-19 lockdown. Each packet had 12 items, including tomato, onion, brinjal, drumstrick, curry leaves and mint leaves, a release said. The Minister distributed these to tribal people at Theethipalayam, Sengupathi, Ikkaraibooluvampatti and Thanikandi. The district administration will ensure availability of these packs to the tribal settlements free of cost, the release said. Mr. Velumani reviewed the disinfection works at Semmedu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-gives-vegetable-kits-to-tribal-people/article31304612.ece
10 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Parcel service launched||Southern Railway has started the operation of parcel train service between Coimbatore and Chennai from Thursday. This is the first time-tabled parcel express service of Salem Division. The train will carry 5,500 kg of medicines, medical equipment, masks, food items, stationeries and couriers. Six parcel train services will be operated from April 9 to 14, with one train service per day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parcel-service-launched/article31304600.ece
10 April 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Group decamps with liquor bottles from outlet||A group of unidentified persons decamped with liquor bottles at a TASMAC outlet here on Wednesday. The incident took place when employees at the outlet were engaged in shifting the stock to a warehouse as a safety measure. Last week, liquor bottles worth Rs. 6 lakh were reportedly stolen from another outlet situated on Koodachathiram Road. With the curfew in vogue till April 14 midnight, the State government directed closure of all liquor shops and bars. Police conducted raids and seizures and made arrests to check illegal sale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/group-decamps-with-liquor-bottles-from-outlet/article31304838.ece
10 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Temporary vegetable shops come up in large numbers||Roadside shops selling vegetables, fruits, spinaches and snacks have come up in large numbers across the city as residents’ dependency on the wholesale and retail markets have reduced significantly in the past one week. After the nationwide lockdown was announced, Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market from Panneerselvam was moved to the Corporation’s Central Bus Stand while the Uzhavar Sandhais at Sampath Nagar and Periyar Nagar were shifted to the Government Girls Higher Secondary School premises at Panneerselvam Park. To prevent overcrowding at the markets, the corporation has allowed traders to sell vegetables through vehicles in all the 60 wards in the city. Apart from this temporary vegetable and fruit shops have come up in many places on arterial roads, thus making it convenient for residents to procure vegetables. Shops could be seen mostly on Gandhiji Road, Sampath Nagar, near bus stand, Mettur Road, Poondurai Road, Sathy Road, Perundurai Road and at many residential areas. Also, mobile vehicle shops selling vegetables and fruits were seen in large numbers in the city. “Initially, we purchased vegetables in large quantities fearing that shortage may happen. But now vegetables are available at our doorsteps regularly”, said Boopathinathan, a resident of Periyar Nagar. He said that earlier they used to visit the market for purchasing, but now shops selling fresh vegetables are available everywhere. “The price is little higher, but it is convenient and we can choose vegetables easily”, he added. Mobile vegetable vehicles and roadside temporary shops have led to drop in the number of people visiting the market and Uzhavar Sandhai. A corporation official said that all steps are taken to avoid people from overcrowding the markets and added that there is a significant drop in the people visiting the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temporary-vegetable-shops-come-up-in-large-numbers/article31304599.ece
10 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||26 in home quarantine test positive in Erode||A total of 26 persons, including 14 women, who are the family members of persons who tested positive and currently in the isolation ward of the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai, tested positive here on Thursday. With this, a total of 54 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the district. On April 7, doctors from the hospital lifted 83 samples from the family members in areas that were announced as containment zones in the city. Of this, 26 persons in B.P. Agraharam and Mosikeeranar Street in the city, tested positive. Officials said that they would be moved to the isolation ward at the earliest. Currently, 33,330 families comprising 1,66,806 members are in home quarantine in the district. Meanwhile, 14 persons, who tested negative, for the second time were discharged from the hospital on Thursday. Addressing media persons, Collector C. Kathiravan said that a total of 89 persons were admitted to the ward of which 28 persons tested positive. He said that of the 53 persons, who tested negative, tests were conducted twice for 14 persons that confirmed negative results. “As per the standards of World Health Organisation and the protocol of the government, 14 persons were discharged on Thursday and they would be monitored by health officials continuously”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/26-in-home-quarantine-test-positive-in-erode/article31304618.ece
10 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Wholesalers on Majeeth Street allotted classrooms to store products||With wholesale shops functioning on Majeeth Street closed as it comes under containment area, the district administration has allotted classrooms at Kamaraj Municipal Higher Secondary School for wholesalers to store the products and sell it to retailers directly. Wholesale shops selling grocery and other essential commodities function on Kongalamman Kovil Street, R.K.V. Road, Krishna Theatre Road, Majeeth Street, Nethaji Road, Kandasamy Street and other streets in the market area where retails from across the district and from other districts purchase provisions regularly. After three Thailand nationals tested positive, who had earlier visited a dargah at Sultanpet, Majeeth Street and Sultanpet areas were announced as containment zones and cordoned off. All the shops in the area were also closed by the administration. With wholesale shops closed for over three weeks, most of the retail shops could not procure essentials leading to steep increase in demand. People in many areas complained of products being sold at exorbitant price as the district administration held meeting with wholesalers to discuss on bring the situation to normalcy. On Wednesday, Collector C. Kathiravan held a meeting in which wholesalers wanted godown to be made available for them to stock products. It was decided to allot classrooms at the schools for storing products and distributing to retailers across the district. On Thursday, initially 16 classrooms were allotted and products started arriving in vehicles and were stored. Wholesalers said that grocery and essential commodities will start arriving from various States and from other districts in the coming days after which distribution to retailers will begin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wholesalers-on-majeeth-street-allotted-classrooms-to-store-products/article31304597.ece
10 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco bill payment||The Erode Electricity Distribution Circle of Tangedco has asked its consumers to pay their earlier month’s bill amount for the current month. A release said that instead of paying the bills directly, should make online payments at the portal and also through the Apps TANGEDCO and BHIM. For further details, visitwww.tangedco.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-bill-payment/article31304596.ece
10 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Banana farmers in deep trouble due to lockdown||For banana growers in Madurai district, the COVID-19 pandemic could not have come at a worse time. While the crop is ready for harvesting at plantations across the district, the dip in demand for plantains and banana leaves due to the lockdown and restrictions in transporting them to the markets have caused severe distress to farmers and traders. An official from the Horticulture Department says every year the crop is raised on 2,500 hectares in the district. Out of this, around 200 hectares are ready for harvesting over the past month. However, only a few hectares of crops were harvested and bananas sold in the markets. R. Ramesh, a farmer from Koothiyarkundu, says that since the announcement of the lockdown, most of the retail shops, fruit stalls and restaurants have closed down, resulting in lower demand for bananas . In the absence of grand functions and marriages, the demand for banana leaves has also come down drastically. “As a result, even the commission agents are not procuring our produce. Even though the crop I raised on two acres is ready for harvest, I haven’t proceeded, as there are no buyers,” he says. He says it is a common sight across the district to see even fully mature crops unharvested and left to wilt. V. Azhagan, a farmer from Vadakku Valayapatti in Melur block, says he spent about Rs. 80,000 for raising bananas on a one-acre field. “Because of the current crisis, I am unable to even recover the money that I spent on cultivation. Most of us have borrowed from local money-lenders and it is going to be highly challenging to repay the interest and the loan,” he says. Restricted hours  Adding to these problems is the restricted hours of functioning of the Smart Fruit Market at Mattuthavani, which has made it difficult to operate banana ripening-chambers, says M. Sadu Kani, joint-secretary of Madurai Fruit Commission Traders’ Association. “The market is allowed to function only between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. Hence, we are unable to ripen the crop and undertake sales,” he says. One way to tackle the crisis would be to encourage farmers to directly sell their produce to customers, rather than depending upon the commission agents, says N. Manikandan, a farmer from Thuvariman. “Also, bananas can be included as part of the ‘fruit bags’ sold by Madurai Corporation. Adding five bananas in each bag can also help in mitigating the problem to some extent,” he says. Concurring with this viewpoint, Deputy Director of Horticulture G.O. Poopathi says the department will provide emergency passes for banana farmers to facilitate sale of the produce at markets. The Corporation has allocated around 35 spots across the city for makeshift markets. So farmers can work together and sell their produce at the markets. We are also ready to guide the farmers at places where they can sell their produce,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banana-farmers-in-deep-trouble-due-to-lockdown/article31304848.ece
10 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Stuck at home, it is the time to learn new things||Helping in household chores, learning new words, sharing fitness videos, recommending and discussing books and films - this is how children of prisoners and victims of crime keep themselves engaged while staying indoors to remain safe, in the wake of the spread of COVID 19. Global Network for Equality, a Madurai-based non governmental organisation takes care of financial and education needs 87 such children. K.R. Raja, an advocate who runs the NGO, says that the children are aware of the seriousness of the coronavirus pandemic. “They have been urged to stay indoors and follow all precautionary measures to be safe. To keep the children engaged, mentors who work with the NGO suggest new ideas. Now, the children share what they learn on the NGO’s WhatsApp group,” he says. The children are assigned tasks every day. Since they remain indoors, they have been urged to learn new skills, which form one of the tasks of the day. The children help their families in carrying out household work and have adapted to the situation. “They learn five English words each day and share it on the group. They have also been asked to read short stories and watch television shows with informative content, following which a discussion is held between them on the group,” Mr.Raja says. To help them stay fit, videos on simple exercises are shared. It is important to keep these children engaged, as they are already under psychological stress. Most of them are children of prisoners. In some cases, the children are taken care of by their grandparents, as one of the parents was convicted for the murder of the spouse. The children are worried for the safety of their parent lodged in the prison and similarly the parent is worried about the children, in the wake of the spread of COVID 19. Though they are able to remain in touch via phone, they are still apprehensive. The group activities not only keep them engaged, but also ensure that they learn new things each day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stuck-at-home-it-is-the-time-to-learn-new-things/article31304849.ece
10 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Taking care of senior citizens and physically challenged persons||Madurai district shows the way in taking care of senior citizens, differently abled and visually challenged persons. As people are unable to move out due to lockdown, they have lost their livelihood. So, the State government has launched a toll-free helpline to help them. Such people need to dial the helpline 1800-425-0111. Their details, with location and phone numbers, are shared with the district administration. “Besides, we have got a WhatsApp group of representatives of associations of all types of physically challenged people in the district,” Madurai Collector T.G. Vinay said. “We have got huge stock of rice, wheat, dal and other essential items that have been donated by philanthropists. They are packed and distributed to tahsildars concerned for delivery to the people through some volunteers,” he added. Each family of five members is given a pack of 5 kg of rice, one kg of dal, half kg of edible oil, half kg of rava, 200 gm of tamarind, salt and a pack of dry chilli, pepper, fenugreek and garlic. “This pack would be sufficient to take care of a five-member family for more than a week,” he added. As the distribution began and the information spread through beneficiaries, requests poured in from more people. So far, the district administration has attended to over 95% of calls and distributed groceries to over 1,000 households. The worst affected are some visually challenged people, who live by singing on the streets and collecting alms from people “During the lockdown period, they cannot go out and collect money,” an official said. Amudha, 36, a visually challenged woman of Keela Vaidhyanathapuram, said the assistance was very timely to take care of her parents and two children. “I have been living by making garlands but I depend on ration goods and government assistance during difficult times,” the widow said. The district administration has given wheat flour, chenna dal instead of rice and dal to north Indian migrant workers. “They are not accustomed to eating rice. So, they wanted wheat flour,” he added. Vinod Kumar Ahiwal, 36, who landed at Kappalur from Jabalpur for construction work last month, has been trapped without any source for sustenance since the lockdown. Officials tracked him some three km away from Kappalur and handed over the ration. The ration has helped this man, who lives with his 58-year-old father and a brother, who are worried over returning home. So far, 2,550 kg of rice, 255 kg of chenna dal and 650 kg of onions have been supplied to 255 north Indian families in Madurai district. With the data available, the district administration is planning to replenish stocks for the disadvantaged people from Monday onwards. “These people will continue to get the ration till the lockdown is lifted,” the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/taking-care-of-senior-citizens-and-physically-challenged-persons/article31304853.ece
10 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Unregistered home sealed, 16 children rescued in Madurai||The district administration on Wednesday ordered closure of an unregistered children’s home at Tirumangalam and rescued 16 inmates. Its officials, members of Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and District Child Protection Unit conducted a preliminary enquiry and ordered closure of the home, which has been functioning for nearly four years. CWC Chairperson M. Vijayasaravanan said the issue came to light when revenue officials went to the home to supply food and other essentials in the wake of outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. “They found that the home was not registered under the Juvenile Justice Act. It had not even submitted any document for registration,” he said.  No harassment He said they had examined the children and concluded that none of them had faced any kind of harassment. The children were screened at Tirumangalam Government Hospital for cold, cough or fever. “Out of the total inmates, six children, who had at least one guardian, were handed over to their guardians. Others were sent to different child care institutions (CCI) based on their needs,” he said. An official said that an FIR would be registered against the home owner for running an unregistered home.  Around 400 inmates are accommodated at 26 CCIs under the purview of CWC. “It is ensured that adequate essential commodities are available at all CCIs. So far, one child, who had fever, was diagnosed at Government Rajaji Hospital and tested negative for COVID-19,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unregistered-home-sealed-16-children-rescued-in-madurai/article31304852.ece
10 April 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Do not fall prey to rumours: Minister||Minister for Electricity P.Thangamani and Minister for Social Welfare V. Saroja held a review meeting at the Collectorate here on Thursday. The ministers reviewed the steps taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the district and also the containment measures taken. They reviewed the arrangements made for treatment at private hospitals. Mr.Thangamani advised the public not to fall prey to fake news and confirm with doctors or district administration if they had any doubts. “Many fake messages are being spread in social media on COVID-19 and the government efforts. Action will be taken against those spreading such messages. The public should avoid self medication,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-fall-prey-to-rumours-minister/article31304616.ece
10 April 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Relief distribution nearing completion||Taking stock of essential commodities available with private merchants, Collector K Veera Raghava Rao on Thursday said that a special committee led by Joint Director (Agriculture) had been monitoring demand and supply on a daily basis. Speaking to reporters after inspecting a couple of shops and their godown facilities, Mr. Rao said that there were 85 wholesale grocery merchants and 4,856 retail outlets in the district. As on date, the district had a stock of 1025 tonnes of rice, 45 tonnes of dhal, 210 tonnes of sugar, 1.10 lakh litres of different types of oil, among others. Everyday, the district required 75 tonnes of vegetables and 45 tonnes of fruits. They were procured from various sources and supplied to vendors at make-shift markets from where people purchased them. On distribution of government cash relief and supply of essential goods, Mr. Rao said that 3,64,874 cardholders had received Rs. 1,000 and other commodities in a phased manner through 775 ration shops in the district. This was done to ensure that social distance was maintained in ration shops, he clarified. On foreign returnees, the District Collector said 4777 had returned and 1,488 persons continued to be in home quarantine while other returnees had successfully completed the mandatory quarantine requirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-distribution-nearing-completion/article31304840.ece
10 April 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Villagers stage blockade on national highway||After news of conversion of a portion of a private engineering college into isolation ward spread, villagers from surrounding areas blocked the arterial Madurai-Rameswaram stretch for about 30 minutes on Thursday. The district administration, as per the guidelines of the State government, had proposed to keep additional beds and isolation wards in ready to use mode. “This is just to show that we are prepared to treat any number of people, in case they tested positive or had symptoms of COVID-19 virus,” a health department official said. The district had 440 beds in government headquarters hospital and at Anna University Engineering College. “This was just an additional support. We cannot transport persons with virus to another district. Whoever is here or has symptoms of the virus, have to be treated here,” the official claimed. After sustained persuasion, when the police assured that the college premises would not be converted into isolation ward, the villagers dispersed. Meanwhile, a police officer said they would examine the modalities to register a case against the persons for unlawful assembly as the curfew was in force. Last week, when the district administration took some fishermen from other State to a government quarantine in Tirupulani, there was resistance from the local villagers. After the villagers were told that they were being taken with the knowledge of the Collector for screening, they allowed. Police registered a case against two persons for allegedly instigating the villagers and one of them was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-stage-blockade-on-national-highway/article31304842.ece
10 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem police mark vehicles with colours to prevent movement||As a novel measure to reduce vehicle movement, the Salem City Police are marking vehicles with different colours to stop motorists from venturing out unnecessarily. The police have been trying various methods to keep the motorists off roads during the COVID-19 lockdown. Since the beginning of lockdown, the police have been registering cases and seizing vehicles of motorists roaming unnecessarily. To enforce the crackdown, the police are planning to mark the vehicles with colours and the motorists would be able to venture out again only after four days. Deputy Police Commissioner (Crime and Traffic) S.Senthil conducted a trial at the Five Roads junction here on Thursday. Mr.Senthil said that the vehicles would be marked in yellow on Friday, red on Saturday, blue on Sunday and brown on Monday. The motorists would be able to venture out again with a marked vehicle only after four days. Those going for medical emergencies would be exempted. Mr. Senthil added that stern action would be taken against the motorists if found that they tried to tamper with the paint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-police-mark-vehicles-with-colours-to-prevent-movement/article31304615.ece
10 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Unorganised sector faces the brunt||A sense of trepidation prevails among unorganised sector employees such as masons, masonry helpers, painters and self-employed persons such as auto mechanics, electricians and hairdressers in the wake of reports that the three-week-long lockdown is likely to be extended to check the spread of COVID-19 virus. Mason Chandru of Thommankudisai revealed that though he could manage the requirements of his family for another a week or so with the PDS ration and the relief amount of Rs. 1,000 along with the paltry savings he had, he would be left in the lurch once the cash in hand depletes. A civil contractor, Sudhakar of Medical College Road, who had extended financial assistance to his daily wage workers felt that if he had to continue to support his workers he should be allowed to finish the pending civil works, which had been suspended in view of the lockdown. “Just two or three days would be enough as all these works were in the finishing stage. The final settlement for these works will help me support my workers”, he added. Expressing a similar view, Naresh of Balaji Nagar, who is running a two-wheeler workshop, also feared that his family and that of his three employees would be pushed into a situation wherein they are entirely dependent on government’s assistance though it would not be sufficient enough to run the show. “The government should consider allowing us to function at least two days in a week with restriction on number of two-wheelers to be serviced during those days with all precautions to keep the COVID-19 at bay”, he added. Similar was the story with a laundry service provider in Municipal Colony who suggested that they be allowed to collect and deliver the cloths from their customers at their doorsteps. Those employed in MSMEs or in business houses seem to be in a slightly better position with the employers having some viable route to help their employees, said the president, Chamber of Commerce, Thanjavur, N. T. Balasundaram and former National vice-president, Builders Association of India, K. Padmanabhan. The employers could consider providing 50% of the monthly salary to their employees or release 50% of the bonus they would generally provide during Pongal, Diwali, Ramzan or Christmas, they said. However, difficult days are ahead for the industry in general as the fund flow has been hit, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unorganised-sector-faces-the-brunt/article31304881.ece
10 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘V.O.C Port handled 36.08 million tonnes of cargo traffic’||The V.O. Chidambaranar Port has handled cargo traffic of 36.08 million tonnes during financial year 2019 – 2020 against the previous year’s achievement of 34.34 million tonnes, registering an increase of 5.05%. In a statement, chairman of the Port T.K. Ramachandran said said the imports have accounted for 25.82 million tonnes (71.57 %) and exports accounted for 10.25 million tonnes (28.41%) and transhipment accounted for 0.01 million tonnes (0.02 %). The Port has achieved the 36 million tonnes target set by the Ministry of Shipping. The Port registered its highest ever record of 8.03 lakh Twenty Foot Equivalent Units (TEUs) of containers in 2019 - 2020 clocking a growth of 8.72% over previous year's container traffic of 7.39 Lakh TEUs. When compared to the financial year 2018-19, cargoes that have shown considerable increase are containerised cargo 8.72 .% (8.03 lakh TEUs), industrial coal 29.54 % (60.12 lakh tonnes), cattle feed 225.40% (2.97 lakh tonnes), sulphuric acid 79.44% (4.63 lakh tonnes) and Rock Phosphate 32.84 % (5.44 lakh tonnes). In the year 2019-20, there were 1,447 ship calls in the port, increase by 5.62% from the 1,370 ship calls during the financial year 2018-19. V.O.C. Port’s operating income rose to Rs. 625.08 crore during 2019-20 as against Rs. 519.50 crore during the previous year and the operating surplus Rs. 375.75 crore as against Rs. 252.34 crore in 2018-19. The net surplus after tax was Rs. 161.05 crore as against Rs. 45.13 crore. The operating ratio of 39.89 % is one the best among the Indian Major Ports, Mr. Ramachandran said. Port has initiated proposals for two Public Private Partnership projects, conversion of 9th berth as container terminal at an estimated cost of Rs. 438.61 crore and mechanisation dry bulk cargo handling at an estimated cost of Rs. 269.06 crore. Works are underway at a cost of Rs. 41.55 crore for the project ‘Widening the Existing Korampallam surplus course bridge and Rail Over Bridge including widening of the existing road’. Port is also in the process of installing ‘Drive through Container scanner.’ Port is also in the process of revamping the fixed fire fighting system at a cost of Rs. 17.49 crore and commissioning 5 million litres per day capacity desalination plant at an estimated cost of Rs. 143 crore. As a trendsetter in adopting an integrated Green Energy Port Model, the Port has issued orders for installation of 140 KW rooftop solar power plant and 5 MW ground based solar power plant. Port has also identified 702 acres of land for setting up of Port-based industries (Tuticorin - SPEEDZ). In Phase-I, tenders were invited for allotment of 275 acres of land of which 2 bidders have expressed interest for setting up of edible oil refineries, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voc-port-handled-3608-million-tonnes-of-cargo-traffic/article31304837.ece
10 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Samples taken from ‘high-risk’ contacts’||Samples from 70 ‘high-risk contacts,’ who were closely associated with 17 COVID-19 positive cases from the district have been lifted for analysis, while 158 ‘low-risk contacts’ have been put in home quarantine, Collector Sandeep Nanduri said on Thursday. Speaking to reporters, he said separate teams comprising representatives from the departments of police, revenue, health and local body had been deployed to monitor the home quarantined. Localities of positive cases such as Kayathar, Boldenpuram, Ramasamypuram, Kaayalpattinam, Authoor, Seythnganallur and Petmanagar had been declared as containment zones and disinfection was going on intensely. After sealing the areas, door-to-door inspections were going on to identify the infected persons, if any. Since the six-day-long disinfection of Kaayalpattinam Government Hospital had been completed as per protocol, it would be ready for functioning after obtaining mandatory certificate from Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. Two mobile medical units were deployed near the hospital to meet the medical needs of Kaayalpattinam residents during the closure. A private hospital that closed down temporarily for disinfection after a lab technician and two of her family members tested positive could resume operation only after cent per cent sanitisation was ensured. “Patients of this hospital, who are undergoing periodic dialysis there, may make use of the facilities in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. If these patients want to have transportation facility, they can use 108 ambulance service,” Mr. Sandeep said. He said 6,093 physically challenged and 8,500 migrant labourers from other States were being provided with essential commodities with the help of 2,245 volunteers, while Amma Unavagam was feeding 7,982 persons everyday. Also, COVID–19 relief of Rs. 1,000 had been given to 97% of ration cardholders and 65% of them had received free essential commodities for April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/samples-taken-from-high-risk-contacts/article31304843.ece
10 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi division moves over 3 lakh metric tonnes of freight||The Tiruchi Railway Division has been ensuring movement of freight by rail despite the current lockdown transporting over three lakh metric tonnes of rice, paddy, coal, lignite and cement since March 24. The steady movement of freight has been taking place to different destinations within Tamil Nadu from various railway station falling within the jurisdiction of Tiruchi Railway Division. The movement of rice alone accounted for 6,669 metric tonnes from March 24 to April 6 from Thanjavur Junction and Peralam near Mayiladuthurai. Rice was moved from these two towns to Namakkal, Chinnasalem, Salem, Tirunelveli and Tiruchi Goods Yard, said a senior railway official. Paddy was moved from Kumbakonam, Nidamangalam, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Mayiladuthurai and Sirkazhi to Tiruchi Goods Yard, Hosur, Korukkupet Goods Yard, Pudukottai, Salem, Dharmapuri and Kudal Nagar near Madurai, Rajapalayam and Chettinad near Karaikudi on different dates. The transportation of paddy accounted for over 15,000 metric tonnes during the same period. Coal was yet another commodity which was moved in bulk quantities from the Karaikal Port to Mettur Thermal Power Project, Tamil Nadu Power Company at Puduchathiram near Chidambaram and JSWS Steel Siding at Mecheri Road. The official said a little over 1.80 lakh metric tonnes of coal were transported from March 24 to April 6. In addition to these commodities, the Tiruchi Division also moved over 81,000 metric tones of lignite from Neyveli to Uttangalmangalam and 2,676 metric tonnes of cement from Ramco Cement Ichchangadu to Tuticorin and Milavittan. Despite complete suspension of passenger trains in the wake of nation-wide lockdown announced to check the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, the railway administration had been operating freight trains to ensure movement of essentials and other goods by deploying minimum staff at the divisional level. The divisional control room at Tiruchi continues to function as usual with staff deployed in view of operation of freight trains in the chord and main line sections in Tiruchi Division. The official said the Southern Railway administration had proposed to run daily parcel special service from Chennai Egmore to Nagercoil and back with one parcel van and one SLR coach. The proposed service would run from April 9 to 14 with stoppages at Villupuram, Vriddhachalam, Ariyalur, Tiruchi, Dindigul, Madurai and Tirunelveli. Railway Protection Force personnel would be deployed at originating stations and en route stoppages and crew changing points to ensure that no passengers boarded these parcel special trains. The official said the Tiruchi Division was ready to transport to New Delhi, Mumbai, Howrah and Bengaluru from Tiruchi with due transshipments at Chennai Railway Division from where onward movement of freight would take place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-division-moves-over-3-lakh-metric-tonnes-of-freight/article31304887.ece
10 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘If needed hostels to accommodate COVID-19 patients’||As a contingency plan, the district administration has decided to utilise the beds available in the hostels of educational institutions in different parts of the district to accommodate COVID-19 patients if the health authorities were to face shortage of beds in Government hospitals. “The situation arising out of the spread of COVID-19 virus is under control in Tiruchi district. However, we cannot be complacent, and we need to be prepared to face the worst scenario. Hence, we have reached out to the educational institutions to use beds available for students in hostels,” S. Sivarasu, Collector, told The Hindu on Thursday. He said that a survey on beds available in the hostels of both private and government institutions has been completed. All arts, science and engineering colleges have also been taken into account. As per the preliminary report, 219 institutions had rooms for accommodating students. There were 3,941 rooms attached to the hostels. While nearly 60% of them were in the city and its peripheries, about 40% were in municipal towns and town panchayats and their peripheries. Mr. Sivarasu said that in the first category 60 institutions had 2,115 rooms with cots. In the second category, 1,826 rooms were available in 159 institutions. But, they had no cots. By providing basic facilities in the hostels, 11,145 patients could be accommodated. The ways and means to utilise the hostels were being discussed at various level. He said that several managements had expressed their willingness to use their institutions for emergency situation. The utilisation of hostels for treating COVID-19 patients would come into picture only when the Government Hospitals had no beds to accommodate them. Prior to that, the Collector said that the infrastructure available in the private hospitals would be used to treat the patients. The private hospitals had already been informed to keep 20% of beds free for treating COVID-19 patients. If needed, steps would be taken to use more beds. At least 2,000 beds in private hospitals could be utilised. But, everything would depend upon the prevailing situation now and then. Mr. Sivarasu said that almost all results of the swab tests of suspected COVID-19 patients in isolation wards at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi were out. The focus was now on to get the swab specimens of family members and close contacts of 36 patients who tested positive for the virus. “If majority of them test negative, we can say that we are in a safe zone. We hope for the best,” Mr. Sivarasu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/if-needed-hostels-to-accommodate-covid-19-patients/article31304902.ece
10 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Temporary markets to be closed on Saturday, Sunday in Tiruchi||All temporary vegetable markets in the city will be closed on Saturday and Sunday while retail and wholesale meat and fish shops will remain shut on Sunday in the district, Collector S. Sivarasu has said. Following information from the police department that people continue to crowd vegetable markets and meat shops, the district administration has decided to keep the markets shut to reduce the number of people who step out of their residences on those days. “As the number of positive cases of COVID-19 in the city has increased to 36, the administration has decided to further strengthen the preventive measures to keep a check on the spread of the virus,” he said. Wholesale vegetable markets, which had been functional from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. till Thursday will remain closed on Friday and Saturday. The retail vegetable shops will not open in the eight designated locations - Madhuram Grounds, Srirangam Boys High School, Anna Stadium, Chathram Bus Stand, Thennur Uzhavar Sandhai grounds, S.I.T grounds, Bishop Heber College Grounds, E.V.R School grounds on April 11 and 12. People have been requested to purchase groceries from nearby outlets on these days, the Collector said. Mr. Sivarasu also said that usage of four wheelers was not allowed around the city unless it was being used to ferry patients. “Four wheelers cannot be taken to purchase vegetables. People are requested to take their two-wheelers to purchase necessary items within a two-km radius from their residences,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temporary-markets-to-be-closed-on-saturday-sunday-in-tiruchi/article31304882.ece
10 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Golden Rock workshop to make PPE coverall garments||Having readied isolation rail coaches in view of COVID-19 pandemic, the Golden Rock Railway Workshop will soon manufacture Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) coverall garments for use by doctors and para-medics. The workshop has been given the order by the Railway Board, New Delhi, to manufacture 2,000 PPE coveralls with the production expected to commence once the raw materials arrived. The workshop would seek expertise from outside for the manufacture of the coveralls. The raw material required for making the coveralls would be centrally procured by the Jagadhri Workshop in Haryana in Northern Railway and dispatched to the Golden Rock Railway Workshop by parcel trains, workshop authorities told The Hindu . The coveralls would be made of a special material, the authorities said. The manufacture would commence once the raw material reached the workshop, the authorities further said adding that the target was to make 100 coveralls per day. The garment would give complete protection for doctors and para-medical staff from head to toe. The workshop is currently executing the task of converting passenger compartments into quarantine / isolation coaches for COVID-19. It was given a revised target by the Railway Board to make 130 isolation coaches by making suitable modifications in them as per the specifications. The authorities said the workshop had already completed 90 isolation coaches which have been moved to the yard and Tiruchi station. The remaining isolation coaches would be readied on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/golden-rock-workshop-to-make-ppe-coverall-garments/article31304884.ece
10 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||His heart skips a beat when the phone rings||These days, V. Chellian’s heart sinks a little when his phone rings. Even though the onset of summer is meant to be a busy time for air-conditioner (AC) technicians like him, the national lockdown to stem the spread of novel coronavirus makes him think twice before he sets out on a house call. “During summer, I earn up to Rs. 1,500 per day, with around 6 to 7 AC overhaul jobs from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. But this has stopped completely since the lockdown was announced,” Mr. Chellian told The Hindu . A certified electrician, Mr. Chellian is also a handyman who can deal with domestic maintenance work related to plumbing, wiring and appliance repair. He worked for three years in Chennai before deciding to return in 2010 to his home town Tiruchi, due to financial constraints. The lockdown’s traffic restrictions have been the hardest to manage. “I cannot avoid calls where the customers are senior citizens or people with young children needing help with malfunctioning water-purifiers or ACs in this hot weather, no matter how far away they are,” said Mr. Chellian. “But it has become risky to step out.” When he gets an emergency summons from a customer, he hops on his bike with his tool-kit and weaves his way through the city’s by-lanes to avoid being noticed by the police patrols. “Once I got stopped by a policeman for defying the curfew; but he relented after I showed him my tools and explained why I was out. On another day, a policeman caned me with his baton. I am afraid of having my tool-kit confiscated,” he said. Living in his ancestral home in Palakkarai has brought down Mr. Chellian’s expenses. Even so, he is his family’s sole breadwinner, supporting his aged parents, his wife and infant son, and a younger brother who assists him. “I am now dipping into the funds that I normally set aside for house tax to pay for daily expenses. Though there may be jobs waiting after the lockdown is lifted, I’m not sure I’ll be able to make up for the income lost in these past weeks,” he said. His first response to the lockdown announcement was to stock up on spares like tube-lights, an assortment of screws, taps and fuses. “I spent around Rs. 1,600 on the supplies, just to be on the safe side, though every house call has its own requirements. In most cases, I try to repair the existing parts just so that they function for the lockdown’s duration. Once shops reopen, I’ll have to go back and install new ones,” Mr. Chellian said. In a lockdown, the authorities could give daily-wage earning professionals like him an all-city travel permit, he suggested. “After all, we are also trying to provide an essential service to our customers, in extremely hot weather. Why should we be harassed for a legitimate assignment?” he questions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/his-heart-skips-a-beat-when-the-phone-rings/article31304891.ece
10 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Two test positive||Two patients, one each from Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts, have tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. Both patients had travelled to Delhi early in March, official sources said. With the two new cases, the number of patients who have tested positive so far stood at 13 and 12 in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam, respectively. Tiruchi A total of 101 persons, all immediate contacts of the 36 patients who tested positive for COVID-19 here, were admitted to the isolation ward of the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Thursday. Family members of one of the COVID-19 positive patients initially resisted the attempt to be taken to the GH by a team of health officials but eventually gave in, sources said.  Perambalur The district administration here has taken efforts to convert newly constructed government buildings into isolation wards for COVID-19. In this regard, a new block at the District Headquarters Hospital has been prepared with 300 beds. Work on a newly constructed Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board building is also under way. District Collector V. Santha inspected the work on Thursday morning and requested the work to be expedited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-test-positive/article31304856.ece
10 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Numbers go up in UPHCs but personal distancing goes for a toss||The Urban Primary Healthcare Centres in the city are unable to ensure personal distance among patients, especially pregnant women, who visit the hospital for regular check-ups. As UPHCs across the city see a spike in the number of patients, many have not made necessary arrangements to ensure personal distancing. “The number of pregnant women, who would otherwise prefer going to the Tiruchi GH for check ups has also increased. However, it is difficult to manage the crowd, as we do not usually see these many people coming regularly”, a staff nurse at the East Boulevard Road UPHC said. At the clinic, a wooden bench enough to seat three patients has been kept. With several pregnant women standing in line, more such benches are required. “We must not sit close to one another and because of the crowd are having to stand for at least half an hour,” S. Priya, who accompanied her pregnant sister to the hospital said. Several patients are not even wearing face masks. “We see about 20 to 30 patients in a day, many of who do not even wear masks. We request them to at least tie handkerchiefs to cover their nose and mouth for their safety and that of their families,” another staff nurse at the Woraiyur PHC said. Here, all patients are made to stand as benches are unavailable. The waiting lines, too, are not regulated. “The authorities need to ensure the safety of the public. Even if one of us is a carrier of the virus, all the patients will be at risk, pregnant women, even more so,” she said. Health officials of the Tiruchi Corporation said that they are taking cognisance of the matter and steps will be taken soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/numbers-go-up-in-uphcs-but-personal-distancing-goes-for-a-toss/article31304896.ece
10 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Gale hits banana crop in Tiruchi, Karur districts||Gusty winds that accompanied the short spell of summer rain on Wednesday felled standing banana crops in hundreds of acres in Tiruchi and Karur districts on Wednesday evening. The rainfall though not heavy was accompanied by strong winds that destroyed the crops in several villages near Kulithalai in Karur district and in villages in Andhanallur, Musiri and Lalgudi areas in neighbouring Tiruchi district. Banana crop in a few parts of Perambalur, mainly in and around Kurumbalur, were also reported to have been damaged. Tiruchi MP Su.Thirunavukkarasar has called upon the district administration to take up a survey of the damage for sanction of compensation to the affected farmers. “Apart from fruit bearing trees which were ready for harvest, young crop at flowering stage have also been damaged in some places,” said Ayilai Siva.Suriyan, district secretary, Tamil Nadu Farmers Association, affiliated to the Communist Party of India. According to him, banana crop in villages such as Kadiyakurichi, Jeeyapuram, Thiruchendurai, Kodiyalam, Pulivalam, Thiruparaithurai, Sirugamani, Perugamani, Pettabvaithalai in Andhanallur union in Tiruchi district and Nangavaram, Poyyamani, Inungur, Nachalur, Maruhur and other villages in Kulithalai taluk in Karur district have been damaged. Puliyur A. Nagarajan, president, Farmers Wing, Tamil Maanila Congress, said crops in Lalgudi area have also been destroyed. He claimed that banana trees on about 2,000 acres each in Tiruchi and Karur districts have been felled in the gale. Banana growers, they said, were already reeling under a sharp fall in the price of fruit this season due to the prohibitory orders in force and the gale has dealt a heavy blow now. Pointing out banana farmers have been hit hard by natural vagaries in recent years, Mr. Siva Suriyan demanded sanction of at least Rs. 2 lakh an acre to the affected farmers. Official sources said that a preliminary assessment was on but a full fledged survey has not been ordered yet. Initial estimates indicate that banana trees on about 300 acres could have been damaged in Andhanallur block in Tiruchi district and field officials were engaged in making an assessment in other places, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gale-hits-banana-crop-in-tiruchi-karur-districts/article31304889.ece
10 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Continue treatment for existing ailments: doctors||Doctors in the city are urging patients of existing ailments such as diabetes and heart disease to regularly consult their healthcare providers. With the lockdown enforced and citizens asked not to step out unless necessary, many patients are ignoring common symptoms and are only being rushed to the hospital in emergency conditions. T. Senthilkumar, Head and Executive Director, Kauvery Heart City said that in the last 15 days, the number of patients being rushed to the hospital in a critical condition has markedly increased. “I attribute the reason to multiple things – fear of stepping out, patients neglect their symptoms or in the case of elderly patients, do not want to financially burden their families with their ailments, especially at such an uncertain time.” “I have also noticed that patients are stopping the intake of medicines without the doctor’s advice. For patients with valve replacement surgeries, diabetes, kidney disease, ignoring medication can be fatal,” he said, adding, keep stock of medication. Some patients are unable to access public transport and are therefore unable to visit hospitals, said M. S. Ashraf, former national vice-president, Indian Medical Association. “As a solution, Tamil Nadu-IMA has begun promoting telemedicine,” he said. Meanwhile, other patients are afraid that they will be asked to take a test for COVID-19. “Cases of respiratory illnesses being reported has significantly reduced. Where have all these patients gone? It is possible that they are afraid. These patients could even be self-medicating and putting themselves at risk,” K. Govindaraj, Director, G. Vishwanathan Group of Hospitals, said. Dr. Govindaraj has also noticed that cases of perineal abscesses have increased. “Individuals, especially those who are overweight need to get some form of exercise,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/continue-treatment-for-existing-ailments-doctors/article31304894.ece
10 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||With no meetings, forest officials focus on patrolling||The lockdown enforced in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic has enabled Forest Department officials to fully concentrate on patrolling in reserve forest areas to attend to forest fires and check hunting or any other illegal activity. The suspension of routine meetings and other administrative works as a sequel to the enforcement of prohibitory orders has given adequate time for field-level officials to focus on patrolling in the reserve forest areas at different time intervals. The Tiruchi Forest Division accounts for 90 reserve forest areas falling under the Tiruchi, Manapparai, Thuvarankurichi and Thuraiyur Ranges. A senior Forest official said patrolling was being done using two-wheeler and other vehicles inside the reserve forests. A couple of forest fires have already been reported including one at Veeramachanpatti village. Chances of intrusion by unidentified persons into the reserve forest areas for hunting and for committing any other illegal activity taking advantage of the lockdown would also be checked, the official said. A couple of days ago, the Forest Department officials seized about 15 litres of arrack in a couple of cans at the Sobanapuram check post near Thuraiyur. The consignment was later handed over to the local police, the official further said. Field-level officials were maintaining network with the local population situated in the vicinity of the reserve forest areas to tip them of any attempt to commit illegal activity inside the reserve forests. Watering of nectar patches and perennial plants inside the sprawling Tropical Butterfly Conservatory at Srirangam was on . Another official said a few locals were being engaged to water the plants inside the 25-acre conservatory. Elephant rescue centre As a precautionary measure, the department officials have advised the staff to spray water mixed with turmeric powder and salt inside the Elephant Rescue and Rehabilitation and Rescue Centre at M.R. Palayam near Tiruchi. The official said mahouts had been provided with masks as a precautionary measure in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-no-meetings-forest-officials-focus-on-patrolling/article31304883.ece
10 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||EPFO to expedite disposal of online requests||In a move to extend availability and reach of online services in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has directed its field offices to facilitate provident fund members to rectify their date of birth in EPFO records to ensure that their Universal Account Number (UAN) is KYC compliant. The date of birth recorded in Aadhaar will now be accepted as valid proof for the purpose of rectification, provided that the difference in the dates in EPFO records and the Aadhaar of the PF member was less than three years. PF subscribers can submit the correction requests online, Vanlal Muan, Regional Provident Fund Commissioner I, Tiruchi, said in a press release. This will enable EPFO to validate the date of birth of members online with UIDAI instantaneously, thus authenticating and reducing the processing time of change requests. The EPFO, Head Office, has instructed field offices to expedite disposal of online requests from PF members in financial distress for availing non refundable advance from their PF accumulations to tide over the situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/epfo-to-expedite-disposal-of-online-requests/article31304898.ece
10 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Constable’s gesture||A Constable’s humane act of donating blood to a pregnant woman recently came in appreciation. Constable Syed Abudhahir attached to Manapparai police station was at a check post on April 6 when he noticed the pregnant woman, Sulochana (25), and her husband Ezhumalai. The couple told that they had gone to a private hospital and were returning as the woman was unable to get ‘O’ positive blood. The Constable informed that his blood group was ‘O’ positive and went to the hospital and donated blood. Sulochana went back to the hospital and later delivered a female baby. Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi, Ziaul Haque rewarded him. Syed Abudhahir is a Grade-II Constable selected in 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constables-gesture/article31304885.ece
10 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK distributes vegetables to residents||The Tiruchi urban unit of AIADMK on Thursday began distributing vegetables in the city. P. Kumar, urban district secretary of the party, who inaugurated the distribution at Golden Rock, said that it was aimed at preventing residents coming out of their homes for buying vegetables during the curfew period. The party divided the city into 11 zones such as Golden Rock, Palakarai, Woraiyur, Rockfort, Srirangam, Thiruverumbur, Kattur and others for facilitating the distribution of vegetables. The distribution would cover 1,000 families per day in a zone. Each bag would have vegetables worth Rs. 115. It would cost Rs. 65,000 a day for distributing vegetables in a zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-distributes-vegetables-to-residents/article31304903.ece
10 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||16 more residents from Melapalayam test positive||Even as the Melapalayam area here, which has got 16 COVID-19 positive patients, all undergoing treatment in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, is yet to recover from the shock, the dingy area has got 16 more positive patients, all ‘primary contacts,’ sources in the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital here say. After 16 persons from Melapalayam tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus on their return from the religious conclave in Delhi, the district administration decided to create isolation wards in a higher secondary school at Melapalayam to accommodate their family members, ‘primary contacts,’ there. Though the school administration handed over the school for creating the makeshift medical facility, the family members refused to come to the school so that officials held repeated talks with their representatives. The persuasion continued even after the administration of a women’s college in Melapalayam gave consent for creation of isolation wards in the college. The family members said that they were “so healthy” so that there was no need for them to move to the isolation wards in the college.  ‘Lack of cooperation’ “We were very much frustrated over the attitude of these people who refuse to cooperate with us for their well being,” said a senior revenue official who had held talks with them.  Against this backdrop, 16 persons have tested positive for COVID-19. “Though all of them are asymptomatic, they have tested positive for the virus. It shows that community transmission, the third stage of the viral spread, has started in the district. In other words, the infected ‘primary contacts,’ who refused to be in isolation, might have transmitted the virus further while coming out of their house. Once rapid test kits are received and all these suspected contacts are tested, more positive cases could be detected. So, really tough days are ahead,” said a senior doctor from Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. Officials here have decided to test all ‘secondary and risky cases’ to unearth all possible positive cases still moving around to check community transmission, if any. The confirmation of 16 new positive cases, all ‘primary contacts’ of the 16 COVID-19 positive patients from Melapalayam, has rocked the locals as the news spread but no formal announcement was made in this connection on Thursday. On getting information that some persons from Melapalayam had tested positive for COVID-19, local VIPs of this Muslim-dominant area organised a meeting on Thursday to discuss the adverse situation enveloping their densely populated area. “This is really a grim situation for Melapalayam. We’ve no option but to cooperate with the official machinery,” said one of the persons who had attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/16-more-residents-from-melapalayam-test-positive/article31304844.ece
10 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Containment zones in Tiruppur go up to seven||The number of containment zones in Tiruppur increased to seven following fresh COVID-19 positive cases as of Thursday, according to the Corporation officials. N. Boopathy, City Health Officer with Tiruppur Corporation, said that a door-to-door survey had been carried out in these seven containment zones. Over 1.73 lakh people in over 38,000 households were covered. “No person was found with any severe acute respiratory symptoms,” he said. Around 150 persons with fever and cold were detected. Contact tracing of all the COVID-19 positive cases had been completed and swab samples sent for testing, Mr. Boopathy said. The Corporation sent disinfection vehicles twice a day to the containment zones. As the residents inside the containment zones were advised not to come out of their homes, groceries and vegetables would be delivered by the district administration at the zone’s border. Designated volunteers for the zone would receive them and deliver at the resident’s doorsteps, Mr. Boopathy explained.  ‘Policemen deployed’ Around 200 police personnel had been deployed across the city to monitor the lockdown, a senior police officer with the Tiruppur City Police said. Except for a few violations, most people remained indoors after 1.30 p.m., he said. About one-third police personnel were being sent to their homes batch-wise every week so that they would serve as a “back-up.” The Tiruppur City Police also made awareness videos on social media platforms instructing the public regarding the COVID-19 safety measures, the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/containment-zones-in-tiruppur-go-up-to-seven/article31304611.ece
10 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested||Dharapuram Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW) police arrested a man in connection with manufacturing illicit liquor near Mulanur in Tiruppur district on Thursday. M. Balasubramanian (58) was arrested in Kumbampalayam during a raid by the PEW police team.  They seized 500 litres of fermented wash and five litres of illicit distilled arrack. The Dharapuram police registered a case and remanded the accused in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested/article31304613.ece
10 April 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||‘Relief given to 96% of eligible families’||Food Minister R. Kamaraj on Thursday has said that 96.30% of smart card holders eligible to receive the Rs. 1,000 cash assistance announced by the State government in view of COVID-19 pandemic, have been handed over the money. Disclosing this to reporters after chairing a meeting to review the measures taken to check the spread of COVID-19 virus at the District Collectorate, the Minister said that the assistance and essential commodities have been disbursed to 1,94,00,591 out of 2,01,45,993 eligible families.  Meanwhile, two shops in Tiruvarur town were sealed by the Revenue officials on charges of selling essential commodities at exorbitant rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-given-to-96-of-eligible-families/article31304893.ece
10 April 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||ONGC contributes to COVID-19 containment measures||The Oil and Natural Gas Corporation, Cauvery Asset, has donated Rs. 39.82 lakh to the Tiruvarur district administration to meet the expenses relating to the ongoing efforts to check the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. A cheque for the sum was handed over to T. Anand, Collector, on Thursday by Anurag Sharma, Executive Director and Asset Manager, ONGC, Cauvery Asset, for purchasing 14 ICU fowler cots, 10 ICU function cots, eight Multi Para Monitors, two Video Laryngoscopy and for procurement of ventilators, hand sanitisers, personal protection equipment, gloves, mattresses, pillows, bed covers and liquid soaps. The contribution was made from the corporate social responsibility fund of the Cauvery Asset, Karaikal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ongc-contributes-to-covid-19-containment-measures/article31304892.ece
10 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers in the Nilgiris lack essential commodities||Migrant workers in the Nilgiris complain of lack of assistance from the contractors whom they work for, stating that they face a threat of starvation as many have no access to food and essential commodities. While the district administration has done a commendable job in ensuring that people in remote tribal hamlets have access to food and essential items, migrant labourers complain of a lack of assistance. Umar Farooq, a migrant labourer from Jharkhand, who is among a group of 20 construction workers living in Gandhi Nagar near Lovedale, said that the contractors who brought them to work in the Nilgiris more than three months ago have refused to help them. “As we have been out of work since the announcement of the lockdown, we have all run out of money and supplies. We are now eating only one meal a day, and are scared to venture out as we are also afraid that the police might arrest us,” said Mr. Farooq. When contacted, officials at the district administration’s disaster management desk said that the officials had communicated to the contractors that it was their responsibility to provide food and lodging to their workers. Imjat Ansari, another migrant worker from Jharkhand who was among a group of 11 persons in Ketti who were without food till Tuesday, said that contractors refused to take responsibility for their workforce. “They told us that we would get paid only if we work, and that we would have to buy our own food and provisions till the lockdown end,” he said. On Tuesday afternoon, the district administration did reach out to the group of labourers in Ketti, distributing food, wheat and pulses to them. “This will last us for five to six days, and we hope that with this assistance, we can get through the lockdown,” said Mr. Ansari. In Coonoor, a group of six non-governmental organisations have been distributing food to over 600 migrant workers since the beginning of the lockdown. A member of one of the NGOs said that migrant workers were some of the most affected by the lockdown due to not being able to get any rations from the government. “Private contractors who they work for also seem unwilling in some cases to provide them with food supplies,” the member said. On Monday, Collector J. Innocent Divya said that the administration had identified more than 10,000 migrant labourers in the district, most of whom were employed in private tea estates. She said that the district administration was working with the estates in ensuring that they provide food and essential commodities to the workers at the estates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-workers-in-the-nilgiris-lack-essential-commodities/article31304603.ece
10 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Horticulture dept. offers to purchase produce from Nilgiris farmers||The horticulture department in the Nilgiris has released a list of helpline numbers that local farmers in the district can contact in case they have trouble in selling or marketing their produce in the local market. The department in a press release said that farmers in the Nilgiris are growing vegetables and fruits across more than 8,000 hectares in the district. Since the beginning of the lockdown, farmers in the district have complained about not being able to sell their produce at profitable rates due to the closure of most businesses and problems in the movement of freight between districts. To prevent farmers from suffering losses, the department has said that the government will purchase their produce at fair prices, so that the vegetables and fruits can be sold by the department at the Tamil Nadu Horticulture Development Agency (TANHODA) counters. It is also preparing vegetable bags each costing Rs. 150 which are being sold to people in containment zones and in remote villages in the district. Farmers looking to sell their produce to the horticulture department can contact them at 9488133695, 9788276829, 9843908543 (Udhagamandalam), 6381963018, 8883609071, 9791387404 (Coonoor), 9486412544, 9487027097,9443864985, (Kotagiri) and 8903447744, 9597146950, 9944931208 (Gudalur).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/horticulture-dept-offers-to-purchase-produce-from-nilgiris-farmers/article31304601.ece
10 April 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Officials blame clerical error for discharge of COVID-19 patient||A day after the COVID-19 test results of a Delhi-based man turned out positive after he was released from quarantine at the Villupuram Government Hospital, the Health Department authorities in Villupuram claimed that a “clerical error” had led to the incident. Top sources in the Health Department, on condition of anonymity, said the patient, aged 30, had come to Puducherry to attend an interview last month after which he reached Villupuram. He was staying in a Villupuram Red Cross facility when he developed fever and was admitted to the Villupuram Government Hospital on April 6. “The treatment protocol for COVID-19 testing was followed and the throat swabs of the patient along with test samples of others were sent to the Villupuram Government Medical College and Hospital (VGMCH) at Mundiyambakkam here for testing the same day. While the test results of three others had come positive, the results of the Delhi man were pending and inconclusive. As per protocol, patients who had tested negative should be sent to the facility or home quarantine while the second round of confirmatory tests had to be taken for tests which were inconclusive or pending,” an official said. The staff in the hospital, while feeding the results into the computer had made an error and mentioned his test results as negative. Based on this, the patient was discharged. The man was taken in a 108 ambulance to the quarantine facility operated by the Red Cross, from where he went missing. Health Department officials said that that a minimum of 15 to 20 samples were sent every day to the hospital. “The department has requested the staff in the hospital to be more cautious to prevent such incidents,” an official said. Meanwhile, the Villupuram district police have constituted seven special teams and intensified surveillance across the district to trace the man.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-blame-clerical-error-for-discharge-of-covid-19-patient/article31304574.ece
10 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Virudhunagar farmers can use cold storage facilities without rent’||The Virudhunagar district administration has attempted to provide linkage between farmers and traders for effective marketing of fruits and vegetables grown in the district. According to Collector R. Kannan, different types of fruits cultivated on 7,078 hectares and vegetables on 3,425 hectares are getting ready for harvest. Farmers facing difficulty in reaching their harvested produce to the market can contact the Assistant Directors (Horticulture) or Horticulture Officers of their blocks for help. “The officers will guide the farmers and provide linkage to traders,” the Collector said. Besides, the Tamil Nadu Horticulture Development Agency (TANHODA) will operate direct selling centres and mobile fruit and vegetable vending of Farmers Producers’ Organisations to enable the produce reach consumers directly at a reasonable price. “Besides providing linkage to traders, the officials will also guide farmers to store their perishable goods at cold storage units at Rajapalayam, Aruppukottai and Virudhunagar. Farmers can use the facility to safeguard their produce without any rental charges till the lockdown period,” Personal Assistant (Agriculture) to the Collector, Sankar S. Narayanan, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virudhunagar-farmers-can-use-cold-storage-facilities-without-rent/article31304846.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Do not ignore non-COVID-19 medical emergencies||Fear of coronavirus and the need for quarantine should not deter people from seeking treatment for non-COVID acute medical and surgical emergencies. Over the last two weeks, we have come across several instances of patients and relatives seeking medical attention very late for even emergencies because of fear. Since all the clinics and many smaller hospitals are closed, we are seeing quite a high number of patients with cardiac, neuro, stroke, gastro, diabetic and orthopedic emergencies presenting late with all complications leading to delayed intervention and recoverye What are the cardiac emergencies, which present late? It is well known that cardiovascular death is the number one cause of death globally. The intervention in golden hour after acute cardiac events like heart attacks will reverse the harmful effects and save lives. In the last few days, we have seen patients with acute coronary syndrome, heart rhythm abnormalities and complete heart block presenting late with all complications. Cardiac patients are also at increased risk of Covid-19 complications and they can present as heart attack, myocarditis and heart failure. All these patients need to be treated in hospitals with facilities for 24/7 Acute Coronary Care Units (ACCU), managed by senior cardiologists. How about stroke and neuro emergencies? Stroke is another medical emergency, which if treated within the window period of 4 hours will result in near complete resolution of condition. Now, we see many patients with stroke presenting late leading to complications, prolonged stay in ICU and delayed recovery. The delay in seeking treatment in these patients is due to several reasons like fear of Corona and lack of transport in the lockdown period. But, well equipped hospitals with facilities like Hyper Acute Stroke Unit (HASU) are manned round the clock by stroke physicians and nurses to take care even at this time of crisis. We also see patients with epilepsy with fits presenting late. What are the gastro-intestinal conditions one should take prompt treatment for? We also see patients with acute abdominal conditions like appendicitis, cholecystitis due to gall stones and obstructed hernia presenting late with gangrene and perforation leading to peritonitis and sepsis. These patients needed emergency surgery and prolonged stay in ICU because of delay in seeking treatment. The complications could be avoided by early interventions. What are the emergencies you see in diabetic patients now? We see diabetic patients with very high blood sugar levels, presenting acutely with diabetic keto acidosis. Also, we see diabetic patients with cellulitis and sepsis presenting late. Diabetic patients have to be extra careful at this time, monitor glucose levels regularly and seek help early in case of abnormal levels. How about injuries and fractures? Though we see a sharp reduction in road traffic accidents, the number of people with fractures due to domestic fall have remained the same. In particular, the elderly with hip fractures present to the hospital even a few days after the fracture with complications. They should be treated promptly. The patients presenting with COVID-19-like symptoms are treated in isolation facilities so that the non-COVID emergencies are managed in the main hospital in an uninterrupted way. Please don’t ignore emergencies and call for help immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-ignore-non-covid-19-medical-emergencies/article31304565.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Madurai Corporation uses drone to spray disinfectant||Madurai Corporation deployed a drone to spray disinfectant near the coronavirus speciality wing of Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) here on Thursday, as a measure to control the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan, who inspected the exercise, said the drone was also used to spray disinfectants at containment zones in the city, which have been formed near houses where COVID-19 positive cases have been reported. “It is a challenging task to regularly disinfect the entire city in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The drone will be useful as it will help in reducing the burden of workers,” he said. The drone was in addition to boom sprayers and vehicles of Fire and Rescue Services Department, which were used to spray disinfectants. “The drone and other mechanical sprayers will be used to disinfect the GRH every two hours,” he said. The drone would also be used for disinfection in densely-populated residential areas and containment zones, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-corporation-uses-drone-to-spray-disinfectant/article31304851.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||State govt. to wait for Centre’s decision on lifting lockdown||While Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday said a decision on extending the COVID-19 lockdown will betaken in consultation with medical experts and others, officials indicated that the State may look up to the Centre for its decision. No unilateral decision will be taken, as done by Odisha. Indicating the thinking on the part of the State government, a senior official said the administration was of the view that such a course of action would be more meaningful. Before the Centre announces its decision, there will be no point in going ahead with extending the lockdown voluntarily and requesting the Centre not to operate flights and trains, the official said. Another official pointed out that the Prime Minister had said the lockdown could not be lifted in one go. If the Centre opts for a phased withdrawal, the State government can relax certain conditions for movement of people. But it may extend the lockdown in places such as malls, amusement parks and cinema halls, where people are likely to converge in large numbers. AIADMK MP A. Navaneethakrishnan, who attended Wednesday’s meeting with the Prime Minister, said he had requested the Centre to ensure that vehicles originating from northern States carrying groceries and other essential commodities meant for Tamil Nadu, did not face hurdles on inter-State borders. Mr. Navaneethakrishnan urged the Centre to accede to the State’s request for allocation of Rs. 3,000 crore needed for strengthening the health infrastructure and for essential equipment and medicines and the special grant of Rs. 9,000 crore to tackle the adverse impact of COVID-19 on the State economy, apart from expediting the release of arrears due to local bodies and funds under several components of Goods and Services Tax (GST) scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-govt-to-wait-for-centres-decision-on-lifting-lockdown/article31304584.ece
10 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Integrated Command and Control Centre to be put to use||The Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICC) set up under the Smart City project that had remained closed since the lockdown, will be put to use now. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa inaugurated the ICC on January 29 this year. He said that it was the first ICC in the State, and was developed at a cost of around Rs. 45 crore. Smart City Managing Director Shashidhar Kurer had informed the Chief Minister that the ICC would be the brain of the city administration and development. It would be a communication centre that coordinated between different departments and agencies. It was supposed to be developed as a Decision Support System by processing information generated by CCTVs and other sensors and edge devices. It would help the government manage disasters too, he had said. However, the ICC has remained shut since the lockdown. Officers explained that was because the workers, who are mostly employees of private agencies, were not turning up. In several Smart Cities, local bodies are using the ICC as War Rooms or communication hubs for COVID-19 management operations. In Karnataka, the ICCs are being used in Bengaluru and Tumakuru. Belagavi Smart City officers express helplessness about the non usage of the centre. “The centre is not a full-fledged communication unit yet, and there is still a lot of work to be done. Unlike other centres, this has not been planned for a pandemic breakout,” said a Smart City officer. Regional Commissioner Amlan Aditya Biswas said that the ICC would be used for monitoring the lockdown. “Officers tell me that work on some aspects of the centre is still in progress. That would mean it cannot be fully utilised for COVID-19 management as of now. But it will definitely meet its immediate task of monitoring the lockdown,” he said. Kannada activist Raju Topannanavar, who had written to the government about the centre not being used to fight COVID-19, said that he was happy that the government had decided to use it at least for one purpose. “In fact, it can have more uses. It can be used, for example, to track the movement of goods and relief vehicles, garbage pick-up and disposal, disinfection spraying and distribution of food to the destitute and homeless,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/integrated-command-and-control-centre-to-be-put-to-use/article31304681.ece
10 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Positive cases go up to 10 in Belagavi||The number of COVID-19 positive cases in Belagavi went up to 10 with three more persons who were the primary contacts of an affected person testing positive on Thursday. Patient 128’s 22-year-old elder brother, 50-year-old father and 40-year-old mother have tested positive. Patient 128 is aged 20. They were tested following contact tracing of positive cases. They have all been admitted to the isolation ward of the designated COVID-19 hospital in Belagavi, said a bulletin from the Health Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/positive-cases-go-up-to-10-in-belagavi/article31304682.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||With better testing protocol, positive cases may rise in State||There was a span of 16 days between the first reported COVID-19 case in Karnataka on March 8 and the 50th case on March 24. Over the next 16 days (till April 9), however, the number in the State surged by 147, taking the total to 197. On Thursday alone, 16 COVID-19 positive cases were reported. This is the highest number of positive cases tested on a single day in the State, along with April 4 which also saw the same number. Three new cases reported from Bagalkot are children aged below 13 who are contacts of a patient who had tested positive earlier. However, authorities continue to claim that community transmission has not started in Karnataka. This is despite the fact that the State government has still not been able to trace how several of the patients tested positive contracted the virus. They include the 80-year-old woman who died early on Thursday morning and had no foreign travel or contact history. So far, the State has tested 7,613 people and 197 of them — or 2.58% — have been found to be positive. Health experts believe that in the next two to three weeks, there will be a spike in the number of cases, once the number of tests increase, as per the new testing protocol. Now, the Department of Health and Family Welfare has decided to test all the secondary contacts of COVID-19 patients, even if they do not have symptoms on the 12th day of their isolation. Until now, secondary contacts were tested only if they developed symptoms. More significantly, randomised testing of patients will begin on April 12, which will be able to give a clearer picture of the extent of transmission, said a source.  New protocal Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, at a press briefing on Thursday, said the decision on testing all secondary contacts was taken by the COVID-19 taskforce, which includes medical practitioners. The new protocol for testing was implemented from Thursday. Sources in the Health Department said this decision was taken because many of the secondary contacts had been testing positive. “In some cases, we have seen that even those who are asymptomatic have tested positive. We don’t want them to spread the virus to other people,” a source said. As of Thursday, Karnataka has traced 1,804 primary contacts and 5,533 secondary contacts of people who tested positive for COVID-19. Officials of the Health Department, however, claim that Karnataka, even within the limited testing protocol hitherto practised, has been able to contain the situation better than many other States. Among the 16 cases that were tested positive in the State on Thursday, five are from Bengaluru, and three each are from Bagalkot and Belagavi. Two cases were reported from Mysuru and one each from Chickballapur, Dharwad, and Mandya districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-better-testing-protocol-positive-cases-may-rise-in-state/article31304530.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||30% of salaries of Ministers, legislators to be cut for 1 year||Cash-strapped Karnataka on Thursday decided to slash 30% salary and allowances of MLAs, MLCs, the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker, and all Ministers for one year. The cut will save the State exchequer Rs. 15.36 crore. Briefing on the decisions taken at a meeting of the State Cabinet, Law and Parliamentary Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said an Ordinance would be promulgated for reducing the salaries. Governor Vajubhai R. Vala too has agreed for a pay cut. The Union Cabinet has already taken a decision on reducing the salaries of MPs by 30% and suspended MPLAD funds for two years to mobilise more funds for the fight against COVID-19. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is said to have consulted Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah and the latter endorsed the Chief Minister’s suggestion, sources said. Following sharp reduction in the availability of cash with the government, the Finance Department issued a notification a few days ago restricting expenditure to most essential items such as salaries, pensions, and basic administrative costs. Noting that “all expenditure on fighting COVID-19 will be given utmost priority,” the Finance Department laid out guidelines on release of funds and delegation of financial powers for April. Citing the prevailing situation of lockdown owing to COVID-19, the order stated that “the revenues of the State government are severely constrained”. Till now, no discussion has been held on slashing salaries of the more than six lakh government employees. The Opposition Congress has already opposed any reduction in salaries of the government employees on the grounds that they have many commitments such as payment of housing rent and fees of children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/30-of-salaries-of-ministers-legislators-to-be-cut-for-1-year/article31304541.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Social distancing takes a back seat at markets||A few days ago, the authorities shifted Raithara Santhe, the farmer’s market near Yelahanka, to a vacant plot opposite the University of Agricultural Science, Bengaluru. The aim was to ensure that the market had more space to operate and facilitate social distancing, one of the practices that helps curb the spread of COVID-19. At the new location, barricades were erected, police personnel were deployed at entry points, and announcements urging people not to crowd were made regularly. But, these measures have had no impact on most consumers, who, after failing to maintain any distance from fellow shoppers return to their homes to self-isolate. “Every day, hundreds of people come here in their private vehicles to buy vegetables and fruits. We insist that they maintain distance while making purchases. Only some people listen,” said a police constable on duty. The government officials were also seen appealing to people with little success. “Please do not come here to purchase vegetables every day. Buy enough for a week,” said one government official. For many residents, the visit to the market is a family outing. Three to four members from one family come in a car. People need to understand that this is not a picnic spot. We are going through a difficult time,” the official added. Priya U., resident of Sahakarnagar, said: “In this market, we can purchase vegetables at comparatively cheaper rates as we get it directly from farmers. But the absence of social distance is cause for concern. The authorities are doing their best and people should cooperate.” Rain adds to woes Other markets, including wholesale ones, are facing similar problems. Onion and potato traders from Yeshwantpur APMC yard were shifted to Dasanapura APMC due to lack of space. However, traders at Dasanapura say that though the ground is vast, there are no measures taken to ensure social distancing. “This defeats the purpose of shifting the market,” a trader said. Traders estimate that there are 400 poople operating from Dasanapura. “Hundreds of lorries and trucks of farmers and traders come here,” said a trader. A trader at Singena Agrahara, where the Kalasipalyam wholesale market has been shifted, said: “The whole place is filled with slush due to the recent rain.”  Rajendra Kumar Kataria, secretary to government, Agriculture, Horticulture and Sericulture, underscored the need for people to cooperate and defended the government’s decision to shift the markets. “Earlier, Raithara Santhe was operating in an area that is less than two acres of land. Maintaining social distancing was next to impossible there. After shifting to the the new place, the distancing is improving,” he told The Hindu . He added that the State government was taking various measures to decongest the markets. In Bengaluru, 480 HOPCOMS stores had increased procurement from farmers. HOPCOMS mobile units have started selling vegetables and fruit in residential apartments and other designated clusters. “We are also encouraging food processing units and agencies doing large procurements both in the State and outside to make direct purchases from farmers. This would reduce crowding at markets to a great extent,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/social-distancing-takes-a-back-seat-at-markets/article31304510.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lockdown adds to weavers’ list of woes||Doors have been shut since March 22 and inside are existing stocks and incomplete work. With the COVID-19 lockdown, weavers find themselves running out of raw material and work. “Mills are closed and transport is hit. We get paid Rs. 20 to Rs. 30 per metre (depending on quality). We make saris, shirts, dhotis, towels, and shawls. People have been paid till February. We are about 30 people working in a common workshed, which is now closed,” said Mallikarjun Rahut, a weaver from Shahpur taluk of Yadgir district. In his 35-year career, he said he has never been out of work for so long. “We are getting ration from the government. But we do not know for how long we can survive without work,” he said. ‘Supply chain hit’ Vijaykumar Guled from Ilkal said even for those working from home, getting raw materials was an issue, as they come from Tamil Nadu, Bengaluru, and Mumbai. The final products too would be sold in many other places. “This pandemic has affected everyone. It will take two to three months after the lockdown for things to get back to normal,” he said. To keep the households of their weavers and workers going, Desi, the sister organisation of Charaka Women’s Multipurpose Industrial Cooperative Society, has started a unique campaign. Instead of asking for donations and charity, they are asking patrons to pay what they can afford now and use that amount to make a purchase once businesses are back to normal. Located at Bheemanakone in Shivamogga district, the society, founded in 1994 to generate sustainable local employment as an alternative to intensive agriculture and large industries, is now a large production facility with multiple units employing over 700 villagers, most of them women. The campaign aims to support weavers till the lockdown is over, after which they will resume work. Customers will then be able to avail of a purchase with the amount they had paid. “It has been a series of attacks by an insensitive society and government. First, it was demonetisation which destroyed half of the village economy. Then, GST made life miserable owing to multiple restrictions. Then happened the floods. Thick clusters of weavers are on the banks of the Krishna and the Malaprabha. The real tragedy is that Charaka was built to prevent migration of poor from villages through a viable model developed over 30 years and had almost succeeded. But today, millions of village poor are made to wander on the roads,” said theatre personality Prasanna, the founder of Charaka, adding that weavers have always got a raw deal. “We have accumulated non-payment of dues. Desi is closed for three weeks. Before that, there was the slowdown. As a result, payments to weavers and workers are due. We don’t know how to handle the situation. We’ve requested customers to become activists,” Mr. Prasanna added. To purchase Desi vouchers, call 7411120862.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-adds-to-weavers-list-of-woes/article31304519.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Planning health infra by projecting 10,000 cases by April-end, govt. tells HC||Health infrastructure for COVID-19 is being prepared by projecting that there will be 10,000 positive cases in the State by the end of April, the State government told the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday while explaining health facilities readied to deal with the pandemic. “A State contingency plan for COVID-19 has been prepared after analysis of the infection rates prevalent in four countries — Italy, Spain, Iran, and China. The highest prevalent rates in one city of Italy has been considered to project the probable caseload in Karnataka and the contingency plan has been prepared based on this study,” the government stated. The government disclosed its plan in its statement filed before a special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna during the hearing of PIL petitions related to issues arisen from the lockdown imposed to contain spread of COVID-19. Based on the contingency plan, efforts have been made by the State to ascertain how many isolation beds, ventilators and other materials are necessary for COVID-19 testing and treatment, the government stated while pointing out that efforts have been made to procure more ventilators by placing order for purchasing 1,574 ventilators in addition to the existing 740 ventilators (234 in government hospitals and 506 in private hospitals). Claiming that it has adequate number of N95 masks, triple layer masks, Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits, and sanitisers to cater to the needs of the existing caseload, the government said that it had been procuring masks and PPE kits as per the contingency plan. Of the order placed to purchase 18.33 lakh N95 masks, 5.46 lakh have been received. Similarly, 1.82 lakh PPE kits and 37 lakh triple layer masks have been received of the ordered 10.05 lakh and 49 lakh triple layer masks and PPE kits, respectively. Price control As complaints were made about hoarding and excess price for masks in open market, the Bench directed the government to take steps against hoarding of masks and sanitisers besides ensuring that the masks and sanitisers are sold as per the prices fixed by the Union government in a notification issued on March 21. The Bench also asked the government to explore possibility to ensure easy supply of PPE kits to private clinics, which are not allowed to be opened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/planning-health-infra-by-projecting-10000-cases-by-april-end-govt-tells-hc/article31304525.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Composting in the times of COVID-19||While the lockdown is seeing people experiment in the kitchen, a few citizens are experimenting with home composting. Vani Murthy, who started the Swacha Graha initiative which promotes composting at home, said that she has been flooded with requests from citizens for online sessions. Waste management experts, too, have urged citizens to take up such initiatives to ease the load on pourakarmikas. Reiterating that there is no better time to take up composting, waste management expert N.S. Ramakanth said that waste workers (pourakarmikas) are most susceptible to become carriers. By taking up home composting, the risk posed to both citizens and the pourakarmikas can be minimised. “One doesn’t even need any equipment to start composting. Just an old bucket with some holes and a lid will do,” he said. It will also help ease the burden on the civic body. Both Ms. Murthy and Mr. Ramakanth rubbished rumours linking Covid-19 to composting. “The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and the government machinery are doing an excellent job in this fight against the coronavirus. After this, we hope the authorities will continue the fight against the mismanagement of solid waste management with the same zeal and vigour,” said Mr. Ramakanth. However, many households remain wary and still believe that there is a link between composting and contracting COVID-19. BBMP Joint Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) Sarfaraz Khan told The Hindu that quite a number of citizens had expressed apprehension about taking up home composting. “We tried to dispel this wrong notion,” he said. Meanwhile, the civic body was doing its bit by keeping the city environs clean to check the spread of infectious and communicable diseases. “We have also started taking up spraying of disinfectants in all public places in all wards,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/composting-in-the-times-of-covid-19/article31304505.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Allegations fly over political meddling in relief work||Allegations of political interference in distribution of dry rations have surfaced after the State government took away the responsibility from the Labour Department and handed it over to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). While the Labour Department has been utilising funds from Karnataka State Construction Workers’ Welfare Board to ready the dry ration kits comprising 13 items to be distributed among construction and migrant workers, the government has shifted the task of distribution to BBMP. This move has been resented by the trade unions, which say that it is leading to politicisation. One lakh dry ration hampers, which the department had kept ready, is now being distributed at ward-levels with the involvement of councillors. Piqued over the decision, trade union representatives met Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, but could not convince him to withdraw the order. CITU State general secretary Meenakshi Sundaram, who met the Chief Secretary, said that councillors have been affixing their stickers and are involved in distribution of dry rations to their constituencies. He said: “We are not sure if the hampers are reaching the people who need them. Though the reason for the shift to BBMP was that the Labour Department did not have manpower, it was more of a political decision.” Another leader said that this was no surprise since political leaders had expressed unhappiness over the department’s move to directly provide the benefits. Some leaders had also petitioned Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who finally relented, he added. Department officials also admit to this. One of them pointed out that an official, without authorisation, handed over 5,000 dry ration packets to an MLA, who in turn distributed it to his constituency using his name and photograph. “It is true that the Labour Department does not have manpower, but it had sought the help of trade unions to make the distribution effective and accountable,” a senior department official told The Hindu . In fact, the official said the department also has a legacy issue to deal with, with the government seeing BBMP as being in a better position to deal with distribution. “We only hope that the dry rations reach the needy,” he said.  It is true that the Labour Department does not have manpower, but it had sought the help of trade unions to make the distribution effective and accountable. Labour Department official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/allegations-fly-over-political-meddling-in-relief-work/article31304539.ece
11 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A Holy Week sans ceremonies||The season of Lent has always called for introspection and a deeper reflection on one’s personal faith. This year, it has been marked with a greater empathy for those in suffering and need. Cutting across denominational divides, all churches in the city stopped services three weeks ago and resorted to online sermons, in keeping with the need of the hour. But for people who attend church regularly, there’s nothing like the real thing — whether it’s the quiet happiness of Palm Sunday, the solemnity of Good Friday, or all-out rejoicing on Easter Sunday. “I miss taking part in the Holy Communion. Apart from being a symbol of my faith, it is the reason why Easter is celebrated; it marks the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ,” says Hannah Rajasingh, a churchgoer. “So even though this Sunday, we will hear a sermon online, the happiness of sharing it with others will be sorely missed,” she adds. According to Archbishop of Bangalore Reverend Dr. Peter Machado, community ceremonies and observances of the season like the washing of the feet, Passion of Christ and the celebrations have been been suspended for the first time. “We have told people to observe the symbolic gestures of confession and communion in a spiritual manner by practising humility and subservience among family members,” he says, adding: “There are special prayers going out for the afflicted and for all those serving the nation in this crisis. Despite everything, it is still a season of hope that has brought people closer.” Several churches like Bethel AG Church International Worship Centre are live streaming their Good Friday and Easter services on YouTube and Facebook.   Whether you are among the devout or one who makes a guest appearance, festive food is the hallmark of any special day. This year has seen a dip in orders for season goodies, be it hot cross buns, Easter eggs or meat. “There is shortage of fresh supplies and raw material to make these items. Customers too, are ordering in lesser quantities this time,” says Meena L., part-time home baker in Hennur who supplies Easter goodies in the East Bengaluru area. The reduction in demand also has to do with Easter being a pared-down affair this year, with extended family members and friends stranded in different parts of the city. “We placed orders for non-vegetarian items in advance for Easter, but in smaller amounts as it’s going to be just our neighbours and us this Sunday,” said Leena Padmini D’Souza, a homemaker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-holy-week-sans-ceremonies/article31304496.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘808 people who attended jamaat meet quarantined’||As many as 808 people, including 57 foreign nationals, who had attended Tablighi Jamaat meet at Nizamuddin in Delhi have been identified and quarantined in Karnataka, the State government told the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday. Of the 57 foreign nationals, 24 have been quarantined in Bengaluru and the rest in Bidar, Tumakuru, and Belagavi districts. The data in this regard was submitted before a special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna, which is hearing, through video-conferencing, important PIL petitions related to issues cropped up following the imposition of lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19. While 269 Indian nationals who had attended the meet during the crucial period have been identified and quarantined in Bengaluru, and 482 Indian nationals who attended the event have been quarantined in other districts of the State, the government said in a statement. 581 in other States Also, 581 members of the jamaat, who are from Karnataka, have been identified to be in other States, and information in this regard has been given to the respective State governments, the High Court was informed. Pointing out that the number of jamaat members who attended the meet is dynamic and subject to change as more information is gather by the government, it has been stated that the police heads of respective districts and cities have been issued instructions to trace such persons by liaisoning with the local community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/808-people-who-attended-jamaat-meet-quarantined/article31304527.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Revision classes for SSLC students soon||The Department of Primary and Secondary Education will soon start revision classes for SSLC students via Doordarshan and Akashvani as the examinations have been postponed until the COVID -19 pandemic is under control. Over eight lakh students were to write the SSLC examinations, which were originally scheduled to begin from March 27 but have been postponed. Students have been asked not to fall prey to rumours. Minister of Primary & Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar said the department will finalise the dates after a couple of days. “We will ensure that social distancing among lecturers is followed during evaluation of answer scripts,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revision-classes-for-sslc-students-soon/article31304543.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Get authenticated orders on govt. website||In the times of fake news on social media, all orders and news have been made available in real time by the Centre for eGovernance (CeG). All COVID-19 related orders and circulars of the State government are being uploaded on karnataka.gov.in. New pop-ups emerge as and when a new order or a circular gets updated. Any information on hospitals or fever clinics, details of helplines, authenticated videos, photographs and audio along with a host of orders issued by various departments have been made available along with the media bulletins on the status of COVID-19 in the State. “The challenge thrown up by the crisis has led us to change our work flow. In this age of social media where authentication of news is a problem, we are keeping the citizens abreast of the latest news in real time,” said H.L. Prabhakar, Project Director at CeG. The website also gives links to the Union government’s authenticated sites. Frequently asked questions have been made available and users can download all the mobile apps developed in the fight against COVID-19. Any COVID-19 related order is made available on the website within 15 minutes. The work by the CeG, however, has not been easy. The lockdown has thrown up challenges to officials manning the website. As many as 11 persons working on the project had to return home. “They have been given remote access. All of them are working from home,” said K.P. Seema, Project Manager, CeG.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/get-authenticated-orders-on-govt-website/article31304506.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Prasanna to go on indefinite fast from today||Theatre personality and activist Prasanna has announced that he will go on an indefinite fast from Friday as an exercise in introspection on the need for sustainable living in times of the COVID-19 pandemic. Grama Seva Sangha (GSS), of which Mr. Prasanna is a senior member, has called for a daylong national fast on Friday, that has now acquired support from several quarters of the country, to empathise with the plight of migrant workers. “The national fast is a modest effort at speaking to the nation’s conscience,” stated the GSS in a statement on Wednesday. The former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda, activists Vandana Shiva and Medha Patkar, historian Ramachandra Guha, and actor Irfan Khan are some of those who have announced their support. Meanwhile, Mr. Prasanna told The Hindu : “The pandemic is a man-made disaster, brought on by environmental destruction and degradation. The only way out is sustainable living — shifting gears to what I call ‘sacred economy’. I think this is the right time to create awareness among people for the need to shift to sustainable living and this fast is an exercise at introspecting myself and to nudge others also to introspect on these lines.” He added that he will have some water, lime juice, and honey if required to prevent harm to his life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prasanna-to-go-on-indefinite-fast-from-today/article31304517.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HDK raises questions||“When the world is trying to find ways to overcome the current crisis, some BJP leaders have affixed their photographs on relief materials and are trying to gain publicity. This is shameful for the civil society,” former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy said on Thursday. In a series of tweets, he criticised the manner in which the relief materials were being distributed. “Is the relief material being given by the State government or BJP’s contribution? or is it [former Minister and Mahadevapura MLA Aravind] Limbavali’s personal charity?” he asked. In another tweet, he said: “Has the Prime Minister, who has kept quiet on attempts to vilify a community in the spread of COVID-19, given his consent for photos to be stuck on relief materials being supplied to poor workers?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdk-raises-questions/article31304538.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Price fixed for masks, sanitiser||The retail price of masks (three-ply surgical masks) shall not be more than the price that prevailed on the day one month prior to March 13, 2020, that is February 12, 2020 or not more than Rs. 10 per piece, whichever is lower; and the price of two-ply masks shall not be more than Rs. 8 per piece. Retail price of hand sanitiser shall not be more than Rs. 100 per bottle of 200 ml. These prices are valid till June 30, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/price-fixed-for-masks-sanitiser/article31304523.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ordinances on GST, cases on farmers||The government has decided to promulgate an Ordinance for extending the deadline for Goods and Service Tax (GST) return filing for March, April, and May to June 30, 2020. The State Cabinet decided this at a meeting on Thursday. The Centre has already issued such a notification. The government has also decided to promulgate an Ordinance for withdrawing cases registered against farmers under the land grabbing prohibition Act. Farmers of Kodagu, Shivamogga, and Chikkamagaluru districts, who had applied for regularisation of land, had been slapped with land grabbing cases. Through the Ordinance, it will be decided to amend the law to bail out farmers from these cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ordinances-on-gst-cases-on-farmers/article31304542.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police initiative||In an effort to provide information to citizens about essential services during the lockdown, the South division police has created a web page (http://www.bit.ly/bcpsouth), and is using Google Maps to give information on places where cooked food is being served and essential items are being donated. It also has information on grocery stores, pharmacies, vegetable shops and milk booths, which are colour coded. “This will help residents access the information easily so that they can avoid going out in search of shops unnecessarily,” said Rohini Sepat Katoch, DCP South.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-initiative/article31304494.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karaga rituals observed, but no procession||Karaga Shaktyotsava was observed without the signature procession on Wednesday night. However, four people observed rituals pertaining to the Shaktyotsava inside the temple, sources said. The Ministry of Home Affairs has shut down all places of worship. Recently, the Karnataka High Court took cognisance of Karaga and told the State government that it wouldn't tolerate any violation of the MHA guidelines, which essentially ruled out any procession. “The Karaga poojari, A. Gnanendra, and three others were inside the temple. They have observed the rituals and performed pooja as per the custom,” said A. Rajagoppol, president, Bangalore Karaga Management Committee, Dharmaraya Swamy Temple, Bengaluru. MLC P.R. Ramesh, senior member of the Tigala community, said Karaga poojari Gnanendra took the floral pyramid on his head as is the custom but instead of a procession, he went around the sanctum sanctorum of the temple a few times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karaga-rituals-observed-but-no-procession/article31304511.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Measures at BBP||Bannerghatta Biological Park has initiated a slew of precautionary measures ranging from creating awareness on COVID-19 among staff to ensuring that they are provided with face masks and gloves, and conducting temperature checks, said authorities. Carnivores and primates are being monitored for coughing, nasal discharge, diarrhoea and fever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/measures-at-bbp/article31304503.ece
10 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Hubballi man who returned from Nizamuddin Colony tests positive||A 27 year-old man, a resident of Mulla Oni in Kamaripet of Hubballi, tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. According to a bulletin, the person had returned from Nizamuddin Colony in Delhi. He was kept in a government quarantine centre. The samples of his blood and throat swab had been sent for test to a lab in Shivamogga two days ago. The results on Thursday confirmed that he was positive for COVID-19. He had developed symptoms of COVID-19 two day agos and accordingly, his blood and throat swab were sent for lab test. The area surrounding his residence has been declared Containment Zone now. According to the patient’s travel history released by the district administration on Thursday, the patient, P-194, along with his brother, left Hubballi to travel to Hyderabad on March 16 on a private bus. He reached Hyderabad on March 17 at 5.30 a.m. and boarded a plane at 8.45 a.m. from Hyderabad airport to reach Delhi. After completing his business work in Delhi on March 17, he stayed at a hotel there. On March 18, P-194 left Delhi for Agra and returned to Delhi back at 7 p.m. on a train and stayed in Delhi. On March 19, he boarded a plane at 5.50 a.m. from Delhi to reach Mumbai at 8:30 p.m. He again boarded a private bus at 9 p.m. and reached Hubballi on March 20 at 8 a m. He took an autorickshaw from Old Bus Stand in Hubballi to reach his house at Mulla Oni. He was kept at the government quarantine since his return and his blood and throat swab samples were sent for lab test on April 6. Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa has asked people who travelled along with P-194 on the bus, the plane and autorickshaw to call Ph: 104 or 1077 and undergo thermal screening. Primary contacts have been asked to visit the nearest government hospital at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hubballi-man-who-returned-from-nizamuddin-colony-tests-positive/article31304691.ece
10 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Good Friday prayers through social media||Owing to the lockdown clamped to check the further spread of coronavirus, the Karnataka Northern Diocese of the Church of South India (CSI) has decided to drop the traditional Good Friday mass prayers in churches and instead, telecast live prayers using social media. Bishop Rev. Ravikumar Niranjan has said that the community members have been asked to hold prayers in their houses and participate in mass prayers using social media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/good-friday-prayers-through-social-media/article31304689.ece
10 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Rapid tests for COVID-19 in Hassan district soon||The Hassan district administration will soon start conducting rapid test for COVID-19, said Deputy Commissioner R. Girish here on Thursday. Speaking to presspersons, the officer said that so far 92 samples had been tested in Hassan. Of these, the results of 89 turned negative and the results of three samples were awaited. The existing testing system requires five to six hours to get results. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had, in his video conference on Wednesday, said that rapid test kits would be sent to the district. “Once we get the rapid test kits, we can get the results within half an hour. In the last week alone, the administration conducted tested more than 60 samples. Many more tests would be done to check the spread of the infection,” he said. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda said that the police seized nearly 1,000 motorbikes and cars for violation of the lockdown order. The police would continue to seize vehicles of those who venture out without valid reason. “We seek people’s cooperation in our efforts to avoid the spread of the infection,” he said. Zilla Panchayat CEO B.A. Paramesh urged people to extend cooperation to ASHAs on duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rapid-tests-for-covid-19-in-hassan-district-soon/article31304697.ece
10 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Chief Minister urged to release remuneration pending for four months to guest lecturers||Drawing the attention of the State government to the pathetic condition of guest lecturers in the State, MLC Basavaraj S. Horatti has written to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa urging him to release their pending remuneration. In the letter to the Chief Minister, which has been released to the media, Mr. Horatti has pointed that over 13,000 guest lecturers serving in various government first grade colleges across the State had not received their remuneration for the work done for the last four months. “These guest lecturers have been virtually thrown onto the streets as neither they have work nor have they received their salaries for the work done,” Mr. Horatti has said. Mr. Horatti has said that these guest lecturers do not have any job security and would only receive honorarium for classes handled by them. “The guest lecturers receive remuneration based on the classes handled by them and because of the COVID-19 lockdown, holidays have been declared for colleges. What is even worse is that they have not received their remuneration making it difficult for them to run their families,” he has said. Mr. Horatti has mentioned in the letter that as they had not received remuneration for the last four months, they were not in a position to even buy groceries for their families. Even grocery stores have stopped giving them credit. In this moment of crisis even handloans were not available to them making their lives further miserable, he has said. While the government had extended necessary assistance to small traders, vendors and daily wage workers, it had failed to help guest lecturers whose situation was no different from daily wage workers, he has said. “Those working in factories and serving government departments get their salaries even if they sit at home due to the lockdown. The State government should consider the plight of these guest lecturers and take steps to release their remuneration for the lockdown period,” he has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chief-minister-urged-to-release-remuneration-pending-for-four-months-to-guest-lecturers/article31304694.ece
10 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Amid lockdown, online training programme begins||At a time when a country-wide lockdown to prevent COVID-19 pandemic has forced academic institutions to close their doors, the Economics Department of Karnatak University, Dharwad, (KUD), has made use of technology to offer interactive mode training programme to students who are now restricted to their houses. Under Cloud-based technology, the Department of Economics organised a week-long online live training programme on “Application of Econometrics in Social Science Research” and on Tuesday, the resource persons and guests came online to formally launch the programme. Joining the inaugural ceremony of the training programme from Bengaluru, Director of Institute of Social and Economic Change Madheswaran S. addressed 75 students and research scholars who had signed into the online session and said: “Usage of econometric tool in social sciences research, particularly in economics, was imperative to produce qualitative research, understand this complex economy and address the typical problems that we are facing day-to-day.” Vice-Chancellor of Karnatak University T.M. Bhaskar presided over the online inaugural. The online training programme would be run daily for two hours till April 14 and resource persons from different universities and institutions will conduct online interactive sessions, Chairman of the Department of Economics R.R. Biradar told The Hindu . As many as 75 students and research scholars from Karnataka and neighbouring States are participating in the training programme. There was an online rendition of an invocation song by Priyadarashani Patil, while Shreya Supannavar compered the programme. Divya Hegde proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/amid-lockdown-online-training-programme-begins/article31304679.ece
10 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Get test done even if you are asymptomatic’||In a video shot after being discharged from hospital, which has subsequently gone viral, Ashwini G.S., daughter of Member of Parliament from Davangere G. Siddeshwar, has appealed to all who have returned from abroad to voluntarily get themselves tested even if they are asymptomatic. Ms. Ashwini, who was discharged from SS Hospital in Davangere after undergoing treatment, said that after she returned to India, she had home quarantined herself. Although she did not have COVID-19 symptoms, her father got her tested and she tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/get-test-done-even-if-you-are-asymptomatic/article31304692.ece
10 April 2020||HYDERABAD,KARNATAKA||RGIA keeps premises spick and span||Commercial civil aviation at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) has been shut down owing to the lockdown. As a result, the airport, which has over 5,000 employees, is now forced to manage with about 500 or so. These workers have become the ‘unsung heroes’, doing deep cleaning and sanitation covering every inch of the 1.27 lakh sq.ft airport spread across seven levels with a terminal building, aerobridges, informed an official spokesman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rgia-keeps-premises-spick-and-span/article31304515.ece
10 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Police officer suspended for assaulting Imam||An assistant sub-inspector of Humnabad station in Bidar has been suspended for assaulting a bike-borne Imam, who sustained injuries, on Wednesday morning. Bidar Superintendent of Police Nagesh D.L. has placed Basavaraj under suspension pending a departmental enquiry. Hafiz Naseeruddin, a 35-year old Imam, who was going to a market on motorcycle around 8 a.m. on Wednesday, was allegedly stopped and assaulted with a baton by Mr. Basavaraj who was on duty at Kallur Road Bridge in the town to enforce the lockdown. Mr. Naseeruddin sustained a nasal fracture in the incident. He was taken to the district hospital in Kalaburagi. Tablighi event reference “While hitting Mr. Naseeruddin, the police referred to the attendees of Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz and blamed the entire community for the spread of COVID-19 in India. It shows how the police force is completely biased and prejudiced,” said Abdul Rahim Patel, a leader from Social Democratic Party of India. Condemning the attack, Maulana Ateeq Ur Rehman Ashrafi, State president of All-India Imams Council, demanded stringent action against the police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-officer-suspended-for-assaulting-imam/article31304533.ece
10 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Retail traders from Central Market will be rehabilitated, says MP||Dakshina Kannada Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel said on Thursday that retail traders who will be displaced by the closing down of the Central Market in the city will be rehabilitated near Nehru Maidan once the COVID-19 situation eases. Speaking to presspersons after launching “BJP Karnataka COVID-19” common helpline at the party office here, Mr. Kateel said that 220 retail traders from the Central Market will be accommodated on about two acres of land near the maidan. The two-acre land had been reserved for the street vendors but they have failed to occupy the space meant for them. Now, the same land will be given to the retail traders. Mr. Kateel said that the Central Market building will be demolished and a new modern market complex would be constructed there under the Smart City mission. All whole sale merchants in the Central Market have been asked to shift their operations to the APMC Yard in Baikampady. Commissioner of Mangaluru City Corporation Ajith Kumar Hegde Shanady issued a public notice recently announcing the closing down of the Central Market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/retail-traders-from-central-market-will-be-rehabilitated-says-mp/article31304695.ece
10 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Early summer rain eases forest fire threat||Early summer rain in parts of the State has reduced the incidents of forest fires that had seen a surge in the last few weeks. Apart from the searing heat with temperature upward of 38 degrees Celsius in most places, the dry deciduous nature of most of the forests and the proliferation of weeds like Lantana camara in national parks and tiger reserves had contributed to spike in fire incidents. There were 1,863 fire incidents — big and small — across the State from March 1 to 31 as per the Forest Survey of India (FSI), which generates fire alerts on near real-time basis. March saw an average of 60 fires a day. From April 1 to 5 with the temperatures hovering above 38 degrees C to 40 degrees C in most forest regions, the FSI alerts indicated 448 fires spread across Karnataka covering Belagavi, Shivamogga, Dharwad, Mangaluru, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Ballari, and Mysuru circles, among others. This averaged out to nearly 90 fires a day. Thanks to moderate to heavy rains, the number of fire spots dipped to 58 across the State between April 6 and 8, and not a single large fire was seen in Karnataka as on April 8. Parts of south Karnataka region have continued to receive moderate to heavy rains. Hence most forests in the region, including Bandipur, Nagarahole, MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary, and BRT Tiger Reserve, have seen a reprieve and relief from the scourge of forest fires. Mahesh Kumar, Deputy Conservator of Forests (DCF), Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, said the rains have been widespread and has covered the entire national park spread over 642 sq km. At Bandipur, even the major fire prone areas with vast swathe of dry deciduous and scrub vegetation over run by Lantana, has received good rains during the week, said T. Balachandra, Director of Bandipur Tiger Reserve. Here last year more than 15,000 acres of forests were gutted. At MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary and BRT Tiger reserve, the scenario is similar with moderate to heavy rains but MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary DCF V. Yadukondalu said they will lower their guard against fire only if there were a few more spells of rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/early-summer-rain-eases-forest-fire-threat/article31304536.ece
10 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Source of infection remains elusive||The pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud, whose employees and their close contacts account for 26 of the 37 COVID-19 positive cases in Mysuru so far, has claimed that the plant had not imported any raw materials from China in refrigerated containers. “None of the raw materials imported from China for the plant comes under any cold chain or refrigerated container,” said Jubilant Generics Ltd., the company, in a statement. The company’s claim assumes significance in the light of investigations exploring whether materials imported from China were the source of infection. Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Abhiram Sankar, however, said the investigation into the source of infection will find out the truth, rather than go by claims. Minister for Health Sriramulu, who held a review meeting with officials in Mysuru on Wednesday, said samples of the raw material had been sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for tests. The company said that the raw materials had come in normal containers and had taken more than 21 days to reach the plant by sea route. The storage of raw material was also in normal temperature, which was above 32 degrees Celsius when the authorities drew the samples. The company sought to dismiss as premature any conclusions on the role of raw materials in the spread of the virus. Meanwhile, more than 1,300 persons connected to the company, including employees, their family members, relatives and close contacts, have already been quarantined. A majority of the employees stay in Nanjangud, which has been declared as a containment zone. With several employees of the company testing positive, officials have not ruled out the possibility of P 52, the 35-year-old employee of the firm who tested positive on March 26, contracting the virus from already infected employees of the company. Mr. Sriramulu told reporters that the inquiry was not only investigating whether P 52 had met any visitor from a foreign country, but also checking for visitors to the plant and the travel history of the company’s employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-source-of-infection-remains-elusive/article31304534.ece
10 April 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Three children drown in pond in Raichur district||Three children were drowned in a small pond at Rowdakunda village in Sindhanur taluk of Raichur district on Thursday. They were identified as Ravikumar (11), Nagaraj (10) and Karthik (6). The incident occurred when they went to the pond to fetch drinking water. A case has been registered in the Sindhanur Rural Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-children-drown-in-pond-in-raichur-district/article31304684.ece
10 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Five new cases of KFD||Five new positive cases of Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD) have been reported in Shivamogga district since Wednesday. On Wednesday, the blood samples of four persons tested positive for KFD — three from Tirthahalli taluk and one from Sagar taluk who is the father of the four-year-old boy from Seegemakki in Sharavati backwater region who was diagnosed for KFD recently.On Thursday, the blood samples of a 35-year-old farmer from Bettabasavani in Tirthahalli taluk tested positive for the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-new-cases-of-kfd/article31304520.ece
10 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||KMC applies for setting up COVID-19 test facility||With the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) allowing applications from government and private medical colleges for setting up COVID-19 testing labs, the Kasturba Medical College (KMC) in Manipal has applied for one such facility. Medical Director of Kasturba Hospital Avinash Shetty said here on Thursday that the KMC had applied for the lab earlier also but had not received the nod. Now, since the ICMR had invited applications from government and private medical colleges, it applied again on Thursday. The lab would come up in the Department of Microbiology. “We have all the necessary facilities required by the ICMR and also NABL accreditation as required. Once we receive the nod, we will set up the COVID-19 testing facility. This will help those with symptoms of COVID-19 to get reports within a matter of hours. Now, these persons have to wait for two to three days for results as throat swabs are being sent to either Shivamogga or Hassan,” he said. District COVID-19 Nodal Officer Prashanth Bhat said that setting up a lab at KMC would be beneficial for Udupi district. Earlier, the State government had recommended a lab at KMC to the ICMR. “The current strategy is to test more. Having a lab here will definitely help us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kmc-applies-for-setting-up-covid-19-test-facility/article31304696.ece
10 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Policemen suspended||Three police officials have been suspended for allegedly circulating a hate message on social media. The message targeted Muslims. Taking serious note of it, Superintendent of Police Anupam Agrawal suspended the personnel. “Besides this, I conducted meeting of officials instructing them not to forward any communally sensitive messages on social media, as it may create social disturbance and, more importantly, it will bring bad name to the Police Department,” he said. Mr. Agrawal said that a clear message has been sent to the common public not to share any inflammatory message on social media. He has said that tough action will be initiated against all such people who try to create communal tension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/policemen-suspended/article31304685.ece
10 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Adventurism during lockdown claims life||Adventurism during lockdown led to the death of a man in Hungund taluk of Bagalkot district on Thursday. Mallappa Bommadi, 41, had come to the house of his in-laws at Amargol village of Muddebihal taluk in Vijayapura district a few days ago. On Thursday, he decided to return to his village but the police prevented him at Tangadagi bridge across the Krishna. They told him to go back as travelling is banned during the lockdown. The man, who was determined to move despite the prohibition, decided to swim across the river. According to the Muddebihal police, he jumped into the river and started to swim, but midway, he lost strength and could not swim further and drowned. His body was recovered later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/adventurism-during-lockdown-claims-life/article31304521.ece
10 April 2020||Vijayawada/Hyderabad/Chennai/Thiruvananthapuram,KARNATAKA||A.P., Telangana see two deaths||COVID-19 claimed the lives of a 45-year-old man in Guntur (A.P) and an unidentified individual in Telangana on Thursday. While Tamil Nadu reported 96 more positive cases, taking the total number in the State to 834, Kerala expressed cautious optimism that it would be able to keep disease transmission under control. The fatality in Andhra Pradesh was from Narsaraopet in Guntur district. The State reported 15 more positive cases from four districts, and a cumulative death toll of six. There were 364 cases as of Thursday evening. Telangana registered 18 coronavirus positive cases during the day. The individual who succumbed was under treatment, an official statement said. The State’s casualties stood at 12.   ‘Single source event’ Tamil Nadu Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said of the 96 persons, 84 were connected to the “single source event” (Delhi conference) — both participants and their contacts. Of the remaining 12 patients, three had inter-State travel history and nine, including a doctor, had a history of contact with COVID-19 patients. “There have been no deaths in the last 24 hours in the State,” she told reporters. As on date, 27 patients were discharged after treatment. Among those hospitalised with COVID-19, six were ill with symptoms but did not require critical care. One patient, who was admitted to a private hospital, was put on a ventilator. “The number of persons who had attended the single source event was increasing in a phased manner. Many reported after the government made an appeal. We first had 1,000 persons, and then the number went up to 1,103 and then to 1,131. As on date, there are 1,480 persons who had attended the event. A total of 763 persons — 554 participants and 188 of their contacts and seven foreigners and 14 of their contacts — have tested positive,” she said. The remaining 71 patients had a history of travel or contact history, she added. Foreigners recover Exactly a 100 days after the first COVID-19 case was reported in Kerala and a total of 357 cases later, the State government expressed cautious optimism that it could keep disease transmission under control with lockdown norms and protocols like social distancing and universal wearing of masks. The Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, said that the State had won praise from foreign tourists —eight of them, including those well into their 70s and 80s— who had tested positive for COVID-19 and who had been nursed back to good health. Brian Neil from the U.K. had been quite serious and required special treatment, which proved efficacious. On Thursday, 12 new positive cases were reported in Kerala, taking the total to 357, while 258 are under treatment in hospitals. In Telangana, the total number of cases touched 471 on Thursday with 18 new coronavirus positive cases. Health Minister Eatala Rajender said 385 out of the 471 cases pertained to people who attended the meeting at Nizamuddin and their close contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ap-telangana-see-two-deaths/article31304513.ece
10 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Quick official response helps elderly woman get foodgrains||In a quick response on Thursday, a team of Revenue officials distributed grain to a starving 75-year-old woman who was suffering without food since her only son is stuck in Pune of Maharashtra since the lockdown. This correspondent sent a message to the district administration after receiving information from sources that Shankramma (75), a native of Nellagunda Tanda near Hunasihole village in Hunsagi taluk of Yadgir district, was suffering without any food and facing difficulties as there was none to look after her. Responding to the message, Assistant Commissioner of Yadgir sub-division Shankaragowda Somanal asked the Tahsildar of Hunsagi and other revenue officers to visit the tanda immediately. Meanwhile, this correspondent also spoke to Shankramma who said that her son had gone to a big city for livelihood and that she doesn’t know where he is. She requested for help. It was also learnt that her son is in Pune now. Tahsildar Vinay Patil instructed Deputy Tahsildar Mahadevappa, Revenue Inspector Basavaraj Biradar to visit the tanda. Following this, Mr. Mahadevappa and Mr. Biradar, along with the village accountant, met Shankramma and handed over 10 kg of rice and other food material to her. The team also assured her of medical aid if she needed and asked her to contact them in an emergency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/quick-official-response-helps-elderly-woman-get-foodgrains/article31304688.ece
10 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Girl tests negative for COVID-19 in Yadgir||Residents of Kongandi village in Shahapur taluk of Yadgir district heaved a sigh of relief after a five-year-old girl tested negative late on Wednesday night. On April 7, the girl was brought to Shahapur after she complained of fever, cold and cough. But, she died on her way to the taluk hospital. However, doctors on duty collected her throat swab and sent the sample to Kalaburagi for test. The report, which came on Thursday night, showed that she was negative for COVID-19. Earlier, two RMP doctors, Devu Gollappa Hadapad and Sanjay Pagalmandal, who initially treated the girl, were booked under Section 188 IPC and Section 3 of the KPME Act for not informing the Health Department officials about the girl’s condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/girl-tests-negative-for-covid-19-in-yadgir/article31304686.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Katriguppe ward gets free home delivery service on pilot basis||Residents of Katriguppe ward need not step out of their homes to buy essential items and medicines. They can just call a number and place a request for the items, which will be home delivered from the nearest grocery shop or pharmacy. This is a pilot that was launched recently in the ward. Councillor M. Ventakesh (Sangathi) told The Hindu that pamphlets had been distributed to all houses in the ward. The call centre (080-61914960) became operational on Saturday. “Now, we get at least 300 calls a day. The orders get serviced within two hours,” he claimed, and said that 86 grocery shops and pharmacies were on board for the pilot. Residents can either send the list on WhatsApp and send their delivery location. For medicines, a photo of the doctor’s prescription has to be attached. “Payment is made at the time of delivery,” Mr. Venkatesh said and added that home delivery service was being done for free. The home delivery service is available only twice week, but fresh fruits and vegetables are being sold on pushcarts or rickshaws every alternate day between 7 a.m. and 11 a.m. in all roads and bylanes, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/katriguppe-ward-gets-free-home-delivery-service-on-pilot-basis/article31304498.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Handbooks, websites to separate fact from fiction||Ever since the COVID-19 pandemic made itself felt in the country, there has been an overflow of information on different platforms, including social media. The barrage of ‘forwards’ and ‘shares’ have made it difficult to separate fact from fiction. Now, different sectors, such as academic institutions and media houses, are stepping in with information hubs to streamline information. One such initiative is ‘covid-gyan.in’, which serves as a collection of resources in response to COVID-19 . The information is generated by public-supported research institutions in India and associated programmes. The content presented relies on the ‘best available scientific understanding’ of the disease and its transmission. The one-stop website is a pan-TIFR-IISc. (and other partner institutions) initiative. It has articles, interviews with experts and tips on staying mentally strong during self-isolation. Videos are available in English, Kannada and Hindi. Azim Premji University has launched a booklet that lists all the major government announcements with regard to the coronavirus relief measures. The university is getting it translated in regional languages with the aim of make it useful for community workers and grassroots activists.  The Hindu has launched an e-book in 14 languages, including Kannada, Tulu, Tamil and Malayalam, apart from English and Hindi, to help readers understand the virus, the disease, precautions and other information related to the disease.  The links    https://covid-gyan.in/ https:/covid19socialsecurity .wordpress.com/relief-measures/   https:/creatives.thehindu .com /covid_19_ebook.pdf||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/handbooks-websites-to-separate-fact-from-fiction/article31304500.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Meeting to discuss measures||Former Mayors, senior councillors, and chairpersons of BBMP’s Standing Committees met with Mayor M. Goutham Kumar and civic chief B.H. Anil Kumar and were apprised on measures taken by BBMP to check the spread of COVID-19. Mr. Goutham Kumar said all councillors had agreed to set aside Rs. 25 lakh from their ‘Programme of Works’ grants to be utilised to distribute dry ration kits and other essentials to the needy in each ward. Ward committees must be provided with the list of officials and the duties delegated to them. This would help resolve problems at the ward level, councillors said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meeting-to-discuss-measures/article31304497.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||City showers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-showers/article31304502.ece
10 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha emerges largely unscathed||It was on February 2, 2020 that Alappuzha logged its first and the country’s second COVID-19 case. In less than two weeks, the district heaved a sigh of relief when the Wuhan returnee who tested positive for the disease was discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, after recovering fully. The person was the first to be cured of the disease in the country. When the second wave of infections hit the State, the district remained largely unscathed. Since the first positive case, the district reported just four more cases and only three remained under treatment as of Thursday. No contacts positive No primary contacts of the positive cases have contracted the disease so far in Alappuzha, let alone community-level spread. Even as authorities continue to maintain a high level of vigil, they strongly believe the pestilence has been contained at least for the time being. Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran, who is in charge of Alappuzha district, says: “Compared to some other places, Alappuzha has registered far fewer cases so far and there are no fatalities too. This proves that the State government’s containment plan has worked well in the district. Without the humongous efforts put in by the district administration, Health Department, volunteers and others, things would have gone awry.” According to Health Department officials, various measures and efforts that had gone into dealing with the first case have come handy in further checking the spread of COVID-19. Stringent measures “The student from Wuhan testing positive has not taken us by surprise. We have been informed of his arrival in advance and we were prepared for any eventuality. The precautionary measures have saved even his parents from contracting the disease. From that time on, the protocol with stringent measures continues to be the order of the day. We have been able to identify people coming from hotspots and put them in home quarantine,” said a Health Department official. All five positive cases in the district have a travel history. While three have returned from foreign countries, the other two attended the Tablighi meet at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month. After the Tablighi event became a COVID-19 hotspot, authorities were quick to identify people who attended it and returned to their houses in the district. They were soon shifted to a COVID care centre. Besides, their primary and secondary contacts have also been put under close monitoring.  “Those from the hotspots are being closely observed. This has helped us identify two asymptomatic COVID-19 cases recently,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-emerges-largely-unscathed/article31304830.ece
10 April 2020||HYDERABAD,KERALA||2 Manipuri students denied entry||Two students from Manipur were allegedly denied entry into a supermarket here because of their facial appearance, the police said on Thursday. Two private security guards and the store manager were taken into custody, the police said. The incident happened on Wednesday when the students, aged around 24 and pursuing B. Tech in the city, went to buy groceries and vegetables, the police said. A video of the incident went viral, purporting to show a guard telling the students that they would not be allowed into the store. Based on a complaint, the police registered a case under Sections 341(wrongful restraint) and 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups) of the Indian Penal Code, an investigating officer told PTI. Union Minister of State for Youth Affairs and Sports Kiren Rijiju tweeted: “Give me the details where this incident took place.” Telangana IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao said racism in any form should be dealt with sternly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/manipuri-students-denied-entry-into-store/article31304516.ece
10 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Farmer contributes major share of his crop to CMDRF||While the State government has been facing a financial crisis in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, a farmer from Pulpally in Wayanad has set a model for others to emulate by contributing a major share of his crop to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF). Roy Antony of Kavalakkatu, a progressive farmer, has contributed nearly 12 tonnes of cassava cultivated on his 2.5- acre farm to the CMDRF. “The farming community in the hill district is also in a crisis owing to the pandemic, but I believe that it is my duty to lend my hand to the government to overcome the current crisis,” says Mr. Antony. Mr. Antony expressed his wish to Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar. “I am not in a position to help the government by contributing money, hence I conveyed my intention to hand over a share of the fruit of my hard work to Mr. Sunilkumar,” he said. The Minister advised the farmer to contribute his share to the CMDRF. Horticorp started procuring cassava harvested from his plantation on Tuesday. Horticorp sources said a major part of the tuber would be given to community kitchens functioning in various parts of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmer-contributes-major-share-of-his-crop-to-cmdrf/article31304814.ece
10 April 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Kannur to take swab tests of all primary contacts||For the first time in the State, people in Kannur who have come into contact with COVID-19 patients would be brought under the high-risk group and will be subjected to a swab test even if they are without symptoms. District Medical Officer (Health) K. Narayana Nayak said Kannur was the first district in the State to take this step. He said samples of 59 people were collected on April 7 and on the next day, samples of 17 people were collected. Primary contacts in home isolation will be sent to the Kannur District Hospital, Thalassery General Hospital, Government Medical College Hospital, Kannur, and COVID-19 Medical Centre at Anjarakandy, Dr. Nayak said. People in quarantine The DMO said the number of people in quarantine was on the decline. To date, there have been 14,286 quarantined people at hospitals and homes. Currently, there are 8,574 people in quarantine. Of the 5,712 people who have completed the quarantine period to date, 1,070 completed the process on Thursday. At present, only 51 persons were under observation at the 12 corona care centres in the district. On Thursday, 189 people returned home after completing the quarantine, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-to-take-swab-tests-of-all-primary-contacts/article31304816.ece
10 April 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Conditions pose hurdles for patients||The conditions set by the Karnataka government for allowing entry of patients from Kasaragod district for treatment at hospitals in Mangaluru have turned out to be a hurdle for most of them. Though teams of doctors are posted on both sides of the border to verify the details of patients, only those who need urgent medical attention are allowed entry. Several patients are forced to return as they do not ‘fulfil’ the conditions set by the neighbouring State. Also, patients allege that they are not allowed to visit the hospitals they have been visiting so far.  Forced to return Hyder, a diabetic from Manjeswaram who had his leg amputated, was forced to return at the check-post on Wednesday morning, when the border was reopened after the enforcement of the lockdown to contain COVID-19. He wanted to visit a Mangaluru hospital for review. He says that it is unfortunate that patients like him are turned back on the premise that the conditions do not allow diabetics to enter Karnataka. “I am asked to visit a hospital in Kasaragod,” he says. Treatment denied Another patient says he was forced to visit another hospital though he wanted to consult a doctor at the Indiana Hospital in Mangaluru. The hospital he was forced to visit apparently denied him treatment. Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh says patients in need of urgent medical attention would be treated only at K.S. Hegde Medical College. The ambulance carrying patients from Thalapady should avoid Mangaluru city and take the Deralakattae route.  Specialised treatment The Karnataka government allows only State-owned ambulances with critically ill patients who have no COVID-19. Patients who would not get specialised treatment for cardiac, neuro, renal tubular acidosis and for post partum complications in Kasaragod would be allowed entry. The patient should carry a medical officer’s certificate that he/she is not infected with COVID-19 and has not travelled abroad or to any other State and that he or she has no symptoms of the disease. It further says a medical officer should certify that no treatment facility is available for the patient in Kasaragod and that he cannot be taken to Kannur Only a paramedic, a driver, and a helper will be allowed along with the patient. The Karnataka medical team would be at the Thalapadi check-post to ensure that the conditions set are followed. The patient should carry a valid identity card, passport or Aadhaar card. Kasargod District Medical Officer (Health) A.V Ramdas said that in addition to the facility located near the Thalapadi check-post, the Medical Officer Certification Service will be provided 24 hours in the Manjeswaram Community Health Centre (CHC). On Friday, at least three people were allowed to cross the borders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/conditions-pose-hurdles-for-patients/article31304788.ece
10 April 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Blockade: one more death in Kasaragod||One more person in Kasaragod died without getting treatment on Thursday night. He was denied entry through the State borders just a day before Karnataka lifted the blockade on the inter-State borders. Abdul Saleem, a resident of Uppala, was undergoing treatment for heart problems. When his health condition deteriorated, his family members tried to take him to a Mangaluru hospital two days ago. However, on reaching the Thalapady border, the Karnataka Police denied him entry. He died on Thursday night. With this, the number of people in the district who died after being denied urgent medical treatment at hospitals across the border rose to 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/blockade-one-more-death-in-kasaragod/article31304789.ece
10 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Seven cured of COVID-19 discharged||Seven persons who recovered fully from COVID-19 have been discharged from hospitals in Ernakulam. An online cab driver, Latheesh, who was one of the primary contacts of a COVID-19 patient who had died, was discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital here on Thursday. He had transported the Mattanchery resident from the airport. The cab driver, a Vallarpadam native, was admitted to the hospital on March 25. After his CT scan revealed pneumonia, he was treated with a combination of hydroxychloroquine, antibiotics and antiviral drugs. He was cured of the symptoms by the sixth day of treatment. He was discharged after his test results turned negative for the virus. His family members had earlier tested negative for the disease. On Wednesday, six persons, including a British woman, who was being treated at a private hospital, were also discharged. With this, all the British nationals who were shifted to the private hospital from the medical college remain discharged. Those who were discharged from the medical college include two Kannur natives and three from Ernakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seven-cured-of-covid-19-discharged/article31304775.ece
10 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Flattening the pandemic curve our priority: Isaac||In an interview, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac talks on the lockdown and plans for economic revival. It is a situation where the supply chains have been severed. Therefore, we are carefully working on a plan and agriculture would be the first sector to be eased from the lockdown. Kerala has relatively small parcels of farmland and we are encouraging kitchen gardens. But that will now have to be expanded to other crops because it is possible to continue social distancing while doing farming except in certain segments. But to do that, we will have to have a moratorium on farmers’ debt. We may have to subsidise farming to kick-start production. This is also the time for Kerala to bring in agriculture processing industries where we are woefully behind. We could start by asking cooperatives to start procuring coconut and set up processing units. Further, cottage industries such as coir where spinning is done in households can restart. Then you have sectors such as tourism that will take a long time to be normal. There is no way it can be reopened in the next three or four months. Foreigners should have the confidence to come here. You have to strategise in the long-term. But we intend to start a campaign right away after the lockdown is over, showcasing a resilient Kerala. Showing how we have tackled COVID-19. This is to welcome them when we open up after the rains or during the boat race season. Taking the lead The industries that will lead the post-lockdown stage will be those contributing to health care. The public sector Kerala State Drugs and Pharmaceuticals (KSDP) is expanding in terms of infrastructure and capacity. A small company with a turnover of Rs. 25 crore to Rs. 20 crore, it will have manufacturing capacity worth Rs. 250 crore by year end. It is waiting for a licence for mass production of medicines needed by patients going for organ transplant. If the daily cost of their pills is Rs. 250 outside, the facility can produce them at Rs. 30 or Rs. 40. We intend to form a pharma consortium with private sector participation for production of drugs and medial devices. The only problem in medicine manufacture now is non-availability of chemicals as pharma companies are all dependent on Chinese supplies. Hopefully, the supply lines will be reactivated. Debt trap While the States are on the front line fighting the pandemic, the Centre is pushing them into a debt trap. When the Reserve Bank of India has slashed rates, why should the States be forced to pay higher interest rates for market borrowing? Ideally, the Centre should borrow from the RBI and make money available to States. The suspension of MPLADS funds also signals not just truncated decentralised expenditure. The money taken from this goes to a consolidated fund of India and not to a COVID fund. Salary challenge We have no intention of cutting or deferring salaries of employees. We will soon issue a comprehensive order with exemptions granted to certain sectors and may add some incentives to people who are participating in this. Relief package Primarily, it is a health crisis with a big economic fallout. We have done well so far to contain the spread of the infection. But we will wait till April 13 to gauge the situation as we do not want to do anything that might undermine our accomplishments in containing the spread. We do not want to risk a community spread, whose consequences can be terrible. Therefore, it does not matter what is the cost involved in flattening the curve. That said, for a lockdown to be effective, people must comply with it and actively participate in the process. That is why we instilled confidence in them by rolling out a relief package and ensured food and essentials to all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flattening-the-pandemic-curve-our-priority-isaac/article31304804.ece
10 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kasaragod on turnaround course, says Vijay Sakhare||Kasargod district, the biggest hotspot of the pandemic in the State, seems to be turning it around quite significantly going by the figures. Compared to a quantum jump from 34 positive cases to 106 cases in the last week of March, only 50 cases have been reported in the first nine days of this month, said Inspector General Vijay Sakhare, Special Officer, COVID-19 prevention, Kasaragod. “This means that from a geometric progression of 3.12 it has now more than halved to 1.46 and the numbers are declining fast. It may stabilise at around 170-180 cases from the existing 156 by the end of the original lockdown period on April 14. Had it continued at the earlier pace we would have been looking at more than 3,000 cases by April 21,” said Mr. Sakhare. He said Kasaragod seems on course of a turnaround under the able leadership of the Chief Minister and should be hailed as a model worthy of emulating in the rest of the country. Police measures “We created seven CCZs after a Geographic Information System showed that all the COVID-19 positive cases in the district were confined to seven clusters and cut them off completely from the rest of the district. This proved critical in containing the virus,” he said. Police deployed drones to spruce up the surveillance and arrested several people found breaking the lockdown. Even their family members were threatened of legal action. Police also launched a WhatsApp-based door-delivery service to reduce social interaction. Special teams armed with informative videos made daily visits to 20,000-odd people comprising foreign returnees and home quarantined people and their primary and secondary contacts who could potentially spread the infection The introduction of the Covid Safety App, which helped quarantined persons in getting medical and other assistance, also helped police in enforcing quarantine norms. Capacity enhancement to deal with any exponential rise in cases was another focal point as over 1,000 private hospital rooms and over 2,000 hotel, hostel and lodge rooms and maximum number of oxygen cylinders were arranged. Besides, private practitioners and nurses were roped in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kasaragod-on-turnaround-course-says-vijay-sakhare/article31304785.ece
10 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Access to cancer, transplant drugs becoming tough||Patients under treatment for cancer and organ transplant are finding the going tough during the lockdown as most medicines for their treatment would not be available in the local medical store. These medicines would be available in small quantities only in some of the major medical stores, near medical colleges, or a big hospital where cancer treatment facility is available. Stocks down Sixteen days into the lockdown, the stock of medicines would also have been depleted as the high cost of the drugs does not make it possible for most people to stock them for more than a month. Ravi Menon, State Drug Controller, told The Hindu that their office is getting over 60-70 calls every day on the issue. It is being sorted out by taking the details of the prescription and sending it to the district-level drug inspector to make the medicines available. However, delivery of the drug to the patient is not without another kind of problem. Patients find it hard to shed the brand loyalty. It took a lot to convince them in this regard, he said. Another problem was that most patients found it difficult to pay for the drugs even at subsidised rates. Most of these at government institutions were provided free of cost to the patient. Mr. Menon said the Kerala Medical Services Corporation was also pushing towards making the drugs available at Karunya pharmacies in all districts. Local pharmacies would not be able to provide cancer or transplant drugs at remote places, he said. Grievance redressal The assistant drug controller can be called on 7403006100 for any grievance in accessing the medicines, Mr. Menon said. S. Sudhindran, transplant surgeon at Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences, said the hospital used to courier the medicines to the patients. The monthly cost of the drugs, mostly immunosuppresants, that a transplant patient needs to take, could cost anywhere between Rs. 8,000 and Rs. 10,000 a month. The hospital used to courier them to the patients, but the service came to a standstill owing to the lockdown. Delivery issues Oncologist V.P. Gangadharan said that while there was no shortage of drugs in the hospital (Lakeshore Hospital), the difficulty was in delivering them. However, arrangements were being made to deliver them to the patients who called the hospital, either through an employee who stayed in the area or through some contact. “We are also arranging for chemotherapy schedules in hospitals that are near the patient’s area,” said Dr. Gangadharan. While the number of people in the OP is less, the numbers of calls from patients have gone up, mainly for coordinating and organising various needs of patients in their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/access-to-cancer-transplant-drugs-becoming-tough/article31304805.ece
10 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Luxury hotels turn to home delivery, ready special menus||Faced with a steep fall in room occupancy levels, income from Meeting, Incentive, Convention and Exhibition (MICE) tourism severely hit, and uncertainty over the lockdown, half a dozen luxury hotels in the city have begun home delivery of food. Le Meridien was among the hotels that took the plunge into home delivery with the tagline ‘Great Food, Even Better Prices’, a week ago. It has readied a special takeaway Easter menu too. “Response is getting better by the day. Our idea is to extend to Kochiites an option to savour our food, without having to spend a lot,” said Tejus Jose, general manager of the hotel. A standard dish generally costs Rs. 750 plus tax, while the rate in the home delivery menu is much lower and is inclusive of 19% tax. The Kochi Marriot too has readied a package. “We are providing a menu which includes our all-time favourite dishes. This is part of ‘Marriot on Wheels’ programme,” said Janice Fernandez, director (operations) of the hotel. Abad Plaza too has begun the service. “Customers have begun availing the service,” said Binoy Gopi, the hotel’s operations manager.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/luxury-hotels-turn-to-home-delivery-ready-special-menus/article31304773.ece
10 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Meat prices may spiral as supplies remain hit||Lockdown restrictions on inter-State borders have hit the prospects of meat stall owners and workers here amid concerns that the shortage in supply may result in a possible price hike. The price of beef in Ernakulam markets is in the range of Rs. 330 and Rs. 360 for bone and boneless varieties compared to Rs. 300 and Rs. 320 earlier, after the drop in supply from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. The rate of mutton was in the range between Rs. 600 and Rs. 750 on Thursday. “With Kerala depending on Tamil Nadu and AP for a major share of its requirement of cattle meat, traders and workers are staring at a crisis as their livelihood has been seriously hit. Dealers on State borders had hiked the price of cattle after the lockdown. Thousands of workers in meat stalls and markets have been left jobless,” said K.K. Ibrahim Kutty, State president of Kerala State Meat Workers’ Congress. A meat stall owner in Aluva said the procurement of cattle locally was not taking place as expected. “I had opened my stall only twice this week. The situation may turn worse by next week if the supplies remain hit,” he said. . Meanwhile, local bodies have stepped up vigil to check price hike. “Action will be taken against those attempting to hike rates,” said Lissy Abraham, Aluva Municipal Chairperson. The District Supply Office said it was yet to receive any complaints related to hike in prices. The public could report violations to the district office — 0484-2422251.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meat-prices-may-spiral-as-supplies-remain-hit/article31304781.ece
10 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Migrant worker returns the favour, contributes to CMDRF||Amid the State government’s repeated assurance that it is doing everything possible to take care of lakhs of migrant workers stranded in the State during the lockdown has emerged a touching tale from Kasaragod of a migrant returning the favour. Vinod Jagid, a tile worker at Kuttapunna, walked into the Neeleswaram police station on Wednesday evening and handed over his contribution of Rs. 5,000 to the Chief Minister’s Distress Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF). Originally from Bharatpur district in Rajasthan, Vinod is settled in Kasaragod for over a decade and did not have to think twice before handing over his small contribution of hard-earned money for his adopted home’s fight against the pandemic. He chose to hand over the money to the police since he felt it was the most trustworthy route to ensure that the money reached where it was intended. “I am also part of this land now. Even before, I used to contribute for local programmes during festivals like Onam,” said Vinod who stays with his wife and a two-year-old daughter in a rented house. When news reached him that his friends back in Bharatpur were contributing to efforts to fight the pandemic, he felt it was only fitting that he made a similar gesture towards Kerala, which has been his home for all practical purposes. Vinod said he and his fellow workers were happy with what the State government was doing for their well being during the crisis, which has now deprived them of work for over a fortnight. They have enough stock of provisions, and the local body officials are checking on them regularly to ensure that they never run short of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/migrant-worker-returns-the-favour-contributes-to-cmdrf/article31304783.ece
10 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||College helps mango farmers find buyers||What a college here can possibly do for farmers in the faraway panchayats of Palakkad during this lockdown? Going by what the commerce department of Al-Ameen College at Edathala has done for mango farmers in Muthalamada, Perumatty and Pattanchery panchayats along the border of Palakkad in association with the Palakkad District Agriculture Processing and Marketing Society, a lot seems possible. The department played ‘matchmaker’ by helping farmers find market for nearly 2,000 kg of eight different varieties of mangoes in the last week alone. This was at the request of Minister for Water Resources and Chittoor MLA K. Krishnankutty, an old acquaintance of the college principal, after the lockdown deprived farmers of market access. “Cooperative societies at Edappally, Muppathadam, and Chengamanad and LuLu Hypermarket took the first consignment and another 2,000 kg are expected this Sunday. Orders are placed based on specific demand since these organically ripened mangoes can’t be stored for more than five days,” said M.B. Sasidharan, college principal. Even before the lockdown, mango output had been on the decline thanks to climate change, and the floods did not help things either. “A decline of 40% in output is reported this season. We are focusing on small farmers with limited output. The idea is to find market beyond the procurement by Horticorp,” said M.V. Murugadas, president of the society. “As the initial limited lot were found to be very popular, we have now ordered over 1,000 kg of mangoes,” said Ummer Mustafa, fruits and vegetables buyer, LuLu Hypermarket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/college-helps-mango-farmers-find-buyers/article31304787.ece
10 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Uncertainty looms over local body polls||Uncertainty looms over the timely conduct of local body elections as the possibility of an extended lockdown and restrictions on social movements stares at the State. New regimes have to come to power in the 1,200-odd local bodies of the State in November, going by the provisions of the Panchayat Raj Act. It is the delay in initiating the delimitation process that worries those at the State Election Commission (SEC) as the elections could be held only after completing the exercise. Though secretaries of all local bodies were to undergo a training on April 6 and 7, it had to be postponed in the wake of COVID-19-induced lockdown. The Delimitation Commission, which is to decide on the future course of action, could not meet since the outbreak of the disease. Those at the SEC hoped that the social situation would become conducive for the commission to meet during the first week of April and reschedule the training process. However, the possibility of lifting the restrictions soon seems to be bleak, thus plunging the poll process into uncertainty. The delimitation process, through which the contours of all divisions in the local bodies will be redrawn by taking into account the increase in population during the last one decade, would take at least five months to complete. A host of litigations challenging the delimitation process are pending before the Kerala High Court, which is considering only urgent cases now. More litigations are likely to come up when the draft list is published. The delay by the litigations could further delay the poll process, the sources said. SEC hopeful At the same time, State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran remained hopeful of conducting the elections on time. “We have time till October to hold the election. If everything goes well, the delimitation process can begin in May and will be completed in four months. Elections will be held in two phases,” said Mr. Bhaskaran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uncertainty-looms-over-local-body-polls/article31304800.ece
10 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fall in number of quarantined people in Ernakulam||Thirty-six persons were placed in home quarantine on Thursday for suspected COVID-19, while 112 were removed from the list, taking the total number of people under home isolation to 2,985. Four more were shifted to hospital isolation in the district on Thursday. While two are at Medical College Hospital (MCH), Ernakulam, one is at the Aluva District Hospital and another at a private hospital. There are 24 persons in hospital isolation in the district, of whom 13 are at MCH, five at the Aluva hospital, two at the Karuvelipady taluk hospital, and four at a private hospital. After the discharge of seven patients, there are seven more COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment in hospitals. As many as 40 samples were sent for testing on Thursday. While 30 were tested negative, the results of 159 more are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fall-in-number-of-quarantined-people-in-ernakulam/article31304778.ece
10 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||PPE kits donated||Ernakulam Round Table 214 has donated 100 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits for Health professionals to District Collector S. Suhas, who is co-ordinating COVID-19 prevention activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ppe-kits-donated/article31304776.ece
10 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||5,000 kg of stale fish seized||The Food Safety Department has seized around 5,000 kg of stale fish in Ernakulam as on Thursday after truckloads of contaminated fish varieties reached here from other States over the past one week. “We have destroyed an average of 5,000 kg of rotten fish brought in trucks coming from Tamil Nadu,” said Jacob Thomas, Assistant Commissioner of Food Safety, Ernakulam. The vehicles had crossed the border check-posts before reaching various districts in the State. The trucks that arrived in Ernakulam seem to have crossed the Amaravila check-post in Thiruvananthapuram. Officials said they did not carry out the usual tests using kits to ascertain the presence of formaldehyde and ammonia in the seized fish as the loads were all found ‘rotten’. “We are also facing a shortage of rapid detection kits for formaldehyde and ammonia adulteration in fish developed by the Central Institute of Fisheries Technology owing to the lockdown. There is also an increase in demand for such kits after the number of fish adulteration cases spiked,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5000-kg-of-stale-fish-seized/article31304780.ece
10 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Plea to evacuate Indians stranded in UAE||A writ petition has been filed in the Kerala High Court seeking a directive to the Union government to evacuate all Indians stranded in the UAE on chartered flights. In their petition, Ibrahim Elettil, president, Kerala Muslim Cultural Centre (KMCC), Dubai, and another person said the Centre had imposed a travel ban on all international commercial passenger flights in the wake of the COVID-19-induced lockdown. As a result, Indians, including children, pregnant women, jobseekers and labourers, got stranded in the UAE. In fact, Emirates, the official airline of Dubai, had expressed its willingness to operate flights to India to evacuate the stranded Indians subject to Centre’s nod. The situation in the UAE was not good as all hospitals were flooded with patients. The Indian Embassy in the UAE had been in touch with the Centre on the issue. Besides, the petitioners had approached the Union Ministry for External Affairs and the Chief Minister. However, no help was forthcoming.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-to-evacuate-indians-stranded-in-uae/article31304790.ece
10 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||One more positive in Kollam||One more person tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the district to eight. Son of patient 7, the 21-year-old from Kaithod, Kadakkal, has been in strict home quarantine from March 25. According to the Health Department, he had visited Noorul Huda Masjid, Kaithode, on March 24 and around five persons were present there at that time. His sample was collected on April 7 and he was shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Parippally, on Friday. The department has already traced his primary and secondary contacts and released the detailed route map. All stable All COVID-19 patients in the district were stable and there had been no community transmission so far, said District Collector B. Abdul Nasar. The district administration has identified 20 first line treatment centres in Kollam in case there is community spread. Twenty hospitals in Kollam Corporation and Karunagapally municipality with a total bed capacity of 962 will be used for the purpose.  Meanwhile, the number of those in home quarantine in the district came down to 1,491 on Friday. As part of surveillance, 3,586 volunteers split into 1,670 teams and visited 17,268 houses in Kollam on Friday. Currently, 91 rapid response teams and 13 railway-road squads are functioning in the district as part of COVID-19 prevention activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-more-positive-in-kollam/article31304831.ece
10 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Charity services mark Mani’s death anniversary||Amidst restrictions in connection with the COVID-19 induced lockdown, the first death anniversary of Kerala Congress (M) founding chairman K.M. Mani was observed here on Thursday. In the morning, Kuttiyamma, wife of the late leader, along with their son Jose K. Mani, MP, and other family members paid homage to Mani at the cemetery of the St. Thomas Cathedral in Pala. Despite the directions, several party workers, including top KC(M) leaders Thomas Chazhikadan, MP; Roshy Augustine, MLA; and N Jayaraj, MLA; turned up at the cemetery and offered prayers. In line with a decision by the party leadership to suspend all official programmes to mark the death anniversary and observe the day through charity services, KC(M) workers sponsored the cost of food preparation in 500 community kitchens across the State during the day. Similarly, cooperative institutions run by the KC(M) leadership distributed emergency relief of Rs. 1,000 each for bed-ridden patients from poor families. The KC(M) faction led by Jose K. Mani had originally planned to observe the first death anniversary in an elaborate manner, which also included a public function in Kottayam on April 29. The programme, however, had to be postponed due to the restrictions. Meanwhile, dissident KC(M) leader P.J. Joseph too visited Mr. Mani’s cemetery here during the day and laid a floral wreath. Mr. Joseph was accompanied by Kaduthuruthy MLA Mons Joseph and others. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Joseph recalled the immense contributions made by Mr. Mani to ensure the welfare of people in the lower strata of society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/charity-services-mark-manis-death-anniversary/article31304797.ece
10 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Pineapple farmers tiding over bitter times||The shadow over the pineapple fields of Kottayam has finally begun to recede. Hit hard by the countrywide lockdown, the pineapple farmers in the region now join hands with the district administration and the Agriculture Department to sell large quantities of harvest in the local market. The project envisages selling the crop in association with residents’ associations, apartments, small-scale industrial units, and voluntary organisations so as to get over the loss incurred by the fruit farmers this harvest season. 100 kg minimum While the Agriculture Department is tasked to find buyers and coordinate sales, the farmers are required to bear the cost of harvesting and transportation this time. The condition is that the minimum order should be for 100 kg while payment should be made on delivery. Usually, the harvesting is carried out by those purchasing the fruit. Unable to find buyers from major markets in north India, they initially decided to let hundreds of tonnes of the ripe produce to rot in the fields but for an intervention by the authorities. The total pineapple production in Kottayam each season is estimated to be around 600 tonnes. Salomi Thomas, Principal Agricultural Officer in Kottayam, said the system would function on all days of the week. “Though we are not sure about selling the entire harvest through this opening, we hope to reach out to the maximum number of retail buyers,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pineapple-farmers-tiding-over-bitter-times/article31304828.ece
10 April 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Curbs to be extended in Kozhikode district||Restrictions will have to be extended in Kozhikode district even after the lockdown period ends on April 15 as it has been declared one of the hotspots where possibility of COVID-19 transmission is high, Labour and Excise Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan has said. At a review meeting here on Thursday, Mr. Ramakrishnan said certain categories had been exempted from the restrictions as of now. He directed the police to step up surveillance in the border areas near Mahe and Wayanad through which people were entering the district from Karnataka by foot. The Minister said steps had been taken to use ventilators from private hospitals if there was a shortage for them at the Medical College Hospital. Thursday witnessed 650 persons being removed from the surveillance list in Kozhikode district. With this, 19,399 people are under surveillance now. No new SARS-CoV-2 positive cases were reported for the fourth consecutive day. Dengue alert Meanwhile, the Health Department has sounded an alert against dengue fever and jaundice in Kozhikode in the wake of cases being reported from various parts of the district. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said on Thursday that aedes mosquitoes spread dengue fever and sources of their breeding should be destroyed. The Health Department said the summer rain being reported from many places recently might have led to hatching of mosquito eggs in waste materials, coconut shells, toys and tyres dumped in public places. Those who have jaundice symptoms have been asked to be at home and avoid interaction with others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-to-be-extended-in-kozhikode-district/article31304769.ece
10 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Church services go virtual||Church services went virtual in the State on Maundy Thursday with the 21-day lockdown, imposed in view of the COVID-19 scare, leaving the faithful strictly homebound. The custom of ‘washing the feet’ of 12 persons, recalling the day when Jesus Christ had the Last Supper with his disciples, was not held this time. All churches celebrated the customary service of Maundy Thursday with the participation of only five persons, in compliance with the lockdown norms. Live streaming Metropolitan of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church of Malabar Joseph Mar Thoma was the chief celebrant of the Holy Communion held at the Pulatheen chapel in Thiruvalla. The Mar Thoma Church members attached to nearly 1,000 parishes across the globe watched the communion on a virtual platform as the event was live streamed over YouTube, Facebook, and the Church website. Members of the Malankara Catholic Church watched the live-streaming of the Mass celebrated by Church head Cardinal Catholicos Baselius Mar Cleemis at St. Mary’s Cathedral at Pattom in Thiruvananthapuram. The Catholicos of the East and Malankara Metropolitan Baselius Mar Thoma Paulose-II celebrated the Holy Eucharist at the St. Peter’s and St. Paul’s Church at Parumala. Geevarghese Mar Athanasius Metropolitan of the Jacobite Syrian Church led the Maundy Thursday service at the Diara Church at Manjanikkara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/church-services-go-virtual/article31304819.ece
10 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||No new case in Pathanamthitta||No new COVID-19 case was reported in the district on Thursday, according to a medical bulletin released by District Collector P.B. Noohu. The number of patients admitted to the isolation wards at various hospitals came down to 13 on the day. Mr. Noohu said 128 persons, including seven persons cured of COVID-19, had been discharged from the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district so far. Oppam Doctor Meanwhile, the Collector launched an online health-care facility, Oppam Doctor, which facilitated service of doctors to patients who registered their names on the website of the Kerala Government Medical Officers Association. Patients may register their name, clicking the ‘oppam’ link on the website www.kgmoapta.com that provides names of 70 doctors with different specialities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-new-case-in-pathanamthitta/article31304820.ece
10 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Attack on house: CPI(M) suspends 6||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has suspended six workers from the preliminary membership of the party, pending inquiry, in connection with the attack on the house of a 19-year-old girl in quarantine at Thannithode on Thursday. The assailants who came on a few motorcycles even broke open the kitchen door. The Thannithode police have registered a case against a few CPI(M) activists in connection with the incident. The girl reached her home from Coimbatore on March 17 and, since then, had been home-quarantined by the Health Department as part of the ongoing COVID-19 prevention drive. Complaint filed Meanwhile, the girl filed a complaint to the Chief Minister and to the Cyber Cell of the police, citing malicious social media campaign against her and her family during the quarantine period. She also sought police protection on Tuesday as her father had received a death threat from some unknown person. The attack took place the same night. In a press release here on Thursday, CPI(M) district secretary K.P. Udayabhanu termed the attack grossly inhuman. The statement said the CPI(M) had suspended the party members Rajesh, Ashokan, Ajesh, Sanal, Naveen, and Jinson, pending inquiry, in connection with the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attack-on-house-cpim-suspends-6/article31304791.ece
10 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Elderly woman tests positive||An 80-year-old woman was diagnosed with COVID-19 in the district on Thursday. A native of Kallattumukku in Manacaud, she is suspected to have contracted the infection from her 61-year-old son who had returned from the Middle East on March 22. According to official sources, the patient has been under quarantine after her son’s sample test returned positive on April 1. She has been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital. With this, five patients are currently being treated for the disease in the district. The development came on a day the district administration heaved a sigh of relief after all COVID-19 test samples collected from Pothencode returned negative. The situation was in stark contrast to the widespread anxiety that prevailed in the aftermath of the death of a 68-year-old man on March 31, a few days after he had been diagnosed with the disease. The administration, clueless about how the deceased had contracted the infection, had intensified restrictions in Pothencode and vicinity for three weeks. Making matters worse, another Pothencode native was diagnosed with COVID-19 the next day. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said fear had receded in Pothencode after all the 215 samples collected from the contacts of the deceased tested negative. Curbs in Pothencode The family members of both Pothencode natives affected with COVID-19 had also been declared safe. The findings strengthened the belief that there had been no COVID-19 community transmission yet, he said, adding that the restrictions in the region would continue for now. The district administration placed 131 people under surveillance and removed 793 people off the quarantine list on Thursday. There were now 5,452 people under home quarantine in the district. Twenty-four symptomatic people were admitted to various hospitals in the district. Eighteen people were discharged after recovering from their ailments. Health authorities also collected 117 samples sent for COVID-19 tests. As many as 142 test results returned negative on the day. Besides, 252 people have been quarantined in Corona Care Centres in the University men’s hostel, women’s hostel, IMG hostel, SAMETI hostel in Veli, Mar Ivanios College hostel, and St. Mary’s School in Vizhinjam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elderly-woman-tests-positive/article31304825.ece
10 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Six teachers from State stranded in Lakshadweep||Six teachers and two Secretariat officials deployed for SSLC and higher secondary examination duties in the Lakshadweep islands are stuck there since the lockdown was announced. The eight are stranded at Amini, Kadmat, Minicoy, and Kalpeni. While three teachers each are posted for SSLC and higher secondary exam duties, two are Secretariat officials tasked with monitoring duties. They were part of an 18-member team from various districts of the State that had reached nine islands in the Lakshadweep prior to the start of the SSLC and higher secondary examinations on March 10. After the government decided on March 20 that the examinations will be put off as a precautionary measure against the spread of COVID-19, the group booked tickets on ships bound for the mainland. Their return dates were staggered as they were on different islands. Ten members of the group returned. However, the announcement of the lockdown on March 23 led to the cancellation of the ship that was to reach the islands of the remaining eight persons, leaving them stranded. They had hoped to return to the State after the three-week lockdown period ended on April 14. However, with the lockdown likely to get extended, they want the government to bring them back at the earliest. Government efforts to this end have not succeeded. Moreover, other people from the State employed in the islands are stuck there. They too will have to be brought back. Minister’s response Minister for Education C. Ravindranath in a programme on a television channel said he had discussed the matter with the General Education Secretary and Director of General Education. Further action has been entrusted to the Education Secretary.  Two Secretariat officials, tasked with monitoring exams, too are stuck in the island.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-teachers-from-state-stranded-in-lakshadweep/article31304821.ece
10 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plan to improve functioning of Corporation’s help desk||Mayor K. Sreekumar on Thursday presided over a meeting to improve the functioning of the city Corporaton’s help desk with the support of government departments. Kudumbashree units in the city, health centres, hospitals, the police, Labour Department, community kitchens, public distribution system, medical stores, ambulances, commercial establishments, Milma, online food delivery services are all linked to the help desk. Food issues Issues related to food for pregnant or breastfeeding women and children are solved by the help desk by getting in touch with anganwadis. Complaints related to ration are addressed through the district Supplyco office. One person from the pension wing has been deployed at the help desk to look into issues related to welfare pensions. Those seeking the help of the police are referred to the inspectors of the police stations concerned. On the directions of the help desk, medicines from hospitals are distributed by volunteers. Health inspectors will help if there is need for medical treatment by doctors. The help desk, which receives call from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on phone numbers 9496434409, 9496434410. The Corporation’s Janakeeya restaurant too has many takers. The hotel, located in the Corporation’s golden jubilee building opposite SMV Government Model Higher Secondary School, provides noon meals. Rice, sambar, ‘koottu’ curry, ‘thoran,’ and pickle are available for Rs. 20. Food will also be delivered home by volunteers for Rs. 25. Orders can be placed by 8 p.m. for delivery the next day. Bookings open at 9 a.m. Call 7034001843, 7012285498, 6235740810, 9061917457, 7012827903, 8129016079, and 8921663462. Orders will be taken through WhatsApp too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plan-to-improve-functioning-of-corporations-help-desk/article31304822.ece
10 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Massive response to Gulf help desks||Help desks and the video and teleconsultation services launched by the State government on Thursday for the one million-odd Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Oman for COVID-19-related issues have received an overwhelming response. The six help desks were initially started by NoRKA-Roots in Abu Dhabi, Al Ain, Dubai, Sharjah, Fujairah, and Ras Al Khaimah, and later in the day at Oman. They are being managed locally by organisations and volunteers active among NoRKs. Inquiries have been pouring in from people stranded following the cancellation of flights to Kerala and those in apartment complexes, villas, and labour camps across the UAE. “The help desks are getting calls on COVID-19 testing, concerns about the disease, medicine and food availability, and expressing their desire to return to Kerala. The nature of the calls will be analysed and a system and protocol will be developed to handle them,” NoRKA-Roots Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Harikrishnan Namboothiri K. told The Hindu . K. Elangovan, Secretary, Non Resident Keralites Affairs (NoRKA), which looks after the welfare of expatriates, has written to the Ambassadors seeking their support. Online services Online and telephone services have been made available for the NoRKs to raise concerns related to COVID-19 by registering on www.norkaroots.org. The web page has two sections titled ‘Doctor Online’ and ‘Hello Doctor’. The 24-hour ‘Doctor Online’ has doctors specialised in General Medicine, General Surgery, Gynaecology, Paediatrics, and other branches for answering queries and giving guidance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/massive-response-to-gulf-help-desks/article31304795.ece
10 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Railways ready with 92 isolation coaches||The two railway divisions in the State have converted 92 coaches into isolation units to augment the quarantine facilities being created in the wake of COVID-19. The Thiruvananthapuram division modified 60 non-air-conditioned three-tier sleeper and general class coaches at the coaching depots at Nagercoil, Thiruvananthapuram, Kochuveli, and Ernakulam, while the Palakkad division converted 32 coaches at the intermediate overhauling sheds at Mangaluru and Shoranur. A total of 1,472 beds are available in the 92 isolation units readied in the State. 5,000 coaches Railways have drawn up a plan to convert 5,000 coaches initially into isolation units to provide 40,000 beds. All works in the 92 units were completed ahead of schedule on Thursday. Eight of the nine cabins in a coach have been converted into independent isolation wards that can accommodate two patients each. Middle berths have been removed from these cabins. Mohammed Shameem and K.V. Sundaresan, senior divisional mechanical engineers of the Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad divisions respectively, supervised the works. Railways will move the units to those areas requested by the State. Three rakes, each with 20 coaches, pantry, and two SLRs, will be ready to be moved out on Friday and the units will have to be stabled at stations to fetch medical teams and for power and water supply, an official told The Hindu . Of the 32 isolation units in the Palakkad division, 20 will be stationed in Mangaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railways-ready-with-92-isolation-coaches/article31304807.ece
10 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Food kit distribution begins||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies P. Thilothaman inaugurated the distribution of free food kits given by the government in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Minister gave away the kits to residents of the Pattampara Adivasi settlement at Kottoor. The kits will be given to those in the Scheduled Tribes community who have AAY (Antyodaya Anna Yojana) cards. Steps are under way to supply the kits in settlements inside the forest such Nedumangad Kodiya Mala Adivasi colony. AAY cardholders not from the ST community will get the kits from ration shops. The kits have 17 items, including tea leaves, sugar, lentils, and soap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/food-kit-distribution-begins/article31304823.ece
10 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Fish abounds, but safety is of concern||With Easter around the corner, tonnes of stale fish are making their way to Kerala from neighbouring States. Despite a ban on deep-sea fishing, huge fish are aplenty in the market. But the large-scale seizure of stale fish across the State in the last few days raises concerns on the quality of fish available now. “Fish from nearby States are found to contain higher quantity of arsenic residue, which may cause hepatic and intestinal cancers,” says T.P. Sethumadhavan, former director, Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU). Checking fish gills, the old method to find out how fresh the fish is, still holds good, says B. Sunil, head, KVASU Meat Technology Centre, Mannuthy. “In whole fish, the gills are bright red or pink. Gills should not be dry or slimy. They could be slightly wet. In fresh fish, the eyes are shiny, clear and bulging. Sunken or wrinkled eyes means the fish is old. The body should be firm and the skin, glowing. Scales should be tightly attached. Loose scales, which tend to slough off, indicate staleness,” he says. Fresh fish give off only mild fishy smell. Fish with a pungent smell, which is due to the release of a compound in stale fish called trimethylamine, should be avoided. Consumers need to look for abnormalities in colour, texture, and surface sliminess, Dr. Sunil adds.  There are risks associated with bacterial or viral contamination, naturally occurring toxins, and chemical contaminants in fish. The problem is grave when fish is stored in unhygienic conditions under nonideal temperature. Pathogens and chemical contaminants like formalin are of prime concern. “While handing infected fish, people too can get infected through abrasions or cuts in their skin. KVASU has mapped Listeria (an infection caused by eating food contaminated with bacterium Listeria monocytogenes) in animals, food, and environment in Kerala,” Dr. Sunil says. Tips for customers A few tips for customers: Keep seafood refrigerated below 4°C until ready to use, separate cooked and raw seafood, wash utensils before using to avoid cross-contamination, wash hands before and after handling any raw or cooked food, cook seafood thoroughly to an internal temperature of 65°C and keep hot foods hot and cold foods cold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fish-abounds-but-safety-is-of-concern/article31304793.ece
10 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||BDJS leader T.V. Babu passes away||Bharat Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) State general secretary and Kerala Pualyar Maha Sabha (KPMS) leader T.V. Babu passed away following a cardiac arrest at the Thrissur Government Medical College Hospital on Thursday. He was 63. He led many agitations, including that for getting title deeds for the Scheduled Castes at Kadangode in 1990. Born at Injamudy in Thrissur, he started his public life as KPMS Kurumbilavu Shakha secretary. He become its State president for seven years, general secretary for three years and chairman of the State advisory board. He was Chazhur grama panchayat president and Anthikkad block panchayat president. When the BDJS was formed in 2015, he became its founder general secretary. He had unsuccessfully contested the Assembly election from Nattika in 2016 and the Lok Sabha election from Alathur in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bdjs-leader-tv-babu-passes-away/article31304794.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Four new cases each in Kannur, Kasaragod||Four new COVID-19 cases each were identified in Kannur and Kasaragod districts on Thursday. In Kannur, with the inclusion of four new cases, the number of positive cases has gone up to 64. In Kasaragod, the total number of cases has increased to 156 with four more cases on Thursday. Three cases detected are children aged 19, 14, and 8 of the Gulf returnee from Kalanad who has been found positive. Two new COVID-19 cases were reported in Malappuram district on Thursday, raising the total number of cases to 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-new-cases-each-in-kannur-kasaragod/article31304779.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Testing times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/testing-times/article31304833.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back in action||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-in-action/article31304799.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ritual goes live||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ritual-goes-live/article31304818.ece
10 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doctors at Anantapur GGH will get PPEs, N-95 masks: Collector||The district administration is according a top priority to the safety of doctors who are treating the suspects and COVID-9 positive patients at the Government General Hospital, Collector Gandham Chandrudu has said. “Personal Protection Equipment (PPEs) and N95 masks will be provided all the doctors treating the COVID-19 patients,” he said. The doctors, house surgeons, junior doctors and paramedical staff have been expressing concern over the lack of PPEs, N 95 masks after 15 doctors and paramedical staff developed symptoms at Government General Hospital. Fout of them have been tested positive till date. Address this concern, the Collector held a meeting with their representatives and reviewed the situation on Thursday. Additional manpower “More ENT specialists, anaesthesia technicians, and chest physicians will be mobilised to work at the COVID-19 hospital. Arrangements will be made for separate quarantine for the doctors and all their family members will be kept in home isolation, if necessary,” said Mr. Chandrudu. Meanwhile, Backwards Classes Welfare Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana held a meeting with doctors and private practitioners and sought their cooperation in treating the COVID-19 patients. He appreciated the gesture of KIMS Saveera Hospital which has offered all the 46 isolation ward beds for the patients in the need of critical care and services of specialists. More facilities “Three hospitals have been identified, which can be used as COVID19 speciality hospitals, if needed. The hospital managements have been instructed to keep their staff and doctors prepared,” said the Minister. Govt. incentive He also promised government incentives to all the nurses and doctors who work on COVID-19 duties. District Medical and Health Officer K.V.N.S. Anil Kumar said one doctor from each private hospital could join the team constituted for mobile healthcare vans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doctors-at-anantapur-ggh-will-get-ppes-n-95-masks-collector/article31304866.ece
10 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hopes for bumper crop of farmers shattered||Standing paddy crop in over five acres got submerged due to heavy rain and gusty winds in the early hours of Wednesday. Vege Raviraju, a farmer from Reddipalli in Bukkarayasamudram mandal is at his wits’ end. “I cultivated an IR variety close to BPT. I was expecting a bumper crop in another 20 days. But, the rain has ruined it all,” Mr. Raviraju told The Hindu.  The rain continued in some places in the district on Thursday, causing worry to farmers who are now thinking of contacting an agriculture expert to salvage the crop. “Standing crops have been damaged in Kothacheruvu, Bukkapatnam, Dharmavaram, and C.K. Palli on Thursday. As many as 488 farmers are facing similar situations in the district,” said Anantapur Joint Director of Agriculture Habib Basha. So far, the Agriculture Department has identified 488 paddy farmers in nine mandals, who had sown paddy in 306 hectares. Agriculture Officer Bala Naik said the field officers were suggesting ways to salvage the crops. “Removal of excess water from fields and spraying 5% salt solution to prevent germination can help. Banana growers need to provide mechanical support to prevent lodging and remove pseudostems of the fallen plants. Spraying copper oxychloride at the rate of 3 gm per litre of water will help new suckers grow,” said S. Malleswari Sadineni, scientist of Agriculture Research Station, Rekulakunta. Advisory issued If the maize crop is completely watwer logged, one should harvest the cobs and dry them quickly to minimize the loss, she says. As for vegetables, wherever it is possible to harvest, better to go for it and complete harvesting and take up spraying of copper oxychloride at 3gm/litre of water to control fungal and bacterial diseases. In case of groundnut, it is better to postpone harvesting of late sown rabi crop for two days to avoid post-harvest damage, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hopes-for-bumper-crop-of-farmers-shattered/article31304868.ece
10 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three drown in Anantapur district||Three persons died in two separate incidents of drowning in Anantapur district on Thursday. A woman and her son drowned in Gundumala tank in the afternoon. Boya Narasamma, 35, was washing clothes in the tank when her 10-year-old son Navdeep went into the water while playing and did not return. Narasamma tried to save her son, but could not come out as she did not know swimming. In the second incident at Gonabavi in Gummagatta mandal, an eight-year-old boy fell into a farm well and died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-drown-in-anantapur-district/article31304863.ece
10 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||With Ranga Shankara now online, the show goes on||Theatre has been facing an existential crisis in times of social distancing following the COVID-19 pandemic. In Bengaluru, the theatre space, Ranga Shankara, has reinvented itself and is trying to reach out to the theatre community and its audience, online. As part of the initiative, more than 20 actors, directors, playwrights and thespians from language theatres across the country have performed monologues from their favourite theatre texts for the camera and shared it online. These include performances by Shabana Azmi, Sihi Kahi Chandru, Mandya Ramesh, Mukhyamantri Chandru and B. Jayashree, while actor Umashree has performed a play after several years. This campaign is also part of the 15th anniversary celebrations of Ranga Shankara. Those who couldn’t record a video have still participated with an audio recording. ‘Encouraging response’ “With the lockdown, our lifeline to the audience was cut off. At Ranga Shankara, we never celebrated World Theatre Day, as we argued we do it every day. But this year was different. As a community space, we realised we had a role to play to keep theatre alive. What we could do now was only work with monologues as all of us are locked up at home. The response we got from the community has been very encouraging,” said Arundhati Nag, founder of Rangashanakara, who has performed a monologue from Girish Karnad’s play Anju Mallige , her first Kannada production. Live-streaming of plays has become the norm abroad, but remains untapped here. Has COVID-19 forced the theatre community in the country to explore the video as a medium? “We at Ranga Shankara have tried recording plays for archival purposes, but have failed to do great work like at NCPA, Mumbai. I feel a play in video is reductionist as it doesn’t give that wholesome experience,” Ms. Nag said. Umashree, who started with theatre and went on to become a noted film actor, said the experience of recording the monologue was strange. “I enacted a theatre text to the camera,” she said, but added that after years before the camera she was accustomed to it. ‘Human element’ Filmmaker B. Suresha had a different take. “Even at Ranga Shankara, we have tried to live-stream plays when we got Shakespeare’s Globe Theatre. But only a handful of people watched it online. Theatre requires that human element,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-ranga-shankara-now-online-the-show-goes-on/article31304420.ece
10 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wild elephant rescued from farm well near Palamaner||In a freak incident, a wild elephant from the Koundinya Wildlife Sanctuary was rescued from a farm well after it fell into it, at Gandhi Nagar village of Gangavaram mandal on Thursday, after a three-hour long operation. A herd of five elephants was on the move in Gangavaram mandal since a couple of weeks, raiding crops. On Wednesday night, when the the herd entered a field, a male adult elephant slipped into an abandoned 10-foot deep well. From midnight till the early hours, the jumbo kept trumpeting, while the other members of the herd retreated into the nearby hillocks on seeing the villagers. On information from the residents, forest officials from Palamaner and Chittoor rushed to the spot and undertook rescue operation. An earth mover was deployed and one side of the wall of the well was dug and a slope created. The jumbo easily scaled the slope and made its way towards the hillocks to join its herd around 10 a.m. of Thursday. Forest officials said as the abandoned well was not much deep, the jumbo did not suffer major injuries. After coming out of the well, the animal walked towards the sanctuary without showing any discomfort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wild-elephant-rescued-from-farm-well-near-palamaner/article31304428.ece
10 April 2020||G.V.R. Subba Rao,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown takes the sheen off flower market in Vijayawada||The otherwise bustling wholesale flower market in the city wears a deserted look, with the market association has announced closure till end of the lockdown period. The vendors are clueless as to when the market will resume operations as uncertainty still looms large on the lifting of lockdown, which is due on April 14. They have their fingers crossed as the city had seen muted celebrations on Srirama Navami on April 2. Their worry has a reason. They had hardly done any business during the Ugadi as the market was closed since the janata curfew on March 22. Losses in the pick season Usually, the flower business picks during the auspicious Sravana masaam. Women throng the market to buy flowers for Varalakshmi Vratam. This year, the Sravana Maasam begins from last week of July. But given the situation, vendors are not sure whether they would be able to do a normal business by then. If not, they have to wait till Dasara or wedding season later in the year. “We do a business of Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 30,000 if we work from 5 a.m to 10 p.m. But, the flower business is volatile. Sometimes, all the predictions go wrong. Though the market receives jasmine during the summer and it has a good demand, it is unlikely that we will be able to recoup he losses,” says Qaja, a flower vendor. According to information, the flower market receives supplies from Bengaluru, Kolar, Kuppam in Chittoor district, Tadepalli in Guntur district and etc. On normal days, the arrivals would be anywhere between 250 metric tonne to 400 metric tonne. During Dasara, it goes uop to 800 mt. There are more than 80 shops in the market. And, each shop receives 3 mt to 5 mt of flowers daily. Wholesale Flower Merchants’ Association president Sheik Jani says that the merchants and commission agents are incurring a loss between Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 20,000 daily due to the lockdown. The daily wagers working at the market, roadside vendors are also suffering. Shorter shelf life As the flowers shops need to be closed by 12 noon due to lockdown, the association has decided to close down the market until the lockdown is lifted. “Flowers are perishable goods. If the stock is left unsold by the end of the day, we have no other option than dumping it the next day. So, we have downed the shutters,” explains Basha, another flower vendor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-takes-the-sheen-off-flower-market-in-vijayawada/article31304464.ece
10 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||State scales up testing capacity for coronavirus||Even as the number of COVID-19 positive cases is beginning to witness a spike in the third week of the nation-wide lockdown, the good news is that Andhra Pradesh is able to test more persons than before. The State has scaled up its testing capacity to nearly 1,000 per day with the addition of more virology labs. Testing of persons who show symptoms such as high fever, dry cough and running nose, or those who are related to persons who had already tested positive, has emerged as a potent tool in the fight against the disease. States with better testing capacity have fared well in containing the spread of COVID-19. Though Andhra Pradesh lags behind Kerala, which has tested more than 7,000 samples so far, it is not far behind as it has completed testing 5,960 samples, out of which 348 turned out to be positive. A month ago, the State had just one standard virology lab at SVIMS, Tirupati, with a capacity to test 180 samples per day. Now, there are labs at Siddhartha Medical College, Vijayawada (180 samples per day), Regional Medical College, Kakinada (180), Government Medical College, Anantapur (180), GMC, Kadapa (90) and Government Medical College, Guntur (180). “We have made significant progress in scaling up our testing capacity, and we will soon reach the 1,000 tests per day-mark,” State Nodal Officer, COVID-19, A. Srikanth, told The Hindu on Thursday. Quarantine facility With the government launching the rapid testing kits manufactured at the A.P. Medtech Zone Limited in Visakhapatnam, the State is headed to take a lead in testing for COVID-19. The kits will give results within one hour of testing. Initially, about 2,000 kits can be made per day. The State is also improving on providing quarantine facilities to those who tested positive. With 322 centres, with a combined bed strength of 56,893, the situation looks normal. But if the disease peaks around the end of this month, the number of centres have to be enhanced. Most of the Rayalaseema districts do not have the kind of hospitals in the private sector when compared to the coastal districts. In Guntur district, there are advanced medical facilities in NRI General Hospitals and Katuri Medical College in the private sector, but not many districts can boast of such facilities. Ventilators needed But the State seems to be lagging behind when it comes to ventilators. On the higher side, there are not more than 1,000 ventilators across the State. The Medtech Zone in Visakhapatnam is also expected to start manufacturing of ventilators soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-scales-up-testing-capacity-for-coronavirus/article31304910.ece
10 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur records first COVID death||The district recorded its first death due to COVID-19 after a 45-year-old man, a native of Narsaraopet, died while undergoing treatment at the Infectious Diseases Hospital on Thursday. On April 6, the man showed up at the OP at the Government General Hospital, Narsaraopet, with symptoms of fever and X-ray revealed that he had tuberculosis. The next day, the man went to the GGH here. He was then referred to the ID Hospital at Gorantla and his samples were sent for testing for COVID-19. After his death, it emerged that he had coronavirus infection. The death was baffling as revenue and police sources said neither the man nor his family had any travel history. Also, he had not met any foreign/Jamaat returnee. A complete sanitisation exercise was taken up at Oravakatta, the place where the man resided, and the area was declared a red zone. Narsaraopet Revenue Divisional Officer Venkateswarlu said the town had not recorded a single positive case. Stringent regulations The district administration has announced several new measures in Guntur city, imposing new restrictions on movement of people. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said that lockdown relaxation would be for only three hours between 6 a.m. and 9 a.m. and said that no movement of vehicles would be allowed after 10 a.m. Even those working in government, would have to reach their offices by 10 a.m. and they will be allowed only after 5 p.m. The Collector said the situation continued to be alarming in Guntur district where over 50 positive cases were recorded, of which 30 are from Guntur city. The Collector said that NGOs, charitable organisations should move only with valid passes given by the District Revenue Officer and said that cases would be registered against those violating the orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntur-records-first-covid-death/article31304459.ece
10 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu should be quarantined’||Minister for Marketing and Fisheries Mopidevi Venkata Ramana Rao remarked on Thursday that TDP national president Nara Chandrababu Naidu should be sent to a quarantine facility for two weeks before his arrival in Vijayawada, sparking off a war of words with the TDP hitting back. Former Minister and MLA K. Atchannaidu said that if Naidu were to be quarantined, the same rule should be applied for Minister for HRD A. Suresh, who spoke to reporters at Hyderabad on Thursday. “Will Mr. Suresh also be quarantined before he crosses over to Andhra Pradesh from Hyderabad?” questioned Atchannaidu. Earlier in the day, Mr. Ramana Rao told reporters in Guntur that Mr. Naidu had been seeking to derive political mileage even out of COVID-19 and instead of supporting the government, has been bent on lowering the morale of hundreds of doctors, paramedical staff and police. Mr. Naidu, who had gone to Hyderabad, should be quarantined before he comes back to Vijayawada, he quipped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-should-be-quarantined/article31304460.ece
10 April 2020||Hubballi/Hyderabad/Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 claims 2 more lives||COVID-19 claimed the lives of an 80-year-old woman in Gadag, Karnataka, a 45-year-old man in Guntur (A.P) and an unidentified individual in Telangana, while Kerala expressed cautious optimism that it would be able to keep disease transmission under control on Thursday. The Karnataka patient had no travel history or traceable contact. It was also the first positive case in Gadag district, and the sixth death in the State. There were 16 new cases on Thursday, taking its total to 197. The fatality in Andhra Pradesh was from Narsaraopet in Guntur district. The State reported 15 more positive cases from four districts, and a cumulative death toll of six. There were 364 cases as of Thursday evening. Telangana registered 18 coronavirus positive cases during the day. The individual who succumbed was under treatment, an official statement said. The State’s casualties stood at 12. Five cases in Karnataka were from Bengaluru, three each from Bagalkot and Belagavi, two from Mysuru, and one each from Chickballapur, Dharwad, and Mandya. On the Gadag death, Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said that the woman was admitted to a government facility on April 4 with severe respiratory problems and tested positive for COVID-19 on April 6. She had with no history of travel outside and was staying with her sister at Rangiwad. She had taken part in a family function. After she tested positive, all her contacts, including seven from Goa who attended the function were tested. Throat swabs of 35 primary contacts and seven medical staff who were attending to the patient tested negative. “Yesterday we traced 11 other primary contacts from the family function, including two from Goa, and have sent the swabs,” the DC said. TN may slip to stage 3 Tamil Nadu was in stage 2 of the COVID-19 pandemic, with the possibility of moving to stage 3 (community transmission), Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Thursday. After chairing a review meeting with members of 12 coordination teams at the Secretariat, he said that the government was taking proactive steps against the disease. “Measures to contain it at stage 2 are being taken,” he added. About the possibility of extending the lockdown beyond April 14, Mr. Palaniswami said: “A decision will be taken only on the basis of the severity of the spread [of the pandemic]. The spread has been increasing day by day... Every other day, the coronavirus tally is on the rise.” “People should not step out unnecessarily except for essentials.,” he added. The Narsaraopet (A.P.) patient who died had no history of travel and was a tuberculosis patient In Telangana, the total number of cases touched 471 on Thursday with 18 new coronavirus positive cases. Health Minister Eatala Rajender said 385 out of the 471 cases pertained to people who attended the meeting at Nizamuddin and their close contacts. The TS government would put in place telemedicine facility from Friday, enabling people to take medical advice from home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-claims-3-lives-in-south/article31304427.ece
10 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two Manipur students refused entry into store||The Rachakonda police on Thursday booked a store manager and two security guards of a Star Market outlet for racial profiling and refusing entry to two students from Manipur. “We used to go to his shop regularly, but yesterday, they stopped us calling us foreigners. Even after we showed our Aadhaar card they didn’t relent. One gentleman asked where we are from but did not help,” says Angam Weapon about the incident on Wednesday at 3.15 p.m where he and his friend were denied entry. A video recording of the incident became viral, drawing attention from IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao and top officials. On Thursday, Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar took to twitter to allay the fears of citizens. “It’s unfortunate & our apologies! Collector RR district has informed that an FIR is registered against the manager of this outlet and that the accused are in custody. Also request people to come out in support of our brothers & sisters from NE at this point,” said Mr. Kumar. “We are pursuing engineering here. We never faced this kind of harassment before. We went to buy groceries when this incident happened. My friend became very upset for a long time,” said Mr. Weapon who hails from Senapati district in Manipur. Police booked case under Sections 153-A (Promotion of disharmony, enmity or feelings of hatred or ill-will between different religious, racial, language or regional groups), 188 (disobedience of order promulgated by a public servant) and 341 (wrongful restraint). “Police will not tolerate such acts. In case of any problem Dial 100 or 9490617234,” said police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-manipur-students-refused-entry-into-store/article31304422.ece
10 April 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ten, including Imam and minor boy, booked||The Bachupally police on Thursday registered a case against 10 persons, including a minor boy, who were found offering prayers at a mosque on Wednesday evening in violation of the lockdown orders enforced to contain the spread of coronavirus. Acting on a tip-off that a few people had gathered at the mosque in Indiramma colony phase-II of Nizampet, a police team rushed to the spot. “All of them, including the Imam of the mosque, managed to escape, but one Md. Ghouse was caught and he was brought to the police station. Later, everyone who participated in the prayers were taken into custody,” inspector P Jagadeeshwar said. He said the incident took place around 6.30 p.m. on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ten-including-imam-and-minor-boy-booked/article31304742.ece
10 April 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Timely help by police gives a new lease of life to newborns||Police came to rescue of a middle-aged pregnant woman who delivered twins prematurely when the newborns developed complications and were in the need of critical healthcare. With the intervention of Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan, the babies were shifted to a private hospital equipped with the facilities required for the treatment of the babies on Thursday. Rama Devi, wife of Eswara Reddy from Pabbapuram in Chintakommadinne mandal, was pregnant after fourteen years of her marriage and delivered twin babies on Tuesday, forty days ahead of the expected date. As the health condition of the newborns deteriorated, the doctors suggested that the parents should identify a hospital with ventilator facility for the critical treatment. Lockdown blues In view of the lockdown, no private hospital in Kadapa city was open and the babies were kept in the incubator at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). Following the orders of the SP, a private hospital with ventilator facility was identified and DSP U. Suryanarayana shifted the newborns in a police van. However, the hospital authorities refused to admit the babies, notwithstanding the fervent appeals of the parents. Mr. Anburajan asked the DSP to rush to the hospital and get the babies admitted. Mr. Anburajan visited the hospital and ensured that the newborns were kept in ventilator. Emergency helpline “Anyone in need of emergency healthcare services in the district can dial the helpline ‘100’ or 08562 259179 (Command and Control Room),” said Mr. Anburajan.. He also appealed the people in emergency to approach him directly by dialling the phone number 9440796900.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/timely-help-by-police-gives-a-new-lease-of-life-to-newborns/article31304877.ece
10 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Patient, who kept his condition secret, critical||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said the health condition of a 38-year-old man, who tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, was critical. On March 25, the man, identified as a government teacher belonging to Visakhapatnam district, had visited Shankaravam mandal in East Godavari district to celebrate Ugadi with his in-laws. He, however, kept his health status a secret. At a press conference, Mr. Muralidhar said: “The government teacher was admitted to a private hospital about two days back with symptoms of COVID-19, but the hospital kept it under wraps. The hospital management informed the authorities only after his condition deteriorated. He was rushed to the Government General Hospital (GGH) here where he tested positive.” District Medical and Health Officer B. Satya Susheela told The Hindu that arrangements were being made to send the patient back to Visakhapatnam which has a dedicated COVID hospital. “Police have been directed to register cases against those who conducted had medical tests and provided treatment to the patient in violation of the COVID protocol. The district administration cannot afford to allow such practices, ” said Mr. Muralidhar.  The Collector announced that medical shops should not sell tablets generally prescribed for fever and cough, the prime symptoms of COVID-19. RMPs have been also directed not to handle such cases. District COVID Protocol Officer and Rampachodavaram ITDA Project Officer Nishant Kumar said three hospitals have been designated as ‘COVID hospitals’ in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/patient-who-kept-his-condition-secret-critical/article31304912.ece
10 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Timely treatment, counselling have helped me recover fast, says youth||A 22-year-old youth, the first to test positive for COVID-19 in East Godavari district and also to recover from it, says that timely treatment and constant counselling by a team of doctors have helped him survive the dreaded disease. The London-based student pursuing his studies in business administration had voluntarily informed the district authorities about his travel history before he was sent to the Government General Hospital where he tested positive for the disease on March 22. He had arrived in Rajamahendravaram on March 19 and contacted the officials the following day. Moral support The initial interaction with the doctors and support staff made me realise that I could fight the disease, he said. “Everyone who attended to my medical needs daily told me about the possibilities for cure and made me mentally strong with their moral support,” he added. In an interaction with the doctors and district officials after he tested negative on April 3, the youth said, “The available treatment and other necessary facilities will ensure early recovery. However, it will be highly dangerous if the patient attempts to hide the symptoms from the doctors as it will lead to spread of the disease.” The youth did not meet his parents upon his arrival from London and voluntarily went to self-quarantine at his home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/timely-treatment-counselling-have-helped-me-recover-fast-says-youth/article31304911.ece
10 April 2020||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beware of cyber fraud, say police||The COVID-19 scare may have confined people to their homes, but there is no stopping cyber fraudsters from continuing their efforts to dupe gullible bank customers. The fraudsters are not only seeking contribution in the name of the Prime Minister and the Chief Minister relief funds by providing bogus QR codes and account numbers, but also seeking sensitive details from the public for postponing their EMIs against existing loans. The police said that anonymous fraudsters were calling up people and seeking contribution to the relief funds. “They even suggest that payments can be made through digital wallets and then send the account numbers or QR codes to be scanned. The account numbers they send belong to the fraudsters, who will withdraw the money,” said Aradhya, CID inspector in Mysuru, who has been handling cybercrime and economic offence cases. A number of fake bank account numbers are also shared through WhatsApp. The fraudsters send account numbers and IFSC codes required for digital transfers. Hence, people who wish to contribute to the relief funds have been asked to cross-check the authenticity of the account details before making any donation. Ever since the government announced a three-month moratorium on repayment of EMIs on loans, bank customers have started receiving calls from fraudsters offering to postpone their EMIs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/beware-of-cyber-fraud-say-police/article31304421.ece
10 April 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||5 die as rain lashes Prakasam, Nellore||Five persons were killed in rain-related incidents as heavy rain, accompanied by gale, lashed different parts of Prakasam and Nellore SPSR Nellore districts on Thursday. Two persons -- Narappareddy Penchal Reddy (65) and Subba Rao (54) -- were struck dead by lightning at Baskaraveedhivari Kandrika near Bogole and Gogulapalli near Alluru in SPSR Nellore district respectively, police sources said. In Prakasam district, a farmer, Lakshmana Rao (55), was charred to death following thunderbolt at Mitapalem near Tripurantakam. In another rain-related incident, two farmers -- Ankaiah (60) and Krishnaiah (42) -- were killed when the tractor by which they were travelling on a marshy tank bund road fell into a water tank at Thimmareddipalem near Lingasamudram in Prakasam district. The summer showers, though provided much-needed relief to denizens, brought severe hardship to farmers as the wet spell coincided with harvest of, among other winter crops, paddy, chilli and bengal gram being taken up by farmers amid labour shortage in the wake of lockdown. The downpour brought down flex boards and barricades put up by the police to enforce lockdown in Nellore, where the containment action plan was implemented in the wake of 12 persons testing positive for COVID-19 so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/5-die-as-rain-lashes-prakasam-nellore/article31304913.ece
10 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NACL donates Rs. 30 lakh to CM’s Relief Fund||Nagarjuna Agrichem Limited-Etcherla vice-president C.V. Rajulu said that the company and employees jointly donated Rs. 30 lakh to Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. The employees donated their one day’s salary for helping the needy people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nacl-donates-rs-30-lakh-to-cms-relief-fund/article31304862.ece
10 April 2020||T. Appala Naidu,ANDHRA PRADESH||GMR-Pals releases first bunch of safety gear||The first bunch of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) numbering 2,000 made with polypropylene by Pals Plush India Private Limited has been released for use by doctors and other medical staff attending COVID patients in Andhra Pradesh. East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Thursday handed over the PPE to doctors and police personnel. The cover-all equipment, to be worn by the doctors who directly treat the patients, is for single-time use only. On April 1, the Poly Plush group launched the production of PPE by roping in 120 workers in the GMS Kakinada Special Economic Zone (KSEZ) with a daily production capacity of 5,000 kits. The East Godavari District Rural Development Authority and AP Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (APMSIDC) signed a pact with the Pals Plush group for supply of PPE kits. “Production will be increased in the days to come as required by the government to tackle the spread of COVID-19,” Pals Plush Group assistant general manager Sunil Kumar Naidu told The Hindu .  ‘No margin for error’ AGM, Corporate Communication-GMR KSEZ Srimanth Reddy said: “The equipment manufactured in our SEZ is released only after it passes the clinical hygienic protocol for which the APMSIDC certifies before releasing for use by doctors.” The PPE equipment comes out through the ultraviolet tunnel to have the capacity to control any bio-contamination. Pals Plush Group Managing Director Ajay Sinha said the group is keen to be part of the critical project as sought by the GMR group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gmr-pals-releases-first-bunch-of-safety-gear/article31304873.ece
10 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala gets nod for trial of plasma therapy||Kerala is not easing its level of preparedness or its efforts to stay ahead of the virus even when it is clear that the progression of COVID-19 epidemic in the State is currently well below the case progression graphs plotted by mathematic modellers. With Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan making it clear that the State would be exploring all currently available treatment options the world over, Kerala has once again gone a step ahead and won Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) approval for the clinical protocol exploring the feasibility of an experimental therapy, convalescent plasma transfusion, which may be administered to severe COVID-19 patients. No specific agents “At present there are no specific antiviral agents which have been found to be effective in the treatment of COVID-19. Convalescent plasma therapy is not new and have been used by doctors to treat critically ill patients during earlier epidemics too, during H1N1, SARS and Ebola. The expert committee which is guiding the State’s containment and mitigation strategies against COVID-19 had recommended exploring the plasma therapy following the report in JAMA [Journal of American Medical Association] of a pilot study done by doctors in China,” a member of the expert committee said.. (Plasma from the blood of previously infected yet healthy individuals had been transferred to five critically ill patients in China on ventilators and their condition had steadily improved and were discharged.) The proposal The proposal submitted to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) says that the Transfusion Medicine Department of the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology would help the Health Department in exploring the possibility of convalescent plasma therapy for COVID-19 treatment “Till date, except for a few, most COVID-19 patients in Kerala have not even required ventilatory support. Getting the clinical protocol for administering plasma therapy cleared ahead by the ICMR is just part of our preparedness, that should we get severe COVID-19 patients during the second or third wave, we should be able to make use of this option,” he added. When reports that HIV antivirals (lopinavir/ritonavir) might be potentially useful in treating COVID-19 patients, then too Kerala had sought ICMR’s early clearance for the protocol in January itself, he pointed out. While the ICMR has cleared the clinical trial protocol, the State might at some point need to submit an expanded access protocol to the council, so that severely ill patients can be administered the treatment on compassionate grounds. Drugs Controller General’s approval and institutional ethics committee approval would have to be there before the treatment can be administered. The report of a latest pilot study published on April 6, in Proceedings of National Academies of Sciences (U.S.), which explored the feasibility of convalescent plasma therapy in 10 critically ill COVID-19 patients concluded that “CP therapy shows a potential therapeutic effect and low risk in the treatment of severe COVID-19 patients.” It said that one dose (200 ml) of convalescent plasma with a high concentration of neutralising antibodies was well-tolerated by patients and that it can rapidly reduce the viral load in patients and improve clinical symptoms significantly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-gets-nod-for-trial-of-plasma-therapy/article31304431.ece
10 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Without curbs, virus cases can hit lakhs’||The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has recommended active intervention, including stringent screening on State borders, long-term physical distancing strategies, and effective quarantining, to forestall a sharp spike in COVID-19 cases in a post-lockdown scenario in Kerala. This is how the situation can evolve if there is no intervention whatsoever when the lockdown is lifted (projections use April 14 as the starting point). Hospitalisation can peak in the range of 4.8 lakh to 8.2 lakh cases between June end and July end, show statistical models constructed by an eight-member KSDMA team which has been trying to make sense of an unpredictable future.The possible scenarios were presented before Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday. In a scenario where break-the-chain measures, physical distancing or quarantining are wholly absent, symptomatic cases can peak at 48 lakh cases, hospitalisation at 4.8 lakh, and ICU admissions at 36,000 by July end if the infection is in the ‘low spread’ category. If the infection spreads at a medium pace as per this model, by the beginning of July, symptomatic cases can peak at 65 lakh, hospitalisations at 6.5 lakh, and ICU cases at 49,000. Given a worst-case scenario, the State can have a situation on hand by June-end with 82 lakh symptomatic cases, 8.2 lakh hospitalisations, and 62,000 ICU admissions. Hospital bed capacity The hospital bed capacity of 1,30,550 and ICU capacity of 8,693 in the State have been factored in to arrive at conclusions as they are critical to the management of any scenarios, say KSDMA sources. In a no-intervention, ‘low spread’ situation, hospitals will reach the tipping point by June end, and by the second week of June in a ‘medium spread’ projection. On the other hand, given a severe spread of the infection, hospitals will reach the tipping point by May end. The KSDMA modelling suggests four ways to counter this: stringent screening on the borders, active break-the-chain measures such as use of masks, long-term physical distancing, contact tracing, and quarantining. And what if the intervention combines all these measures? In such a scenario, symptomatic cases, hospitalisation, and ICU admissions will peak at 20,000, 2,000, and 200 respectively by April 2021 in a medium-spread scenario. If the spread is severe, hospitalisation will peak at 75,000 and ICU cases at 7,500 by December end 2020. But even this will be manageable. How modelling is done The KSDMA team initially worked with the SIR (susceptible-infectious-recovered) model used for forecasting influenza. This was later refined and customised for Kerala factoring in susceptible population, exposed population, infected and contagious period, infected and non-contagious period, and recovery (SEIIR). The team, led by member-secretary Sekhar L. Kuriakose, included Birenjith of the Government Engineering College, Barton Hill, who handled modelling aspects, and community medicine experts from the Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, led by Associate Professors Anish T.S. and Ratheesh K.H.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/without-curbs-virus-cases-can-hit-lakhs/article31304429.ece
10 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railway coaches turn isolation wards in Tirupati||After the Indian Railways swung into action to convert 20,000 train coaches into isolation and quarantine wards, one such facility, akin to a ‘Hospital on Wheels’, is almost ready in Tirupati. The Tirupati-based Railway Coaching Depot has taken up the mammoth task of converting 60 non-air-conditioned coaches into quarantine or isolation wards. Facilities Of the nine coupes in a coach, eight will be converted into makeshift wards for patients, while the ninth one will be used for storage of medical equipment and drugs. All the coaches have been thoroughly sanitised, while special curtains are being draped to ensure the patient’s privacy. The middle berth is removed to leverage on space by providing more elbow room for patients. Three of the four toilets in a coach will remain for the patients’ use, and the fourth one is modified into a bathroom. It will have a hand shower, regular taps, dust bin, soap and hand sanitisers. Mosquito nets will also be fixed to all the windows to ensure hygiene. “The work is nearing completion and the rakes will be handed over in a day or two to the operations team,” said a coaching depot official at the site. An air-conditioned coach may also be made available to store drugs and also for the on-duty medical team to take rest. Once the depot hands over the 60 coaches, it will be for the operations team at the station to bring it to use as per the emerging requirement. Since a platform can accommodate not more than 24 coaches, it is expected to place three rakes of 20 coaches each on three platforms in a station. It is also not sure if the rake will be parked in Tirupati or taken elsewhere depending on the situation as flagged by the medical and health officials. Similarly, the Carriage Repair Shop (CRS) at Renigunta is also engaged in a similar task.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/railway-coaches-turn-isolation-wards-in-tirupati/article31304879.ece
10 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||First COVID-19 patient from Chittoor district discharged||The first COVID-19 positive patient of Chittoor district got discharged from the government isolation facility in Tirupati on Thursday. A native of Yerpedu mandal and a resident of Srikalahasti town, the person returned from London where he is pursuing his higher education. After developing symptoms, he underwent the mandatory test on Mar 25 and was confirmed positive. He got admitted to the isolation facility till his complete recovery. Finally, his samples was tested negatives in two consecutive tests. Home quarantine Tirupati MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy handed over the discharge certificate to the person and wished him a speedy recovery. He has been advised to undergo a home quarantine for 14 more days. The medical and paramedical personnel at the hospital bid adieu to the 25-year-old and advised him to stay indoors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-covid-19-patient-from-chittoor-district-discharged/article31304870.ece
10 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Re-examine all symptomatic cases: Jagan||Officials of the Health, Medical and Family Welfare (HM&FW) Department told Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in a high-level review meeting on COVID-19 that some additional queries recommended by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) were being posed to the people during the ongoing third round of door-to-door survey to ensure that the findings are comprehensive, and help fine-tune containment strategy. They have also informed the Chief Minister that not even a single positive case emerged during the 12 hours that ended at 9 a.m. Thursday and all those who travelled to Nizamuddin and their contacts were identified and tested for the viral infection, with the help of the police. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said no family should be left out of the survey as, in spite of being better positioned than other States in controlling the dreaded disease, Andhra Pradesh could not afford to be complacent. He insisted that the 6,289 persons found to be showing COVID-19 symptoms during the first two survey rounds should be again examined. Besides, he wanted data to be gathered on a real-time basis to face the dynamic situation. Timely reports The Chief Minister further directed the officials to submit reports on the quarantine facilities and isolation wards and conditions in the relief camps from time to time for making necessary improvements. Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Agriculture Minister K. Kanna Babu, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Special Chief Secretary (HM&FW) K.S. Jawahar Reddy and Director General of Police Gautam Sawang were among those present.  No family should be left out of the survey as, in spite of being better positioned than other States, Andhra Pradesh cannot afford to be complacent Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/re-examine-all-symptomatic-cases-jagan/article31304908.ece
10 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sivaji urges govt. to help chilli farmers||Former Rajya Sabha member Y. Sivaji has asked the State government to come to the rescue of chilli farmers using its Price Stabilisation Fund, Ruthy Bandhu Scheme, and market cess. Dr. Sivaji in a statement here on Thursday said that chilli farmers were facing severe problems due to lockdown. The crop was ripe for harvest, but no manpower was available to do it. The largest chilli market in the world at Guntur was shut down in the wake of spread of coronovirus. Chilli was sown in 3.2 lakh acres and farmers had spent huge amounts. Produce worth Rs. 3,250 crore was stuck with the farmers. Farmers usually stored the produce in 150 cold storages in the area, but some technical problems had popped up, Dr. Sivaji said. The National Bulk Handling Corporation Ltd and the Star Agri Warehousing and Collateral Management Corporation Ltd. have stopped extending security collateral to chilli farmers in the wake of lockdown. Unless the government prevailed on these two institutions, the chilli farmers would be left in the lurch, Dr. Sivaji said. He said farmers were being forced to make distress sales at Rs. 5,000 a quintal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sivaji-urges-govt-to-help-chilli-farmers/article31304461.ece
10 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cloudy weather sends aqua ryots into a tizzy||Cloudy weather prevailing in the State has created panic among aqua farmers. Fearing mortality of shrimp and fish in tanks, they are catching the produce hurriedly to prevent losses. Shrimp and fish are cultivated in about 51,776 hectares in fresh and salt water tanks across the State. More than 5 lakh families depend on the aqua sector directly and indirectly and the State, with 34 % share, stands first in aqua production in the country. Farmers are worried over losses in the first quarter of 2020-21 due to COVID-19, which affected exports, and fall in prices in the international market. Adding to the coronavirus scare, which has been haunting the aqua sector since December- January, cloudy weather prevailing in the State was creating much panic among farmers. Some parts of the State received rainfall on Tuesday and damaged agriculture and horticulture crops in a few acres. “I raised L. vannamei investing about Rs. 6 lakh, but the coronavirus outbreak has shattered my dreams. Now, the drop in temperatures and scanty rainfall in a few pockets is worrying us a lot,” said a farmer S. Radhakrishna of Kalidindi in Krishna district. ‘Govt. must intervene’  “Even if farmers take the trouble of harvesting the tanks, processing, packing, the export companies are not ready to lift the stocks due to poor transport, non-availability of ice, vehicles and drivers during the lockdown period. As aqua products come under perishable goods, we request the government to take the produce directly and save the farmers,” said Chinta Ramalakshmi, a worker in a processing unit of Pulapalli village in West Godavari district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cloudy-weather-sends-aqua-ryots-into-a-tizzy/article31304470.ece
10 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||All entrance exams postponed indefinitely||The APSCHE has indefinitely postponed all entrance examinations, including EAMCET and other professional courses, on account of lockdown. The new dates would be intimated later, said Chairman of the Council K. Hemachandra Reddy on Thursday. He said the postponement of the entrance tests was necessitated as the online exam centres were shut down for some time on account of the lockdown and some of the systems may not be working. Power back-up issue had to be looked into and hall tickets were yet to be issued. He said TCS representatives, engaged to put the arrangements in place, had said they would need some time to put a fool-proof system is in place for smooth conduct of the exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-entrance-exams-postponed-indefinitely/article31304916.ece
10 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revoke suspension of doctor, says Naidu||TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu has asked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to revoke the suspension of Sudhakar, a medical doctor who allegedly stated that there was short supply of personal protection equipment (PPE) to the health workers at the Narsipatnam area hospital. Mr. Naidu, in a letter to the Chief Minister on Thursday, said that Dr. Sudhakar spoke about the lack of masks and gloves at the hospital. “It is the responsibility of the government to provide adequate equipment to the doctors and frontline warriors,” Mr. Naidu observed. The doctor did his duty by reminding the government of the need for providing PPEs at the hospital, he added. “This cannot be seen as an offence and does not require any disciplinary action. Instead, the government should begin extending all support to the doctors. Instead of addressing the issue, the doctor has been suspended. His only crime is to seek N-95 masks,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/revoke-suspension-of-doctor-says-naidu/article31304915.ece
10 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. ahead of others in COVID control: official||State-level COVID-19 task force member and Information and Public Relations Commissioner T. Vijaya Kumar Reddy said Andhra Pradesh (A.P.) could prevent the spread of the disease and keep deaths to the minimum by enforcing the lockdown and getting people to maintain social distance as precautionary measures. A.P. has done well compared to the other States and it was confident of keeping the situation under control with public cooperation. A ‘COVID alert tracking system’ set up by the State Disaster Management Authority enabled the government to quickly respond to the evolving situation. This advanced system was capable of keeping a tab of 25,000 people at a time. He stated in a press release that emphasis was laid on civil supplies and delivery of essential services during the lockdown. Awareness was being created among the people in order to enlist their support to the containment measures. Toll-free numbers 104 and 1902 were helpful in getting a grasp of the situation at the grassroot level. Mr. Vijaya Kumar Reddy further said an extensive survey was being done by the Ward and Village Volunteers and the police were able to keep law and order under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-ahead-of-others-in-covid-control-official/article31304919.ece
10 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stranded US citizens start return journey||Amidst strict lockdown, several U.S. citizens who got stuck in the city and neighbouring districts, left for Hyderabad by bus on Thursday from PB Siddhartha College of Arts & Science. The foreign nationals, including many of Indian origin, had come to the State before the lockdown to visit tourist places and attend family functions. From Hyderabad, they would take a flight to the United States via Mumbai. The flight is reportedly arranged by the US government. Commissioner of Police Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao said they have been allowed to leave as there were orders from the government. Many of them left for the United States on Tuesday and close to one hundred people left for Hyderabad on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stranded-us-citizens-start-return-journey/article31304918.ece
10 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Archakas to get Rs. 5,000 grant||Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivasa Rao has said that the State government has decided to pay Rs. 5,000 as grant to the archakas who lost their livelihood due to coronavirus and subsequent lockdown. The temples which are not covered under Dhoopa Deepa Naivedyam scheme and priests who are not paid monthly salaries would be covered under Rs. 5,000 grant. The amount will be paid from Archaka Welfare Fund. As many as 2,500 archakas would be benefited from the move, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/archakas-to-get-rs-5000-grant/article31304462.ece
10 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ola gets nod to operate urgent medical services||Responding to a request by Ola Cabs for permission to operate Emergency Medical Transport Services in cities across Andhra Pradesh, to help people in need of urgent medical care (non-corona-related), the Transport Department has decided to launch the facility as a pilot project in Visakhapatnam. In a statement on Thursday, Principal Secretary, Department of Transport and Roads and Buildings, M.T. Krishna Babu, said the transport wing, in consultation with the Police Department, had agreed to the proposal to cater to emergency medical care such as dialysis, cancer, heart ailments or to help patients discharged from hospitals and also to cater to the transport needs of health care workers. This system is being implemented by the Karnataka government.  Conditions apply Mr. Krishna Babu said this facility could also be utilised by doctors and paramedical staff to attend their respective duties. He clarified that this particular transport service would be operated only between a passenger’s house to the hospital and back and the number of passengers should not be more than two, excluding the driver. Use of mask and sanitisers is mandatory for people seeking this service. He said the cab would be fumigated and sanitised at regular intervals and Ola should strictly adhere to passenger safety norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ola-gets-nod-to-operate-urgent-medical-services/article31304465.ece
10 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMC to hold medical camps in all wards today||In a major relief to the citizens who are deprived of outpatient services at most hospitals, the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation will conduct medical camps in all the 64 municipal wards in the city from Friday. The first medical camp was held in the 45th municipal ward on Thursday and similar camps would be organised in all the wards. The medical camps would be open in the morning and in the evening and people having any health issues could visit the camps and get free treatment from doctors and free medicines. Also, the camps will check for patients with COVID-19 symptoms. The locations of the medical camps would be informed locally. Meanwhile, the door-to-door survey to identify persons with COVID-19 symptoms is under way in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vmc-to-hold-medical-camps-in-all-wards-today/article31304467.ece
10 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pray God to free world from COVID: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday appealed to the Christian community to observe Good Friday and celebrate Easter at homes. Mr. Reddy took to Twitter to appeal to the community to stay home and offer prayers on the occasions on Friday and Sunday. “We all need to pray to God to save the world from COVID,” he said. “Love towards humanity, mercy towards the helpless, forgiveness towards the enemy, patience, and limitless sacrifice are the messages Jesus gave to the humanity,” Mr. Jagan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pray-god-to-free-world-from-covid-cm/article31304466.ece
10 April 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||As cases rise, officials focus on containment||Near-total clampdowns of ‘red zone’ areas have begun across the city, as the district administration shifts its focus from identification to containment of the coronavirus. A task force comprising officials from the health department, police and GVMC are implementing the clampdown in seven red zones identified within the city limits and in the district, including in Narsipatnam, from where two COVID-19 cases were recorded. The red zones are Thatichetlapalem, Akkayyapalem, Padmanabham, Gajuwaka, Allipuram, Narsipatnam and Poorna Market. “All of the positive cases in Visakhapatnam district so far have been reported from these areas, and we have declared a 3-km radius as containment zones and have sealed the areas,” Collector V. Vinay Chand told The Hindu . So far, 20 cases have been recorded in Visakhapatnam district, of which four have been discharged after treatment. As of now, 16 persons are undergoing treatment for COVID-19, and four are likely to be discharged early next week, Principal of Andhra Medical College Dr. P.V. Sudhakar said. Returnees identified “The district administration has already identified all foreign returnees as well as those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Markaz in Nizamuddin, Delhi. We have also identified all those who were in close contact with the persons who tested positive for COVID-19. We are now shifting to a wider surveillance of people in the containment areas and red zones” Mr. Vinay Chand said. There are around four lakh families in all seven red zones, and the district administration will soon begin rapid testing for a wider surveillance. “The teams have been told to report any case that shows at least one of the four symptoms for COVID -19. It is no longer necessary for workers to go for a detailed check if someone shows all four symptoms. Even if a person exhibits one symptom, we will go for a rapid test,” Mr. Vinay Chand said. Swift diagnosis Until the kits can be acquired, the district administration has decided to use Truenat TB test kits to diagnose the infection. “The Truenat TB kit is used to diagnose more of a bacterial infection, but the same kit can also be used to check virus infections just by changing a few reagents and using the same machinery,” said Dr. P.V. Sudhakar. The district administration has already completed a training programme for the laboratory technicians and are awaiting the arrival of the required reagents. “There are 17 microscopic testing centres in the district, including 12 community health centres, two area hospitals, two district hospitals and one referral hospital, and all the technicians have been trained to handle Truenat TB test kits,” said Mr. Vinay Chand. These kits will aid in primary screening and if the test indicates an infection, he or she will be sent to the isolation ward for RT-PCR tests, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/as-cases-rise-officials-focus-on-containment/article31304933.ece
10 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC bets on early bird rebate for property tax to shore up revenues||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation is struggling to find revenue sources to fund its emergency responsibilities. The lockdown, which began towards the end of the current financial year, has had an unprecedented impact on the civic body’s coffers. One of the immediate options available to the GVMC is to press for advance payment of property tax by leveraging the 5% early bird rebate offered by the State Government. The rebate was introduced a few years ago to encourage taxpayers to go for early payment of property tax without waiting till the middle of the financial year to do so. Chairing a meeting on the civic body’s fiscal condition on Thursday, Municipal Commissioner G. Srijana instructed officials to collect property tax from major business and commercial establishments, private educational institutions, theatres and hospitals by taking advantage of the rebate. The Superintendent Engineer of Water Supply has been directed to collect water charges from bulk and semi-bulk users while the Chief City Planner has been asked to ensure collection of advertisement tax. The Deputy Commissioner (Revenue) has been asked to focus on new assessments for levy of property tax, revision of property tax and vacant land tax. Targets for revenue-earning departments have been set. Additional Commissioner Thameem Ansaria, Chief City Planner R.J. Vidyullatha, Joint Director (AMRUT) Satyanarayana, Examiner of Accounts Y. Mangapati Rao, Superintendent Engineer (Water Supply) Venugopala Rao and Deputy Commissioner (Revenue) Phani Ram attended the meeting. How the rebate works Paying the property tax for the entire year early in the financial year will earn the 5% rebate, while those not paying the tax within the first three months will have to pay simple interest of 2% on the property tax not paid. The carrot-and-stick policy has paid dividends till now, with assessees mostly availing themselves of the rebate. The property tax for 2020-21 availing the 5% rebate may be paid online on gvmc.gov.in or from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m., at the ‘Saukaryam’ centres at the zone office, while strictly adhering to social distancing norms. The last date for paying the tax using the benefit of rebate is April 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-bets-on-early-bird-rebate-for-property-tax-to-shore-up-revenues/article31304935.ece
10 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Negative pressure rooms inspected||Collector V. Vinay Chand inspected the negative pressure rooms set up at the Government Chest Hospital here on Thursday. Negative pressure rooms are used in hospitals to prevent cross-contamination from room to room by preventing air from escaping outside. This technique is used to isolate patients suffering from highly contagious diseases such as tuberculosis, SARS, and most recently COVID-19. The Collector interacted with medical officials and advised them to ensure proper maintenance of the rooms. He also visited the T.B. Hospital and inspected the equipment there. Andhra Medical College Principal PV Sudhakar, Chest Hospital Superintendent Vijay Kumar and TB Control Officer Vasundhara were present during the Collector’s visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/negative-pressure-rooms-inspected/article31304925.ece
10 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social outfits lend a helping hand to those in need||Voluntary organisations are pooling their resources to provide food to the needy across the city during the lockdown. Sri Jain Shwetamber Terapanthi Sabha is providing breakfast to the homeless and migrant labourers who are accommodated at shelters and transit homes of the GVMC. The Terapanth members are providing breakfast to 1,464 persons at 15 shelters since March 29, according to the Project Director of Urban Community Development Y. Srinivasa Rao. JCI Vizag Smart is distributing home-cooked food packed in food grade containers to the needy at rythu bazars from the second day of the lockdown beginning with 90 packets a day, according to its president Maya Choraria. Over 650 packets are being distributed every day by roping in volunteers identified by the Excise Department. Milk and biscuits are also being given to children. The areas being covered by the outfits are Seethammadhara Rythu Bazaar, Dr. L. Bullayya College, Steel Plant Quarters, Sahrudaya Seva Samstha, Peda Waltair, Ramnagar, Kotak School, Jalaripeta, Narsimhanagar, DLB Ground Rythu Bazaar and Akkayyapalem Rythu Bazaar. Rotary Club, Waltair, on Thursday donated 500 sanitisers and 50 N-95 masks to Andhra Pradesh Junior Doctors’ Association, according to its president G.V.V.S. Narayana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-outfits-lend-a-helping-hand-to-those-in-need/article31304929.ece
10 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medtech Zone out to play a key role in fight against coronavirus||The A.P. Medtech Zone (AMTZ), touted as India’s largest medical devices manufacturing park, is hogging the limelight for its contribution to the fight against COVID-19 pandemic due to its success in developing rapid testing kits. Further, it is gearing up to launch manufacturing of ventilators from mid-April. AMTZ, which was in the eye of the storm over allegations in the finalisation of various bids, has weathered all to carve a niche for itself in bringing investors to Visakhapatnam. Located in an area of 270 acres at Nadupur of Pedagantyada mandal, a few km away from the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant and Gangavaram Port, the zone, for which stone had been laid in 2016, is poised to reduce the import dependence and slash cost of healthcare by an estimated 40 to 50%. The zone will manufacture rapid testing kits at the rate of 2,000 per day and later scale it up. It will begin manufacturing 3,000 ventilators from April 15 and increase it to 6,000 from the subsequent months. ‘Make in India’ initiative The park has already attracted a good number of investors. The government is also encouraging investments under the ‘Make in India’ initiative. AMTZ, a State government enterprise, once completed will become the country’s first comprehensive medical devices park with R&D, testing labs and provision for acceleration for startups. Dedicated research It houses the Bio Valley Council of India, which encourages startups to make healthcare affordable, and the Kalam Institute of Health Technology set up by the Union government for taking up focused research on medical technologies, bringing those involved in R&D, industry, policy-makers and knowledge repositories under a common platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/medtech-zone-out-to-play-a-key-role-in-fight-against-coronavirus/article31304921.ece
10 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ration shops to have three more counters||Joint Collector L. Siva Shankar has asked officials to set up three additional counters at ration shops in the district to supply essentials during the second phase of ration supply, which is scheduled to begin from April 15. Mr. Siva Shankar also asked officials to take steps to complete the ration distribution programme within three days. The Joint Collector said that there are 1,650 ration shops, including 487 in urban limits, through which around 12.45 lakh ration card holders receive essentials. He asked the Zonal Commissioners to ensure that every dealer has four counters at his/her ration shop and that in-charges were allotted duties to oversee free flow of ration supply at all counters. Containment zones The Joint Collector added that there are seven containment zones in the city. Civil services department officials must see to it that in the 34 wards that fall within these containment zones, ration is delivered at the beneficiaries’ doorstep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ration-shops-to-have-three-more-counters/article31304927.ece
10 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ola Emergency’ launched||Ola Cabs on Thursday launched ‘Ola Emergency’ on its app to enable denizens to book urgent medical trips to hospitals in the city.  ‘Ola Emergency’ will be available in the city from Thursday on a network of cars specially equipped with masks and sanitizers, and the cars will be driven by specially trained drivers. Citizens can book a cab on their app by selecting the ‘Ola Emergency’ category and enter the drop location from a list of available hospitals in the city. Ola has mapped over 50 hospitals to its app. “We are thankful to the A.P. Government for giving us an opportunity to serve the people in these tough times,” Ola spokesperson Anand Subramanian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ola-emergency-launched/article31304936.ece
10 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman found dead; parents allege foul play||A 26-year-old woman was found dead under suspicious circumstances at Marripalem under Airport Police Station limits on Wednesday night. The woman’s parents have accused their son-in-law and his parents of murdering their daughter and trying to pass it off as a case of suicide. The deceased woman was identified as U. Swaroopa Rani (26), hailing from Komarada mandal in Vizianagaram district. She had married her husband Gowri Prasad in August 2018. According to a police complaint lodged by the woman’s family, Mr. Gowri Prasad and his family have been harassing Swaroopa mentally and physically demanding additional dowry ever since their wedding. The woman’s parents also alleged that on the night of April 8, they received a phone call from Prasad’s father who told them that their daughter had attempted suicide and that she was in a critical condition. When they rushed to the city, they found their daughter dead, they said. Police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-found-dead-parents-allege-foul-play/article31304926.ece
10 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister on relief drive||Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Thursday toured several mandals in Bhimunipatnam and gave away Rs. 4.65 lakh of relief and essential commodities sanctioned by the CM as COVID-19 relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-on-relief-drive/article31304930.ece
10 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman drowns in reservoir||A 50-year-old woman allegedly drowned when the boat in which she was travelling with her husband capsized in the Konam reservoir, at Konam village under Cheedikada police station limits on Thursday.  Sources said that D. Devudamma (40) and her husband D. Kondala Rao were returning ashore when the boat capsized due to strong winds. While Mr. Rao managed to swim ashore, Devudamma failed to swim back and drowned. Her body was traced later. Police have registered a case and have launched an investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-drowns-in-reservoir/article31304928.ece
10 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Outsiders’ told to enrol their names||Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal has appealed to the people who had come from other districts and States to enrol their names at the respective village and ward secretariats. He has also instructed the officials of the respective mandals to submit the details of such persons to the district administration to ensure immediate medical tests and quarantine, if necessary. Meanwhile, Srikakuam Collector J. Nivas has asked the ward secretariats to complete the door-to-door survey undertaken to gather information about the new persons who have come to villages and towns recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/outsiders-told-to-enrol-their-names/article31304875.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||11 more people test positive in Prakasam||Eleven more persons were tested positive for COVID-19 in Prakasam district, said a bulletin released by the district administration on Thursday night. With the fresh cases, the number of positive cases has gone up to 38 in the district. Of the 11 new cases, 10 patients are from Islampet, which has been been declared a red zone, while the 11th person is from Gopalnagar in Ongole. The city has been decalred a containment zone in the wake of the new cases. The infected persons had direct or indirect links wioth the Tablighi Jammat meeting held in Delhi. As part of containment strategy, over 33,000 persons have been put under scanner. They include 960 foreign returnees, 101 persons who had returned from Delhi, 163 primary contacts of the infected persons and 283 secondary contacts, Collector P.Bhaskar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/11-more-people-test-positive-in-prakasam/article31304874.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Risky gamble||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/risky-gamble/article31304938.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Taking no chances||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/taking-no-chances/article31304472.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Challenging times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/challenging-times/article31304923.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||telangana||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana/article31304436.ece
10 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Tribal hamlets’ location makes them safe zones||The tribal habitations in old composite Adilabad district may be facing many a disadvantage, but seem to be comparatively safer when it comes to COVID-19 spread. Their location on hilly slopes within the forest or abutting it and at a distance of about 2 km on an average between any two of those, the tribals say, is the main reason for them to be safe from viral contaminations. “We get to clearly see any newcomer headed towards our village at any time of the day because of the location of our village,” says Marsakolla Nago Rao, a Raj Gond tribal from the picturesque Lohara village in Adilabad rural mandal. The village is located within a valley and a view from the top reveals that people from the series of hamlets in the hillocks can easily make out if anyone is headed towards them. The tribals are no stranger to killer epidemics, two of which claimed hundreds of lives in the summer of 1998 (diarrhoea and sun stroke) and in 2008 (malaria), but the COVID-19 is a different ball game for them. Despite the handicap of illiteracy, they were quick to understand the gravity of the situation and were among the first to bar any outsider entering their hamlets or a villager going out without notice of elders. The limitations wrought by poverty among the tribal people has also taught them to make do with less and avoid going out of the village at any cost. A good number of the about 1.8 lakh tribal population living in the 660 habitations scattered in the hilly interiors of the district have made themselves scarce from the bazars, whatever is open of them. Another aspect in the way of life of tribals which gives scope for coming in contact with outsiders is the weekly shandies. The suspension of these shandies, however, had limited that scope. A belief of the tribals that all diseases enter their village through foul air has got them think in terms of saving forests. “We have also curtailed all celebratory affairs like weddings and the Bada Dev puja in the coming month will also be a simple affair with only a handful of people in attendance in given villages,” pointed out Kanaka Ambaji Rao, the Raj Gond elder, panchayat secretary in Netnur in Sirpur (U) mandal of Kumram Bheem Asifabad district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tribal-hamlets-location-makes-them-safe-zones/article31304754.ece
10 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Former Sirpur MLA passes away||Two-time legislator of Sirpur constituency, now in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district, and Telangana protagonist, 60-year-old Kaveti Sammaiah, passed away on Thursday morning at a private hospital in Kagaznagar due to cardiac arrest. He leaves behind wife Saileela, a former Kagaznagar municipal chairperson herself and three sons. Sammaiah was admitted to the hospital in the morning following illness but breathed his last within half-an-hour of reaching the hospital. He was suffering from hypertension and diabetes since the last six months. Sammaiah was among the staunchest followers of Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao during the separate Telangana movement and won the 2009 Assembly election as well as the 2010 byelection as a Telangana Rashtra Samithi candidate from Sirpur constituency. He lost to Koneru Konappa in 2014 when the latter contested on a Bahujan Samaj party ticket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/former-sirpur-mla-passes-away/article31304752.ece
10 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Disinfectant tunnel at RIMS||A disinfectant tunnel sponsored by Jogu Foundation was installed at the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Adilabad, on Thursday. Collector A. Sridevasena and MLA Jogu Ramanna inaugurated the spraying machine costing about Rs. 40 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/disinfectant-tunnel-at-rims/article31304756.ece
10 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PPE kits available, more being procured: govt. to High Court||Observing that there was shortage in supply of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits all over the world, the State government on Thursday submitted to Telangana High Court that already an order was placed to procure 3,31,798 such kits. The government received 47,603 kits. Vendors are likely to supply the remaining shortly, the government told in an interim report filed before the High Court, which was hearing a PIL plea on measures taken by the government to combat COVID-19 pandemic. By April 6, central medicine stores and hospitals in the State had 28,184 PPE kits. By tapping local manufacturers, the government placed an order with them to make PPE kits, the report said. Order was given to secure 6,89,390 units of N95 masks. Till now, 86,390 such masks were received. Central medicine stores and hospitals all over the State have stocks of 73,227 such masks. The government was also procuring 53 lakh of three-ply surgical masks. While 25.50 lakh of such masks were received, the remaining are likely to be received soon, the report said. The government has a stock of 10.34 lakh surgical gloves, in addition to the 23 lakh examination gloves already available with it. Telangana Medical Services Infrastructure Development Corporation is monitoring supply of all these items. There is no dearth of any essential commodity to the general public during lockdown as supply chain of all shops and establishments was being maintained. People are allowed to procure their daily needs. However, their movement is restricted within 3 km radius of homes. Hearing the PIL plea, the bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice T. Amarnath Goud perused the interim report. The bench noted that there was high demand all over the world for N95 masks to be used by doctors and para-medical staff attending on COVID-19 affected persons. Observing that the State government cannot be blamed for the gap in demand and supply of the masks, the bench instructed the government to file another detailed report by April 15 explaining the measures being taken to combat the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ppe-kits-available-more-being-procured-govt-to-high-court/article31304729.ece
10 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||12 containment clusters||The State government has identified 12 containment clusters as part of efforts to combat coronavirus (COVID-19). Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said people who are residing in these clusters are advised not to come out of their houses while outsiders/others would not be allowed to visit these areas. The government has initiated steps like barricading wherever necessary in these identified areas and a special number would be allocated to those who are inside to convey their problems. The Chief Secretary, accompanied by DGP M. Mahender Reddy and senior officials, visited Mallepally areas in Khairatabad zone to inspect the implementation of lockdown in these areas. Urging people to voluntarily support the government for the steps initiated to contain COVID-19, he directed the GHMC Commissioner to nominate a nodal officer to monitor the implementation of the containment rules. The zonal and deputy commissioners of the corporation should also ensure that the government’s directions are being implemented in toto. Appreciating people for supporting the government’s decision to impose lockdown, he requested them to stand by the government in the coming days too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/12-containment-clusters/article31304762.ece
10 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lockdown no deterrent, RGIA keeps premises spick and span||If not for the COVID-19 lockdown, Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) would have celebrated its 12th anniversary. The country’s sixth busiest airport was opened on March 23, 2008, but last month’s ‘eventful’ date was missed with the shutdown of commercial civil aviation. While international flights were halted on March 22, domestic operations were stopped on March 24, bringing the daily passenger footfall from 60,000 to zero. The airport used to see a daily in and out flight movement of about 550 planes, including 70 international aircraft. All the air traffic is now restricted to special flights carrying stranded foreigners and regular cargo movement of medicines and other essentials. As a result, the airport, which has over 5,000 employees manning different functions at any given point of time round the clock, is now forced to manage with about 500 or so. These workers have become the ‘unsung heroes’, doing deep cleaning and sanitation covering every inch of the 1.27 lakh sq.ft airport spread across seven levels with a terminal building, aerobridges, washrooms, passenger processing zones, interim domestic and departure terminals, retail zones, and parking, among others, informed an official spokesman. These house keeping personnel have been given protective gears and their health is frequently monitored to check for any COVID-19 symptoms under the supervision of terminal operations team. This work is done daily to make the airport environs completely free of any virus strain at any passenger touch points such as self-check-in kiosks, seating areas, escalators, elevators, check in desks, self-bag drop area, frisking zones, baggage belts, baggage tubs, and boarding gates. Another band of bravehearts are the skeletal maintenance and engineering teams keeping critical assets functional like Aeronautical Ground Lighting (AGL) used as visual aids by pilots and other facilities such as UPS (Uninterrupted Power Supply) to seamlessly run the vital function of Air Traffic Control (ATC) centre, maintaining power and IT support to the AOCC (Airports Operations and Control Centre). These teams are keeping sewage treatment plants running too. A rudimentary team of AOCC and Air-side Operations is working in shifts to ensure the airport is fully operational to handle various types of aircraft, conducting runway and taxiway inspections and so on. Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting (ARFF) is on its toes to take care of any emergency requirements. “We are keeping our systems ready and the key personnel are prepared to start airline operations at a short notice, whenever the government permits,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lockdown-no-deterrent-rgia-keeps-premises-spick-and-span/article31304735.ece
10 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||5 more test positive in Nirmal||There was a spike in COVID-19 cases in Telangana districts on Thursday. Nirmal district had five more COVID suspects testing positive, raising the total number of positive cases to 15. Two cases each turned out to be positive from Bhainsa town and Chakpalli village in Narsapur (G) mandal while one positive case belongs to Gulzar market area in Nirmal town, according to an official release. The jump in the number of positive cases had authorities impose total curfew in the district for the next four days. Collector Md. Musharraf Ali Faruqui announced that the curfew will remain in force starting 7 p.m. on Thursday till April 14. He told reporters that during the total curfew period only medical shops will remain open. All other supplies, including milk and rations, will be suspended, he added. Meanwhile, as many as 142 suspect cases, who tested negative for COVID, were released from government quarantine facilities in Adilabad during the day as they finished their isolation. They were, however, made to give an undertaking that they will be in home isolation for a similar duration to rule out any infection finally. Collector A. Sridevasena, who visited the quarantine facilities when the suspects were being released, told them in clear terms that violation will attract provisions of concerned laws. Another eight COVID-19 cases have been reported from the integrated district of Nizamabad on Thursday, taking the total number of positive cases to 47, according to Collector C. Narayana Reddy. “You should cooperate with the administration and police by remaining indoors,” he said. Of the total of 57 positive cases registered in the integrated old district, 21 came from Nizamabad followed by seven from Banswada. As the second positive COVID case in Khammam was reported from the Fort area on Wednesday, authorities have intensified surveillance and barricaded the particular zone as part of the cluster containment strategy. A total of five teams consisting of medical staff have been entrusted with the task of conducting house-to-house survey as part of contact tracing and monitoring the health condition of those under home quarantine. Collector R.V. Karnan with Additional Collector Snehalatha and Khammam Municipal Commissioner Anuraag Jayanthi monitored the survey and strict enforcement of the lockdown in various localities in the vicinity of the Fort and Jubileepura areas on Thursday.  (With inputs from our correspondents in Adilabad, Nizamabad and Khammam districts).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/5-more-test-positive-in-nirmal/article31304724.ece
10 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Work apace on hospital for COVID cases||From a distance, there is little to indicate the hectic pace of work under way on the hospital that is shaping up near the Gachibowli stadium. It is a beehive of activity with workers focused on their work. From readying lifts of the multi-storied structure, unloading beds from vans near the entrance where iron beds are already stacked, getting measurement for the wooden panelling and steel railings correct, to a host of other jobs assigned to them, they seem to be racing against a deadline. Indeed they are, as a Telangana Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation official at the site, who did not want to be identified, said April 15 was the deadline for handing over the facility to the Health department. The task on hand is to create 1,500 isolation beds and 50-bed Intensive Care Units. The plan is to house the ICU on the ground floor and the wards, comprising the 1,500 beds, on the remaining floors of the 13-storied building which was constructed sometime in 2007 as a Sports Tower on a nine-acre land with space for expansion. The government may consider the option of having a full-fledged hospital there, he added. Since six floors were ready for use, the present work also involves readying the rest. The boundary wall at the site housing the proposed quarantine facility is also being raised. The facility had a separate entrance from the ISB Road, the official said. One of the men in a team working on oxygen pipelines said it took about three hours to complete the work in an ICU room, adding they had four rooms to complete on Thursday. A little distance away, a man from Kolkata engaged in cutting steel pipes for railings, said they had been working for about 15 days now on the ‘Corona Hospital’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/work-apace-on-hospital-for-covid-cases/article31304733.ece
10 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rain brings cheer to city||The sun-baked city received a welcome reprieve on Thursday when it received showers across several areas, and the climate turned balmy towards evening. Reports of mild hailstorm too arrived from L.B.Nagar and other areas. From a fairly sultry day, it suddenly turned cloudy by 4 p.m., and began to rain towards north-western parts of the city. The clouds which developed over areas such as Alwal, Kapra and Qutbullahpur soon spread towards other areas like L.B.Nagar, Nagole and Charminar. The showers, moderate to heavy in intensity, lasted anywhere between 30 minutes to 45 minutes across the localities. As per the data received from weather station of India Meteorological Department at Begumpet, the city received 22 millimetres of rainfall on Thursday. The automatic weather stations installed across the city recorded the highest rainfall at Bolarum, at 33 millimetres, followed by Srinagar Colony at 24 millimetres. Khairatabad, Balanagar, Banjara Hills, West Marredpally, Ameerpet, Asifnagar, Nampally, Secunderabad, Musheerabad, Amberpet, Shaikpet, Uppal, Ramanthapur, Keesara and Malkajgiri were some other areas which received rain. Weatherman attributed the showers to the upper air circulation from eastern Madhya Pradesh and Chattisgarh areas, and the upper air trough formed up to 0.9 km height towards southern Tamil Nadu, across eastern Vidarbha, Telangana and Rayalaseema. Similar conditions with evening showers or thunderstorm are predicted over the next two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rain-brings-cheer-to-city/article31304739.ece
10 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Measures mooted for calibrated reopening of MSME units||The Telangana Industrialists Federation has suggested to the State government to consider a calibrated, experimental reopening of MSME manufacturing units in a few select TSIIC industrial parks. Noting that the lockdown has seen a near total shutdown of MSME units, except those exempted, in the industrial parks, the Federation listed out a number of measures the government can pass direction for a calibrated reopening of the units in select parks. It included according permission to operate only one single-day shift and allowing only workforce residing within 3 km from the unit. Other measures the government can notify include directing the MSME units to identify personnel critical for manufacturing; required personnel to work on a rotational basis; submitting details of individual/collective labour transportation modes as also of transportation logistics of input and output material. The jurisdictional police or GHMC can issue period specific travel passes to the workforce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/measures-mooted-for-calibrated-reopening-of-msme-units/article31304719.ece
10 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID-19 ready: UoH students volunteer for epidemiological fieldwork in districts||University of Hyderabad’s students of Public Health have been asked by the Telangana government to carry out epidemiological fieldwork in various districts, as part of its containment strategy against the spread of COVID-19. About 15 students of the second semester Master of Public Health (MPH) of the university, who have volunteered for the work, have been issued orders by district authorities to participate in active and passive surveillance teams. In addition, four research scholars and another 30 students, including current MPH seniors and alumni, have submitted their credentials to the government and offered to work for the humanitarian cause. The Telangana government has appreciated this spirit of volunteerism and promised to consider them for future placements. Vice-Chancellor of the UoH Appa Rao Podile lauded the students’ motivation to serve voluntarily in this hour of crisis and characterised it as part of the university’s social responsibility mandate. “For students of public health of our university, this is indeed a valuable opportunity for gaining hands-on experience in a field in which they are getting trained,” he said. The TS government’s Director for Public Health and Family Welfare of the Ministry of Health has undertaken a State-wide surveillance and containment strategy against COVID-19 in line with the recommendation of WHO. It includes monitoring trends of the disease where human-to-human transmission occurs, detecting new cases in countries where the virus is not circulating, and providing epidemiological information to conduct risk assessment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-19-ready-uoh-students-volunteer-for-epidemiological-fieldwork-in-districts/article31304721.ece
10 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Junior artist found dead||A junior artist in the Telugu film industry was found dead under suspicious circumstances at her rented house in Yellareddyguda of SR Nagar here on Thursday. The victim, Vijayashanti (35), was a native of Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh and was living alone here. According to SR Nagar police, the watchman of the apartment complex noticed in the morning that the woman had not come out of the house for the last two days and informed other residents. They suspected something was wrong and alerted the police, following which a team rushed to the spot and found the decomposed body of Vijayashanti with a head injury. “She used to consume sleeping pills. We suspect that on the fateful day too, the woman took a few pills, and in a semi-conscious state tried to get out of the bed and suffered a head injury. She bled to death,” inspector S. Murali Krishna said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/junior-artist-found-dead/article31304741.ece
10 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Postal dept. makes arrangement to transport exam papers||The postal department has made special arrangement to collect, transport, sort and deliver 8,000 SSC and Intermediate examination parcels from the National Speed Post Hub at Hyderabad to different valuation centres in coordination with the Department of School Education, Telangana. This was because road and rail transport, transmission and delivery of examination parcels was badly affected due to sudden lockdown and suspension of SSC and Intermediate exams mid-way. Explaining the activities of the department during lockdown period, the Chief Post Master General of Telangana said the basic postal and savings bank services were maintained by mobile post-offices with computers, connectivity, cash and staff in mail motor service (MMS) vehicles. Twenty MMS vehicles were also utilised extensively by Telangana State Medical Infrastructure Development Corporation for transporting essential drugs and medical equipment like oxygen cylinders, masks and gloves. More than 200 tonnes of material was delivered from the State and district medical depots to district and area hospitals and primary health centres. In view of restrictions on movement of postmen by residents welfare associations and gated communities, accountable articles (speed post, parcels, registered letters) delivery was made from post-offices itself by contact addressees wherever phone numbers were available on the packets. Over 22 lakh beneficiaries received social security pensions of State government in over 5,500 post offices since April 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/postal-dept-makes-arrangement-to-transport-exam-papers/article31304749.ece
10 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Monitor containment clusters in districts’||The State government has directed the District Collectors to take all measures to contain the spread of Coronavirus (COVID-19) for protecting the safeguarding the people in the districts. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar conducted video-conference with the District Collectors on Thursday to discuss the measures taken in the light of government’s decision to identify containment clusters to check the spread of the virus. The meeting also deliberated on the condition of people in government quarantine, surveillance of those sent to home quarantine and relief measures taken for the migrant labour in different districts. The District Collectors were directed to open control rooms and publish pamphlets in local language with instructions that should be followed in the containment clusters. The Chief Secretary directed the District Collectors to ensure that every household in the containment clusters is checked twice daily and suspected cases identified should be referred for treatment immediately. No person should be allowed to move in the barricaded area and steps should be taken to spray disinfectants twice a day in the containment areas. Foreign returnees and people belonging to other States who do not have homes to take shelter should be allowed to stay in the government quarantine. Any violation of rules by the persons in home quarantine should be dealt with strictly. In addition, officials should take steps to deliver essential commodities at the door steps of people residing in the containment clusters. Surveillance by local teams, particularly of the home quarantined people, was of utmost importance to ensure that they do not violate the laid down norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/monitor-containment-clusters-in-districts/article31304748.ece
10 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘COVID-19 relief sum safe in PMJDY accounts’||The COVID-19 relief amount credited by the government, by way of Direct Benefit Transfer, to eligible Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) account-holders will remain in their accounts if not withdrawn by them during the lockdown period, according to the State Bank of India. “The money will be safe in their bank accounts in case the beneficiaries do not withdraw (the sum) immediately,” the SBI Hyderabad Circle Chief General Manager O.P. Mishra said on Thursday. Seeking to quash rumours that the DBT credits will be returned to the government if beneficiaries do not withdraw the money during the lockdown period, Mr. Mishra said that customers can withdraw money from their accounts even after the lockdown is lifted. He advised customers not to panic and requested only those in emergency to withdraw money from the bank branches or CSPs to meet their essential needs. He appealed to customers to use digital products and observe social distancing when visiting branches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-19-relief-sum-safe-in-pmjdy-accounts/article31304718.ece
10 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Uttam seeks white paper on State finances||TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy demanded that the State government release a white paper disclosing the statistics pertaining to coronavirus in the State, besides disclosing facts on the financial situation. He said it is unfortunate that people have started raising apprehensions that the State government is hiding real statistics of patients and suspects and such apprehensions are triggered due to the failure of authorities in releasing media bulletins on regular basis, he alleged. Further, he said the State government should also disclose figures on the availability of hospitals, beds, ICU units, ventilators, drugs and medical equipments, testing kits, medical professionals involved in the anti-coronavirus operations and the estimated amount required to deal with the situation. This will infuse confidence among the people, he said. Mr. Reddy expressed these views while addressing senior leaders of Congress party through a video-conference. The TPCC chief also wanted the government to release a white paper on the State's financial situation. It is hard to believe that a State like Telangana is unable to pay full salaries to its staff just due to a week of lockdown and he alleged that the State government is trying to cover up its economic failures under the garb of coronavirus situation. He demanded that the Chief Minister disclose figures pertaining to the expenditure on anti-coronavirus operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uttam-seeks-white-paper-on-state-finances/article31304750.ece
10 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Outsourced staff at Gandhi Hospital protest||Outsourced employees of Gandhi Hospital, the largest isolation facility for COVID-19 patients, staged a protest for an hour on Thursday, demanding one month’s salary as incentive. There are 700 outsourced employees providing sanitation, nursing, security, para medical, and patient care services, at the hospital. As part of Telangana government’s special incentive announced recently, staff members employed on regular, outsourcing and contract basis, in the Health department were sanctioned an incentive of 10% of their gross salary or remuneration. AITUC Hyderabad Council general secretary M. Narasimha, who led the protest, said, “They would be encouraged if a month’s salary is provided as incentive.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/outsourced-staff-at-gandhi-hospital-protest/article31304717.ece
10 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IT-based solution to keep track of violators||Larsen & Toubro’s ‘smart world and communication’ unit has devised innovative IT-based solutions to help the city police and administrators keep track of the movement of people and vehicles during lockdown in the twin cities. Using the existing Machine Learning-based automated number plate recognition system, vehicle locations are being monitored continuously so that the moment a vehicle crosses the three-kilometre limit allowed for buying essential commodities, an alert is sent to the police. The Regional Transport Authority (RTA)’s database has been integrated into the system to identify vehicle owners for issuing warnings. More than 200 cameras have been deployed in key areas that are enabled with deep learning-based crowd formation analytics to send real-time alerts to the police command centre. At least 1,000 such alerts have come to the police control room and has helped in dispersing the crowd through mobile patrol teams. “We have been working with State governments to manage complex civic functions by seamlessly integrating various smart technologies to manage surveillance,” said the CEO and MD S.N. Subrahmanyan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/it-based-solution-to-keep-track-of-violators/article31304722.ece
10 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Let’s hack against COVID-19||HackerEarth, an AI powered accurate developer assessment platform, has announced a non-profit online hackathon called ‘hackCOVID’ in partnership with IIM Bangalore (IIMB). The platform is open to the global community of data scientists, social workers, designers and engineers, to hack against COVID-19 and is seeking an alliance with corporates. A single phase hackathon from April 1 to May 15 is an opportunity for developers across the globe to join hands and help address the pandemic. With over 700 teams currently registered, hackCOVID seeks solutions such as coronavirus outbreak management system (for healthcare), home quarantine tracker (for public administration), itinerary management system (for travel/tourism), operations management system (for businesses), and AR/VR powered e-learning platforms, to name a few. MP of Bengaluru South Tejasvi Surya will be part of the jury that determines the best prototype and will share relevant solutions with the government for deployment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lets-hack-against-covid-19/article31304730.ece
10 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Woman found dead||A 21-year-old private employee ended her life by jumping from an apartment complex in Papireddy Colony of Serilingampally here on Thursday. Chandanagar police said the victim was depressed owing to thyroid and obesity for the past few years. “Between 4 a.m. and 5 a.m., when her family members were asleep, she went to the terrace of the building and jumped to her death,” police said.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-found-dead/article31304760.ece
10 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor’s Good Friday message||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has said that Jesus Christ showed great love for all human beings and made ultimate sacrifice for their welfare. In her message on the eve of Good Friday, Dr Soundararajan said Good Friday was observed by Christians all over the world in memory of crucifixion of Jesus Christ. “On this day, His sacrifices are remembered with solemn hymns and prayers of thanksgiving. Let the sacrificing day of Good Friday give us enough strength and courage to combat the pandemic COVID-19,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governors-good-friday-message/article31304737.ece
10 April 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Trace, test and quarantine formula yields good results||The Karimnagar district, which had hit the headlines with the highest number of COVID-19 positive cases in Telangana with the arrival of 10 Indonesians, is limping back to normalcy with no new fresh cases since the last few days and the suspected 73 primary contacts (high risk) testing negative. The 73 primary contacts, who moved closely with the Indonesians and were quarantined at Chalmeda Ananda Rao Institute of Medical Sciences (CAIMS) and Satavahana University for 14 days, were discharged on Wednesday evening. However, they would be home quarantined for another 14 days under the supervision of medical teams. All the suspected persons testing negative has brought relief to the district administration. Now, the authorities have launched a campaign educating people for social distancing to check the spread of the virus. The ‘Trace, Test and Quarantine’ norm for suspected people had yielded good results in controlling the spread of the virus. After the Indonesians were tested positive on March 20 and one local transmission tested positive from Mukarampura locality, the district authorities announced containment of three municipal divisions covering around 3,650 households from March 23 onwards where the Indonesians had roamed during their stay for two days. Police had barricaded the three divisions and deployed round the clock surveillance forcing residents to remain indoors. The authorities had supplied milk, vegetables, groceries, ATM at their doorstep and also conducted door-to-door survey with 150 medical teams on two occasions with the support of IMA doctors. Meanwhile, the municipal authorities have launched a special sanitation drive by using sodium hypochlorite solution and bleaching powder in the containment zone and in the entire town. Drones, fire tenders, tractor-mounted jet guns and automatic power sprayers were used for the sanitisation programme. Also, 19 persons from the district, who returned from the markaz event in Delhi, were also shifted to hospital, of which 11 tested negative and four positive and the other reports are awaited. The 38 primary contacts of Delhi returnees were also quarantined. The same formula of containment zone was being adopted in Huzurabad localities, where three positive cases were reported. Collector K. Shashanka said that the constant instructions by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and other officials and the support from local elected representatives were instrumental in curtailing the spread of the virus. “It was a teamwork with an active participation by the police,” he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trace-test-and-quarantine-formula-yields-good-results/article31304757.ece
10 April 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Differently-abled girl donates salary to CMRF||A differently-abled girl and native of Karimnagar, Nadepelli Akshitha, who works as a software engineer in Hyderabad, donated her one month salary of Rs. 61,000 to the Chief Minister Relief Fund. Accordingly, Akshitha along with her father Ashok Rao, who was former municipal corporator, and Mayor Y Sunil Rao met Collector K Shashanka and handed over the demand draft towards the CMRF in Karimnagar town on Thursday. The Collector appreciated her gesture towards the society and said that she is an inspiration for everybody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/differently-abled-girl-donates-salary-to-cmrf/article31304759.ece
10 April 2020||M. Rajeev,TELANGANA||Welfare board starts mapping of registered workers||The Telangana Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board has started collecting the data pertaining to more than eight lakh workers from different fields registered with it to ensure that all the registered workers receive the benefits announced by the government for tiding over the crisis due to the ongoing lockdown. The Board commenced the exercise to collect the Aadhar numbers, bank account details and mobile numbers of more than 8.2 lakh workers including a few thousands of migrant workers. Efforts are underway to collect the data and process it to ensure that no one is left out in the event of government announcing a relief package for them. The exercise assumes significance in the light of indications that the ongoing lockdown could continue for some more time beyond April 14, the last day of the 21-day lockdown announced by the Central government. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao took the initiative to provide 12 kg rice and Rs. 500 cash to each of the migrant workers as part of efforts to check their mass migration to their native places after finding no jobs due to the ongoing lockdown. Senior officials of the Board said that data relating to Aadhaar and account details of the workers were hitherto not collected as it was not mandatory in the past. “We have started collection of data and processing it as we should be in a position to submit the details as and when the government asks them,” Board secretary and CEO Koteswara Rao told The Hindu . The Board, incorporated under the Labour department as tripartite body comprising representatives of workers and employers as well as government employees, had been implementing schemes like marriage gift, maternity benefit, fatal accident and disability relief, hospitalisation relief and pension scheme (NPS) for the workers registered with it. Mr. Koteswara Rao said according to rules, only registered beneficiaries, either local or migrant workers, are eligible for the benefits announced by the government from time to time. The Board has therefore initiated steps to map the workers registered with it to ensure that the benefits reached all the eligible workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/welfare-board-starts-mapping-of-registered-workers/article31304747.ece
10 April 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||IIT-H provides sanitisers for the masses||The Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad (IIT-H) has been providing nearly 100 litres of hand sanitisers per day to the Sangareddy district administration to fight the spread of coronavirus. The hand sanitisers have been made by a research team led by associate professor of the Department of Biomedical Engineering at IIT-H Jyotsnendu Giri. They are being handed over to the Sangareddy Collectorate, which is then distributing it to the local population. Dr. Giri’s research team developed their own compositions including Isopropanol/ethanol, Mecetronium Ethyl Sulphate, Glycerol, Brilliant Blue and Fragrance (jasmin/clove/lavender oil). The sanitisers were also being shared with the IIT-H community since March. The research group had developed the composition on a par with the standards recommended by the World Health Organisation and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Speaking about this initiative, director of IIT-H B.S. Murty said, “Amidst the coronavirus crisis, IIT-H has geared up to contribute to the society, the nation and the world at large, through its research and offer support to the local community. To combat COVID-19, the institute initially prepared hand sanitisers for in-house use. In view of the scarcity of this product, IIT-H is now preparing and delivering about 100 litres of sanitiser every day to the district administration.” Dr. Giri along with technical staff, including Vijaya Kumar and Jaya Lakshmi, are involved in the process of making the sanitiser. His Engineering Nanomaterials and Regenerative Medicine Laboratory (ENARM lab) focuses on research and innovation for effective and affordable healthcare solution in areas of nanomedicine and regenerative medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iit-h-provides-sanitisers-for-the-masses/article31304731.ece
10 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||3 new cases in Gautam Buddha Nagar||Gautam Buddha Nagar registered three new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the tally to 63. Of these, 12 have been totally cured, an official release said. The new cases have been reported in Noida’s Sector 50, Sector 93 A and Sector P 12 of Greater Noida, a health official said. The release also stated that 1,168 samples have been collected in the district, which emerged as a hotspot in U.P. and 809 people are under surveillance. After reports of inconvenience to residents from different hotspots sealed on Wednesday emerged, DM Suhas L.Y. tweeted, “We are trying to minimise your inconvenience by ensuring all emergency and essential services. The decision of lockdown has only been taken keeping in mind the health and welfare of all residents. Let us do our individual duty for the collective good.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-new-cases-in-gautam-buddha-nagar/article31304664.ece
10 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Nine places declared ‘containment zone’||Nine places, including Nirvana Country and Palam Vihar, were declared as containment zone by the district administration on Thursday in view of multiple COVID-19 cases having been reported here. The orders come more than two to three weeks after the cases were first reported in many of these areas. Besides Nirvana Country and Palam Vihar, the areas declared as containment zone are Sector 9, Emar Palm Gardens (Sector-83), Laburnum Society, Sector 39, Fazilpur Jharsa, Pataudi Ward No. 11 and Sohna’s Rajpur village. Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri said all requisite preventive steps were already taken for these areas after the COVID-19 cases were detected, but the orders were declared now. As per the orders, the movement of the inhabitants of the containment zones will be absolutely restricted and the entire area sealed by the deployment of police force and setting up of check-points. Items of daily need, including vegetables and groceries, will be delivered at the doorstep without the delivery personnel making any physical contact with the household members. The supply of power and drinking water will be ensured by the district administration. Besides, the health care staff will conduct door-to-door survey for thermal screening of each and every person. All of them will work under the directions of the Civil Surgeon. As per State government health bulletin, Gurugram has 23 active COVID-19 cases. However, a total of 32 cases have been reported so far. Nine persons have been discharged. Haryana has a total of 136 active COVID-19 cases at||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nine-places-declared-containment-zone/article31304665.ece
10 April 2020||New Delhi,||3 deaths and 51 new COVID-19 cases reported in the Capital||Three deaths due to COVID-19 and 51 new cases were reported in Delhi on Thursday, taking the total number of deaths to 12 and cases to 720, stated a daily health bulletin of the Delhi government.  Out of the total 720 cases reported so far, 682 people are still at hospitals and 25 have been discharged. A total of 2,664 people were in different quarantine facilities, while around 18,500 people were home-quarantined, according to the government. Meanwhile, Bengali Market, Sadar Bazar, and a slum in south Moti Bagh were added on Thursday to an earlier list of 20 containment zones. Also, following directions of New Delhi District Magistrate, the New Delhi Municipal Council has carried out a disinfection drive on sealed areas of Bengali Market, Babar Road, and adjoining lanes, residential complexes and parks. Three people had tested positive in the area for COVID-19. On Thursday, the Delhi government removed G.B. Pant Hospital from a list of dedicated COVID-19 hospitals, as other patients, who have been receiving treatment at the hospital, were facing difficulties. Instead of using G.B. Pant Hospital for COVID-19 treatment, Lok Nayak Hospital will increase its capacity by 500 beds, a Delhi government order said. The OPD service at Maharaja Agrasen Hospital has been shut after at least eight cases of COVID-19 were reported at the hospital. On March 10, a woman was admitted at the hospital and then referred to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, where she was tested positive for COVID-19. Later six employees of Maharaja Agrasen Hospital were also tested positive for COVID-19, the police said. Later, another patient who was admitted in Maharaja Agrasen Hospital was tested positive and she died on April 4. The police said that the family of the deceased had not informed anyone that she had tested positive for COVID-19 and that several people attended the cremation. Later, the deceased’s son also tested positive for COVID-19. The Delhi police on Thursday registered an FIR against the management of Maharaja Agrasen Hospital for alleged negligence in informing the matter to local authorities and handing the body in violation of government guidelines. Out of 114 quarantined healthcare workers of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, two have tested positive so far. (with inputs from Hemani Bhandari)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-deaths-and-51-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-the-capital/article31304672.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Arrivals at Azadpur Mandi drop over 50% due to lockdown||The COVID-19 lockdown caused a 53% drop in the volume of major fruits and vegetables arriving at the Azadpur Mandi, according to analysis of the market’s arrivals data. Even for kitchen staples such as onions, potatoes and tomatoes, volumes are down over 40%, while other vegetables and fruits have been further affected. The Azadpur Mandi is Asia’s biggest fruit and vegetable market, spread over almost 44 acres in north-west Delhi. It is home to almost 1,400 shops and handles almost 50 lakh tonnes of produce every year. An analysis of data from the mandi’s Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee shows that arrivals plunged immediately after the lockdown. Considering six major commodities — onion, potato, tomato, carrots, apples and oranges — only 2,343 tonnes arrived at the mandi on March 25, the first day of the lockdown. The previous day had seen arrival of more than 4,411 tonnes. Despite the government’s decision to keep the mandi and to exempt agricultural activity and transport from lockdown restrictions, arrivals remained low for the next two weeks, hovering around the 2,000-tonne mark on most days and dropping to 1,083 tonnes on March 30. For the first week of the lockdown, from March 25 to 30, arrivals of these six commodities dropped 53.27% in comparison to the same period in the previous year. Fruit trade was the most badly hit, with the volume of arriving apples from the northern States crashing more than 83% in comparison to the previous year. Onion and potato arrivals were over 40% lower than the previous year. Tomatoes were about a third of the volume which arrived in the previous year. On Wednesday, responding to concerns about crowding and a failure to practice social distancing at the mandi, the APMC reportedly told traders that they would only be allowed to bring in one truck each per day. The APMC also decided to allow trade in alternate auction sheds only. These moves are meant to prevent the mandi from becoming another hotspot of COVID-19 infections, but are also likely to further reduce the volumes of fruits and vegetables arriving at the mandi.  (With inputs from The Hindu Data team)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/arrivals-at-azadpur-mandi-drop-over-50-due-to-lockdown/article31304674.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||A guard’s concern: going door-to-door for money||The last two days were scary for 62-year-old Raj Kumar Singh, who works as a security guard in the sealed Pocket J&K in Dilshad Garden. Singh, a native of Bihar’s Madhubani and resident of Seemapuri, has been collecting money for him and his seven colleagues from 800-odd households in the colony for years. But on Tuesday, it was different. “I have to ring their doorbell, interact with them and take bank notes from them. Who knows who is infected and who is not,” he said. A few residents try to shoo him away. “ Ek parivar ne bol diya ki ye sab chal raha hai aur tum paise lene aa gaye… jao yahan se… hum chhote log hain… hum ye sab seh lete hain [A family said that virus is spreading and I have come to ask for money. We are poor people, we deal with this],” he recounted. For a 12-hour daily shift, he gets paid Rs. 8,500 a month. For the extra Rs. 500, he goes around the colony. “Of the 800 houses, some are empty and many don’t even pay. I am able to collect about Rs. 65,000 only [for the entire team of eight],” he said, adding that he was pressed for money, as his sons Anil and Sunil, who work at a retail cloth store and a factory, are out of work because of the lockdown. From the RWA, he didn’t get a conclusive answer till late Wednesday. RWA president D.K. Bhandari said that Singh was told not to go for collection on Wednesday evening and he along with others will be paid after money is withdrawn from the bank. “I had asked the residents on the group to pay the amount at the gate but people didn’t respond. Going forward, we will come up with an idea for collection,” he said. By the time Singh’s shift ended, he was a happy man with Rs. 8,500 in his hand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-guards-concern-going-door-to-door-for-money/article31304669.ece
10 April 2020||New Delhi,||Finish DNA test of riot victim’s body, FSL told||The Delhi High Court (HC) has directed the Forensic Sciences Laboratory here to complete the DNA test of a charred body, which was found following the north-east Delhi riots and communicate its results to a woman who has claimed to be the deceased’s daughter. Justice Vibhu Bakhru ordered that the DNA test must be completed and the result communicated to the woman, Gulshan, who had moved a petition, not later than April 18. The HC’s direction came after Ms. Gulshan, in her plea, claimed that her father was a victim of a violence that had erupted on February 23 in north-east Delhi. She stated that her father was allegedly shot and burnt. The plea said she has identified the charred body of her father, but a DNA test had to be done to confirm the identity of the remains of her father. She said the test has not been conducted as yet. Delhi government Standing Counsel Naushad Ahmed submitted that priority is accorded to the victims of the recent violence. “The DNA matching of the body identified by the petitioner would be done by April 16 as the same is already under way,” Mr. Ahmed said. The HC had in many such cases related to the Delhi riots ordered the authorities to conduct the DNA testing of the victims on priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/finish-dna-test-of-riot-victims-body-fsl-told/article31304663.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Quick sealing has left residents gasping||The main gate of Pocket J&K in Dilshad Garden resembles a fortress. The area is sealed, has more barricades than the usual two, there is an overwhelming presence of police and civil defence officials. Moreover, residents can’t exit and visitors are prohibited entry. It is one of the 21 hotspots in the city that was sealed on Wednesday night. The area became a hotspot after a mohalla clinic doctor, his wife and daughter were tested positive, but have recovered and returned home. But the blanket sealing has left the resident clueless and panicky. Though Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had promised door-step delivery of essential commodities, arrangements  have yet to be in place. Around 10 p.m. on Wednesday night, as soon as the sealing was announced, residents rushed to the Mother Dairy outlet and grocery store. “We know this is for our safety but if the government wanted to seal the area, they should have first thought about the arrangements and informed the public in detail [as] who to contact for essential needs. It doesn’t seem practical,” said Pinky Arora, a housewife. As the regular vegetable vendor did not turn up, she had difficulty in procuring vegetables. “By the time I realised he wasn’t going to be allowed, vegetables at the Safal store and with the cart vendor outside the gate were over,” she said. Rush for vegetables Residents claimed that only one vendor was allowed in the locality. People have been queuing up near his cart since 7 a.m. and the queue ended at around 1 a.m. after the vegetables got over. Rahul, the vendor, said that he managed to get vegetables from Sahibabad Mandi, where he went at 2 a.m.   Ruchika Dhir, meanwhile, was worried about diaper supply for her ailing father. “I have the stock for a week but I don’t know how we’ll manage for the next week if we are not allowed to go out. I have asked a friend from Laxmi Nagar to buy and drop at the gate if the need arises,” she said. Entry denied Residents also alleged that banks around the area – for a few hours in the morning – denied entry for customers from the sealed areas of Dilshad Garden and Seemapuri. Resident Welfare Association president D.K. Bhandari said that District Magistrate and Sub Divisional Magistrate along with police had visited the colony on Thursday to take stock of the situation and also hinted that the sealing might be extended till April 21. “The Mother Dairy, grocery store, and Safal store will be opened for a few hours every day as of now. The issue about the bank was also flagged in front of the SDM and it will be solved,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/quick-sealing-has-left-residents-gasping/article31304667.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||FIR against shop owner||A day after District Magistrate asked Delhi Police to take action against owner of the Bengali Pastry Shop in Bengali Market, an FIR has been registered in connection with the incident. . “During house-to-house surveillance, 35 employees of the shop were found living in unhygienic conditions,” said Additional DCP (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fir-against-shop-owner/article31304666.ece
10 April 2020||New Delhi,||HC to function during summer vacation||The Delhi High Court (HC) on Thursday decided to cancel its summer vacation and function through the month of June to make up for loss of court’s working hours due to the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The HC and its subordinate district courts in the Capital had suspended its functioning following the imposition of 21-day lockdown in March. However, the HC and the district court are hearing “extremely urgent matters” through videoconferencing. To make up for the loss of working hours and “to ensure restoration of normalcy in the functioning of the courts at the earliest,” a Full Court of the HC headed by Chief Justice D.N. Patel resolved that courts will continue to function even during the entire vacation in June. There is negligible fresh filing of cases, lesser disposal and escalation in arrears, resulting in extreme hardship to litigants, the Full Court resolution said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-to-function-during-summer-vacation/article31304662.ece
10 April 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- BJP||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, on Thursday wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal seeking a meeting to discuss alleged issues with the Public Distribution System in the Capital. Due to lack of ration cards and alleged issues with the system of its distribution, Mr. Bidhuri claimed, those without ration cards, who were promised rations, were “wandering the streets” in the midst of the ongoing Novel Coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jatin-bjp/article31304670.ece
10 April 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- brief 2||The BJP State unit, under its ‘#feedtheneedy campaign’, has distributed food packets and essential raw material to 15,88,721 needy people in the Capital, the party claimed in a statement here on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jatin-brief-2/article31304671.ece
10 April 2020||Bhopal,||Bhopal police thrash two AIIMS doctors returning from duty||“We are doctors, don’t beat us,” cried two junior resident doctors of AIIMS, Bhopal, as the police thrashed them with batons while they returned home after performing emergency duties. Doctors like you are spreading the coronavirus. Do doctors roam around like this in the first place? You are a disgrace to the country! - two policemen, patrolling the Bag Sevania area, hurled the remarks at them. The identity cards around their necks, the hospital’s stickers on their scooter were ignored. Their appeals - “we are doctors, let us go”, went unheard. Around 6.30 p.m. on Wednesday, one of the policemen stopped their vehicle, smashed the milk packets they carried on the road, and landed batons on them. The woman, 27, received injuries on one foot, whereas the man, 31, who had raised one arm to protect against a blow from top, suffered soft tissue swelling with contused abrasions on the arm, which had to be wrapped in a PoP cast later. “More than the physical trauma, it is more of a mental one,” she said. “At a time when doctors are risking their lives for others, this is what they get in return. Sometimes, the common man hits us, but the police, who are supposed to save us, did it this time. Who do we trust?” she asked. At a time when COVID-19 cases are spiralling in Bhopal, which has reported 75 fresh cases in the past five days, different hospital departments are teaming up to cater to a steady stream of incoming patients. Even students of the Forensic Medicine and Toxicology Department, including the two doctors, are posted in isolation wards to take up COVID-19 duties on rotation. As the two doctors didn’t wear facemasks, the policemen told them they were a threat to society. “Such derogatory remarks, without knowing anything. Don’t they see it when we wear PPE kits while on duty? And they are teaching us to wear masks? They were so aggressive that we felt they would kill us,” she said. “If doctors stop working after such situations, imagine what would happen to healthcare at this point.” Back on duty Her parents back in West Bengal, who’re already tensed about the COVID-19 duty, asked her to go on a day’s leave on Thursday to get back her peace of mind. As did her professors, as she had suffered injuries. But gathering herself together the next day on Thursday, she reported for duty. “It was getting unnerving for me using the social media sitting at home. I had to return to work,” she said. Like each time, the students were confident showing their IDs would give them pass through the lockdown. “If such an incident could happen right outside my college, it could happen to me somewhere else too,” she said. “Everyone is scared now. If they say doctors can’t step outside when the COVID-19 spread is picking up, should I ask them why policemen are roaming outside too?”  Shocked and scared The harrowing incident has left doctors at the AIIMS both shocked and scared. One of her batchmates, who is on the isolation ward’s night duty roster the next week, is tensed about travelling to hospital, 9 km away from home, now. “I will totally not step out of the car when they ask for my ID. Will it even be safe to travel alone in the first place?” she asked. During a pandemic like this, everyone, especially lawmakers, should keep their calm, she added. “Also, compared to the COVID-19, a lathicharge seems less of a threat. And I picked this profession by choice, and it comes with great responsibility. We have to work,” she said. Bhopal South Superintendent of Police Sai Krishna Thota said, “We have initiated a departmental inquiry against the policemen, with one constable being line-attached. There was a market operating illegally near the spot, so they were returning after removing that, when the incident took place. Meanwhile, the AIIMS Resident Doctors’ Association condemned the incident and informed The Hindu the police had assured them tht strict action would be taken against the policemen within 24 hours of the incident. The hospital administration, however, hasn’t pressed charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bhopal-police-thrash-two-aiims-doctors-returning-from-duty/article31304659.ece
10 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Doctors to get double pay in Haryana||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Thursday announced to double the salary of doctors, nurses, paramedical and all other staff working in COVID-19 hospitals. According to an official statement, the Chief Minister, said that all the arrangements of providing PPE kits, medicines and ventilators are satisfactory in all the government hospitals and medical colleges in the State. “All the necessary arrangements for the treatment of COVID-19 patients such as masks, PPE kits, medicines, ventilators etc. will be made by the State Government for medical colleges whether they are under Central or State Government, Private or Government aided,” said the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/doctors-to-get-double-pay-in-haryana/article31304658.ece
10 April 2020||GUWAHATI/IMPHAL,||Manipur Dy. CM stripped of portfolios||Manipur Deputy Chief Minister Yumnam Joykumar has been stripped of all his portfolios after four ministers of his party, National People’s Party (NPP) was asked to resign from the BJP-led coalition government. A notification issued by the State’s Chief Secretary J. Suresh Babu on Thursday made Mr. Joykumar, a former Director-General of Police, Manipur’s first Deputy CM without a portfolio. It said Mr. Joykumar’s portfolios, including that of Forest, Environment and Climate Change, have been reallocated to the Chief Minister. Earlier in the day, the BJP had asked the NPP ministers to resign because of “irresponsible and derogatory” remarks Mr. Joykumar allegedly made about the Chief Minister. The Deputy CM had reportedly referred to Mr. Biren as a “mentally-deranged person” when a group of women met him to complain about not receiving rice rationed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/manipur-dy-cm-stripped-of-portfolios/article31304655.ece
10 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Schools in Rajasthan not to charge fee during curbs||The private schools in Rajasthan will not charge any dues or advance fee for three months from the students during the lockdown enforced to contain the spread of COVID-19. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said here on Thursday that the names of students would not be struck off from the school rolls on account of non-payment of fee. Mr. Gehlot also gave instructions for promoting the students of all classes, except X and XII, to the next grade based on the assessments and periodic tests conducted so far. Arrangement would be made for online lectures and e-learning in schools and colleges to ensure continuity of studies, he said. Mr. Gehlot announced the decisions at a video conferencing held here to review the situation in educational institutions during the lockdown. It was also decided that the colleges and technical institutes could announce summer vacations from April 15, but there would no vacations in schools. The State government made it mandatory to wear face masks in all urban areas and agricultural mandis in an effort to check the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Gehlot asked those kept in home quarantine to strictly follow the protocols and appealed to the public at large to extend full cooperation to the health personnel working hard to save the lives of people. Meanwhile, a 76-year-old man, who was symptomatic and was identified during the house-to-house survey in Jodhpur, died on Thursday. With 74 more COVID-19 positive cases detected in 10 districts, including 39 in Jaipur, the tally in the State increased to 463.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/schools-in-rajasthan-not-to-charge-fee-during-curbs/article31304661.ece
10 April 2020||Kolkata,||PSU with chloroquine capacity idles much of it||At a time when the export of hydroxychloroquine, an anti malarial drug that is also being used in the treatment of COVID-19, is a subject of debate, the country’s only public sector undertaking that makes an allied antimalarial drug — chloroquine phosphate — is waiting for orders for producing more of the drug. The Bengal Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (BCPL) manufactures chloroquine phosphate and is the only PSU that produces the anti-malarial drug in the country, said Managing Director P. M. Chandraiah. He added that the company “is capable of manufacture of hydroxychloroquine” if the government asks it to do so. “We have the necessary infrastructure. If asked, we can manufacture hydroxychloroquine. It is only a different formulation,” Mr. Chandraiah told The Hindu . As far as production of chloroquine phosphate was concerned, the BCPL usually produces three to four lakh tablets annually. “Considering the raw material we have, we can manufacture about 10 lakh tablets in a week’s time,” he said. The BCPL authorities confirmed that there had been no increase in orders for anti-malarial drugs after the outbreak of COVID-19. Among the other medicines, BCPL — founded by chemist and entrepreneur Acharya Prafulla Chandra Roy in 1901 — produces the antibiotic azithromycin, which is in high demand due to the outbreak of the viral infection. Mr. Chandraiah said the annual production of azithromycin at the company was of the value of Rs. 4 crore. “We can easily scale up our production of azithromycin to a value of Rs. 10 crore,” he added. Some studies suggest that a combination of hydroxychlroquine and azithromycin could bring down the viral load in COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/psu-with-chloroquine-capacity-idles-much-of-it/article31304652.ece
10 April 2020||PURI,||Puri turns into a ghost town||Silhouetted fishermen disappearing into the deep sea in canoes and catamarans long before dawn; hundreds of visitors preparing to dive into the waves; servitors at the 12th century Shree Jagannath Temple preparing for intricate rituals — all of these make Puri a tourist haven on India’s eastern coast. But with the lockdown in place for the COVID-19 pandemic, the constantly bustling 17 sq. km. pilgrim hub has turned into ghost town. Trains have stopped pulling into Puri and there’s barely any traffic on the NH16, which used to have thousands of tourist vehicles racing over it every day. Now, policemen man barricades and emergency vehicles whiz past occasionally, while hardly anyone is to be seen on the 65-km-long drive from the capital city of Bhubaneswar to Puri. Puri paints the picture of a beautiful temple town without devotees. T he 3 km-long Grand Road leading to the Jagannath Temple is dotted with temporary fences. Without a valid COVID-19 pass, devotees cannot have a glimpse of the recently revamped temple complex. The crowds of people shopping at hundreds of craft shops and other outlets flanking the Grand Road are absent. ‘Not only Puri’ “This never-seen phenomenon is not associated only with Puri — it prevails the world over. We hope for an early return to normalcy so that devotees throng the town again,” said Balwant Singh, Puri’s District Collector. “The Jagannath Rath Yatra, scheduled for the month of June, is going on as per plan. The contours of this year’s Rath Yatra have not been discussed by the temple administration. As things will evolve, the chief administrator of the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration will take a call,” said Mr. Singh.  Meanwhile, not a single person can be seen enjoying the vast blue waters of the Bay of Bengal at the famous beach. “I had never witnessed such silence on this beach in my life,” said A. Bhagwan, a lifeguard, describing it as a silence that was becoming frightening. Now, the loudest sound to be heard is from the waves crashing on the beach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/puri-turns-into-a-ghost-town/article31304657.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Charting a Common Minimum Relief Programme in times of pandemic||This week, India shall enter the last declared days of the lockdownand start preparations for the resumption, in some form or the other of daily life, that is expected to follow. Unfortunately, the economic pandemic that is likely to succeed COVID-19 threatens to be as large in scale if not larger than the public health crisis that we continue to battle. It is, therefore, imperative that the government publishes and executes a road map that provides forward guidance and economic clarity to the middle class, medium and small-scale enterprises and above all, to those at the very margins of society. While States will come up with varying measures for support and relief, the Centre must lead this effort to ensure uniformity, optimisation and coordination amongst States of varying economic capability. The Congress Party has given multiple suggestions to the government vis-a-vis course correction and guiding measures to take on COVID-19 and the economic crisis that looms on the horizon. In this piece, we elaborate on them in the hope of providing the government with a ready reckoner for those at risk. Let us examine these categories and what are the areas of concern that the government needs to address in what we may call, a Common Minimum Relief Programme. Economic upheaval First, daily wage earners, labourers and migrant workers are at the greatest risk of economic and social insecurity. They face widespread economic upheaval and geographic displacement. The sheer importance of a social security net in helping them tide over this predicted period of unemployment and privation cannot be overstated. Last week, eight National Trade Unions wrote to the Minister for Labour and Employment urging timely action to prevent the inevitable loss of employment and livelihood. Among several other pertinent concerns, they also asked for protections against evictions. Most importantly, they asked for members of the unorganised sector (be they registered or unregistered) to be covered by a robust cash and food distribution system. This concern is extremely legitimate and urgent given that over 80% of the population is currently employed in the unorganised sector. There should be a uniform mechanism for the dispersal of both income support as well as essential items such as rice, wheat, millets, medicines, water and anything else that these families will require. Farmers left in the lurch Second, farmers are in dire need of immediate support. Having faced the wrath of unseasonal and inclement weather, the wheat and other Rabi crops are ready for harvesting. But due to the lockdown, the ensuing unavailability of seasonal labour and lack of clarity on procuring arrangements, agencies and prices, the farmer is left in the lurch. Given the vital role agriculture plays both in the economy and in ensuring staples for every single citizen, the resulting crisis is likely to have a widespread negative impact on food security nationwide. Furthermore, and to ensure the problem doesn’t become cyclical, the government needs to make immediate arrangements for ensuring the availability of fertilisers, pesticides, other inputs (including access to lines of credit) for the planting of the next kharif crop as well. Third, supply chain disruptions for fast moving consumer goods due to unavailability of labour, difficulty in transporting goods across borders during the lockdown is leading to a shortage of foodstuffs and other essential items. This in turn is leading to massive hoarding, black marketing and runaway inflation. This needs to be addressed head on instead of in an ad-hoc manner if mass panic is to be avoided post the lockdown. Fourth, Medium and Small-Scale Enterprises need a clear buffer strategy for survival. There are currently close to 4.25 crore registered MSMEs which contribute 29% to India’s GDP (or nearly 61 lakh crores) and these have been hit hardest by the COVID-19 crisis imperilling, in turn, the livelihood of crores. Unlike their large-scale corporate counterparts, they cannot survive beyond a period of two or three months at the most. There is no alternative to a meaningful strategy. The government must lay out an action plan, including a financial package, to fortify this sector or risk see it perish. Protect middle class Fifth, the middle class is facing growing vulnerability and needs to be protected. We are staring at an inevitable economic crisis and middle class (as a percentage of the population) is likely to be diminished in size unless immediate action is taken. Companies and employers are cuttings salaries and even declaring layoffs to cope with this time. This is aggravated by unjustifiably high petrol, diesel and gas prices. The twin strategy of increased EMI’s (as a result of deferment) and the lowered interest rates on all small savings schemes (as also by the SBI) hitting at the hard earned savings of the elderly, pensioners, professionals and women, have had the exact opposite of a desired impact. To wit, they have reduced the value of savings while simultaneously increasing debt obligations. A long-term plan for economic revival is needed if the middle class is to emerge stronger on the other side of this crisis. Two suggestions come to mind as obvious solutions: Nyay, the Minimum Income Guarantee Programme was devised for times exactly like these. It will give much needed security — both financial and mental — to those who have no other sources of income due to the lockdown. The Central government must devise and implement this scheme, at least as a temporary measure. The other measure is to strengthen our manufacture and production policies by an extensive financial package with an impetus to and focus on local manufacturing. Every crisis offers opportunities. We have a chance to redraw our manufacturing strategies to reduce dependence on foreign manufacturing, create new jobs and boost exports. Let us learn from the experiences that we have accrued over the past 20 days and get ahead of the curve on these issues. India has the expertise and the talent to take on and emerge stronger from this challenge. All we need now, is political will.  (The author is the AICC Media and Communications In-Charge and also an Advocate)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/charting-a-common-minimum-relief-programme-in-times-of-pandemic/article31304654.ece
10 April 2020||Washington,||World faces new ‘Great Depression’||World powers scrambled on Thursday to build a global response to the human tragedy and once-in-a-century economic collapse caused by the coronavirus epidemic, as death tolls in the U.S. and Europe soared higher. In a locked-down New York, the UN Security Council was to meet on the pandemic for the first time. And, by video conference, EU Finance Ministers are wrangling over how to bail out their worst hit members Italy and Spain. “We anticipate the worst economic fallout since the Great Depression,” said IMF chief Kristalina Georgieva, warning that all but a handful of countries will see incomes fall and urging governments to provide “lifelines” to businesses and households alike. The U.S. Federal Reserve tossed out just such a rescue to Americans, with chairman Jerome Powell announcing financing facilities of $2.3 trillion “to provide as much relief and stability as we can during this period of constrained economic activity”. He warned, however, that the U.S. economy is moving “with alarming speed” towards “very high unemployment”. Another 6.6 million U.S. workers filed for unemployment benefits last week, new data showed on Thursday, meaning that nearly 17 million workers have lost their jobs since mid-March. On the spiritual front, Pope Francis was preparing to celebrate Maundy Thursday with The Mass of the Lord's Supper, but he was to be unable to perform the tradition of washing the feet of the faithful in case of infection. Meanwhile, the number of worldwide cases of the novel coronavirus since it spread from China earlier this year topped 1.5 million, according to an AFP tally. More than 88,981 people have died. Worst recession Alongside the personal tragedies and the pressure on overburdened hospitals, there has been a stark economic toll, with the World Trade Organization warning of the “worst recession of our lifetimes.” The worst-hit countries in Europe — the worst-hit continent — are Italy and Spain, where daily death tolls are now down from their peaks but still running high, despite strict lockdowns. In Italy, the country's youngest COVID-19 patient, a two-month-old baby girl, was reportedly released from hospital, a moment of hope in a country with 17,669 dead. Madrid and Rome are seeking assistance from EU partners to rebuild their economies. EU finance ministers were to meet later Thursday by videoconference for crisis talks to try to agree terms to allow hard-hit members to access funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/world-faces-new-great-depression/article31304347.ece
10 April 2020||Paris,||Google must pay news firms for content, says France||France’s competition regulator said on Thursday that Google must start paying media groups for displaying their content, ordering it to begin negotiations after refusing for months to comply with Europe’s new digital copyright law. The agency said it “requires Google, within three months, to conduct negotiations in good faith with publishers and news agencies on the remuneration for the re-use of their protected contents”. “This injunction requires that the negotiations effectively result in a proposal for remuneration from Google” that must be applied retroactively to October 2019, when France became the first country to ratify the EU law. The new rule on so-called “neighbouring rights” is designed to ensure news publishers are compensated when their work is shown on websites, search engines and social media platforms. But Google, which effectively has a lock on Internet searches in Europe, refused to comply, saying that snippets of articles, pictures and videos would be shown in search results only if media groups consent to let the tech giant use them at no cost. If they refuse, only a headline and a bare link to the content will appear, Google said, almost certainly resulting in a loss of visibility and potential ad revenue for the publisher. Media groups and news agency Agence France-Presse lodged a complaint with the competition regulator last November. The regulator said on Thursday that “Google’s practices... were likely to constitute an abuse of a dominant position, and caused serious and immediate harm to the press sector”. Google said that since the new European copyright law came into force in France last year it had been “engaging with publishers to increase our support and investment in news”. Google’s vice-president for News, Richard Gingras, said in a statement: “We will comply with the (French competition regulator's) order while we review it and continue those negotiations”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/google-must-pay-news-firms-for-content-says-france/article31304337.ece
10 April 2020||London,||Oil producers put heads together over output cuts||Top oil producers started a crucial meeting on Thursday to discuss a possible cut in output after a collapse in demand due to the coronavirus and a Saudi-Russian price war caused the market to crash. The videoconference meeting began between OPEC, its OPEC+ allies, including Russia and other key non-members. Oil prices rose sharply as the meeting opened, extending earlier big gains, but then fell back again later to post more modest gains as nervous traders took profits. The meeting is seen as the best chance of providing support to prices which have been wallowing near two-decade lows. Experts warn that without concerted action the commodity risks a steep sell-off. Last week U.S. President Donald Trump claimed Russia and Saudi Arabia would step back from their stand-off and agree to slash output. Then OPEC kingpin Saudi Arabia called for an urgent meeting of producers “to try to reach a fair deal” to “stabilise the oil market” following a phone call between its Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and Mr. Trump. Thursday’s meeting intends to conclude an agreement to cut production by between 10 and 15 million barrels per day, Kuwait’s Oil Minister Khaled al-Fadhel said in an interview with the Kuwaiti Al-Rai  daily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/oil-producers-put-heads-together-over-output-cuts/article31304339.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||What’s next for Bernie Sanders’s ‘revolution’?||Bernie Sanders, the insurgent American politician who pushed the Democratic Party to the left on several issues, on Wednesday dropped out of the race for party nomination. This was the second straight election Mr. Sanders is ending up as a runner-up in the Democratic nomination contest. The 78-year-old Senator from Vermont may not get another chance to bid for the White House, but the movement he launched, which he calls a political revolution, has already shaken up the Democratic Party. Historical parallels There were a few politicians in the U.S. who left lasting imprints on the political system despite their failure to win the top office. Historian Michael Kazin has compared Mr. Sanders to the late 19th century Democratic insurgent William Jennings Bryan and the 1972 Democratic candidate George McGovern. Bryan, who first won the Democratic party nomination in 1896, was a critic of the gold standard, a champion of inflationary policies and a consistent critic of “American imperialism”. Bryan lost all three White House bids — in 1896, 1900 and 1908. Despite these failures, writes Mr. Kazin, the Democratic Party “embraced the pro-regulation, anti-monopoly, pro-union stand of this eloquent politician called ‘the Great Commoner’.” In 1972, McGovern defeated the establishment favourites to win the nomination, but lost to incumbent Richard Nixon in the presidential election. When McGovern was running a high-spirited liberal campaign, he was called by critics a “communist apologist”. Despite his massive loss to Nixon, his anti-war positions would resonate through the American people in the years that followed. President Nixon himself would end the Vietnam war that had been lost for years. Political legacy Like Bryan and McGovern, Mr. Sanders also built a movement at the grassroots level. While the former two made it to the presidential race, Mr. Sanders could not reach that milestone, partly because he failed to broaden his support base through the diverse Democratic voters. He also faced a combative party establishment, which threw its weight behind its favourites, Hillary Clinton in 2016 and Joe Biden this year. But the impact of the Sanders campaign on the Democratic politics is already visible. Most Democrats who joined the 2020 race supported restructuring America’s healthcare system. They also supported doubling the minimum wage, fighting climate change more vigorously and taxing the rich more. Support for Medicare for all, one of Mr. Sanders’s top promises, is rising across party lines. According to a WSJ/NBC poll, the support for the proposal among all registered voters stood at 43% in March. About 73% support an option to buy into a Medicare system. Among the Democratic voters, 67% voters supported Mr. Sanders’ proposal, while the support for the public option stood at 81%. And at a time when the U.S. is facing an unprecedented healthcare crisis in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak and its economic impacts, the focus of the political debate could further shift to healthcare and inflationary policies. The Democratic Party also has a host of young leaders, including New York Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who are taking forward the Sanders-style leftist politics. Unsurprisingly, in a statement issued after Mr. Sanders announced his decision to drop out, Mr. Biden has reached out to the leftist leader’s base. “We will confront income inequality in our nation. We will make sure healthcare is affordable and accessible to every American. We will make education at our public colleges and universities free. We will ease the burden of student debt. And, most important of all, we will defeat Donald Trump,” said Mr. Biden. Mr. Sanders may have dropped out of the race to win the Democratic nomination, but he continues to shape the Democratic politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/whats-next-for-bernie-sanderss-revolution/article31304354.ece
10 April 2020||Baghdad,||Spy chief Kadhemi named Iraq’s third PM-designate this year||Iraqi President Barham Saleh nominated spy chief Mustafa Kadhemi on Thursday as the country’s third Prime Minister-designate this year, moments after his predecessor ended his bid to form a government. Mr. Kadhemi, the 53-year-old head of the National Intelligence Service, has ascended to the role as Iraq faces a budget crisis brought on by the collapse in world oil prices and the spread of the novel coronavirus. “This is a huge responsibility, and a difficult task,” said Mr. Saleh in his nominating speech, describing Mr. Kadhemi as someone with integrity and reason. Widespread support His nomination was attended by Ministers, political rivals and even the UN representative in Iraq, indicating widespread support for Mr. Kadhemi that neither of the previous PM-designates had enjoyed. Moments before the ceremony, his predecessor Adnan Zurfi announced he was withdrawing his candidacy due to “internal and external reasons”. Mr. Zurfi had been staunchly opposed by hardline Shiite factions with close ties to Iran, which enjoys vast influence in Baghdad. Any candidate for the premiership, observers say, must have a green light from Iraq’s Shiite, Kurdish and Sunni communities — as well as Iran and its rival, the U.S. Mr. Kadhemi was able to secure that support after weeks of lobbying that peaked in a flurry of meetings in Baghdad over the last week, sources said. Among them were gatherings attended by Iranian General Ismail Qaani, who has headed the Quds Force foreign operations unit since a U.S. drone strike killed his predecessor Qasem Soleimani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/spy-chief-kadhemi-named-iraqs-third-pm-designate-this-year/article31304344.ece
10 April 2020||Riyadh,||Saudi-led ceasefire in Yemen’s long war begins||The Saudi-led coalition began a unilateral ceasefire in Yemen’s long war on Thursday, saying it hoped the initiative to prevent coronavirus would lead to a wider political solution. The Iran-backed Houthi rebels have not formally responded to the the coalition’s declaration of a two-week pause in the five-year conflict. However Yasser Al-Houri, secretary of the Houthis’ political council, poured cold water on the idea, saying that the Saudis “are dishonest and violate every truce they announce”. “The announcement of this truce is to evade the true national vision that offers real solutions,” he said, referring to a roadmap for peace that the rebels unveiled on Wednesday. If the ceasefire does hold, it would be the first breakthrough since the warring parties agreed to a UN-brokered truce in Hodeida during talks in Sweden in late 2018. The UAE, a key ally in the coalition which drew down its troops last year, applauded the Saudi move as “wise and responsible”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/saudi-led-ceasefire-in-yemens-long-war-begins/article31304335.ece
10 April 2020||London,||Boris Johnson’s health ‘improving’||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s health “continues to improve” on his fourth day in COVID-19 intensive care, his spokesman said on Thursday, while the government prepared to extend a nationwide lockdown. “The Prime Minister had a good night and continues to improve in intensive care at St Thomas’ Hospital. He’s in good spirits,” the spokesman said, adding that Mr. Johnson was not working.  While much of the focus in Britain has been on Mr. Johnson’s health, there is also concern over the numbers of people infected with the virus. Britain announced another 881 deaths of people testing positive for coronavirus in Thursday’s daily update, bringing the country’s total toll to 7,978. The total number of cases stood at 61,516. Senior Ministers were to discuss extending strict social distancing measures rolled out on March 23, during a daily coronavirus response meeting. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, who is standing in for Mr. Johnson, will lead the “war cabinet”. However, Ministers have made it clear no announcement on the status of the lockdown— rolled out for an initial three weeks — would be made until that period has ended on Monday, at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/boris-johnsons-health-improving/article31304349.ece
10 April 2020||London,||‘Half a billion people face poverty due to virus’||Around half a billion people could be pushed into poverty as a result of the economic fallout from the pandemic unless richer countries take “urgent action” to help developing nations, a leading aid organisation warned on Thursday. Oxfam has urged richer countries to step up their efforts to help the developing world. Failing to do so, it added, could set back the fight against poverty by a decade and by as much as 30 years in some areas, including Africa and West Asia. “The devastating economic fallout of the pandemic is being felt across the globe,” said Jose Maria Vera, Oxfam International interim executive director. “But for poor people in poor countries who are already struggling to survive there are almost no safety nets to stop them falling into poverty.” The report, which is based on research at King’s College London and the Australian National University, warns that between 6% and 8% of the global population could be forced into poverty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/half-a-billion-people-face-poverty-due-to-virus/article31304350.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Most New York virus cases came from Europe||New research indicates that the coronavirus began to circulate in the New York area by mid-February, weeks before the first confirmed case, and that travellers brought in the virus mainly from Europe, not Asia. “The majority is clearly European,” said Harm van Bakel, a geneticist at Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, who co-wrote a study awaiting peer review. A separate team at NYU Grossman School of Medicine came to strikingly similar conclusions, despite studying a different group of cases. Both teams analysed genomes from coronaviruses taken from New Yorkers starting in mid-March. The research revealed a previously hidden spread of the virus that might have been detected if aggressive testing programmes had been put in place. On January 31, President Donald Trump barred foreign nationals from entering the country if they had been in China during the prior two weeks. It would not be until late February that Italy would begin locking down towns and cities, and March 11 when Mr. Trump said he would block travellers from most European countries. But New Yorkers had already been travelling home with the virus. “People were just oblivious,” said Adriana Heguy, a member of the NYU team.Ny times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/most-new-york-virus-cases-came-from-europe/article31304352.ece
10 April 2020||Tehran,||‘New cases drop in Iran’||Iran’s Health Ministry on Thursday said 117 new deaths took the total to 4,110. But spokesman Kianoush Jahanpour said the latest figures showed there was a downward trend in the number of new coronavirus infections. “We have identified 1,634 new cases, bringing the total number of confirmed cases to 66,220.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-cases-drop-in-iran/article31304338.ece
10 April 2020||Rome,||100 doctors dead in Italy||One hundred Italian doctors have died of the coronavirus so far, FNOMCeO health association said.  The toll includes retired doctors the government began calling in a month ago to help fight the virus that has claimed 17,669 lives in Italy. Media reports estimate that 30 nurses and nursing assistance have also died of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/100-doctors-dead-in-italy/article31304340.ece
10 April 2020||Madrid,||Spain sees drop in deaths||Spain’s daily death toll fell to 683 on Thursday, after rising for two days. The toll was down from 757 on Wednesday. The country, one of the worst hit by the pandemic, has now recorded 15,238 deaths. The number of daily new cases also dropped slightly, bringing the total to 1,52,446.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/spain-sees-drop-in-deaths/article31304343.ece
10 April 2020||Kabul,||Taliban slams release of prisoners||The Afghan government said it would release another 100 Taliban inmates on Thursday, even though the insurgents have walked out of talks over a comprehensive prisoner swap and dismissed Kabul’s piecemeal freeing of captives as “unacceptable”. The administration of President Ashraf Ghani on Wednesday released 100 low-risk Taliban prisoners who had vowed never to return to the battlefield.   Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said the step was inadequate. A Taliban team came to Kabul last week to meet the government to discuss a comprehensive prisoner swap that was initially supposed to see 5,000 Taliban released in return for 1,000 Afghan security forces. But they abandoned the “fruitless” meetings on Tuesday and returned to Kandahar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-slams-release-of-prisoners/article31304345.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Elsewhere||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/elsewhere/article31304342.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||A time for extraordinary action||Even before the full impact of COVID-19 on the health of Indians is clear, the economic impact of the measures required to deal with the pandemic are already posing grave problems. The Indian economy was in dire straits even before COVID-19 reached our shores. Specifically, the lockdown and other movement restrictions, backed by scientific and political consensus on their inevitability, have directly led to a dramatic slowdown in economic activity across the board. What is their impact on the Indian economy? This question calls for an urgent answer. Methodology We provide an initial, quantitative response, using a methodology that is based on the technique of input-output (IO) models, first elaborated by the economist Wassily Leontief. Such models provide detailed sector-wise information of output and consumption in different sectors of the economy and their inter-linkages, along with the sum total of wages, profits, savings, and expenditures in each sector and by each section of final consumers (households, government, etc.). Crucially, it pays attention to intermediate consumption, namely consumption by some sectors of the output of other sectors (as well as consumption within their own sector). The key advantage of such a model is that it allows the calculation of the impact of any change in any sector in both direct and indirect terms, which has made this model somewhat ubiquitous in the computation of the economic impact of disasters. This also renders it well-suited to estimating the economic consequences of COVID-19. Regrettably, the last officially published IO table for India was for the year 2007-2008. In our estimates, we use the IO tables for India published by the World Input-Output Database for the year 2014 that updates the IO tables for individual countries using time series of national income statistics. To calculate the impact of the lockdown, we proceed by constructing four different scenarios of the number of workdays lost in different sectors. Assuming that the estimated annual output is distributed uniformly across the year, it is possible to calculate the daily output and therefore the daily output loss. The direct and indirect impacts of the lockdown are then estimated using IO multipliers which are assumed to be constant. We then calculate the percentage decline in the national gross domestic product (GDP) of 2019-2020 that this impact amounts to. Impact on various sectors Our model (see table) shows that the loss of GDP ranges from Rs. 17 lakh crore (7% of GDP) in the most conservative scenario, where the average number of output days lost is only 13, to Rs. 73 lakh crore (33% of GDP) in the most impactful scenario, where the number of days of lost output averages 67. In intermediate scenarios of 27 and 47 days of lost output, the GDP decline is Rs. 29 lakh crore (13% of GDP) and Rs. 51 lakh crore (23% of GDP), respectively. We emphasise again that the number of days of lost output noted here is only an average across all sectors, and that we do input in the calculation of different numbers for each sector, based roughly on the available information in the public domain and exercising some judgment. Further details can be accessed at https://bit.ly/2UXK5WR). These, of course, need more accurate representation, an exercise that can undoubtedly be best carried out by national statistical institutions and their State-level counterparts. These estimates also accord well with other estimates, such as those of the OECD that suggest a 20% loss to GDP for India. Even assuming that sectors will have varying lockdown periods, all sectors face serious losses due to their interdependence. If we take the scenario where a prolonged lockdown happens, averaging about 47 days across sectors, we find that the mining sector faces the largest drop of 42% in value added despite that sector itself being shut down for, say, 35 days as we have assumed, which is less than the economy-wide average. The electricity sector sees a 29% fall in value added, even though it faces no shut down per se. Losses are expected across all sectors in terms of both wage compensation and availability of working capital. The linear character of our estimates, intrinsic to IO analysis, does not allow incorporation of feedback effects and assumes that output commences where it left off without further constraints. We have attempted to correct for this by using varying number of days of output loss across sectors, but this is quite possibly inadequate to capture the continuing economic impact. We are faced today with the unique situation where both supply and demand have collapsed in several sectors. In some sectors such as agriculture, the impact may manifest in delayed fashion, if the anti-COVID-19 measures, or the pandemic itself, affects agricultural operations in the next kharif season, even if, as reports suggest, much of this year’s rabi has been successfully harvested. Given the database we are using and the initial character of our analyses we have also not explicitly accounted for possible shortfalls in exports due to lack of demand elsewhere in the world, as well as the unavailability of intermediate imported goods that are crucial for the Indian economy. Nor are we able to adequately separate the impact on the informal sector, that is partially aggregated with the formal sector in the database that we are using and partially unaccounted for due to lack of data. Dealing with the travails of the informal sector will require separate sector-wise considerations. But the most striking feature of even this simple calculation is the all-round pervasive impact on the economy of the anti-COVID-19 measures that we are currently undertaking and that are likely to continue in modified form for a short period. Measures such as debt relief, postponement of revenue and tax collections, immediate relief in cash and kind to the poor, and revamping and scaling up public distribution are all undoubtedly necessary but far from sufficient. Our numbers suggest that the resort to huge stimulus packages that developed countries have already started putting in place is by no means mistaken. The way forward India needs a similar strategy. As Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan pointed out, extraordinary times need extraordinary action. We need to compensate and pump cash into the hands of not only wage workers in the formal and informal sectors, and also into the livelihood activities of the informal sector, but businesses too need to be primed with handouts in the case of small and medium enterprises, and with a variety of concessions even in the case of larger businesses. It is critical to preserve the productive capacities of the Indian economy across the board. The annual budget of the current year, already passed, clearly cannot cope with such a massive effort and needs to be revisited by suitable parliamentary measures. Redistributing expenditure, seeking to keep the fiscal deficit “under control” as it were, through measures such as cutting back on government salaries, are unlikely to be helpful. Apart from sending the wrong signal to private sector employers, who have so far been exhorted to maintain salaries and wages during the lockdown, it is quite likely to lead to further reduction in demand since the government is the biggest employer in the country. Finally, one must note that the current crisis is not a transformatory moment for the Indian economy, even if the scale of the impact and recovery process will undoubtedly push the economy in new directions. But “greening” the economy or more radical transformative measures are not particularly relevant in its current state. What is needed is ensuring the key role of the state to lift up an economy that is in danger of being brought to its knees, and to restore some semblance of its normal rhythm, by an unprecedented scale of state investment. Tejal Kanitkar is at the National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru, and T. Jayaraman is at the M. S. Swaminathan Research Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-time-for-extraordinary-action/article31304322.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Will COVID-19 affect the course of globalisation?||The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on free trade is yet to be completely understood.    Biswajit Dhar  and Nagesh Kumar spoke to Vikas Dhoot on whether the epidemic would spell an end to open markets as we know it. Edited excerpts:   With several countries and regions locked down, will there be a redrawing of geographical boundaries? Biswajit Dhar (BD):I think we are going towards a new normal now. Much of what we saw in terms of global integration of trade and finance would suffer in the short run. If you recall, when the world was hit by economic recession in 2008, trade dipped by almost 10% in 2009 when there was a 3% decline in global GDP. That’s roughly the relation between trade and growth. When there’s a boom, trade grows much faster than GDP. The World Trade Organization (WTO) has now estimated that in a worst-case scenario, global trade could dip as much as 32%, indicating the kind of dislocation they expect in large economies. It’s going to be a very different ball game — the first thing that will happen is countries will try to build themselves up. In India, for instance, we can see the disruption that is taking place — almost 50% of our trade is directly linked with the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) sector as even large players have sub-contracted to the smaller producers. So it is anyone’s guess what the impact is going to be on trade because of the disruption in production. Going forward, most economies, with the exception of China, are going to see a very different kind of dynamic as they will try to build up from where they would be in a few months’ time and then think in terms of how to integrate themselves again with other countries. My expectation is that this will be a whole new normal that we haven’t seen — after the first round of global integration that we saw in the first decade of the 20th century. How could this impact Asia Pacific as a region and India in particular? Nagesh Kumar (NK):UNESCAP has released its annual Economic and Social Survey on Wednesday — what we are finding of course, is that the COVID-19 crisis is a challenge never seen before and it is going to be a bigger shock for the world economy than the global financial crisis which was only driven by a demand shock. This entails a demand and supply shock and it is still unfolding. It is now clear that many economies are going to shrink — developed countries as well as many in the Asia Pacific region that are highly dependent on tourism and commodities trading will also shrink. Commodity prices are at their lowest in the last 10 years. For India, however, there is a slight silver lining because of low oil and commodity prices as we are net importers and, also, since the government is not allowing a full pass-through of the lower global prices, it means that there is some fiscal space through commodity price reduction. Still, the disruption in work, especially in MSMEs that are the backbone of manufacturing, trading and services, is very serious. This is a very large shock to the world economy and many things will change after we come out of it. We have seen over the last couple of months a significant slowdown in trade flows in advanced economies and a sharper fall in developing countries. Do you consider this a passing phase or is COVID-19 set to reverse the trend of globalisation as we know it? NK:The process of globalisation was already in retreat and last year, the term ‘slowbalisation’ was being used. World trade had never really recovered since the global financial crisis — from a 10% growth, it had been hovering around 1%-2%. Add to that the trade wars and the WTO talks process coming to a grinding halt. Now, with this pandemic, there is another recognition of the vulnerability that global economic interdependence creates. So some countries are facing difficulties in getting medical supplies, some find their manufacturing can’t run as value chains are linked with China. Countries will reconfigure their economies to look at import substitution with a greater clarity now, as the perils and pitfalls of overdependence on foreign supplies become clear. Import substitution, that had become a bad word, may be back in currency. Mr. Dhar, you mentioned that China might have a slightly different experience... BD:Over the past week, news has been filtering through that China’s manufacturing sector is back, with Wuhan coming back into action. Other countries will remain in a lockdown phase for at least another two months. Nobody is yet talking of the flattening of the curve, and after that happens, it will take some more time for normalcy. So, if the Chinese get this sort of a lead in getting their act together, they are going to consolidate their position in the global economy further. It’s very interesting if you look at the two major events that took place in the last 20 years — the 9/11 attacks (which coincided with China joining the WTO) and the 2008-09 global recession. After each of these episodes, China came out stronger and acted with alacrity, did all the pump-priming to stimulate the economy and enhance their global heft… You don’t have to go too far to see how India got dependent on China after 2008. So this will be the phase that President Xi Jinping’s dream of being the leader of the globalised world could really come true. You don’t know how badly it was impacted by the virus. China doesn’t really figure in the top of countries that have announced stimulus packages. But we know for sure they will do it — and this factor will determine the response of other countries. Countries are going to be extremely wary of the superpower that China will become and would like to disengage. I have absolutely no doubt that India will disengage. Stimulus packages — be it in the U.S., France, Germany — have an overwhelming emphasis on small businesses, which really were at the heart of their post-war industrialisation strategy, and you will see industrial policy whose flip side will be import substitution. So, globalisation will be defined in a very different way.  Could this dampen movement of labour across countries? BD:Once you talk of import substitution, you focus more on your domestic skills. The movement of personnel will follow the formula of economic needs, so the U.S. may keep importing skilled personnel from India. But, the kind of unemployment that you will see will require a huge effort on the part of every country to get their workforce to where they were before the crisis. We never got back to a pre-2008 high-growth phase. But even to go back to the pre-COVID period, countries will require a huge effort. NK:The first priority of every government would be to create jobs for its own people. In a high unemployment scenario, hiring expats won’t be in favour. In any case, there had been rising protectionism on this front already. Do you feel that the social fabric in places that are now open to immigrants could come under stress? NK:We have gone into the impact on social structure and have emphasised the need for governments to push for universal healthcare and social protection. Our experience from the financial crisis is that economies that paid greater attention to social protection were able to recover very quickly. This crisis has exposed the gaps in the health sector and social protection and the stimulus packages should focus on closing these gaps which will also help in achieving sustainable development goals. The first priority will be to create jobs for those rendered jobless. But I think in certain sectors that are highly skill-intensive, and countries are dependent on outsiders for those skills, that will continue. How do you see the role of WTO evolving in such a situation? It has already been struggling… BD:There are worse days ahead for the WTO. Trade rules have worked best when the global economy is booming and isn’t facing a crisis. The last time serious discussions took place at WTO was in 2008, before the complete repercussions of the crisis hit home, and it was all downhill after that. It’s only going to get worse, because if countries need to bring their domestic industries back, they would need space for policy flexibility. And WTO will be redundant there — for instance, on the issue of subsidies for small industries, no country will like the WTO to be telling them what to do or what not to do. The agricultural subsidies issue is going to be junked — on 31st March, India notified the WTO that it has crossed the 10% limit in rice subsidies as a good citizen. But do you think, going forward, the government of India can be restrained from giving more subsidies for rice or other sectors vital for food security? If the WTO rules are junked, then it’s a free-for-all situation. That’s the problem. Then you go back to the situation of the 1930s when it was just brute economic strength that will determine things, like the law of the jungle. Unfortunately, the impact on global governance systems hasn’t been understood yet. I was greatly disappointed with the G20 leaders’ and trade ministers’ statements. They should have reflected on global rules being in further jeopardy. If they have to work out flexibilities within the WTO framework, they should do it collectively. Shall there be a rethink on existing multilateral and bilateral pacts?  BD:Countries cede a part of their sovereignty while getting into these trade agreements. In the last quarter of the twentieth century, we saw one driver of governance — market forces-oriented. But now, in major economies, governments have taken centre stage and depending on how long the pandemic drags on, the government will remain in the driver’s seat and markets will take a backseat. If governments have to do the heavy-lifting, then they want full force of their sovereign powers. So I would think the project of globalisation is going to settle at a new normal and it will be a very different WTO and trade governance framework, with different kinds of regional and bilateral engagements. India, of course, has already become a reluctant player and had, in a way, started disengaging. Other countries were more tightly knit together through pacts like the ASEAN. The European Union is already in tatters and it will be important to see the role of the European Commission and the European Central Bank in getting a decent stimulus in addition to what individual governments have done. NAFTA is already being rewritten. So going forward, much of the churning is going to get bigger in regional formations. If in three months, we don’t get back on track, then I think there will be a substantial rewriting of the rules.  If governments have to do the heavy-lifting in dealing with this crisis, then they want full force of their sovereign powers Biswajit Dhar, Professor, JNU||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/will-covid-19-affect-the-course-of-globalisation/article31304334.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||A double whammy for India-Gulf economic ties||The Gulf region is at the epicentre of a perfect storm: apart from the COVID-19 pandemic, it also has an oil price meltdown. Although this double jeopardy still has some distance to go before stabilising, given India’s vital relations with the eight Gulf countries, the situation’s impact on bilateral economic ties needs to be anticipated and managed. Oil prices in a tailspin The region, especially Iran, has been mauled by COVID-19, and the figures are yet to peak. The pandemic has put nearly a third of the world’s population under some form of lockdown curbing the consumption of hydrocarbons, the mainstay of Gulf economies. A Goldman Sachs report published on March 30 estimated that COVID-19 had lowered the world crude consumption by 28 million bpd. The consequent oil glut began depressing the price. The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and other crude producers (OPEC+), however, failed to reach a production-curtailing strategy as Saudi Arabia and Russia, the cartel’s two biggest producers, held different views. As a result, OPEC+ unravelled with each producer chasing a higher share in a collapsing market. Consequently, the oil prices went for a tailspin having fallen by 55% during March to an 18-year low on March 30. Though the market has recovered since and a wider production-sharing compromise is in the works, the general outlook remains bleak. In a rare joint statement on March 16, the heads of OPEC and the International Energy Agency (IEA) warned that developing countries’ oil and gas revenues will decline by 50% to 85% in 2020 with potentially far-reaching economic and social consequences. The economic outlook for the Gulf has indeed deteriorated, with Saudi Arabia’s fiscal deficit expected to cross 8% in 2020. The global economy is expected to have a recession induced by COVID-19 this year. Even if it limps back to growth in 2021, the process may be slow and less energy-intensive: national self-reliance on strategic goods such as pharmaceuticals may deter their trade, and the tourism and hospitality sectors, the core of Dubai’s economy, may take much longer to resuscitate. The pandemic has already made this year’s Hajj and Dubai Expo doubtful. India’s economic ties with the Gulf states have two dominant verticals: the economic symbiosis and India’s expatriate community. Bilateral economic ties are strong: the India-Gulf trade stood around $162 billion in 2018-19, being nearly a fifth of India’s global trade. It was dominated by import of crude oil and natural gas worth nearly $75 billion, meeting nearly 65% of India’s total requirements. Some of these countries have large Indian investments and some have planned large investments in India. Second, the number of Indian expatriates in the Gulf states is about nine million, and they remitted nearly $40 billion back home. Both these intertwined pillars of India-Gulf ties have been affected by the recent maelstrom roiling the shared region. India being the world’s third largest importer of crude, a sharp and prolonged decline in oil prices helps its current account. However, this is not an unmitigated blessing. The Gulf’s lower oil revenues also presage decreased bilateral trade and investments as well as expatriates’ remittances — all of them adding to India’s current financial stress. Impact on expatriates Oil is a cyclic commodity and the Gulf producers have long evolved a pattern to handle its periodic lows. They tend to tighten their belts and dip into their reserves. They also transfer the burden on to the last person in line, viz. the Asian expatriate. The fresh recruitment stops, salaries are either lowered or stalled, taxes raised and localisation drives launched. The net result is that a large number of expatriates return to their homes. This time there is an added complication of the pandemic, to which the Asian expatriates living in densely populated camps are particularly vulnerable. In case the pandemic worsens in the lower Gulf, panic-stricken, wage-deprived Indians may prefer to come back. This would create an exodus of epic proportions, the nearest example being the evacuation of over 1,50,000 Indians from Kuwait in 1990-91, albeit for political reasons, an event that upended India’s economy. Apart from creating a logistical nightmare of transporting millions of expatriates back, they would need to be resettled and re-employed. While hoping that the Gulf states are able to contain the pandemic and the oil shock, India needs to make some contingency plans in consultation with the individual countries. It should do whatever it takes to enhance their capacity to handle COVID-19 cases among the Indian expatriates. India’s missions there also need to monitor the situation and try to avoid panic among its nationals. In the longer run, it is quite clear that we need to find new drivers for the India-Gulf synergy. This search could begin with cooperation in healthcare and gradually extend outward towards pharmaceutical research and production, petrochemical complexes, building infrastructure in India and in third countries, agriculture, education and skilling as well as the economic activities in bilateral free zones created along our Arabian Sea coast eventually leading to an India-Gulf Cooperation Council Free Trade Area. Only then would we have sufficiently diversified the India-Gulf economic ties to protect them from such shocks. Mahesh Sachdev, a former Ambassador, is President, Eco-Diplomacy & Strategies, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-double-whammy-for-india-gulf-economic-ties/article31304316.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Finding a scapegoat in WHO||After blaming the Democrats for investing a ‘hoax’ in the form of coronavirus, and pointing fingers at China by calling the SARS-CoV-2 virus a ‘China virus,’ U.S. President Donald Trump has found a new scapegoat — the World Health Organization (WHO). Mr. Trump has, of late, blamed the global health body for the failures of his own administration in containing the spread of COVID-19. Mr. Trump tweeted on April 7: “The WHO really blew it. For some reason, funded largely by the United States, yet very China-centric. We will be giving that a good look. Fortunately I rejected their advice on keeping our borders open to China early on. Why did they give us such a faulty recommendation?.” And, during a briefing, he threatened to withhold funding to the WHO, accusing it of not being aggressive enough in containing the spread. There is no doubt that concerted efforts by China in downplaying the magnitude and severity of the outbreak in Wuhan city for over a month, starting mid-December 2019, led to the spread of the virus within and outside China. The cover-up continued even after it alerted the WHO on December 31. Contrary to claims made by China, human-to-human transmission had been occurring since mid-December 2019; Beijing confirmed it only on January 20. By the time Wuhan and other cities were shut down on January 23, locking in over 50 million people, about five million had already fanned out from Wuhan to the rest of China and outside, thus carrying the virus thousands of km away from the epicentre. Thailand and Japan reported their first cases in mid-January, and the U.S. on January 20. Downplaying the outbreak However, two days later, President Trump brushed aside any concerns about the spread saying, “We have it totally under control. It’s one person coming in from China, and we have it under control.” On January 25, Mr. Trump even commended China, telling that Beijing was “working very hard to contain the coronavirus and the United States greatly appreciates their efforts and transparency”. He kept downplaying the risk in January and February despite being cautioned by intelligence agencies and even as the U.S. closed its borders in early-February to all foreign visitors who had recently been in China. Even on March 15, he continued to maintain that the U.S. has “tremendous control over” the virus when the number of cases was 3,000. One may fault the WHO for not calling it a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC) during its first meeting on January 22-23, and for the delay in calling the outbreak a pandemic. But since the last week of January, the global body has been urging all member states to contain the spread through aggressive testing, contact tracing and quarantining. Mr. Trump has also taken credit for rejecting WHO’s advice on keeping borders open to China. However, the truth is that shutting down borders goes against the grain of the International Health Regulations, which were adopted by the 58th World Health Assembly in May 2005. The Regulations, binding on all member states, provide norms for public health response to international spread of a disease while also “avoiding unnecessary interference with international traffic and trade.” The WHO, be it in announcing H1N1 as a pandemic in 2009 or declaring Ebola and Zika as PHEIC, has always maintained that there should be no travel or trade restrictions on communities or countries. Its recommendation was no different when it called COVID-19 a public health emergency. To be frank, the WHO had failed to persuade China to be more transparent, especially till January 20, when it maintained radio silence on critical information such as the number of cases, deaths, spread of the virus and human-to-human transmission. But the WHO is only an advisory and not a regulatory body and it would be naïve to fault it for China or any other country not being transparent. prasad.ravindranath@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/finding-a-scapegoat-in-who/article31304330.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Victory in defeat||Bernie Sanders’ withdrawal from the race for the presidential nominee from the Democratic Party at this juncture comes as no surprise. Ever since the Democratic Party field narrowed down to just two, with former Vice-President Joe Biden being endorsed as the overwhelming favourite of the party establishment, Mr. Sanders found the going tough. After his strong victory in the South Carolina primary, Mr. Biden emerged as the first among equals among the moderates and consolidated support for himself after the rest of the field was winnowed due to dropouts by other candidates. In direct contests after his triumph in the Nevada caucuses, Mr. Sanders did not fare too well and Mr. Biden emerged as the presumptive nominee. With the COVID-19 pandemic relegating the Democratic contest between the two septuagenarians to a lower priority among American voters, the path to a nomination soon became non-existent for Mr. Sanders. Without a large enthusiastic voter turnout, his chances of staging a comeback grew even weaker, forcing him to withdraw. Mr. Sanders ran on a social democratic ticket, promising a universal and single-payer healthcare, free college education and a “green new deal” to tackle climate change. A lifelong independent before he entered the Democratic primaries in 2016, Mr. Sanders’ earlier campaign had also ended in defeat, but he managed to bring his progressive positions to the centre of the Democratic Party debates, buoyed by support especially among the youth and the white working class. By 2020, after progressives won a significant number of Congressional seats, most presidential candidates in the party adopted sections of his programme such as increasing the statutory minimum wage for workers and expanding social welfare. But his unapologetic embrace of the term “democratic socialist” to describe himself in a country that fought a half-a-century-long Cold War for the triumph of capitalism, his crusade against the wealthy and for campaign financing regulations among other systemic changes did not endear him to the Democratic establishment. Mr. Sanders’ emphasis on economic justice as key to overcome the social inequality in a racially divided U.S. did not have as many takers among African American voters who preferred Mr. Biden’s “safer” candidacy due to his identification with Barack Obama’s presidency in which he served as Vice-President. Mr. Sanders will be remembered for bringing to the forefront ideas of social welfare, collective action, and liberal internationalism that had been relegated by the neoliberal/neoconservative duopoly that had firmly established itself in the U.S. since the 1980s. He might have lost the battle, but the war for a progressive America will now be waged by activists inspired by his legacy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/victory-in-defeat/article31304317.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||In time of need||After imposing a blanket ban on the export of anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine on April 4, without exemptions on humanitarian or other grounds, India reversed the policy two days later. The decision to reverse the ban was made public hours after U.S. President Donald Trump warned of “retaliation” if India withheld supplies of the drug for which orders had already been placed. Given the circumstances, it would be difficult to believe that the decision to lift the restriction was taken independent of U.S. pressure. But the pandemic has seen several countries displaying solidarity and cooperation providing essential supplies to others even while tackling the novel coronavirus in their own backyards. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s message to Mr. Trump that “India shall do everything possible to help humanity’s fight against COVID-19” should, therefore, be seen in that light. Lauded as the pharmacy of the global south, India’s decision to export the drug on humanitarian grounds to neighbouring countries and others that have been badly hit by the pandemic is welcome. Till recently India relied solely on other countries for test supplies and may look to others for essential materials if the situation worsens. Also, India may have much to gain from the U.S. in the future by this diplomatic act of supplying the drug at a crucial time. The sudden demand for hydroxychloroquine across the world arose after Mr. Trump championed it as treatment for COVID-19 patients. The drug became much sought-after in India after the Indian Council of Medical Research approved its use as prophylaxis for novel coronavirus by certain categories of people on March 23. Two days later, the drug was placed in the restricted category for export and included in schedule H1 on March 26 to prevent its sale over the counter, thereby preventing self-medication and hoarding. This was also to ensure its availability to people with rheumatoid arthritis and other conditions. India has a production capacity of 200 million hydroxychloroquine tablets of 200 mg strength each month and three well-established pharmaceutical companies make the drug. While the capacity is sufficient to meet the current demand, the companies are confident of ramping up production if the need arises. In all likelihood, in the short term, India might not run out of hydroxychloroquine as the national taskforce for COVID-19 had relied on weak, anecdotal evidence to make the recommendation. Though the U.S. Food and Drug Administration issued an emergency use authorisation for the drug to treat COVID-19 patients, on April 7, the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and Prevention revised its position saying there is no drug available to prevent or treat COVID-19. Clearly, more research work is needed to establish the efficacy of the drug.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-time-of-need/article31304318.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Curating news for children during pandemic||“I invite you to a picnic in our living room. Dress code: casual, but face mask compulsory. Number of guests: 1. What to get: hand sanitiser, storybooks and your own snack.” When this handwritten invite was dropped at my doorstep, I was surprised by the inventiveness of my neighbour’s 12-year-old daughter. While the tween comes up with her own ways to beat boredom, most children find themselves stuck in hours of emptiness as the world battles a virus. Lockdown restrictions, academic schedules gone awry and, above all, the miserable feeling of being socially adrift… COVID-19 is upending the lives of children. When schools were shut abruptly in March, we, at The Hindu In School , received mails and calls from anxious parents and principals asking us what our “plans” were for children during this unexpected break. Closure of schools meant suspension of the school edition. But the recurring thought that children remain a category not adequately acknowledged in today’s unprecedented scenario set us off on a round of deliberations. Within hours, our design and page plan for a daily newsletter for children were ready. All this, as we navigated the uncharted path of working from home. Instead of being seated in a newsroom, shouting out instructions and suggestions to each other, we found ourselves scattered in homes across Chennai — that too with varying speeds of Internet connectivity. But for all of us, the joy of presenting news and curating content for children overrides the hassle of working in isolation. The newsletter features a 30-minute activity sheet to keep children engaged. The response has encouraged us to bring out a two-page e-paper. But presenting news in times of a pandemic is a huge challenge. Local, national, international, environment or sports news… everything is impacted by COVID-19. To help them comprehend the situation, separate fact from factoid, and allay their fears, we decided to carry explainers. Beating tedium “I’m fed up of hearing ‘I’m bored’,” complained a parent. With children being involved in a structured learning environment for the best part of a year, it is in times like these when parents are clueless about how to engage a child. Small, creative tasks followed by some words of encouragement and appreciation can go a long way in helping children overcome the monotony. A simple journal writing exercise with creative prompts in our e-paper has set off children on imaginative journeys. Responses for the topic “Wow! I won a trip to space!” published on April 8 are filling our inbox. A student from Hyderabad called his experience “indescribable”, while another from a school in Chennai imagined himself planet-hopping and crash-landing on, well, demoted icy Pluto! My teenage son shows me an Instagram post by his friend that reads, “Everything’s wrong about this summer” with a picture of Chennai’s sudden balmy weather. How much Netflix party and Houseparty can children confined to homes engage in? This is a time to take a look at comprehensive online resources that focus on news literacy and creative activities that work as tedium-free education tools. They fill up some hours and help you turn a lockdown into a meaningful staycation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/curating-news-for-children-during-pandemic/article31304328.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Mystery Death Traced to Virus||Doctors have unmasked the “mystery death” that claimed 11 young lives and turned Mannavanoor village in Kodaikanal taluk into a land of gloom. They say that a “virus fever” had attacked the children of the village for the past one week, and are confident the disease could be brought under control The District Collector, Mr. H. B. N. Shetty. who returned from a visit to the village where the tragedy occurred said there was one more death to-day (April 9) bringing the death toll to eleven children and one adult. Twenty-five children are suffering from this virus fever and they have been segregated. The panchayat office has been turned into a ward for the children. One of the children was rushed to the Kodaikanal Hospital where it is making progress. Doctors have said that the patients will recover in about seven days. A team of doctors was rushed to Mannavanoor to-day to attend on the children. The entire village is being immunised. Mr. Shetty said he was keeping touch with the doctors in the village and has alerted the Government Erskine Hospital to rush medical assistance if and when necessary. Eleven children and an adult died during the course of last week preceded by an attack of fever and convulsion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mystery-death-traced-to-virus/article31304327.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Chance to revive national circuit’||In difficult times, it is natural to fall back on good memories. Vishnu Vardhan competed in his maiden Grand Slam main draw in Wimbledon in 2018, and he cherishes it dearly. Among best memories “It was one of the best memories of my tennis career — playing my debut Grand Slam main draw in Wimbledon with Sriram Balaji, one of my closest friends, and winning a match with my family watching,” recalled the 32-year-old Vishnu, who represented the country in the London Olympics with Leander Paes. This season, Vishnu was playing his second professional tournament in Kolkata in March, before the tournament was cancelled midway by the International Tennis Federation (ITF). “I actually was having a terrible cough at that time. That was when there were some initial cases of COVID-19 in India, just before the WHO called it a pandemic. The players in the tournament were very concerned about my cough. Luckily, it was a regular cough and I recovered soon. I was ready to get tested, but the doctor assured me that it was normal, as I did not have any other symptoms,” recalled Vishnu. Vishnu is confident that India will control the virus soon, and suggests a national circuit to revive tennis. “It will be a great opportunity to revive the national circuit. We can have all the top-ranked players in the country competing in the tournaments,” he said. Now, he is happy spending time with his two-year-old son Siddhartha, and helping his wife Sonia bake some “amazing cakes”.  “Being home has been fine for me. My dad (Jagadeesan) and Sonia are the designated people to go out and buy the essentials. So, I have been completely home,” said Vishnu. “We have breakfast together. When Siddhartha goes to my parents’ place [on a different floor], I get a workout. We both enjoy our long afternoon naps, which was never in my schedule. In the evening, we go to the terrace, watch the sunset and water the plants,” said Vishnu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chance-to-revive-national-circuit/article31304489.ece
10 April 2020||KOLKATA,||Boxing, drawing keep Simranjit occupied||Olympics qualified boxer Simranjit Kaur is making the best use of the lockdown by training with her brothers and pursuing hobbies like drawing and sewing. Simranjit is fortunate that her brothers — Kamalpreet Singh and Arshdeep Singh (the current National silver medallist in 81kg) — are also boxers, who spar with her at home in Chakar village of Ludhiana district in Punjab during her daily training. Help from brothers “Since I don’t stay at home for long periods, I never really had such an opportunity. My brothers’ familiarity with boxing is an advantage. Both of them are helping me with padding,” Simranjit told The Hindu . The 24-year-old is incorporating the inputs received from National coaches through video conferencing to fine-tune her game. Simranjit, who won a 64kg World championships bronze medal in Delhi in 2018, had lost the 60kg trials for 2019 Worlds to the seasoned Sarita Devi. However, she improved her game to beat Sarita in the Olympic qualifier trial and secured a quota place by claiming a silver medal in the Asia/Oceania qualifying event in Amman, Jordan. “I kept my focus on winning the trial for the Olympic qualifier. I didn’t have to bother much about my new weight as my natural weight stayed around 60kg. I had some solid punches, but I had to make some technical changes. “I have been in touch with B.I. Fernandez (former India’s foreign coach). Whenever I find time I go to his centre in Mohali. He sends me videos and tells me to try out different techniques,” said the boxer backed by Lakshya Sports. According to National coach Mohammed Ali Qamar, Simranjit has immense potential. “She is an attacking boxer who can fluster the best of opponents with her punches. Only, she has to work on some technical and tactical aspects,” said Qamar. Simranjit, who gave a power-packed performance to claim her maiden National title and bag the Best Boxer award in Haridwar in 2016, is happy to get some attention. “People in my village knew about me after I got Asian and World championship medals. Following my Olympic qualification, more people recognise me.” Amid expectations, Simranjit looks forward to the Olympics. “Good that we have one year to prepare. I am focusing on physical fitness. After the lockdown, we will focus on other areas.” Simranjit keeps herself engaged with some creative work. “Drawing is one of my passions. I learnt it on my own. I had learnt sewing from my mother (Rajpal Kaur) when I was young. Since there is a lot of time in hand, I do some drawing and sewing,” she said.  Good that we have one year to prepare. I am focusing on physical fitness. After the lockdown, we will focus on other areas||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/boxing-drawing-keep-simranjit-occupied/article31304622.ece
10 April 2020||Melbourne,||Was willing to die on the field: Richards||The legendary Viv Richards, one of the greatest batsmen to have ever played the game, says such was his passion for the game he didn’t mind dying on the cricket field while representing the West Indies. Known for his aggressive batting, Richards dominated some of the fiercest fast bowlers of world cricket without donning a helmet. Richards, 68 now, was always aware of the risks but it didn’t bother him. “My passion for the game was such I didn’t mind dying on the field playing something I loved,” Richards told former Australia all-rounder Shane Watson in a podcast. Richards said he had always looked up to other athletes, who risked their lives, for inspiration. “I have looked at other sportsmen and women who I have a lot of respect for doing it to an extreme level,” said Richards, who amassed 8,540 and 6,721 runs in 121 Tests and 187 ODIs respectively. “I see a guy driving a Formula 1 racing car, what could be more dangerous than that?” said Richards, to which Watson quipped: “Facing 150kmph without a helmet?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/was-willing-to-die-on-the-field-richards/article31304477.ece
10 April 2020||New Delhi,||India doesn’t need money, can’t have cricket now, says Kapil||The legendary Kapil Dev, on Thursday slammed Shoaib Akhtar’s idea of a made-for-television three-match ODI series between India and Pakistan to raise funds for the COVID-19 pandemic, saying “India doesn’t need the money” and it is not worth risking lives for a cricket match. Akhtar, on Wednesday, proposed a closed-door series to jointly raise funds to fight the deadly virus both in India and Pakistan. Not feasible Kapil said the proposal is not feasible. “He is entitled to his opinion but we don’t need to raise the money. “We have enough. For us, what is important right now is that how our authorities work together to deal with this crisis,” Kapil said. “The situation is unlikely to get normal anytime soon and organising a cricket game means putting our cricketers at risk which we don’t need to,” he said. Kapil said cricket should not even matter for at least the next six months. “It is just not worth the risk. And how much money can you make from three games? In my view, you can’t even think of cricket for the next five to six months,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-doesnt-need-money-cant-have-cricket-now-says-kapil/article31304487.ece
10 April 2020||Hobart,||Australia first, IPL contracts secondary: Tim Paine||The Australian cricket team didn’t want to unnecessarily provoke Virat Kohli but his predecessor Michael Clarke’s claims of players being scared to sledge the India captain in order to protect their IPL deals is far from truth, says current Test skipper Tim Paine.  “I certainly didn’t notice too many people being that nice to Virat or not trying to get him out or anything like that,” Paine told ESPNcricinfo . “I thought everyone who had the ball in their hand or when we were batting were trying their absolute best to win the game for Australia. “I’m not sure who was going easy on him; we certainly had a thing where we didn’t want to provoke any fight with him because we think that’s when he plays at his best,” Paine said. India is scheduled to tour Australia from October, 2020 to January, 2021 to play four Tests, three One-Day Internationals and three Twenty20 Internationals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-first-ipl-contracts-secondary-tim-paine/article31304473.ece
10 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Sathiyan begins training with a robot||India’s top paddler G. Sathiyan is making optimum use of his time at home in Chennai. The 27-year-old now has started playing table tennis, not with any other player, but with an imported robot at his residence. “It’s a remote-operated robot (Butterfly Amicus Prime for advanced players). I got it from Germany under the advice of my coach S. Raman in November last when Shen Yaohuan of China came to the Raman TT Academy. Now with the lockdown in place, I took it back from the academy so that I can practice,” said Sathiyan, who is the top-ranked Indian in the world at 31. The robot was funded by the Go Sports Foundation and with help from Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu which took care of the import duty and customs clearance. The speciality of the robot, according to Sathiyan, is that it can give the ball at different speeds, trajectory, frequency and spin. “Of course, the imported robot can never replace a human. It gives one shot for a backhand and another for a long forehand whereas a normal robot will put the ball only at the same speed. “It can send 120 balls per minute, which is two balls per second and 300 balls can be loaded into it. I feel in these times it is extremely helpful,” he said. Sathiyan stressed that the robot is valuable for those paddlers who want to improve on their technique, sharpness and reflex. “It’s the best robot I’ve seen,” Sathiyan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sathiyan-starts-training-with-a-robot/article31304491.ece
10 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Best phase of life: Ojha||Former India left-arm spinner Pragyan Ojha believes that the ‘lockdown’ has presented him with the best phase of his life — spending invaluable time with his eight-month-old son, Yohaan. “When I spoke to quite a few senior cricketers, they felt that the lockdown presents us with a huge opportunity to be with our families, specially our kids,” said the 33-year-old Ojha in a chat with The Hindu on Thursday. “I feel at ‘home’ with this lockdown as I normally don’t like moving around except for official work. Now I have a chance to see my son from close quarters. He is growing and I am trying to understand his ‘sign’ language which is the most delightful phase for any parent. I take some snaps too,” said an excited Ojha.  On cricket, Ojha said for the moment he is enjoying doing commentary and is trying to improve his skills. “I watch Hindi news a lot. I am keen to observe how they present different subjects in such appealing manner,” he said. Ojha also added that unless he has the time to be completely with the trainees at an academy, he will not take up coaching. Enjoying the break  “I am enjoying this long break, spending time watching videos of some great Tests like the 2001 Kolkata Test featuring V.V.S. Laxman and Rahul Dravid’s historic knocks, Harbhajan Singh’s bowling and some inspirational sports documentaries like ‘Fire in Babylon’,” he added. Any regrets when looking back? “I would have definitely loved to play more Tests. But, again, you have to take some things in your stride,” Ojha said. “I am fortunate to have taken more than 100 Test wickets [113 in 24 Tests] which I feel is a wonderful achievement and one that I am proud off,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/best-phase-of-life-ojha/article31304475.ece
10 April 2020||LONDON,||F1 could be held behind closed doors: Brawn||Formula One motorsport managing director Ross Brawn has said that in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the 2020 season could potentially be held behind closed doors. So far, nine races have been affected by the outbreak, with the March 15 season-opening Australian Grand Prix cancelled along with May’s showcase Monaco Grand Prix. “Travel for the teams and travel for everyone involved is going to be one of the big issues. You could argue once we get there, we could become fairly self-contained. Our view is probably a European start will be favourable and that could even be a closed event,” Brawn told Sky Sports . Better than no racing “We have a race with no spectators. That’s not great, but it’s better than no racing at all,” he added. Although the French GP is currently scheduled for June 28, Brawn explained a July start now looks more likely. “If we were to start at the beginning of July, we could do a 19-race season,” he said. “It’s tough, three races on, weekend off, three races on, weekend off — but we’ve looked at all the logistics.” F1 is already working with promoters on a revised 2020 calendar with the actual sequence and schedule dates for races likely to differ significantly from the original calendar.  If we were to start at the beginning of July, we could do a 19-race season||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/f1-could-be-held-behind-closed-doors-brawn/article31304478.ece
10 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||MCEME to the rescue of Bir Bahadur’s family||The MCEME Centre (Secunderabad), responding to a report published in these columns about the plight of former international footballer Bir Bahadur, donated Rs. 60,000 to the family members on Thursday. Lt. Gen. T.S.A. Narayanan, Commandant, MCEME, presented the cheque at the headquarters. The officials also promised suitable rehabilitation once the ongoing lockdown is lifted. The 75-year-old Bir Bahadur, who was on the rolls of EME Centre and represented it in the local football league, hails from Bolarum here and is in coma now. Minister’s response Meanwhile, Telangana IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao also responded to The Hindu ’s report. “I have asked my team to follow up on this issue,” tweeted the minister. Former India football captain Victor Amalraj, who was the one to bring to the fore Bir Bahadur’s condition, confirmed that Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary of IT (Telangana government), got in touch with him and said that the government was on the job to help the footballer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mceme-to-the-rescue-of-bir-bahadurs-family/article31304703.ece
10 April 2020||KARAIKUDI:,||Ashok slams century||B. Ashok Kumar (114) starred in AGAC’s 61-run win over Brindavan Birds in the Sivaganga DCA third division league.  The scores: AGAC 215/3 in 20 overs (B. Ashok Kumar 114, Manikandan 37, Arul Sabarinathan 29) bt Brindavan Birds 154/6 in 20 overs (Shiva 50, Nirmal 33, Aravind 3/9).   Yogam Oscar 120/8 in 20 overs (S. Pradeep 57 n.o.) lost to Chettinad Vanchi 121/3 in 19.2 overs (Johnson 41, Ganavel 33).   Young Blood 78 in 18.4 overs (Arunkumar 26, Sujith 3/15) lost to Leaders 82/2 in 12.5 overs (Karthikeyan 51).   Sachin Brothers 194/5 in 20 overs (Karumbachalam 85, Aravind Baskar 39) bt B. Tech 80/8 in 20 overs (Dhanabal 35).   Senshare 118 in 19.4 overs (Harshath 5/15, Raj 3/17, Marsook 3/31) bt APSAC 99 in 17.3 overs (Vignesh 4/20).   Brindavan Birds 115/5 in 20 overs (Ajith 37) lost to Young Blood 119/3 in 15 overs (Aravind 48, Vetriselvam 28).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ashok-slams-century/article31304592.ece
10 April 2020||New Delhi,||Pujara’s deal with Gloucestershire called off||Cheteshwar Pujara’s deal with Gloucestershire for the first six matches of the County Championship has been cancelled due to the coronavirus pandemic. The 32-year-old was supposed to play six matches for the club at the start of the County’s first season back in Division One. However, Gloucestershire on Thursday said that the deal is off now given the global health crisis.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pujaras-deal-with-gloucestershire-called-off/article31304484.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 09:43 IST,||Sudoku - April 10, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-10-2020/article31305466.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Much needed pause?||On January 15, the Cleveland Thyagaraja Festival’s V.V. Sundaram made one of the most difficult decisions in his life. Backed by the committee of organisers, collaborators and artistes themselves, he decided to defer the event. “We were keeping a close eye on the spread of the Coronavirus in China and when the first case was detected in the U.S., we knew we had a job to do. So, with a heavy heart, we postponed the Aradhana,” he shares. Some called the decision premature, others, callous. After all, it’s well-known that apart from bringing together and unearthing young talent, offering memorable experiences, and bridging geographical distances vis-à-vis South Indian classical performing arts, the Festival also provides India-based artistes with anywhere from 50-75 per cent of their annual income. “Just in visa applications and flight tickets alone, we had already spent over $150,000. But we had a premonition and defaulted to erring on the side of caution,” Sundaram adds. Yet, he never imagined the situation would transform into the pandemic that it eventually became. Soon enough, artistes themselves started to cancel their tours that involved Cleveland amidst a host of other cities, an annual pilgrimage of sorts. In Houston, Texas, Chennai’s Madras Players had already landed, performing their version of English play, ‘Trinity.’ After a successful show in Toronto, with only two days before their sold-out show in Houston, the virus was announced a global pandemic. They flew back immediately and the organisers kicked into problem-solving mode. “We began to understand the magnitude, so we cancelled our annual Thyagaraja Aradhana event that was supposed to include a grand finale concert and lec-dem by vocalists Ranjani-Gayatri,” says Nalini Sadagopan, president of the Classical Arts Society of Houston. While the financial losses were significant, she credits her patrons and audiences for giving her confidence that the organisation will emerge “just fine, at the end of this all.” The domino effect was immediate and soon, organisers were thinking far beyond March and April. Sadagopan was forced to cancel the organisation’s much-anticipated collaboration with Asia Society to host Malavika Sarukkai’s ‘Thari’ and was prepared for even more cancellations through the end of the calendar year. “The silver lining, though, is that we’re spending our time developing our organisation, fleshing out projects that have been in the pipeline for ages, and working on grant applications and much-needed web development,” she says. Her positivity, a force of strength in the most trying of times, is being emulated all across North America. Out on the East Coast, young violinists and organisers Neha Krishnamachary and Sharada Krishnan grapple with the crisis and its implications for the future of live shows in a multifaceted manner. Yet, their overarching attitude is one of gratitude, and it’s not hard to see how they got there. “As an artiste myself, this sudden standstill has allowed me to look inward with music and reminded me that above all else, I engage in music for myself,” Sharada Krishnan, founder of New Jersey-based non-profit organisation Brindavani tells us. While a stroke of luck allowed the organisation to be untainted by the presence of the pandemic, wrapping up its largest event of the year in January, she knows that the platform it offers young artistes by way of youth festivals is a large and important one and implores them to look at this as a “blessing in disguise” rather than a “phase of lost opportunities.” Violinist Neha Krishnamachary echoes the sentiment. The president of Yuva Sangeetha Lahari (YSL), the organisation was prepared to host its largest two-day youth music festival, ‘Dhvani,’ in June in its usual venue — Morganville New Jersey’s Guruvayoorappan Temple. The weekend usually sees 12 back-to-back concerts, performed exclusively by North American youth, often to a dynamic audience of 100-150 people. “We announced last week that we would be cancelling, and some people are still shocked, given that June is so far away. But we’re dedicated to hosting a geographically-diverse range of artistes from across the country and this is too much of a threat to ignore. As organisers, risking the health of our artistes and communities is simply not a step we can take,” she comments. It’s the first time the organisation has cancelled the festival in seven years. Travel West to California, a land of some of the country’s largest and most profitable sabhas, and the outlook is equally bleak. Facebook pages and email inboxes are flooded with apologies and cancellations, and definitive answers seem obsolete amidst the chaos. “This year, one of our most special, we set out to stage 74 artistes - everyone from Dr. Yesudas to vidwans Aruna Sairam, Ajoy Chakrabarty, Pt. Vishwamohan Bhatt and many others. In light of the pandemic, we have postponed our annual festival and monthly programmes up until September, and the losses are extraordinary,” laments Shekar Viswanathan, president, secretary, and founder of the Indian Fine Arts Academy of San Diego (IFAASD, California). And the numbers don’t lie. With over $100,000 in losses as well, he’s relying on his patrons for support, postponing the festival to the first week of September with hopes that the situation will normalise enough to be able to move forward. Across the board, the feeling of uncertainty is certainly ubiquitous. While the world increases its consumption of the arts to take its inhabitants through these shaky waters, it remains ironic that artistes are some of the “most-suffering” members, waiting in anticipation for the day that they can return to the stage once more. Streaming live Of course, the pandemic also promotes a discussion that many artistes and organisers have brushed under the rug: the need for live-streaming. Often times, Carnatic and Hindustani artistes view live-streaming as a by-product of social media accounts rather than streams of revenue and many prefer not allowing live-streaming as it can detract from a concert’s physical footfalls, resulting in a loss of tickets and a dilution of the concert experience as a whole. But if a virus, limited only in man’s capacity to social distance, can do one thing, it is to thrust that belief system in question, ushering in those such as iCarnatic founder Ravi Natarajan to bring to light what he has been doing for so long. For years, Natarajan has partnered with Sundaram to live-stream the ten-day Cleveland festival to participants unable to attend live. While free concerts, events, and competitions are streamed at no charge, the Festival’s ticketed concerts, with single ticket sales at $40-$50 per evening, require purchasing iCarnatic’s approximately $100 package. Detecting viewers’ geophysical location using their devices IP address, the service prevents those in Cleveland from livestreaming, ensuring that the large State University’s Waetjen and Drinko auditoriums are full with audience members. However, this pandemic could be Natarajan’s moment in the spotlight. “iCarnatic can most definitely expand its horizons — we can stream more festivals and charge, ensuring that artistes take a cut and allowing us to invest those profits into our own festivals and initiatives as well. Perhaps, this is the way forward,” he suggests. The uncertainty is one rarely experienced in this creative sector and as organisers recalibrate, artistes heal, and people use arts as an escape, we see that perhaps, the pandemic is the transformative shift that the world of kutcheris was waiting for, all along.  The silver lining is that we’re spending time developing our organisation and fleshing out projects that have been in the pipeline for ages||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/much-needed-pause/article31304283.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Finding Hanuman in Self||Hanuman, an ideal hero gives life to something bigger than himself. His gaatha (labyrinth of stories) is steeped in layered symbolism. Vishwamber Nath Mishra, Mahant (chief priest) of Sankat Mochan Temple, Varanasi, says, “Hanuman is one of the seven mythological immortal beings. He is physical strength ( bal ) derived from Shakti (energy). The Shakti is defined by rational thinking and moral action. He symbolises humble devotion (bhakti).” Both Ram and Hanuman, he remarks, are non-aggressive symbols of justice and peace. “Sankat Mochan (removal of all impediments) is a name given to Hanuman by the 16th-century saint — Goswami Tulsidas. It is said the poet had the darshan of Hanuman in Varanasi where he resided on Tulsi Ghat and wrote the Ramcharitmanas — the most popular version of the Ramayana. Hanuman, the 11th incarnation of Shiva (Raudra), also represents celibacy,” he explains. Of the several writings, it is in the ‘Kavitavali’ that Tulsidas mentions the occurrence of a pandemic. He writes that pandemic is a result of changing times, and of people's greed and conflict. Apart from the popular ‘Hanuman Chalisa,’ the ‘Bajarang Baan’ (arrow of Hanuman) and ‘Hanuman Bahuk’ address the removal of diseases by way of reciting verses recounting the hero’s journey, tales and deeds. Hanuman, in South India is the popular son of the nymph Anjana, who protects women. Hanuman is accessible to the masses and is not esoteric or privileged. This is evident in the many street shrines, calendar art and self-help manuals linked to his worship. He unifies North-South India, male-female, diverse communities, adult-children and Shakti with bhakti. Humour and innocence Hanuman is innocent with extraordinary powers. Said to have swallowed the sun thinking it to be a fruit, Pavanputra (son of the Wind), with his magnificent leaps, mighty feats, ability to change his shape, fires a child’s imagination and makes him his Super-man. An episode from the Ramayana describes Surasa (the Mother of Serpents) stretching her mouth and Hanuman assuming a body twice as broad. When she further stretches her mouth Hanuman retaliates by taking on a minuscule form. Many humorous anecdotes during the annual 40-day Ram Lila are linked to Hanuman. Dr. Sanjay Mehta, a cultural commentator from Varanasi, recounts, “During one such performance in a mohalla , a rope is tied for Hanuman to reach Ram standing on a chabutra (platform for performance). Meanwhile, someone cuts the rope and Hanuman falls with a bang in front of Ram, who loudly exclaims, “why have you come so soon?” Hanuman then allows a repartee between the Gods on stage and the audience. Hanuman as a symbol of knowledge is the cherished divinity (Ishta devta) for those engaged with staging Ram Lilas , traditional impersonator performers (Bahurupiyas) in the North and the South, dance, music and puppet traditions in and outside India. The cultural geography of Hampi follows the ‘Valmiki Ramayana’ and is known as the Kishkinda Kshetra, the birthplace of Hanuman. The Hagalu Vesha (impersonators) continue to enact the feats of Hanuman and even conduct heritage walks on the Hanuman theme. "In the mask-making tradition in Varanasi, the Hanuman mask for the Ram Lilas in Banaras is derived from the Suchindram Hanuman temple in Tamil Nadu,” notes Dr. Mehta. The flying Hanuman is most popular among the craft industry of wooden toys in Varanasi. A study shows that the lacquer painted wooden toys of Hanuman and other figures are made predominantly in the mohallas of Kashmiri Ganj and Khojwa (Varanasi) by both Hindus and Muslim craftsmen. Two akharas In the non-Muslim wrestling tradition — Kushti, Hanuman is the cherished divinity. For example, “Goswami Tulsidas instituted two akharas (wrestling schools) one on Tulsi Ghat and the other here in our temple of Sankat Mochan. Saint Tulsidas believed that unless there is discipline, the health of mind and body, the good energies to perform moral actions cannot happen,” describes VishwamberNath. In the syncretic culture of Varanasi, Hanuman is identified with Ali (the son-in-law of Prophet Mohammad) and a popular slogan is “Ya Ali, Bajrang Bali!” ‘Hanuman Complex’ is a term that was mentioned by eminent psychiatrist late N.N. Wig. It speaks of psychiatrists and psychologists, reminding people of the strength of their inner potential. “The story of Hanuman is inspirational,” wrote Wig. “How he lost the knowledge about his power to fly due to a childhood curse by Rishis and how he regained his powers when reminded by Jambavan during a crucial mission in search of Sita. This is the Hanuman complex.” The mental health expert becomes Jambavan in the process. Hanuman’s gaatha is, as mythologist Joseph Campbell writes, “a song of the universe deeply embedded in collective consciousness...where we thought to be alone, we shall be with the world…” Finding Hanuman in our self.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/finding-hanuman-in-self/article31304305.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Simply white, simply beautiful||Dancing is an exhilarating experience, enabling empowerment, education and enlightenment. As artistes, certain moments come by in our lives, evidently with blessings from Providence that open the doors to knowing ourselves better, not only though the art but also through awareness in every action. They are the cherishable few occasions that provide a life-time opportunity. We ought to grab, savour and recapitulate them. One such episode was the centenary celebrations of Dadi Janki, one of the most elevated spiritual world leaders and chief of Brahmakumaris — the largest movement led by women. The pristine purity of Madhuban at Mt. Abu seems like a dream, making one wonder whether this could be ‘Paradise on Earth.’ The campus is on its own, a self-sufficient kingdom but with no showmanship of any ruler, auxiliary attendant or staff. Every face we meet is happy, welcoming and non-fussy, which is seldom seen these days. The one and only Mantra for greeting, bidding, or beckoning is OM SHANTI. The protagonist, Dadi Janki, appeared in a wheelchair with an assistant and few other Sevaks, as we were taken to her chamber. It was out of habit that a few of us went ahead to touch the feet to which she smiled and said: “Here all are the same, please do not fall at my feet.” We were speechless, just to see her lustrous demeanour. Is she really a full one hundred years old? The bewitching child-like smile reminded one of BALA, the baby Goddess, before our eyes without any paraphernalia whatsoever. Simply white and simply beautiful, inside-out. A Goddess Saraswati, without any conspicuous tool. Full of grace Dadi Janki was radiant, endowed with a celestial countenance, a picture of bountiful grace. If one’s subtle vibration can capture such aura, it is actually mind-blowing. Apparently, the organisation, which does not affiliate itself to any particular religion and the typical Guru-Sishya lineage, believes that each one is the Supreme ATMA personified. All the same, since there is a method of Raja Yoga taught and a unique way of living that becomes the charter, the importance of good teaching and guidance is maintained. As for the huge gathering of crowd, there were no formalities at the institution’s doorstep and no fee collected, much to our surprise. It seemed like home-coming for most people. Dadiji became an avid listener too as she heard us, as the TV channel PEACE OF MIND of Godlywood studio took an interview. “Movements of animals, birds and forms in nature having been adapted in Yoga Asanas and the units of movement in dance incorporate many of these Asanas in a graceful and lyrical fashion. Muni Patanjali was inspired by the vision of the Lord of Chidambaram, Nataraja, and hence it is evident that Yoga is an indispensable ingredient in Natya.” Dadiji agreed thereafter that the eight limbs — Yama, Niyama, Asana, Pranayama, Prathyahara, Dharana, Dhyana and Samadhi — form an essential part of any Yoga Sadhana, including Raja Yoga and Natya Yoga. “Chittavritti Nirodha’ or control of thoughts and senses, is a must in Yoga as the body, breath and mind together move towards the soul. The withdrawal and peaceful relaxation go together. It was wonderful to become acquainted with the meditation taught by this organisation, coupled with adherence to discipline and good conduct, whereby one never disregards another soul. The meditation in the Raja Yoga that kindles the light in the point between the eyebrows (Ajna Chakra, or the third eye) focuses on the Supreme light/ SHIVBABA, God as Patita- pavana Paramatma. At the interview that she gave to media, there were a few significant sentences that come to memory: “Yoga is awareness, a Sadhana of human to divine consciousness. The modern system looks after just physical health, whereas the term Health, encompasses a complete mental, social, physical and spiritual well-being. Raja Yoga meditation changes the internal physiological response to environmental circumstances, thereby creating an adaptive and positive response. The power of the mind to resist disease is increased enormously as the subconscious level is healed and higher consciousness is awakened.” The auditorium had a capacity of at least 10,000 spectators and was overflowing much before the events commenced. The performance by our team was on Shivdarshan and Srishti Chakra, an old composition on the principles, practice and aim of the world community of Brahmakumaris. It was heart filling to receive blessings from all the frontline Brothers and Sisters, led by Dadi Janki, both before and after the recital. At Dadi Janki’s much awaited speech on the occasion, she said, “At least, put an end to the crisis within your own mind when you can’t do much about the crisis outside of you. Flexibility means converting your problems into teachers. Never lose hope, never give up — if the task is given, you will also get the power to fulfil it. Light and Might are with you as your Right from God. You can bend only when you are strong. Be like the lotus, take what is useful but do not let the dirt spoil your beauty. Sorrow makes one sick and scared, so do not take it from anyone. If you allow the negative in word, thought or form to enter you, then it is due to your weakness. Always ask what you have to do at this moment in time and not past or future.” A great soul chooses wise words, understands the value of words, uplifting, true, boosting our spirits. Only a powerful soul can afford to be humble and offer love. Health is not merely a precious possession but a resource in which the entire community, nation and world has a stake. Being a birthright, it is one treasure which neither science nor wealth can buy. To gain this, one would readily give up everything. Here again, if we analyse, we perhaps covet some parts of ourselves more than the rest and if a stage comes when we got to choose between this body part and that, it is finally the breath or life force that we do not wish to give up! Meditation on the breath through Yoga as in dance does help. Dadiji had a hand that never would hurt, a tongue that never would pierce and a mind that never would tremble or waver. A life of beautiful balance between head, heart and hand. A caring, sharing and inspiring figure. Om Shanti!  The writer performed at her centenary in 2016||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/simply-white-simply-beautiful/article31304294.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Why have you gone away Poompavai?||“In this Mylai of lovely streets where Kapali has taken residence, the beautiful women sing on the occasion of Panguni Uththiram festival. O Poompavai have you gone away without seeing this celebration?” thus sings Sambandar in the seventh century. It is a clear indicator of the antiquity of the annual Brahmotsavam of the Kapaliswarar Temple in Mylapore. This year the temple, and we the die-hard devotees have been forced to give it a miss, owing to the worldwide contagion of COVID. I have not been able to come across any year in the past century when this festival was called off. Even the famed evacuation of Madras, during the Second World War took place later in the year thereby enabling the conduct of the event. Given the temple’s antiquity, we do not have any clear records as to when the itinerary of the ten-day event was codified in the manner we see it today. Much of the temple that we know is the work of Nattu Muthiappa Mudali, who sometime in the 18th century renovated/rebuilt the precinct. The shrines of Jagadiswarar and Sundareswarar, as also the small gopuram on the eastern face, are all his. But by 1749, when the British acquired control over Mylapore and San Thome, the temple was in a ruinous condition. Kanakaraya Mudali, the Kanakkupillai of the Export Warehouse of the East India Company became dharmakartha and in his words, he found the properties of the shrine “encroached upon by people of foreign religions. The four Mada streets had become mere lanes. The temple was barely functioning, with daily worship being suspended owing to want of funds.” It was he who rebuilt the temple walls, had the tank fashioned in its present dimensions and more importantly, had processional icons and mounts made, fashioned carriages, widening the four Mada streets to facilitate their movement. Towards the end of the 18th century we read of Pammal Subbaraya Mudali spending 20 to 30,000 pagodas in constructing the temple chariot. But immediately thereafter, there was a break in the conduct of the event for ten long years. In 1789, there was a riot between the Left and Right Hand Castes of the area, chiefly over the colour of the pandals that had to be put up on the processional route. The latter wanted to usurp the traditional five colours of the former for their pandals. That led to suspension of the festivities, which resumed only in 1799, with the Company’s red and white colours being used, and St George’s flag flying on top! But there was trouble even then when it was alleged by Mudali inhabitants of Mylapore that Masilamani Mudali, then Dharmakarta was not carrying out the ceremonies of the temple. This was sorted out with the East India Company funding the celebrations pending further enquiry. The same scenario was to repeat itself in the 1820s, when Kovur Sundara Mudali, remembered today for bringing Tyagaraja to Madras, after spending copious amounts on the annual festival, found the Company thwarting his attempts at becoming Dharmakartha. Sundara Mudali managed to get Aiya Mudali, the ageing trustee of the shrine to write a letter to the Collector of Madras stating that with two harvests having been poor, the temple was short of funds and that he Aiya Mudali was not rich enough to finance the festivities “on a grand style unless assisted by a rich man with his own money,” for “the servants will not be attentive unless their balance is paid to them.” This clearly was a powerful hint that Kovur Sundara Mudali, being a rich man, ought to take over. The Board of Revenue simply authorised the Collector to spend the required money from Government funds. Stubborn Company In 1826, Kovur Sundara Mudali reiterated his claim, directly petitioning the Company. It was March and it became clear that unless the matter was resolved, the temple festival would become a casualty. But the Company was implacable and it went on to conduct the event under its own auspices. It later appointed Dharmakartas and sadly Kovur Sundara Mudali was not one. For some reason, the East India Company was very keen that the Kapali Brahmotsavam was held in all its customary grandeur. Perhaps because the temple was never administered by a public charity but directly by the Government since 1749, the EIC felt the non-conduct of the event would be a reflection on its prestige. The traditions continued unbroken post 1857 when the Company vanished and India was administered by the Crown. Since Independence of course, the festival has only got bigger. But then who would have thought that a virus originating in China could put a stop to a temple festival in Mylapore? This too is God’s doing and His will hath no why.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/why-have-you-gone-away-poompavai/article31304311.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||‘ Acting is my first priority’||Soap addicts became nostalgic when ‘Chitthi-2’ was announced. Radhika’s power-packed serial starring Sivakumar, Subhalekha Sudhakar and Yuvarani set a new trend in mega serials. Fans will have something new to cheer when the original also will be run on the same channel — Sun TV — soon. What does Radhika Sarathkumar think about this development? Concern for the welfare of technicians dominates the conversation with the queen of mega serials. Excerpts: Were you happy when ‘Chitthi’ was announced?  It was the channel’s decision. However, I was happy that ‘Chitthi’ was chosen for a second run. But I’m more concerned about the thousands of workers, artistes and technicians, who are involved in production. I really hope things reverse and work is resumed soon. Normally how many episodes do you keep in the bank?  Nearly two weeks of content, at any point in time. Plus, of course, unedited portions or some edited footage which can be put together in an emergency situation. But nobody expected this lockdown, which has brought everything to a standstill. This is beyond our control.  About your pair in Chitthi2?  Sivakumar was my pair in the first part. He is a fantastic performer and delivered beautifully. Now it is Ponvannan. He has got into the character so well. You’ll know when the episodes are aired. After the lockdown, where will you head first — serial shooting or big screen?  Serial work, undoubtedly. ‘Chitthi’ has been stopped midway and I want the serial to start rolling. But nobody knows how things are going to pan out. Everyday, there is a new development. What we are in is a different and difficult situation. Serial needs a lot of planning and how much of planning can we do in these uncertain circumstances, I wonder. Next month, we will be seeing two versions of ‘Chitthi’ in different time slots of the day? I do not have the answer for the question. Only the channel can reply. Between producer (serials) and actor (big screen), which is your favourite?  I am happy to do what I know best — acting. From my first film Kizhakke Pogum Rail to Vaanam Kottatum , my latest film, I have acted in 350 films and 7,000 hours of serial content. In fact, I have worked in various departments of film making as well as television. All my serials have been runaway hits — ‘Chitthi,’ ‘Annamalai,’ ‘Selvi,’ ‘Arasi,’ ‘Vani Rani’ and so on. What next?  I often face this question. Acting for Radaan is something I will not give up. I give my hundred per cent, whatever the commitment. And that is the mantra of success. Ever thought about directing a film or serial?  I directed a tele-film, titled, “Siragugal” as the director was not in a position to continue for various reasons. I directed the serial, “Nalavathu Mudichu.” The point is, I am involved in acting round the clock — in films and also in serials. I do not have the time to direct either. And I’m devoted to Radaan, on which so many people depend. So I have to continue acting. This is a decision I have taken consciously. Direction is a huge responsibility, which demands wholehearted participation, in terms of time and energy. I’m not in a position to do that now. I have half-a-dozen films in the pipeline in Tamil and Telugu — ‘Marudhu,’ ‘Dhuruva Natchathiram,’ ‘Kurathi Attam,’ this is a film starring Atharva, and so on. Acting, therefore is my priority and direction can wait. Right now, I want ‘Chitthi-2’ to resume. I can’t think of anything else.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/acting-is-my-first-priority/article31304273.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Ramayan’s popularity proves its contemporary relevance’||As the re-run of Ramanand Sagar’s ‘Ramayan’ on Doordarshan is breaking TRP records, Arun Govil, the Ram we all know, is elated. “It is a kind of nostalgia trip for me. Even some of the commercials that come in between belong to the time when it was first telecast on Doordarshan,” says Govil, after watching yet another episode with his family. “Earlier, I used to analyse my performance but this time I am watching it for the love of the epic. Also, I am watching it with my grandchildren. My grandson, who is seven, asks about the background of various characters in the epic.” Govil’s phone hasn’t stopped ringing since the re-telecast of the serial began. Many are communicating through email. “Some of them are colleagues and relatives who haven’t called in the past 20 years. I am constantly informed that the serial has garnered a record-breaking TRP rating. It proves that content and emotion can easily triumph over technique. Such TRPs can’t be earned without the youth watching it. I don’t think the massive viewership (170 million worldwide) is because of the lockdown as people still have plenty to choose from,” says Govil. The actor feels it was Ramanand Sagar’s writing that helped in conveying the deeper meaning of the epic to the people. “His profound lines made my task easier. He ensured that complex issues are explained without losing out on the dramatic element. Those who watched it for drama and action in the 1980s, can now watch it to understand Ram’s view on relationships and worldly affairs,” he adds. When the show was first aired, Govil’s divine smile won over the viewers. “It was my input. I started my career with Rajshri Films. Rajkumar Barjatya once told me, ‘Arun, your smile is special, use it when you get an opportunity.’ His words stayed with me. When the characterisation was being done everybody knew that I am a calm person but I wanted to lend something more that would bring out the divine qualities of Ram… something that would keep reminding the audience that he is an avatar without making it too obvious. It was then that I came up with this idea.” It worked wonders in scenes where Ram had to be firm without losing his composure. “That’s art. For instance, in the scene where Ram explains to Bali why he was in the wrong. The smile never leaves his face even as he firmly puts his point across, making Bali repent,” he explains. Looking back, Govil says, he bonded with everybody on the sets but was close to Sanjay Jog, who played Bharat. “Though he is no more, I cherish the time spent with him.” Govil is all praise for Arvind Trivedi, who played the role of Ravan. “When the counterpoint is strong, it lifts your performance. Coming from a theatre background, he proved to be a worthy antithesis to my style of performance.” Govil reveals that though Trivedi is very senior to him, he calls him ‘Prabhu’. “Recently, we exchanged Whatsapp messages where he kept addressing me as ‘Prabhu.’ Sometimes, it becomes embarrassing.” Govil says that he is also in touch with the technicians such as cinematographer Ajit Naik and sound recordist Rudra, who played important roles in bringing the vision alive but are hardly remembered.  No to politics The actor is irked by the way various political groups used the Ramayan and Ram for their vested interests. “That’s why I steered clear of politics despite several offers. It would have dented my Ram image,” avers Govil. Ram, he continues, existed in an age, when the word Hindu was not even coined. “There was only Sanatana dharma, which taught you the dos and don’ts in a life of discipline and values. How can somebody have a problem with the Ramayan?” he wonders. “When I am invited to give motivational talks, I often quote from the Ramayan as its episodes have contemporary relevance. For instance, the epic underlines the need to focus on the task at hand and teamwork. These two attributes are crucial to put an end to COVID 19,” he signs off.  Govil is all praise for Arvind Trivedi, who played the role of Ravan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/ramayans-popularity-proves-its-contemporary-relevance/article31304287.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Singer couple’s charity drive||It is an initiative blessed by the legendary singer S. P. Balasubrahmanyam, taken forward by the well-known vocalist pair, M.J. Shriram and Srilekha. The two have combined philanthropy with entertainment. Says Shriram: “It is a noble cause. Our target is to help the needy, who are working hard on the roads helping the public, during this crisis.” Each listener is asked to contribute a minimum of Rs 50 a song. “We started it on Sunday, March 29, going live on Facebook to reach out to music lovers across the globe. So far, we have had a fantastic response. So far Rs. 57,000 has been collected; our target is Rs. 1.25 lakh,” says Shriram. The evening show on Thursday (April 2) saw 247 people getting in touch, including art director Raajeevan, director Gautham Menon and a number of fellow playback singers. Shriram is elated that the concept has the blessings of SPB. On Tuesday last, they had a fantastic turnout on FB live, drawing over 3,000 viewers. Another feather in the cap, according to Shriram, is ‘SPB sir’ thanking him for the work. “He has mentioned this on his Facebook page. Tonight we have the show at 8 p.m.,” says Shriram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/singer-couples-charity-drive/article31304300.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Memorable association||S. Harini Yogalakshmi has never missed a single Kapaliswarar Brahmotsavam over the last three decades. As a Mylapore resident during her entire school and college days, she was present every day of the festival. Harini and her brother would offer rose milk and buttermilk to devotees, who thronged the temple. Her favourite, however is Adikara Nandi. According to her, the majesty of Lord Kapali dressed in white and blue with Chandra Bhanam, his hand atop the Adhikara Nandhi is incomparable. The beating of the drums, fragrance of sambarani and the graceful slow movement of the bearers made this event most memorable. She also loves the ‘twisted tongue’ of Nandi and the Pinnazhagu (the beautiful rear decoration) of Lord Kapali. Wedding took her to Erode but Harini never missed the festival. She recalls amidst laughter the first year after marriage when she came with her husband from Erode by Yercaud Express for the third morning of the Utsavam. Even before her husband could pay off the auto driver, she was running towards Adhikara Nandhi as the procession was approaching East Mada Street. This year, she had prepared for a long vacation from March-end. “The annual exams were scheduled to end mid-March and I was eagerly looking forward to the Panguni festival. “I have to be satisfied with the old pictures I have stored and what others circulate on Whatsapp,” she says.  Vantage point  People have always believed that the Panguni festival of Mylapore Kapali temple provided them with positive vibrations, which energised them through the year. T.N. Venkatanarayanan , 53, is one of them. He heads a software firm in Mylapore and his family has been providing treatment for jaundice for well over a century. Having spent his childhood in the corner house on East Mada Street, diagonally opposite the chariot, he says the balcony of his advocate grandfather’s house probably offered the best view of the festival. The Chariot festival and Arubathu Moovar of the 1970s and 80s remain vividly in his memory. “It was sincere devotion, which made people travel even long distances to attend the festival. It was a great blessing to have had darshan of the procession on all the days from our house balcony, but the Chariot procession was something very special and almost unforgettable. Throughout my teenage years, I was blessed to pull the Chariot on all the four streets. They used to pour water on us from the house tops, to keep us cool.”  Story time  Venkatanarayanan remembers the Panguni Utsavam as the time when elders in the family would narrate the stories of the legendary Saivite saint poets to the children. So much so that by the time the Arubathu Moovar came up, the children were excitedly looking forward to the procession to catch a glimpse of the Nayanmars about whom they had heard so much. It was a great time to bond with people, observes Venkatanarayanan. Caste, creed and economic status all took a back seat during the ten days of the festival as friends united to work, worship and have fun. (Today is Arubathumoovar:https://www.thehindu.com/society/history-and-culture/today-is-arubathu-moovar/article31258856.ece||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/memorable-association/article31304313.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Food distribution||The Satsang Foundation, through its ‘Satsang Seva Mission’ is coordinating and supporting relief measures by providing food, provisions and basic supplies to the many who have lost their daily earning due to the lockdown. In Chennai, the Foundation is operating a community kitchen and distributing food both through the Corporation and in coordination with local NGOs. Over 500 meals are distributed daily. People supported include conservancy workers, migrant labourers, construction crew, transgenders and many more. The website link below provides day-wise details of activities and support provided. Log intohttps://sites.google.com/view/s atsang-seva-mission/tamilnadufor details and update.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/food-distribution/article31304297.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Musicians connect with rasikas on web||To continue to entertain and stay connected with rasikas during lockdown, Arkay Convention Center has decided to webcast concerts of senior and young artistes daily at 6.15 p.m. The first concert was webcast on March 19 and it will continue till the locdown ends.  The following artistes will be featured in the initial segment — Alamelu Mani, Suguna Vardhachari, R. Vedavalli, Prof. R. Venkataraman, Maharajapuram Ramachandran, M.S. Sheela, T.N.S. Krishna, Savitha Narasimhan, R.K.Srikantan, Rama Ravi, Chitravina Ravikiran, Parur Quartet, Seetha Rajan, Kanyakumari, Trichur Brothers, Suguna Purushothaman, T.N. Krishnan and Madurai G.S. Mani. To enjoy the concerts visit the YouTube channel ‘Arkay Ramakrishnan’ by logging on to https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC8qohExQUiye1UWkH5fyC2A.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/musicians-connect-with-rasikas-on-web/article31304290.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Almanac for ‘Saarvari’ year available||The dawn of Saarvari, the Tamil New Year on April 14, will bring almanacs (Panchangam) into focus. One of the popular editions, produced by TAMBRAS, Triplicane branch, is now available. The ready reckoner for festival dates, significant days, auspicious hours, etc., has been put together with valuable information. The almanac contains slokas to be recited, useful tips for a traditional lifestyle and so on. Contact 9940086026 and 9941028726.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/almanac-for-saarvari-year-available/article31304296.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||An unusual story of bonding||At a time of social distancing when people are staying indoors without much contact with their community folks, here is an emotional drama that focuses on how an aunt bonds with her young niece. &PrivéHD is set to première the film ‘Family’, this saturday (April 11) at 1 p.m. and 9 p.m. An American comedy film written and directed by Laura Steinel in her directorial debut, ‘Family,’ is an unusual story of an emotionally stunted aunt trying to bond with her 13-year-old niece who is a victim of bullying. Kate Stone is career-oriented and enjoys her life the way it is. Her impetuous behaviour repels relationships making her an outcast in her own right. When Kate decides to help her estranged brother to babysit her tween niece Maddie, things change. The bond keeps getting stronger and Maddie keeps revealing stories of being bullied and of wanting to run away to be a Juggalo. The movie takes a humorous take on the bully and its repercussions. Watch the bond get emotionally strong in this family drama. ‘Family’ stars Kate McKinnon portraying the role of Jill. Allison Tolman and Taylor Schilling are playing the roles of Cheryl Stone and Kate Stone respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/an-unusual-story-of-bonding/article31304275.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Ample fodder for young intellect||While every person is trying to find his/her own coping strategy in these circumstances, a focus area is children. The world has shrunk for them in these circumstances. Without school or trips to the playground, or even the option to step out of their homes, they tend to get restless and bored and also miss out on learning during the most important stage for their education. Many of them who are struggling to keep their children engaged while they stay at home 24/7 during the lockdown have found e-books and interactive digital platforms a boon. Even after the lockdown lifts, many parents say that they would be wary of letting their children out of the home for recreational reasons. Also, all this literature is not for young audience alone. Surveys have revealed that many adults too enjoy reading children's literature. The good news is that literature for children and young adults has seen a boom in the past decade and even better, thousands of these books are available online. The best news is that many of them are on easy-to-navigate sites and free-to-read. Some of these books are pure fun, some of them mix entertainment with a didactic purpose so there is a moral to their tale and some of them are richly informative with an educational intent. Inspiring stories There are biographies of great men and women which are meant to inspire, fun tales of human-like animals, stories which introduce children to things they may not ordinarily know about like marine creatures, and more serious ones which sensitise them to the issues of differently-abled people/the aged, teach them about saving the environment and increasing green cover and so on. Many of the big publishing houses have a separate imprint for books for children and young adults. Then there are others which focus exclusively on literature for children. Besides these, there are thousands of books for kids by self-published authors which are only a click away, often on Kindle. There are dedicated apps available from some publishers which act as a digital store front. A substantial section of these e-books from leading publishing houses and online reading sessions have been available for years now. Additionally, many publishing houses have launched new initiatives in recent days to keep pace with the Stay at Home rules. In the last two weeks, several publishers, which offered only hard copies of a certain book, are now coming out with e-versions of these books. Some individual authors of self-published kids’ books have also come forward to self-upload their books online and allow free-of-cost reading. These are welcome given that people are having to adjust to new routines and lifestyles given the COVID-19 outbreak. Audio books Audio books are another option available to the stay-at-home reader. Many children's books have for long had audio-versions available along with print and online editions. More are being made available now. Irrespective of lockdowns, these read-aloud books are a godsend to parents because they keep the kids engaged when the parent is too busy to read it to them. Also, the high-quality audio-book teaches good pronunciation and right intonation along with telling a good story. This makes it perfect tool of education cum entertainment. These are also a boon to the visually challenged. Finally, they are a great way to recreate joy of the grandmother's storytelling days of old. A perennial favourite with children, Amar Chitra Katha (ACK) has a large collection of books under various categories available online as e-books on Amazon.in and the Kindle store. From books on visionaries and bravehearts to epics and mythology, their range is vast and varied and very popular. ACK and Tinkle announced in March that they were offering a free of cost one-month subscription to everyone. Their books/comics are also available on other digital platforms. Another big player in the field is Pratham Books. According to their spokesperson, their StoryWeaver (www.storyweaver.org.in) is an open-source digital platform of multilingual children’s storybooks. It contains easy-to-use tools to read, create, translate, publish, download and print books and all are available for free!. All the content on StoryWeaver is openly licensed and free to read, download and print. StoryWeaver has over 19,500 storybooks, as well as resources like the Reading Programme (guides with themed books and activities), and Reading Lists (curated storybook collections). Pratham offers books in 233 languages: 56 languages from India and 177 international languages, including mainstream, vulnerable, indigenous and classical languages. The platform also has more than 650 bilingual books. They are available in multiple formats: Storybooks downloadable as PDFs, Readalongs (audio-visual storybooks for early readers), and two YouTube channels. Pratham Books also added that educators, community libraries, reading clubs have been integrating StoryWeaver into their online classes. Moreover, #ReadAtHomeWithStoryWeaver is an initiative to enable parents, educators and organisations, to keep housebound children engaged and give them uninterrupted, free access to reading material. Visit: http://bit.ly/ReadAtHome WithStoryWeaver Another well-known children’s book publisher, Tulika Books informed this newspaper that children can read more than 100 Tulika books online. These include picture books , bilingual picture books like the Panchatantra series and fiction for older children. The publishing house also added: "Our books are available in English as well as in eight regional languages — Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam, Gujarati, Marathi and Bengali. Currently, they can be accessed on four digital platforms — the Worldreader digital library that’s available on all mobile phones, the BookBox channel on YouTube, and the Fundooda and GetLitt apps. Interested readers can get a complete list of our books available online as well as links to the various platforms on https://www.tulikabooks.com info/digital-books.” Easy access According to the spokesperson for Penguin Random House India their children’s division publishes over 100 books a year (in English) and both imprints, Puffin and Penguin, simultaneously launch e-book version with all new releases. “We have also successfully managed to create e-books of our backlist as well. Penguin Random House India aims to inspire, inform and entertain with e-books and audio books, which are perhaps the most easily accessible, convenient and safe formats,” added the spokesperson. For this, they have launched an exclusive Kindle-Penguin e-book store on amazon.in. Check out the wide range at https://www.amazon.in/b? node=21272365031. Audiobooks are also a growing catalogue for Penguin Random House India at the moment. These are available on Audible and Google Books. In addition to ebooks, Penguin Random House India has initiated several campaigns to keep readers engaged during these times like #OnceUponABookWithPenguin and #StayHappy. HarperCollins India has only a couple of children's books online (on Kindle). However, they have just launched Collins DigiSuite which makes textbooks available for children. Parents can find free material on the platform, with various interactive activities and learning tools designed to keep the child engaged while learning supported by animations and videos. Collins Learning allows free access to student textbooks that combine all subjects in a single grade e-book, for classes 1 through 8. As Ananth Padmanabhan, CEO, HarperCollins India, said: “Teachers and students in India are already using Collins Learning digital resources in their classrooms, and we have now extended free access to parents who have children at home.” Free streaming Karadi Tales have ebooks and audiobooks, which include those in which celebrities narrate stories, as well as picture books and activities section. The publishers announced that during the lockdown they were allowing free streaming of some of their most popular audibooks. Visithttps://www.karaditales.com/ kathawithkaradi/ Given that the growth in self-publishing has coincided with that of children's literature, there is a vast variety of books out there by first-time authors as well as seasoned writers. A search on popular websites, Amazon is one example, can throw up hundreds, even thousands of good books for kids and young adults. Many of the authors have also written popular fiction for adults. In the U.S., a National Emergency Library was set up a few weeks ago in response to the pandemic. This is a global library which offers, until June 30 at least, free access worldwide, to about 14 lakh books including literature for children.. The link ishttps://archive.org/details /nationalemergencylibrary In India, the government-run National Book Trust of India, which publishes a large number of books in different Indian languages including books for children, now offers select books for free download. The hashtag of the initiative is StayHomeIndiaWithBooks. Visithttp://www.nbtindia.gov.in Jaico Publishing House has a few titles available online for children. For a long time now, thewww.openlibrary.orghas been a favourite with parents trying to keep their children usefully engaged and entertained. There is a useful link which has free audiobooks for all ages. Visit https://stories.audible.com /discovery. You can also check out the thodareadingcorona daily on video across social media. Authors or professional actors in some cases are doing readings of their books online. These could be part of the series begun by the publisher of different books in their kitty or a personal initiative of the author. Also, while some of these are long-standing programmes, the others are recent initiatives. According to the Hachette India website, their ebooks are currently available only overseas. For India they will soon be launching their range of titles (as well as those published by their group companies) as ebooks with India prices. For details, write topublicity@ hachetteindia.comwith the subject line eBook.     The best news is that many of them are on easy-to-navigate sites and free-to-read. And big publishing houses have a separate imprint for this section||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/ample-fodder-for-young-intellect/article31304268.ece
10 April 2020||April 10 2020 00:00 IST,||10fr_tubewatch||Sony Pix An interesting movie to watch in the times where we are surrounded by Covid-19, ‘ Contagion ,’ to be aired today at 7 p.m , shows similar conditions of what we’re living in today. When Beth Emhoff (Gwyneth Paltrow) returns to Minnesota from a Hong Kong business trip, she attributes the malaise she feels to jet lag. However, two days later, Beth is dead, and doctors tell her shocked husband (Matt Damon) that they have no idea what killed her. Soon, many others start to exhibit the same symptoms, and a global pandemic explodes. Doctors try to contain the lethal microbe, but society begins to collapse as a blogger (Jude Law) fans the flames of paranoia.  Gravity Dr. Ryan Stone (Sandra Bullock) is a medical engineer on her first shuttle mission. Her commander is veteran astronaut Matt Kowalsky (George Clooney), helming his last flight before retirement. Then, during a routine space walk by the pair, disaster strikes: The shuttle is destroyed, leaving Ryan and Matt stranded in deep space with no link to Earth and no hope of rescue. As fear turns to panic, they realise that the only way home may be to venture further into space. Today, 11 p.m.  Sully On January 15, 2009, Capt. Chesley ‘Sully’ Sullenberger (Tom Hanks) tries to make an emergency landing in New York’s Hudson River after US Airways Flight 1549 strikes a flock of geese. Miraculously, all of the 155 passengers and crew survive the harrowing ordeal, and Sullenberger becomes a national hero in the eyes of the public and the media. Despite the accolades, the famed pilot faces an investigation that threatens to destroy his career and reputation. Sunday, 11 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/10frtubewatch/article31304279.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man held for ‘molesting’ two Safdarjung doctors||A man was arrested for allegedly attacking two women doctors from Safdarjung Hospital after he accused them for not maintaining social distancing in south Delhi’s Hauz Khas market on Wednesday, the police said. Atul Thakur, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) said a complaint was received at Hauz Khas police station regarding the incident after which they had registered an FIR in the case. In her complaint, the 29-year-old woman said the incident took place when she along with her sister had gone to the market to buy fruits near Gulmohar Enclave. The accused, who was at the stall, suddenly started making comments at the duo on social distancing. The women then told the 42-year-old accused that they know the importance of social distancing as they are doctors but the accused threatened them that he will get registered a case against the duo for spreading COVID-19. Man turns aggressive During the argument, the man, an interior decorator, became aggressive and attacked the women and also touched them inappropriately. Following this, he left the market. The victims were then medically examined, the police added. A detailed investigation has been ordered into the case, the police said. Mr. Thakur said an FIR under sections of molestation and causing hurt has been registered and the accused has been sent to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-for-molesting-two-safdarjung-doctors/article31304635.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Doctors seek action against assaulters||The Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) India on Thursday wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, seeking his intervention to halt the rise in the number of assaults on doctors across the country amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The letter comes after reports of repeated assaults on medical staff from across the country, the most recent being the attack on two women doctors from Safdarjung Hospitalon Wednesday night. The doctors are now demanding that a quick response team should be formed to respond to such incidents in residential areas. The group also demanded that such “inhumane acts of violence” should be made a non-bailable offence. Tough time “...The medical staff is in the first line of our battle against the virus. We are dealing with patients directly. We are battling this out, staying away from our families, working with rationed personal protection equipment and gearing up to an expected surge in cases. At this time, if we are attacked for working in the hospitals, the staff will have a tough time,” said Safdarjung Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) president Manish. “All medical staff are under tremendous mental and physical strain but the public should remember that they are trained to handle a pandemic situation...,” he added. AIIMS RDA has been demanding better allocation of PPEs. It said, “The government should not expect medical staff to go into battle with their hands tied at the back. We are with the government in this time of need but safety of all should be made a priority.” Meanwhile, the FORDA, in its letter said even policemen were assaulting doctors and that the accused should be given immediate punishment. “We have an incident from AIIMS Bhopal where two resident doctors were assaulted by policemen even after showing their ID cards... These are not isolated incidents, rather parts of the long chain of violence against doctors...” Stating that Central Protection Act for Doctors, as demanded earlier, is the need of the hour, the FORDA has now said this will work well for protection of the whole medical fraternity. “The medical fraternity stands together in the national response against COVID-9. Doctors and other healthcare professionals are putting in their best efforts in this fight. However, some unfortunate incidents of violence against frontline warriors are being regularly reported from across the country even in these testing times. We had reported about such incidents are taking place in various States of the nation earlier in our letter as well,” FORDA wrote. A member of RDA said: “Acts of violence against medical staff demotivates us as a community...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/doctors-seek-action-against-assaulters/article31304628.ece
10 April 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. to provide accommodation for Lok Nayak Hospital nurses||The Delhi government on Thursday said it will provide accommodation for nurses of Lok Nayak Hospital on COVID-19 duty at Gujarat Samaj Sadan in Civil Lines, said officials. On Thursday, The Hindu had published a story on the lack of facilities for Lok Nayak Hospital nurses on COVID-19 duty. CPI (M) politburo member Brinda Karat said she had earlier spoken to Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain after she got a distress call from the nurses on lack of facilities and also sent a letter to him on the issue. “We had acquired 60 rooms in Gujarat Samaj Sadan. Now, it is the prerogative of the Medical Superintendent of the hospital on how to allot these rooms to the nurses,” an official said. On March 30, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that the government had arranged 100 individual rooms in The Lalit, a five-star hotel, for the doctors who are treating in COVID-19 wards. However, this facility was not available for nurses, who had to instead share rooms and bathrooms with multiple people and were afraid of the “risk” of getting infected by the virus. ‘Lack of facilities’ Also, though Delhi has a 14-day work and 14-day quarantine plan for health workers and medical professionals, who are on novel COVID-19 duty, multiple nurses said they quarantined themselves at their houses due to the “lack” of facilities in the hospital premises. “They [nurses] are put in a hall with beds, no privacy, not even a curtain in between the beds — like an open dormitory. Those in quarantine and those on duty share the same space. This is a serious health hazard and a disaster in the making. Those in quarantine must have fully isolated facilities. This hall has just two toilets and no separate bathing space,” Ms. Karat had said in a letter to the Health Minister. The nurses’ association of Lok Nayak Hospital had also sent multiple emails to the Chief Minister and Union Health Minister, requesting to provide better facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-to-provide-accommodation-for-lok-nayak-hospital-nurses/article31304631.ece
10 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Tablighi Jamaat members didn’t misbehave during evacuation’||A medical officer with the Delhi government, who was part of the evacuation of people from the Nizamuddin Markaz and is currently deployed at a quarantine facility, said that she did not face any incidents of misbehaviour from the suspects. Speaking on condition of anonymity, the officer said that while there have been many reports over the alleged misbehaviour by members of the Tablighi Jamaat, there had been no such thing during the evacuation, she said. “Everything went off smoothly and the members were evacuated in lots of 30-34,” the medical officer said. “We faced no issues,” she added. “Presently, I am at a quarantine centre and there has been no misbehaviour on the part of the suspects. We have to interact with many of these suspects and also those who are developing symptoms,” she said. Keep themselves busy The inmates keep themselves busy, read namaz, eat meals thrice a day and mostly maintain social distancing. While they are meant to stay put in their rooms and remain isolated, the officer said they end up interacting during meals.  Unaware of crisis More than causing the spread of the virus willfully, they seem naive or unaware of what is happening across the world, she said. Even now, they don’t seem to have any sense of anxiety about the spread of the virus, she added. The officer, however, stressed that her experience was not a comment on the possible experience of anyone else in other areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tablighi-jamaat-members-didnt-misbehave-during-evacuation/article31304636.ece
10 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||3 arrested for attacking workers in Manesar||Three persons have been arrested for allegedly attacking the workers inside a chawl at Aliyar village in Manesar. One of the workers had sustained serious head injuries in the attack. The police said the accused, Ravi, Narender and Sudhir, were volunteers with a committee constituted by the village Panchayat for distribution of food, to create awareness and keep a vigil on those roaming outside purposelessly. The police said the workers had heckled them while they were trying to reason with a vegetable shop owner to open the shop only during designated hours. The workers had misbehaved with them earlier as well and it led to an altercation between the two groups. One of the workers, Krishna Kumar, was pushed and he sustained head injuries, the police said. Raj Kishor, an eyewitness, said that the armed men rushed inside their chawl threatening to beat them up, causing panic among the workers who locked themselves up inside their rooms. “The accused managed to break the doors of two rooms and beat up the workers,” said Raj, a Bellsonica employee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/3-arrested-for-attacking-workers-in-manesar/article31304626.ece
10 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Drop Tablighi Jamaat from COVID-19 bulletins’||In a letter to the Delhi Health Department on Thursday, the Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) on Thursday asked it to drop the mention of “Tablighi Jamaat” from its COVID-19 bulletins.  DMC chairman says “Your bulletins of COVID-19 victims have a column for ‘Markaz Masjid’. Such thoughtless classification has been turned into a handle to attack Muslims,” said DMC chairman Zafarul Islam Khan. He added that the World Health Organization has taken cognisance of “this phenomenon unique to India”.  ‘Don’t politicise issue’ The statement reads: “WHO Emergency Programme Director Mike Ryan said on 6 April, 2020 ‘Countries should not profile novel COVID-19 cases in terms of religion or any other criteria.’ Two days later, he asked governments not to politicise the issue and stop profiling people on religious basis.” Mr. Khan said the Union Health Ministry also said in its advisory on April 8 that “Despite all precautions, if anybody catches the infection, it is not their fault. In a situation of distress, the patient and the family need support and cooperation.” “Further, the advisory requested citizens to ‘never spread names or identity of those affected or under quarantine or their locality on the social media’,” the letter stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/drop-tablighi-jamaat-from-covid-19-bulletins/article31304633.ece
10 April 2020||New Delhi,||Government app will track quarantined individuals||The Delhi government has developed the ‘Home Quarantine App’ to monitor the real-time location of quarantined individuals and is in the process of developing the ‘Containment Survey App’ to keep an eye on those residing in over two dozen COVID-19hostspots or containment zones across the Capital. The objective of both apps, whose development is being supervised by Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, is to ensure that residents of such zones do not travel beyond their boundaries, risking the possible community spread of the virus. “While downloading the Home Quarantine App, which is currently in operation at such locations which fall under the jurisdiction of the South revenue district and will be extended across the city in the days to come, is voluntary at the moment, using it may be made mandatory if and when the need to do so arises,” said a government official. In cases of the home quarantined, the official stated if their phones aren’t with them for some reason, random phone calls to family members and neighbours in addition to selfies, if required, will be asked for by the government to ascertain their location within the designated zones. “Modalities related to the ‘Containment Survey App’, which will rely on neighbours to provide information on those residing in the vicinity of their homes in such zones and vice versa, are being finalised. This too will be operationalised soon,” the official also said. The government said teams with adequate protection as per latest Ministry of Health and Family Welfare guidelines will be sent to each of the houses to check for flu-like symptoms along with those with travel history or history of attending community events. The location tracking of a particular user will start the moment these apps are downloaded and, if a person quarantined travels 50-100 metres beyond a pre-set position, an alarm will be sent to the authorities on a dashboard which is divided into sub-divisions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/government-app-will-track-quarantined-individuals/article31304639.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||DMRC begins welfare measures for Metro Phase-IV labourers||In the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has undertaken several welfare measures for labourers who were engaged in the Metro Phase-IV project in the Capital. Around 3,500 workers who were engaged by various contractors across the city, are being provided health check-ups and food, said a DMRC official. “They are staying in camps close to their respective project sites which are made on stretches during the construction phase,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dmrc-begins-welfare-measures-for-metro-phase-iv-labourers/article31304624.ece
10 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||DPCC brief||Delhi Congress chief Chaudhary Anil Kumar on Thursday visited several “Congress ke rasoi”, which was being run in all the 14 districts in the Capital, and distributed food and raw materials to the needy. Mr. Kumar said, “Congress workers have been providing cooked food to the poor daily by following the guidelines of the lockdown. Arvind Kejriwal’s statements show that from March 23 to April 2, people who did not possess ration cards were not given ration...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dpcc-brief/article31304625.ece
10 April 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- disinfection||Special sanitisation drives were held at nine COVID-19 hotspots sealed by the Delhi government, falling in the South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) jurisdiction, the civic body said on Thursday. Around 50 kg disinfectant has been sprayed in total, the SDMC said. At Nizamuddin, special disinfection drives are being carried out regularly with a dedicated squad of 11 sanitation workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sidharth-disinfection/article31304638.ece
