12 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||14-day extension of lockdown likely||Prime Minister Narendra Modi indicated on Saturday, after a marathon four-hour video-conference with Chief Ministers, that the country could see a 14-day extension of the COVID-19 containment lockdown as that was the common demand of a large number of States, including West Bengal. The Central government will announce guidelines for the same in the next couple of days. Remarks by Mr. Modi at the meeting, however, also indicated the possibility that some economic activity may be resumed in the extended lockdown period. “For the last two weeks or more, people have shown great discipline and stayed indoors and tried to follow social distancing since, as we say jaan hai jahan hai [the world is for who is alive], now we must also say jaan bhi jahan bhi [for both life and world],” a statement from the PMO quoted the Prime Minister as saying. Farming operations Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanswamy, after the meeting, said Mr. Modi felt farm activity should continue, and said guidelines for the construction industry would be issued by the Centre in a phased manner. The lockdown was formally announcedfrom March 25thto April 14(21 days) but the trajectory of COVID-19 cases has led most State governments to recommend an extension. Mr. Modi, government sources said, was considering the request favourably. Sources said a formal announcement would be made after the weekend. “Most States requested Prime Minister Modi to extend the lockdown for two more weeks,” said government sources. Punjab, Telangana, Odisha, Maharashtra and Karnataka have already declared an extension till the end of the month, and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal pre-empted a formal announcement by the Prime Minister by taking to Twitter and offering unstinted support to the decision. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, in his intervention at the video conference, said activity within districts unaffected by COVID-19 should be allowed to restart, albeit with sealed borders between districts and States very much in place and no train and air connectivity. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy suggested that zones within districts be colour coded, and only the red zones undergo a containment lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/14-day-extension-of-lockdown-likely/article31320863.ece
12 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Migrant workers’ protest turns violent in Surat||Lack of work has pushed several thousand migrant workers in Gujarat to the edge of starvation, sparking protests. In the second such incident in the last 10 days, more than 2,500 workers in Surat took to the streets late on Friday, demanding wages, food and permission to return to their home States of Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. As the crowd of protesters grew, some elements turned violent, setting vegetable carts on fire and vandalising shops and properties along the road in the Laskana area, a migrant hub. Within an hour, about a dozen properties and as many vegetable carts were gutted. The police used force to disperse the mob, and more than 70 persons were detained. Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha, in a letter to the Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Sangeeta Singh, flagged the worsening plight of the workers in shelter homes and migrant localities due to a lack of food and other basic amenities. In his letter, Mr. Jha said there were 778 shelter homes in the State. The 194 homes where 9,351 migrant workers — mainly from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha — are housed lack adequate arrangements for food and sanitation, the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/migrant-workers-protest-turns-violent-in-surat/article31320861.ece
12 April 2020||New Delhi,||CMs raise funds crunch with Modi||A majority of the Chief Ministers who participated in a video-conference meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday flagged the issue of a crippling shortage of funds, with the lockdown choking revenue sources and also due to the delayed GST payouts from the Centre. The video-conference, on the 18th day of the lockdown to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, was attended by 13 Chief Ministers. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot favoured a “uniform model” of restrictions for the entire country if the lockdown was extended. He said since the Centre and the States were jointly fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, the States must get adequate financial assistance. He highlighted the difficulties in handling the issues arising out of the lockdown in the State. Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao said his State used to get Rs. 40,000 crore each month in revenue, but this had now come down to a mere Rs. 4,000 crore. He expressed his helplessness in handling the pandemic with limited resources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cms-raise-funds-crunch-with-modi/article31320869.ece
12 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Disease transmission rate low in State: CM||Even though the low rate of disease transmission in the State seems to offer some hope, the next three to four weeks are projected to be a critical phase as far as COVID-19 containment and mitigation is concerned and the State cannot relax its guard, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Briefing media here on Saturday, he said the situation involving COVID-19 was still evolving and given the high density of population in the State, there were fears about disease transmission going out of control if at all there was any let-up in vigil. The number of people who were newly testing positive seemed to be on the decline, while the number of those patients testing negative after treatment was on the rise. This is an expected projection because the testing is now being done within a pool of people already in quarantine and this pool is declining rapidly as people complete their quarantine period. New cases On Saturday, 10 new cases were reported in the State, of which three were people who had returned home from abroad, while the remaining seven were primary contacts of imported cases of infection. Nineteen patients who were on treatment had tested negative on Saturday. Of the new positive cases, seven were located in Kannur, two in Kasaragod and one in Kozhikode. The total number of people who have tested positive for COVID-19 so far in the State is 373. Only 228 are currently under treatment. The State has so far tested samples of 14,163 persons, of which 12,818 results have been negative. The Chief Minister said that even as the entire focus of the health system was on containing the disease, one should not lose sight of other diseases being reported from various parts of the State. Disinfectant tunnels He said that according to experts, the “disinfectant tunnels” set up in public places in some districts, which allowed people to walk through a fine spray of sodium hypochlorite, thereby “sanitising” them, was unscientific. The District Collectors had been informed that there was no need for such arrangements anywhere, Mr. Vijayan said. The Public Works Department was continuing to identify and list rooms with attached bathrooms across the State, which could be used as isolation rooms. Already over 2.5 lakh rooms had been identified, of which 1.10 lakh rooms were ready to be used. Local bodies have been asked to identify empty houses or apartments within their jurisdiction. He said the State’s health system had the capacity to deal with any exigency. Though the COVID-19 projections in the coming months, drawn up by the State Disaster Management Authority, showed the numbers to be huge, these were dependent on various variables. There was no need to create scare among the public using these projections, he said.  The entire focus of the health system should be to contain the disease. Pinarayi Vijayan Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/disease-transmission-rate-low-in-state-cm/article31321141.ece
12 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha youth pedals 1,700 km to reach home||Sitting idle doesn’t come easy to 20-year-old Mahesh Jena, stuck at a COVID-19 isolation centre in Bichitrapur in Odisha’s Jajpur, more so because he cycled 1,700 km across the country from Maharashtra to reach home. “The seven-day journey was easier than tackling the boredom here,” said Mr. Jena, who pedalled home after the nationwide lockdown on March 25 pulled down the shutters at his workplace and snapped all public transport systems. Mr. Jena was working in an iron casting facility in the Sangli Miraj MIDC Industrial Area in Maharashtra, earning Rs. 15,000 a month. Soon after the lockdown was announced late on March 24, there was talk that the unit would remain closed for three months. Mr. Jena needed at least Rs. 6,000 to pay for accommodation and food, but had just Rs. 3,000 with him. Matter of survival After remaining idle for a week, he realised that the lockdown was not likely to end soon. “All of sudden, I decided to go back home to Badasuari village in Jajpur by bicycle. It was a matter of survival,” he said. “On April 1, I set out. Though I did not have a map, I remembered the names of major stations during my train journey here,” said the youth. On the week-long, cross-country ride, Mr. Jena made most of the cool, pre-dawn hours, cycling till lunch before taking a break. He would stop at the few, still open dhabas for a bath, lunch and a nap before getting back on his cycle. “I was averaging close to 200 km per day,” he said. And so Mr. Jena continued pedalling — from Solapur to Hyderabad, then Vijayawada through Visakhapatnam and Srikakulam, before entering Odisha via Ganjam, cycling almost 16 hours a day. “Heat exhaustion was taking a toll, but it did not distract me. I was determined to reach home,” Mr. Jena said. He reached Jajpur late on April 7 only to be stopped by villagers, who were reluctant to allow him in without a check-up. They informed the district administration, and he was sent to a quarantine centre at a school in Bichitrapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odisha-youth-pedals-1700-km-to-reach-home/article31320866.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||3 shelters set afire over ‘missing’ homeless man||Three night shelters at Kashmere Gate were set on fire allegedly by homeless people on Saturday evening after a body was recovered from the Yamuna and they suspected it to be that of a fellow shelter home inmate. Delhi police Additional Public Relations Officer Anil Mittal said no one was injured in the fire. A case under sections of rioting has been registered and six persons have been arrested. The police said four-five inmates of the night shelters jumped into the Yamuna on Friday when civil defence officials started beating them up for creating chaos during food distribution. “When they came out of the river, they claimed one of them was missing. Divers were called but no one could be found,” the officer said. On Saturday, a body was seen in the river and the word spread that it was the same person who had jumped a day before. “They brought the body to the Kashmere Gate shelter. The angry inmates pelted stones at the PCR van which arrived to take the body,” Mr. Mittal said. The police have taken the body to Sabzi Mandi mortuary. It has not been identified yet, he said. Around 6 p.m., the angry crowd set three shelters ablaze. Delhi Fire Service Chief Atul Garg said five fire tenders were pressed into service and the blaze was doused in an hour. The extent of damage to the shelters hasn’t been ascertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-shelters-set-afire-over-missing-homeless-man/article31321039.ece
12 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Lockdown in State extended till April 30||The State government has extended the lockdown in view of coronavirus up to April 30. A resolution to the effect was adopted at Saturday’ Cabinet meeting, chaired by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, and sent to the Centre. Earlier, the lockdown had been declared till April 14. Mr. Rao told a post-Cabinet press conference that the government would consider lifting the lockdown in phases after April 30. The mood at the day’s video conference of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with Chief Ministers was also that the lockdown be extended up to April 30. A suggestion by some Chief Ministers that trains be allowed to run till then for the limited purpose of ferrying stranded migrant workers was turned down by Mr. Modi. The government had resolved to promote children from classes one to nine whose exams could not be conducted due to lockdown. A decision on the SSC exams which were suspended after they were conducted for two subjects would be taken in a few days, he said. He added that the government may have to announce sealing of inter-State borders with Maharashtra in a day or two as there was a spurt in coronavirus cases across the long border, which is over 600 km. All religious programmes and mass gatherings would not be permitted till April 30. Only food processing units, including rice, flour and oil mills, would be allowed. He expected all those under quarantine and undergoing treatment for coronavirus to be discharged by April 24 unless there was a fresh spurt in the spread of the virus. Not a single person in quarantine or treatment was serious. He said he had requested Mr. Modi to extend the norms applicable for donations to PM CARE to Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. The State had requested hike in the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management limit up to 6% of GSDP to enable higher borrowings. The government would initiate tough action against adulteration of food items. The coronavirus patients would not be allowed to be treated at private hospitals because supervision on them was difficult. Referring to procurement of foodgrains, which had just begun in villages, he said it was decided to buy bengal gram at minimum support price for Rs. 800 crore. Already, the government had furnished guarantees for purchase of paddy and maize to the extend of Rs. 30,000 crore. He denied any relaxation in closure of liquor outlets till the lockdown was lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-in-state-extended-till-april-30/article31321093.ece
12 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Mysuru becomes a cluster of concern||With a total of 10 cases reported from Mysuru on Friday and Saturday, the city is emerging as a cluster of concern for officials, who are yet to identify the source of infection in the first case that was reported from a pharma company in the district. Eight new cases were reported in Karnataka — five from Mysuru — on Saturday taking the total to 215.  Saturday also saw a 10-month-old baby, the youngest patient in Karnataka admitted in Mangaluru, being discharged. The new cases on Saturday, apart from the five Mysuru ones, include a 32-year-old private doctor and a 10-year-old boy, who is the son of a domestic help who had tested positive earlier. The doctor contracted the infection from a patient suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). The SARI patient had no foreign travel or contact history.  Meanwhile, a 52-year-old man, who tested positive after he returned from London on March 22 and passed on the infection to his domestic help and her husband, has recovered and gone home. However, with the 10-year-old son of the domestic help now testing positive, the entire family has been quarantined in a designated hospital now. Meanwhile, with the need for special attention and timely care for the elderly and those with co-morbidities or those immunocompromised, who are falling prey to the disease. the department will set up a critical care support team of nine experts at the State-level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mysuru-becomes-a-cluster-of-concern/article31320903.ece
12 April 2020||New Delhi,||West Bengal pulled up for lockdown violations||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has sought a report from the West Bengal government regarding dilution of lockdown measures that could have resulted in spread of the COVID-19 infection. The MHA alleged that the State police were allowing religious congregations and distribution of free rations by political representatives, spurring the spread of the virus. In an April 10 letter to the Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police, West Bengal, the MHA said it had received reports from security agencies about “gradual dilution of lockdown” with an increase in the number of exceptions being provided by the State government. “Shops selling non-essential items have been allowed to function. There is no regulation in vegetable, fish and mutton markets where people have been thronging in complete violation of social distancing norms,” the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-pulled-up-for-lockdown-violations/article31320871.ece
12 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Ex-HC judge Kanagaraj appointed as SEC||In a swift development that caught everyone by surprise, the State government has appointed a retired Madras High Court judge, Justice V. Kanagaraj, as the State Election Commissioner (SEC) in the place of N. Ramesh Kumar, whom it had expelled through an overnight ordinance. Justice Kanagaraj's appointment as the SEC has been facilitated by the curtailment of the tenure of the SEC to three years through ordinance No.5 of 2020, which resulted in the automatic termination of the services of incumbent Mr. Ramesh Kumar. Mr. Ramesh Kumar took charge as the SEC in April 2016 and has been in the eye of a storm since his postponement of the local body elections purportedly due to the coronavirus scare and requesting the Union Home Ministry to give him protection by the Central police forces. This followed a sharp attack by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy who attributed motives to his (Mr. Kumar) decision. The Chief Minister accused Mr. Kumar of keeping the government in the dark about the contingency (COVID) which he cited as the reason for putting off the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-appoints-former-madras-hc-judge-as-poll-panel-chief/article31320849.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Despite lockdown hurdles, sowing of summer crops up||Early sowing of the summer rice crop has covered 37% more area than the same time the previous year, despite the COVID-19 lockdown limitations, Agriculture Ministry data show. This is the pre-monsoon sowing of paddy, with the major kharif crop sowing to be done after the rains begin in June. Overall sowing of summer crops, including rice, pulses, coarse cereals and oil seeds, is about 31% higher than usual. In total, 48.8 lakh hectares have been sown so far.  Availability of fertilizers The Centre has exempted agricultural activity from the lockdown restrictions and has also taken steps to ensure availability of fertilizers and pesticides for the coming season. So far, more than 32 lakh hectares of rice have been sown across the country, mostly in eastern India, including 11.3 lakh hectares in West Bengal, 7.5 lakh hectares in Telangana, 3 lakh hectares in Odisha and 2.7 lakh hectares in Assam. This is more than a third higher than the 23.8 lakh hectares sown with rice during the same period last year. Pulses have also seen a significant increase in early sowing, with more acreage covered in green gram and black gram. Overall, there was a 32% jump from about 3 lakh hectares to 4 lakh hectares. The growth in oilseeds is more modest with a 12% increase in sowing area to 6.7 lakh hectares. Most of the hike comes from more land sown with groundnuts. Among coarse cereals, more maize and bajra have been sown than in the previous year resulting in a 27% jump to 5.6 lakh hectares under cultivation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/despite-lockdown-hurdles-sowing-of-summer-crops-up/article31320864.ece
12 April 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal seeks funds on par with States||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, while participating in the videoconference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his counterparts from other States on Saturday, favoured the extension of the ongoing nationwide lockdown by a fortnight, sources said. However, he also sought to make a case for a Centre-sponsored relief package and funding on a par with other States to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. The Chief Minister submitted that Delhi has “a dual role” and added responsibilities given the presence of foreign missions in its jurisdiction, a “significant population of foreigners” residing in it and migrant workers being sustained by it at shelter homes. “PM has taken correct decision to extend lockdown. Today, India’s position is better than many developed countries because we started lockdown early. If it is stopped now, all gains would be lost,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kejriwal-seeks-funds-on-par-with-states/article31321040.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||16 new COVID cases, 2 dead||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana rose to 503 as 16 more cases were detected and two persons died on Saturday. Of the total to date, 393 are active cases, 14 persons died, and 96 were discharged. A total of 51 persons were discharged on Saturday, which is perhaps the highest number of people discharged in a day in any part of the country, said State Director for Public Health and Family Welfare G. Srinivasa Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/16-new-covid-cases-2-dead/article31321088.ece
12 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||KCR hopeful of PM’s nod for helicopter money||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has expressed the hope for a positive response from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to his suggestion to the latter earlier in the day to see that Reserve Bank of India pumped money to revive the sagging economy. Seeking implementation of Quantitative Easing (QE), also called helicopter money, Mr. Rao told a press conference that he had sought Mr. Modi’s intervention to make RBI pump at least 5% per cent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) which was Rs. 203 lakh crore. At this rate, the RBI could inject Rs. 10 lakh crore into the economy. Otherwise, neither the Centre nor the State governments had the money to revive the economy. US was releasing 2% and UK 15% GDP, he said in this context.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kcr-hopeful-of-pms-nod-for-helicopter-money/article31321092.ece
12 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Lockdown till month-end in Karnataka||Karnataka on Saturday announced extension of the ongoing lockdown till April 30 for effectively controlling the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. The national lockdown is scheduled to end on April 14. However, relaxation will be allowed over the next two-week period in a graded manner. The announcement came soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with Chief Ministers where he talked of the need for extending the lockdown to control the spread of the virus. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa told a press conference here on Saturday that unlike the ongoing 21-day lockdown, the Centre suggested that norms would be relaxed in the next phase for sections like fishermen, the farming community, industry and labour. However, public transport is likely to remain off the road and schools and colleges continue to be shut. “The Centre stressed the need for a relaxation of lockdown in a graded manner,” said Mr. Yediyurappa. The Centre is expected to provide a set of detailed guidelines in a couple of days on relaxation norms to be followed by States during the extended period. The Prime Minister had a four-hour-long discussion with Chief Ministers via videoconference and evaluated the lockdown impact on various sections of the people. The State Cabinet on Thursday unanimously decided to extend the lockdown period in order to contain the spread of COVID-19 cases. However, the government deferred taking a final decision till the meeting with Prime Minister on Saturday. “I humbly request you to do your part and #stayathome so that we can get out of this at the earliest,” Mr. Yediyurappa appealed in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-till-month-end-in-karnataka/article31320902.ece
12 April 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. to await PM’s decision on extension||The Tamil Nadu Cabinet, which met on Saturday, decided to await and abide by the decision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue of extension of lockdown. Briefing the media, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam said that the Cabinet felt that the full effect of lockdown would not be realised by any one State deciding on an extension. As Mr. Modi would be taking a decision on the issue shortly, the Cabinet decided that it would accept any decision he took. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, according to Mr. Shanmugam, apprised the Cabinet on the discussion that he had with the PM earlier. During the video-conference, Mr. Palaniswami requested the Centre to extend the lockdown by at least two weeks, on the basis of inputs from experts. Asked why the State government should wait for the Central government’s decision when States such as Odisha and Punjab had gone for an extension, Mr. Shanmugam asserted that “it is not a matter wherein one State can decide unilaterally. At the video-conference, all the CMs were also of the view that it would not be proper if one State took a decision which was different from that of another. So, they had all decided that all the States should function in a unified manner and they should rally behind the Prime Minister.” Moreover, there was “no hurry” for Tamil Nadu to decide on the issue as the lockdown would remain in force till 6 a.m. on April 15. One more factor that was considered by the State government was that T.N. was placed second as far as the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases was concerned. The Cabinet, which reviewed steps taken to tackle the spread of COVID-19 and examined the status of every district, recorded its appreciation for the cooperation extended by people and the services rendered by front line health workers, doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, officials of various departments, conservancy workers and the police. Asked whether the State government would provide more assistance to daily wage earners and workers in the unorganised sector if the lockdown was extended, the Chief Secretary said that as and when the extension was done, the CM would announce the government’s steps. On the launch of the scheme of fair price shops selling grocery items at Rs. 500 a bag, Mr. Shanmugam said that the government felt that the price was on the higher side. So, the authorities had been advised to prepare similar bags with lower quantities of groceries for Rs. 100 or Rs. 150 a bag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-to-await-pms-decision-on-extension/article31320948.ece
12 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Restrictions to continue||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said Kerala would not immediately ease COVID-19 lockdown restrictions. Addressing media after a videoconference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Ministers of other States, Mr. Vijayan said the meeting felt there should be no ground for complacency. The country could ill-afford to let its guard down. Social distancing norms would remain in place. So would the regulations in public places. The ban on air, sea and road travel and inter-State and inter-district journeys would continue. Mr. Vijayan said the Prime Minister listened to what the Chief Minister had to state. “The Prime Minister said the next three or four weeks are very crucial in the fight against the epidemic. He said it was too early for the country to return to pre-COVID-19 levels of normalcy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/restrictions-to-continue/article31321142.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Safe passage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/safe-passage/article31320875.ece
12 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||One more dies, 24 fresh cases in State||The number of COVID-19 positive cases in the State crossed the 400 mark on Saturday with 24 new cases reported from four districts. One more person from Guntur succumbed to the disease. So far, the State reported seven deaths and 405 positive cases. The cases in Guntur were growing by the day, and on Saturday alone 17 cases were reported. Most of them were from Guntur city and all the cases reported were either of the Delhi returnees or their contacts. Kurnool reported five new cases and Prakasam and Kadapa districts one each. One more person from Vijayawada recovered and was discharged from hospital. The 28-year-old youth who returned from Sweden on March 19 tested positive and was admitted to hospital on March 20. So far, Kurnool reported highest number of cases at 82, followed by Guntur (75), Nellore (48), Prakasam (41), Krishna (35), Kadapa (30), West Godavari (22), Visakhapatnam (20), Chittoor (20), East Godavari (17) and Anantapur (15). Meanwhile, Special CS (Health) K.S. Jawahar Reddy asked the government and private hospitals to set up separate rooms for outpatients where only emergency services should be provided. The Health Department asked RMPs not to treat patients with COVID-19 symptoms and pass on information about them to the local authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-more-dies-24-fresh-cases-in-state/article31320873.ece
12 April 2020||KANNUR,||Man from Mahe dies in Kannur||A 71-year-old man who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital died on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Mahroof, a resident of Cherukalai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-from-mahe-dies-in-kannur/article31321146.ece
12 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Lockdown may be restricted to red zones: Jagan||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy told Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a video-conference on Saturday that it would be better if the lockdown was restricted to 37 mandals declared as the red zone out of the total 676 mandals in the State. He informed that 44 mandals were in the orange zone and 595 in the green zone, where there was no trace of the novel coronavirus. Karnataka announced the extension of the lockdown till April 30. The announcement came soon after Mr. Modi’s meeting with the Chief Ministers. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said at a press conference in Bengaluru that unlike the ongoing 21-day lockdown, the Centre suggested that norms be relaxed in the next phase for fishermen, farmers, industry and labour. However, public transport is likely to remain off the road and schools and colleges continue to be shut. “The Centre stressed the need for relaxation of the lockdown in a graded manner,” he said. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the State would not immediately ease the restrictions. Addressing journalists after the video-conference with the Prime Minister, he said the meeting felt there should be no ground for complacency. The country could ill afford to relax guard. Physical distancing norms would remain in place. So would the regulations on the coming and going of people in public places. The ban on air, sea and road travel and inter-State and inter-district journeys would endure. Kerala was particularly vulnerable to a resurgence of the infection given its high density of population. Moreover, it anticipated an influx of Malayali diaspora when the global lockdown ended. Mr. Vijayan said the Centre would finalise its strategy soon and it would give the States the latitude to execute their withdrawal plans. Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao urged Mr. Modi to extend the lockdown by two weeks. He said the lockdown had helped to contain the spread of the virus to a great extent. During the lockdown, he said, the government should ensure that farmers did not suffer losses, the supply of essentials was streamlined and the food processing industry was allowed to function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/southern-states-want-to-retain-the-curbs/article31320850.ece
12 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Four charged under NSA for preventing sealing||Four persons, including the imam of a mosque in Meerut, were arrested on Saturday after a crowd allegedly stopped police from sealing Jali Kothi area in the city. Three persons from the area had tested positive on Friday. “Action has started against the four under the National Security Act,” said Meerut SSP Ajay Sahni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-charged-under-nsa-for-preventing-sealing/article31321043.ece
12 April 2020||New Delhi,||City reports 5 deaths, 166 new COVID-19 cases||Five more deaths and 166 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Saturday, taking the toll to 19 and cases to 1,069, stated a bulletin released by the Delhi government. A total of 26 persons have been discharged after recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-reports-5-deaths-166-new-covid-19-cases/article31321042.ece
12 April 2020||COIMBATORE,||More positive cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district saw 11 fresh COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday, taking the total number to 97. Ten of fresh cases were women. The district also retained the second position in the State in terms of the number of cases, next to Chennai (182).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-positive-cases-in-coimbatore/article31320993.ece
12 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,||Three-colour card system introduced||With Melapalayam registering 32 COVID-19 cases so far, the corporation has started distributing cards in three colours - green, blue and red - to the residents there to prevent crowding in shops and vegetable markets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-colour-card-system-introduced/article31321212.ece
12 April 2020||Shivamogga,||‘Pending MGNREGA wages will be cleared’||K.S. Eshwarappa, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, said on Saturday that pending bills to the tune of Rs. 1,039 crore related to payment of wages to workers under MGNREGA will be cleared in a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pending-mgnrega-wages-will-be-cleared/article31321067.ece
12 April 2020||MYSURU,||Captive jumbos in the State under watch||The COVID-19 advisory to monitor the health of captive tigers has now been extended to captive elephants in the State. A communique has been issued to ensure sanitary conditions in jungle camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/captive-jumbos-in-the-state-under-watch/article31320907.ece
12 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka moves to 11th position from 3rd||Although Karnataka has moved to the 11th position from third in terms of number of identified positive cases, health experts and doctors say the State Health Department now has a mammoth task of testing all secondary contacts of positive patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-moves-to-11th-position-from-3rd/article31320906.ece
12 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Life inside city’s two containment zones||Residents in two wards — Padarayanapura and Bapujinagar — that were sealed on Friday after being declared COVID-19 containment zones are struggling to adjust to the new life. Five positive cases were reported in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/life-inside-citys-two-containment-zones/article31320905.ece
12 April 2020||CHENNAI,||CM seeks rapid test kits, Rs. 1,000 crore aid||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide COVID-19 rapid test kits and a grant of Rs. 1,000 crore immediately to procure medical and protective material.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-seeks-rapid-test-kits-rs-1000-crore-aid/article31320950.ece
12 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Special task teams set up to trace contacts||The State government has formed zonal special task teams comprising senior IAS and IPS officers to follow up and ensure that all contact persons of COVID-19 patients are traced. The teams would make sure that the guidelines were implemented effectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/special-task-teams-set-up-to-trace-contacts/article31320951.ece
12 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Drug candidate, on trial, holds promise||A recent article published in the journal Science has shown that the already-promising drug candidate remdesivir, on trial now, exhibits promising activity against the COVID-19 causing virus and might work well in retarding virus replication. The SARS-CoV-2 virus exists as a mere strand of RNA and it requires a host to replicate. Scientists have discovered that the active site of RDRp shows striking similarities with the Polio Virus and the Hepatitis C virus, and using that knowledge, they have tried to use known drug candidates that work in that RDRp environment and work back to see if they are effective with the novel coronavirus. They also showed exactly where on the RNA dependent RNA polymerase — the main machinery to form strands of RNA — that this drug will bind with. Remdesivir, a nucleotide analogue, then acts as part of the growing RNA chain, fooling the virus into believing it is replicating, and thereby stops true replication. In the article “Structure of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RDRp) from COVID-19 virus” Yan Gao et al., a group of researchers from various institutes in China and one in Australia, describes the biophysical and molecular interactions between COVID-19 virus RDRp and the antiviral drug remdesvir. “The findings highlight the fact that virus replication inhibitors hold promise and that the virus enzyme protein nsp12 represents a high value target to develop novel therapies for treating COVID-19 patients,” explains Panduranga Rao Varada, director, Animal Science Centre, Boston University. “The RNA polymerase is what is used to replicate. Here, it began with the identification of similarities in viruses with which we are already familiar — Polio Virus and HCV. If the binding happens with the drug, virus proliferation can be reduced. Then, the stress on the immune system too will come down. This can reduce, to a large extent, the number of people slipping into a critical stage, having a positive impact on mortality and survival rates,” explains V. Dhanasekaran, a structural biologist, who also runs an education start up. The good news is that these candidates that seem to work well have already been tested, the safety and efficacy has been proven for other usage, Dr. Dhanasekaran adds. The study indicates sofosbuvir, along with remdesivir as probable candidates. Sofosbuvir is already being made in India to treat Hepatitis C, he adds. Currently, remdesivir, which is made by the American pharma company Gilead Sciences, is not available in India. With over 16 lakh cases of Corona-19 in 213 countries across the world, as per WHO statistics, and a record 99,690 confirmed deaths, the race to pick a winning candidate for treating COVID-19 and reducing the mortality and morbidity from the disease. A couple of trials, are already ongoing to test remdesivir, which has already emerged as a promising candidate. This study further reinforces the viability of using the drug.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drug-candidate-on-trial-holds-promise/article31320830.ece
12 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘8.2 lakh cases if there was no lockdown’||With India recording a first-time-ever three-digit rise in the confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours, the Health Ministry on Saturday said that had a lockdown not been imposed, the country would have been staring at at least 8,00,000 cases by April 15. The Ministry reported at least 7,529 cases on Saturday. Reports from State Health Departments put the nationwide death toll at 287 with the number of active cases at 7,303. Maharashtra had 1,446 active cases with 17 more fatalities on Saturday, while Delhi recorded 1,024 active cases and five deaths. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) — the technical arm of the Ministry that is overseeing testing and epidemiology — was not involved in preparing this estimate, Lav Agrawal, spokesperson of the Ministry, said at the daily media briefing. He displayed a graph that showed three curves: One a red curve, denoting neither lockdown nor containment in place, that steeply rose to 2,08,544 cases on April 9 (and with a note that it would extend to 8.2 lakh by April 15); a blue, gentler curve that rose to 45,370 by April 11 (and 1.2 lakh cases by April 15), the blue indicating the situation with “containment measures but no lockdown”; and the final green line indicating the 7,447 cases at present. “Lockdown and containment measures are important to fight COVID-19. If we had not taken any measures, we might have had 2 lakh cases at this time (April 11),” Mr. Agrawal added. There were no further details available of how the projected figures were arrived at. Determining the rate of spread of infectious disease is different from extrapolating a given number of cases at an initial point and assuming a particular rate of growth and plugging it into an exponential mathematical equation, experts told The Hindu . “From just this graph alone, it isn’t possible to work backward and figure out the assumption used by the modeller to arrive at the (2,00,000) figures. The curves assume a constant rate of growth, which is not what we’ve seen how the cases increase in India, or anywhere else in the world,” Aritra Das, a medical doctor with a doctorate in epidemiology, who consults with IQVIA. “Estimating the growth in cases requires knowing an R0 [reproduction number that denotes how many an infected person will further infect] and that can’t be derived from what we now have.” Modelling study A study in February, which was publicised on March 23, remains the only actual modelling study involving ICMR epidemiologists and international experts in the field. That study didn’t estimate numbers but — based on the state of affairs in February — recommended that India should have focussed on finding transmission in the community and quarantining instead of “border control” because of the large uncertainty in detecting asymptomatic travellers harbouring the infection and becoming spreaders. Another ICMR study published this week found that 40% of those with severe respiratory illnesses sampled and detected with COVID-19 could not have their contact history established. The ICMR said 1,71,718 samples were tested, including 16,564 in the last 24 hours. The government said it was containing the wide spread of the disease by establishing containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/82-lakh-cases-if-there-was-no-lockdown/article31320793.ece
12 April 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra toll climbs to 127||Maharashtra recorded 187 new cases and 17 more fatalties from COVID-19 on Saturday, taking the total count to 1,761 cases and 127 deaths. Nearly 65% of the cases and 60% of the deaths have been reported from Mumbai. State health officials said that of the Saturday’s deaths, 12 were reported from Mumbai, two from Pune, and one each from Satara, Dhule and Malegaon. “Six of the deceased were above 60 years, eight were in the age group of 40-60 years and three were below 40 years,” said a State health official, adding that 16 out of these 17 patients had co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease. Increased testing Maharashtra has conducted nearly 36,771 tests so far of which 34,094 have returned negative. The State currently had 38,800 people under home quarantine and 4,964 people are in institutional quarantine. So far, 208 patients have recovered and been discharged from hospitals. The number of fatalities in Pune district rose to 29 with three more deaths. Maharashtra’s case-fatality rate continued rose to 7.2%, among the highest nationwide. Punjab’s fatality rate stood at 8.3%, while in Madhya Pradesh it was 7.5%. However the number of cases and deaths recorded in these States were lower than in Maharashtra. Dr. Anup Yadav, head of Directorate of Health Services in Maharashtra said that the numbers of tests carried out in the State were much higher, resulting in more positive cases being detected. “As far as the deaths are concerned, co-morbid conditions and age-related factors are the main reasons. We are carrying out detailed death audits to know the exact causes,” said Dr. Yadav. He flagged a worrying trend of many patients reaching isolation facilities at the last minute and succumbing before the doctors could do anything to save them. “The death audit will tell us if the virus is manifesting rapidly in some cases,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-toll-climbs-to-127/article31320808.ece
12 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab’s cancer-afflicted hit hard||The suspension of passenger train services as part of the ongoing countrywide lockdown has left several cancer patients from Punjab’s Malwa region struggling to reach Bikaner in Rajasthan for their treatment. The poor patients, who boarded the Jodhpur passenger train — known locally as the ‘cancer train’ — from Punjab’s Bathinda to travel to the more affordable Acharya Tulsi Regional Cancer Treatment and Research Centre (RCC) across the State border, have now been left with little option but to look for local treatment options. Gurpreet Singh, president of an NGO ‘Bhai Ghanayia Cancer Roko Sewa Society’, said patients who used to travel to Bikaner were now forced to take treatment at local hospitals in Faridkot, Bathinda or Sangrur. “Not only those travelling to Bikaner but also other patients, who don’t have personal vehicles or can’t afford to hire a conveyance are finding it difficult to reach hospitals within the State itself. In the absence of public transport, the poor are suffering the most. Earlier, most poor patients used to travel on State transport buses or trains to reach their destinations for treatment but now many can’t,” he said. Observing that under the Mukhyamantri Cancer Rahat Kosh (Chief Minister’s Cancer Relief Fund) the Punjab government did provide up to Rs. 1.5 lakh for diagnosis, treatment and medicines for a cancer patient, Mr. Singh said the amount needed to be increased as it was sorely inadequate compared with the cost of treatment. Surinder Duggal, President of the Punjab Chemists Association, said his helpline number had received several calls from cancer patients including from Bathinda, Faridkot snd Muktsar disticts over the past few days asking about treatment options as they couldn’t travel to Bikaner. “Most of them had their chemotherapy sessions due and wanted to know where they can get it done within the State as they can’t travel to Bikaner,” he said. Pardeep Garg, head, cancer department of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot, said that apart from regular patients of the hospital, other patients from nearby areas who used to visit Chandigarh, Khanna, Ludhiana or Bikaner for chemotherapy and radiation therapy were now being provided treatment at the hospital. Ashok Kumar Goyal, who runs Sanjeevani Foundation, an NGO working in the health sector, said as the lockdown continues many patients were now seeking treatment at the Advanced Cancer Institute in Bathinda or travelling to Faridkot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjabs-cancer-afflicted-hit-hard/article31320834.ece
12 April 2020||Kolkata,||Lockdown to continue with a human face, says Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday emphasised that the lockdown in the State would continue with a “human face” and that markets would continue to remain open. “The lock down will continue with a human face, markets will be open and shops selling essentials will remain open,” Ms. Banerjee told journalists at the State secretariat. The Chief Minister repeatedly assured that while the police would be “strict” in enforcing the lockdown, the force “will not indulge in excesses”. She said that people in small groups would be allowed to harvest paddy, adding that the State would soon be introducing a mobile app to help farmers sell their produce. Asked about a letter from the Union Home ministry, which had reportedly raised questions about lockdown exemptions in the State, Ms. Banerjee consulted with Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha seated beside her before asserting that the ministry had only asked the State to remain more vigilant in certain areas. The ministry is reported to have flagged several concerns in its letter, contending that the police were allowing religious congregations and that there was no regulation in vegetable, fish and mutton markets where people had been thronging in complete violation of social distancing norms in Razabazar, Narkel Danga, Topsia, Metiabruz, Garden Reach, Ikbalpur and Maniktala. The Home ministry is also said to have asserted that areas such as Narkel Danga were witnessing ‘more COVID-19 like’ cases. Observing that the novel coronavirus “is not a communal virus”, Ms. Banerjee added. “It is a human disease”. The Chief Minister said she had raised the issue during the videoconference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier in the day that this “was not the time to indulge in politics”. Ms. Banerjee also reacted sharply to repeated questions about the hotspots in the State and countered: “Why are you interested in hotspots. There is nothing called hotspots. We are closely keeping a watch on areas where we have got patients”. She said that a better term to use in the situation was “ sensitive areas”, where the State was engaged in “microplanning” its response. ‘No reason to panic’ Six more cases of COVID-19 were detected in the State in the past 24 hours, taking the number of active cases to 95. The CM said that there was no reason to panic as the numbers would increase. The State has tested 2,286 persons for COVID -19 infection. Asked if the number of tests was low, she said that the State had been following ICMR guidelines and testing only those with symptoms. “We had only two labs and 40 testing kits,” she said. Ms. Banerjee said the State had asked the Centre for rapid testing kits and more tests would be conducted in the next few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lockdown-to-continue-with-a-human-face-says-mamata/article31320810.ece
12 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Indian labourers in GCC countries in dire need of help’||Most Indian migrants in the GCC countries are at the bottom of the pyramid in their host countries. With limited to access to healthcare, they are in need of urgent assistance, migration studies experts S. Irudaya Rajan and Ginu Zacharaia Oommen say in a joint e-mail interview. S. Irudaya Rajan is Professor at the Centre of Development Studies (CDS), Thiruvananthapuram and Member of the Kerala government expert committee on COVID-19. Ginu Zacharaia Oommen is a member of the Kerala Public Service Commission. Excerpts:  How are Indian migrants in GCC countries coping with the pandemic? Their plight is no less desperate. Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan wrote to the PM on the issue. In the wake of the COVID-19 spread, the situation of Indian immigrants is very precarious. Nurses, small businessmen, labourers have been infected in significant numbers and there is no care for them. In Kuwait, Indian localities such as Jleeb Al Shuwaikh and Mahboula have been quarantined; currently 530 of its 993 confirmed cases are Indians. In Dubai, more than 500 Indians have been infected, particularly from Al Raz area. Similar situation in Qatar. These low and semi-skilled labourers have multiple ailments like diabetes, blood pressure, cholesterol and even kidney, liver problems and cancer. Since medicines are very expensive in Gulf countries, migrants often procure their medication from India and stockpile for three to four months. Worryingly, there are reports these stocks have been used up and there is now an acute shortage. The Gulf countries lack broad-based healthcare facilities to accommodate a high number of patients. Indian associations have appealed to the Indian missions, particularly in Dubai, to hire and convert Indian schools into isolation wards. Before the situation worsens, the Indian government should evacuate on a priority basis those immigrants without visa documents, dependants who are mostly elderly, women, children and unemployed persons. Do their living conditions allow social distancing?  Most of them are single men living in congested labour camps — using common toilets, rooms etc. One flat houses nearly 8 to 10 people using bunk beds, in what is commonly known as a “bed space”. Therefore, if anyone is infected, it will spread fast. At present, there are nearly 8 million Indian immigrants in GCC, of which nearly 2.1 million are from Kerala itself. The immediate task is to chart out a strategy that will, initially, envisage a safe evacuation of emigrants back to India and their rehabilitation back in the home society. Other States with high emigrant populations in the region are Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Bengal and Punjab. Will the current pandemic change Kerala’s approach to receiving labour from outside the State?  Some estimates put inter-State migrants in Kerala at about 30 lakhs while 21 lakh Malayalis work outside. However, we call them replacement migrants — Keralite plumbers in Dubai being replaced by plumbers from Odisha, for instance. The mass exodus of Keralites over the years has led to a situation where Kerala needs migrants from other parts of the country. Kerala is doing a good job during the crisis in providing accommodation, medication and food for these migrants. While the Kerala migrants are struggling for their safety and survival in Gulf, in sharp contrast, in Kerala the internal migrants have been protected and guarded in the most respectful manner — how will this play out into the future is now unpredictable. Is there increasing resentment against immigrant labourers in Kerala?  Some rare incidents of protests in guest workers’ pockets such as Perumbavoor and Payipad have also become a point of discussion in the State. In the post-pandemic grim scenario, if there is a reverse migration of the Kerala migrants that might also have an impact on the prospects of internal migrants in Kerala. We expect some guest workers leave Kerala when the lockdown is eased, though it is not sure how many will leave immediately. It also remains to be seen whether the workers who had left before will return. Kerala surely knows these migrants are strong building blocks of its society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indian-labourers-in-gcc-countries-in-dire-need-of-help/article31320790.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Data is key to control of this pandemic’||Dr. Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist at the World Health Organisation, says in an interview that the fight against COVID-19 is likely to be long-term, and lockdowns alone cannot be effective unless combined with other health measures. Dr Swaminathan, who has worked in research on tuberculosis and HIV for 30 years, was Director- General of the Indian Council of Medical Research from 2015 to 2017. Edited excerpts:  What do we know so far about how SARS-CoV-2 is spreading around the world? Viral evolution and transmission dynamics can be studied by analysing genetic sequence data. There are over 4,500 viral sequences currently deposited in the GISAID platform, with around 10 Indian strains. What we see is, that over time, there is some variability in the strains. That is to be expected, as all viruses develop mutations as they transmit from person to person. What is not being observed so far is any mutation on any of the important sites of the virus, such as the spike protein or in the RNA polymerase or protease enzymes, which are relevant for drug targeting and vaccines. So we believe whatever strategies are now being used to develop both therapeutics or vaccines are not threatened by any changes in the virus. What does the evidence tell us about the effectiveness of lockdowns as a strategy? The WHO has laid out quite clearly that physical distancing, of which one extreme form is a lockdown, does help bring down the transmission of the virus in the population. What they saw in China [after locking down] was transmissions within households were still going on, so they then took an additional step that was basically testing everyone with symptoms, and taking those who were positive to a separate facility where they could be kept and treated, and the exposed persons to a separate quarantine facility. We need to think about this in terms of the logic for doing that, which is if you are living in a crowded setting, chances are you are more likely to transmit to others. Other public health interventions that are shown to be effective like hand-washing, disinfecting surfaces, covering the face and mouth when coughing, and usage of masks need to be all implemented together, to be effective. We also need to remember that we are going to be facing this infection for a long time, and will need to think of sustainable strategies, as we exit lockdowns eventually. People will need to change behaviour — continue to follow physical distancing, isolate if sick, improve personal hygiene, while the public health system will need to detect, isolate, treat and track cases. Should everyone wear a mask? Anybody who has symptoms should be wearing a mask. There is also no doubt that healthcare workers need to wear masks and proper Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) as they are the ones likely to see a lot of patients. When we are talking about the general population, the logic there is if you don’t show symptoms but you still have the infection, you can still be spreading it. That is the logic for everybody wearing a mask. Asymptomatic people spreading infection is not the bulk of transmission and whatever studies we have seen till now suggest it is not more than 10 to 15%. Wearing masks does not protect the wearer. You are wearing masks to protect others, so it’s more of a social good. Should India be testing more broadly? Data is key to the control of this pandemic. We need to expand the number of people who are being tested. The fact is, because of shortage of testing kits, we cannot simply test everybody. One way is looking at sentinel surveillance where you test a proportion of people with influenza-like illness (ILI) or Severe Acute Respiratory Infections (SARI), which the ICMR is already doing. Serological testing is also beginning to be used in many countries, from which you can get an idea of the extent of the population exposed and also the geographic spread of the virus. Is there any evidence to suggest Hydroxychloroquine should be included in the treatment protocol? The Solidarity trial launched 10 days ago is comparing Hydroxychloroquine, Remdesivir and Lopinavir/Ritonavir with and without interferon beta. The goal is to include more treatments as they come through and collaborate closely with groups around the world as they develop new therapies. The approaches are to find an antiviral drug, monoclonal antibody treatment or an adjunct therapy that helps modulate the body’s response to the virus. There is currently no drug with proven efficacy against COVID-19. Some are being used on a compassionate-use basis, and not based on scientific evidence. Soon, we will get results from clinical trials which should inform us. ( Full text at    bit.ly/SoumyaWHO )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/data-is-key-to-control-of-this-pandemic/article31320806.ece
12 April 2020||Mumbai,||‘Repatriate stranded seamen’||Seafarer groups on Saturday met Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant to seek his assistance in ensuring the repatriation of thousands of Indian seamen stranded on ships across the world. The Goan Seamen Association of India (GSAI) President Frank Veigas said the government needed to come up with a contingency plan. “The plan’s execution lies with the State. They have to convince the Prime Minister. Just the way we are repatriating foreign nationals, getting our own countrymen employed on various ships is also important,” he added. Estimating that about 15,000 Indians work on cruise ships and other merchant vessels, the GSAI emphasised that at least 8,000 of these seamen were from Goa. “It is the crew on cruise liners, that have been hit the most,” said GSAI representative Dixon Vaz. “The crew have already been in quarantine for so many days. They can be flown back in batches of hundreds, which their companies will do. They could be easily accommodated in hotels in a green zone,” he added. The GSAI said countries like the Philippines and Indonesia had evacuated hundreds of their crew from vessels off Portugal and Italy over the last few days. “Indian seamen have been left in limbo by the country’s ban on incoming flights,” Mr. Vaz observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/repatriate-stranded-seamen/article31320823.ece
12 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||AIDWA seeks interest-free loans for women in SHGs||A women’s rights group has written to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, urging that bank loans to women self-help groups (SHGs) be made interest free to help those in the unorganised sector who have lost their jobs and are unable to repay their loans. “Nearly six crore women are members of SHGs with bank linkages in both urban and rural areas. They are utilising these loans for income generation activities, namely selling fruits and vegetables, groceries, dairying, agriculture and also for their children’s education, health and other family expenses,” the All India Democrative Women’s Association (AIDWA) wrote, adding that banks apply exorbitant compound interest rates of 18-24%, which are exploitative considering that most women, who are part of SHGs, live in extreme poverty. Last month, in her announcement on the relief package for the country under lockdown, the Minister doubled the limit for collateral-free loans for SHGs from Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 20 lakh. It is this loan amount that the AIDWA wants to be offered interest free. They also demanded that a moratorium on EMIs for three months be further extended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aidwa-seeks-interest-free-loans-for-women-in-shgs/article31320826.ece
12 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Work resumes at Assam tea gardens after a fortnight||Work in some tea gardens in Assam resumed on Saturday after a fortnight due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Plantation owners and members of the Indian Tea Association (ITA) said preliminary work had began at some major estates and small tea gardens in Darrang, Dibrugarh and Jorhat districts. ITA chairperson Vivek Goenka had on April 4 written to State Chief Secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna seeking reopening of the tea estates with 50% of the workforce as had been permitted by the Centre a day earlier. “We asked the Deputy Commissioners to take decisions as per the Government of India’s direction, garden-wise, if the management and the workers want to resume operations after they assure the local administration that they will maintain all advisories,” Mr. Krishna said. Assam Tea Planters’ Association chairperson Nazrana Ahmed said the workers will restrict their activities to plant protection, irrigation and sanitisation at workers’ settlements. “The operations will be in a staggered manner,” she said. The Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangha, the apex body of plantation workers, said the gardens had been instructed to adhere to the guidelines of World Health Organisation and Assam’s Health Department. “Guidelines have been issued and each garden will be sealed with a ban on entry and exit during the lockdown,” Sangha General Secretary Rupesh Gowala said. Assam has 803 tea estates employing 7.21 lakh workers. At least 10 lakh other workers work with 1.8 lakh small tea gardens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/work-resumes-at-assam-tea-gardens-after-a-fortnight/article31320828.ece
12 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||States must evolve norms to help labourers return: Gadkari||Union Minister for Micro, Medium and Smallscale Enterprises (MSME) Nitin Gadkari said the flight of migrant labour from cities was a serious issue in any post lockdown plan for economic revival but added that it would be up to the State governments to evolve guidelines to allow their return. Speaking to The Hindu in a videoconference from his Nagpur residence (where he has been since the travel restrictions came into place), Mr. Gadkari said the plight of migrant labour was a deep concern going ahead. “There are, according to some reports, nearly 20 lakh migrant labourers in shelters across the country; some have returned to their native villages, others are in between. It is a serious issue. Confidence-building measures will have to be undertaken by the government and the factory owners themselves in order that they may return,” Mr. Gadkari said. “As for the logistics of their return as and when the lockdown is eased, the guidelines will have to come from the State governments. Looking at the Disaster Management Act now in place, the District Collector will be key. Whether factory owners can, with a letter from the Collector travel and speak to his employees who left etc, are issues that are on the table. We have conveyed this to various State governments,” the Minister said. The MSME sector, he said, employs nearly 11 crore people and is labour intensive. The flight of labour has been a worry. “We are however, preparing bridge plans for the sector including encouraging rural craft and providing funding for village-based industry,” he said. Around 400 clusters with Rs. 2 crore corpus each have been identified for this project, titled Spoorti, he said. Mr. Gadkari also made a case for strengthening domestic manufacture and indicated that going ahead, his Ministry at least would be emphasising on import substitution units within the country. “We must reflect on the lessons from this crisis and one of the main ones is that we must manufacture much of what we need here, and also build an export market and replace other countries in those fields,” the Minister said. He added the example of the new policy for Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) that had been cleared by the Union Cabinet just before the lockdown was announced. India wants to regain its position, ceded to China, in that field, he said. The Ministry has already conveyed to the Finance Ministry its wishlist for the sector including a boost for the Credit Guarantee Trusts and working capital offered. “Whenever the lockdown lifts, it won’t be business as usual. We will have to be COVID-19 ready in terms of shop floors etc and industry’s culture has to respond to that,” said Mr. Gadkari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-must-evolve-norms-to-help-labourers-return-gadkari/article31320798.ece
12 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC urged to modify order on free COVID-19 testing by private labs||An application was filed on Saturday urging the Supreme Court to modify its April 8 order to make COVID-19 testing by approved private laboratories free of cost. The petition asked the court to allow private labs to bring back the rates for COVID-19 testing as stipulated in the ICMR advisory of March 17. It said tests could be conducted by private labs free of cost for the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) categories subject to government reimbursing them immediately. The March 17 advisory allowed private labs to charge up to Rs. 4,500 for tests. A Delhi doctor, Kaushal Kant Mishra, represented by senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan and advocate Pooja Dhar, said the April 8 order placed an unfair burden on private labs. The petition said the court had not elaborated on reimbursing private labs their expenses, only saying this would be considered later. “If the government does not provide immediate reimbursement to the private laboratories, there is a real risk that they may stop testing for COVID-19, thus posing a direct risk to the health of persons across India through unknown transmission and contraction of the disease,” Mr. Mishra, a retired surgeon from AIIMS, said in his petition. Government sources have been quoted as saying that the coming week was a make-or-break week as far as testing was concerned and admitting that the private labs had far greater mobility and reach. Besides, many people, suspected to be COVID-19 cases, are admitted and confined in hospitals, awaiting their test results. These results are delayed because of the strain placed on the government testing system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-urged-to-modify-order-on-free-covid-19-testing-by-private-labs/article31320821.ece
12 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Groups hail ban on spitting in Rajasthan||Voluntary organisations working for tobacco control on Saturday welcomed the Rajasthan government’s decision to ban spitting in public places and institutions. They said the measure would help to prevent transmission of COVID-19. The activists also demanded a complete ban on sale, distribution and advertisement of tobacco products as a part of the efforts to control the pandemic. The State government has banned the spitting of betel leaf, any chewable tobacco or non-tobacco products or sputum in public places and institutions under the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 1957. Any violation would invite penal action under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. Additional Chief Secretary (Medical & Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said it was necessary to place restrictions on the “unhealthy habits” of people. Groups that have undertaken a sustained campaign for tobacco control in the last four years said the ban on sale of tobacco and its products would not only help in containment of COVID-19 but would also strengthen the government’s ‘Nirogi Rajasthan’ campaign which was launched in December 2019 to create awareness of diseases and their prevention. Jayesh Joshi, secretary of the Banswara-based VAAGDHARA, a non-governmental organisation, said the smokers and tobacco-users were at a higher risk of infection. The World Health Organization (WHO) has also warned of virus transmission from hand to mouth while smoking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/groups-hail-ban-on-spitting-in-rajasthan/article31320825.ece
12 April 2020||New Delhi,||CM fund contributions to not qualify as CSR spend||The Ministry of Commerce has clarified that the contributions to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund or the State relief fund will not qualify as Corporate Social Responsibility expenditure, while any donation to the PM CARES Fund will. “The Chief Minister’s Relief Fund’ or ‘State Relief Fund for COVID-19’ is not included in Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013, and therefore any contribution to such funds shall not qualify as admissible CSR expenditure,” it has said in a circular. The circular has said donations to the State Disaster Management Authority to combat COVID-19 can be counted as admissible CSR expenditure. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury flagged the circular on Twitter and said it was discriminatory and went against the constitutional principle of federalism. “States are at the forefront of this battle to contain the spread of COVID-19, and they are being strangulated by the Centre in this fight,” he said. He sought an immediate amendment to Schedule VII of the Companies Act to permit the States to access these funds which could save millions of lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cm-fund-contributions-to-not-qualify-as-csr-spend/article31320832.ece
12 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Sprinklr: Pinarayi refutes allegations||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday sought to deny the allegation of the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition that the government had compromised the personal medical information of nearly 1.75 lakh Keralites under COVID-19 surveillance to a private company. Mr. Vijayan said the government had contracted the U.S.-based firm Sprinklr to provide an application for health workers to store field data collected from sections of the population under observation. Contrary to the claims of Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, the company gave the mobile phone application free. It also stored the electronic medical records in a secure server located inside the country. Moreover, Sprinklr was not a public relations firm as alleged by the Opposition. It was a listed supplier of software and other IT solutions to the State’s Information and Technology Department. Mr. Vijayan said a non-resident Keralite was the Chief Executive Officer of Sprinklr. He had learned from his aged parents about the intervention of the Kerala government to defeat the scourge. Moved by the State’s struggles against the disease, the person offered his company’s services free of cost to the government. Mr. Vijayan denied the possibility that Sprinklr could leak the vital data collected by fieldworkers to private players in the highly competitive health-care sector. He said the World Health Organisation had contracted Sprinklr for epidemic surveillance. The State faced an unprecedented crisis and welcomed every help offered by civic-minded citizens. Mr. Vijayan refused to elaborate on the criteria for choosing Sprinklr to collate and manage such sensitive health data and whether the selection process involved a global tender. The Chief Minister said there were encouraging signs that COVID-19 was on the retreat in Kerala. However, the State could not afford to be lax. Remaining at home, observing social distance, and implementing break-the-chain measures would help the State fend off a possible resurgence. He used his customary press conference to greet Keralites on Easter. He said Easter conveyed the message of revival and rebirth in the face of great adversity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sprinklr-pinarayi-refutes-allegations/article31321242.ece
12 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kerala MP seeks Centre’s nod for special flights||Kozhikode MP M.K. Raghavan on Saturday approached the Supreme Court highlighting the urgent need to establish a specialised team to identify Indian citizens stranded in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries who need to be evacuated immediately in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. He said the government needs to facilitate the evacuation of job seekers on visit visa, tourists stuck in the GCC nations — Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the UAE, Qatar, Bahrain, and Oman — due to flight cancellations, children separated from their families, pregnant women, labourers and people who have lost their jobs due to the virus and migrants who cannot afford to travel back, etc, at public cost. Mr. Raghavan, represented by advocate A. Karthik, urged the government to lift the ban on international flights and grant of specific approval for special flights to evacuate such people. “The outbreak of COVID-19 has caused widespread disruptions in the lives of Indian citizens at home and abroad, especially those stranded in the Gulf countries. As a result of this, I have been approached by several individuals and organisations to ensure the safe return and well-being of such Indians who are stranded in GCC nations in the absence of basic amenities,” the petition said. ‘Airlines willing’ Mr. Raghavan, in the petition, said he had contacted several airlines which have agreed to ensure the safe return of the Indians. He said the GCC nations had “accorded their approval and assured their complete support for the operation of flights to India to assist with the repatriation of stranded Indian citizens”. “However, this proved to be futile as the Indian airspace has been shut since the outbreak of COVID-19. Therefore, Indians continue to be stranded despite several gracious offers being made by airline operators to assist their return from the GCC nations,” the MP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-mp-seeks-centres-nod-for-special-flights/article31320795.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Migrant workers’ protest turns violent||“As per the inputs from the intelligence office, migrant workers are stubborn to return their homes,” Mr. Jha said. He also flagged that social distancing is not being maintained in the shelter homes and camps where the migrant labourers have been housed. “The situation is very precarious in certain pockets of migrants in the city. They have been asked to stay put in their huts and slums against their wishes; without work as factories are already shut, they want to go back to their villages and be with their families,” a factory owner from Surat said .  In Amroli area where thousands of migrant live, they are restless without even two meals a day and no money and work,” said Aslam Cyclewala, a Municipal Councillor in Surat. He added that he was deluged with requests and calls by migrants to arrange for their return to U.P., Jharkhand, Bihar and Odisha. “There are more than three lakh migrant workers in Surat city and district who are keen leave,” a source from the industry said. He explained that most of the powerloom and textiles factories are Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in the region employing less than 100 workers, mostly daily wagers. As the factories shut down due to lockdown, workers have been rendered jobless for weeks without any wages or other means of income. “It is unreasonable expectation from the industry that we should pay workers even as our factories are shut; our cash flow has dried up as no production is happening,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/migrant-workers-protest-turns-violent/article31320796.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||14-day extension of lockdown likely||He added, however, that his government was amenable to whatever decision was taken by the Central government. Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh asked for more funds for the rapid upgradation of health services in his State and a one-time increase in the borrowing limit from 3% to 4% of the State’s GDP by amending the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Amendment Act, 2003. He also demanded a bonus for farmers to incentivise staggered/delayed procurement of wheat and quicker movement of grains from the godowns of the FCI. Prime Minister Modi expressed distress at the instances of attacks on doctors and medical staff and at incidents of misbehaviour with students from the northeast and Kashmir. He underlined that such cases need to be dealt with firmly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/14-day-extension-of-lockdown-likely/article31320799.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Chief Ministers raise funds crunch with Modi||Echoing the complaint, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said 62% of the workforce in his State was engaged in agriculture, which was hit by the drastic fall in inter-State movement of farm goods. With less than 25% of the trucks plying the highways, there were no marketing avenues. “How much can we absorb locally? Many families will face destitution if this continues,” he said. The industries could not be expected to pay wages while they were not working, he added. “Today is the 18th day of the lockdown and we are yet to get a single paisa from the government to assist us in the fight against the coronavirus. My government has given Rs. 2,000 a family to all APL and BPL card-holders, Rs. 5,000 to farmers and a substantial aid to self-help groups. Where will we get the money?” Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said. The Prime Minister, he said, did not address any of these concerns. Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren said revenue collection had been hit by the lockdown, and the State had not received any Central assistance. He demanded that the State’s access to 3% of revenue under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act be increased to 5%. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said restrictions should be limited to zones with a high number of cases. “There are 676 mandals, of which only 37 are in the red zone and 44 in orange. So there are only 81 mandals affected by the coronavirus. In my opinion, the lockdown should be limited to the red zone,” he said. ‘No air transport’ Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said economic activities should be allowed within the States. He said international air transport and inter-State transport and train services should not be restarted. He also pitched for a special package for the micro, small and medium enterprises. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee raised the issue of constant interference from the Governors and the Lieutenant-Governors. “She told the Prime Minister that during this period of crisis some of the Governors are interfering in the day-to-day working of the State governments, which is now taking menacing proportions,” Mr. Narayanasamy said. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan asked the Mr. Modi to arrange for special trains to transport migrant workers home. He said the government should give them wages for the next three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chief-ministers-raise-funds-crunch-with-modi/article31320801.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||West Bengal pulled up for lockdown violations||Mentioning markets in Rajabazaar, Narkel Danga, Topsia, Metiaburz, Garden Reach, lkbalpur and Maniktala in Kolkata, the letter says, “Significantly, areas such as Narkel Danga are reportedly witnessing more COVID-19 like cases.” The letter added, “It has been reported that police have been allowing religious congregations. Free ration has been distributed not through the institutional delivery system but by political leaders. This may have resulted in spread of COVID19 infection.” The MHA said the activities are in violation of it’s orders issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and are liable for penal action under the Act. “It is requested that strict action be taken in the matter and a report in this regard may be furnished to this Ministry urgently,” the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/west-bengal-pulled-up-for-lockdown-violations/article31320802.ece
12 April 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra to extend lockdown to April 30||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday announced that the lockdown in the State would continue till at least April 30. On Saturday, Mr. Modi had chaired a video-conference with all the CMs. “In today’s video-conference, I got the first opportunity as Chief Minister of Maharashtra to voice my opinion,” Mr. Thackeray said in an address to the State through social media. “I said we will extend the lockdown beyond April 14 as precautions are needed in Mumbai and Pune. We know the seriousness of the situation and we will do what needs to be done,” he added. Observing that the State government had not restricted agricultural activities and the transportation and supply of essentials, Mr. Thackeray appealed to the public to not get confused or panicky. He said the instructions about examinations in universities and schools, as well as norms for allowing industries to be operational, would be spelt out by April 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-to-extend-lockdown-to-april-30/article31320812.ece
12 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Veterans condemn ‘red tape’||Veterans took to social media to express their outrage after the parents of a decorated officer, a Colonel from the Para Special Forces (SF) who died fighting cancer, were forced to travel by road from New Delhi to Bengaluru for the last rites due to confusion in rules between the Defence and Home Ministries. They reached Bengaluru by Saturday night. Colonel Navjot Singh Bal, 39, who commanded the elite 2 Para SF of the Army, was fighting a rare form of cancer and passed away at a military hospital in Bengaluru on April 9. He was awarded the Shaurya Chakra, the country's third highest gallantry award, in 2008. His father, Lt. Col. K.S. Bal, is a veteran from Garhwal Rifles and is based in Gurugram. At the time of Col. Bal’s passing, his parents were in Amritsar and were forced to make the long road journey after confusion between the Defence Ministry and the Home Ministry over approval for service aircraft. “Deepest condolences! Have a safe journey. Sad GOI (Government of India) did not help. Rules are never written on stone. They are modified or changed in special circumstances,” former Army chief Gen. V.P. Malik tweeted. There was a deluge of messages from the veteran community expressing their condolences to the grieving parents and condemning the red tape in not ensuring approval for use of aircraft in such an extraordinary circumstance. The family was given the option to airlift the mortal remains to Delhi to perform the last rites. However, Col. Bal’s wife and children were in Bengaluru; so his parents wanted to travel there instead, a defence official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/veterans-condemn-red-tape/article31320824.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Sigh of relief||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sigh-of-relief/article31320836.ece
12 April 2020||New Delhi,||Call for President’s rule in M.P.||President’s rule should be imposed in Madhya Pradesh if Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is unable to form Cabinet, Rajya Sabha member from the State and senior advocate Vivek Tankha said on Saturday in a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind. The Congress leader said the patience of the 7.5 crore people of the State was “wearing thin” as they face a grim situation with regard to the spread of the COVID-19. He argued that an “illegally designed and poorly conceived one-man show” had been unconstitutionally thrust upon the people amid a lockdown. “If the Chief Minister is unable to form his Cabinet because of issues beyond his control, then a case of breakdown of constitutional machinery will be self-evident warranting the Union to consider the imposition of President’s rule,” Mr. Tanka said in the letter, copies of which were sent to the Prime Minister and the Home Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/call-for-presidents-rule-in-mp/article31320800.ece
12 April 2020||New Delhi,||ED orders seizure in property case||The Enforcement Directorate has ordered the seizure of domestic assets worth Rs. 32.38 crore of Mumbai-based Jaya Patel for illegally acquiring properties overseas. The order for seizure of two Mumbai properties has been issued under Section 37 A of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). The ED has also filed a complaint against Ms. Patel, daughter of the late Parmanand Tulsidas Patel, before the competent authority, with a request to confirm the order. According to the ED, Ms. Patel is associated with Ivory International Properties Limited, a company registered in the British Virgin Islands. “She is only having a 1$/GBP share of Ivory International Properties. However, she is the beneficial owner of a flat at Chelsea Embankment, London valued at £15.25 lakh and another property at Central Park in the United States’ New York, worth about $25.60 lakh, both acquired through Ivory International Properties,” said an official. The agency has ordered seizure of assets in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-orders-seizure-in-property-case/article31320803.ece
12 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||EPFO puts in place mechanism to credit contribution under PMGKY||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation has put in place a mechanism to credit employers’ and employees’ contribution towards its social security schemes under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY). This will benefit 79 lakh subscribers and 3.8 lakh firms, with a outgo of Rs. 4,800 crore from government.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/epfo-puts-in-place-mechanism-to-credit-contribution-under-pmgky/article31320804.ece
12 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana to be divided into three zones||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Saturday that amid the indication from PM Narendra Modi that the lockdown would be extended for two weeks, he directed that it be implemented in phases in the State. He said the State would be divided into three zones: red, orange and green. “The red zone will include the districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Nuh and Palwal, which are the hotpots.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haryana-to-be-divided-into-three-zones/article31320811.ece
12 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cancel summer vacation to make up for time lost to COVID-19: Lawyers urge SC judges||The Supreme Court Bar Association on Saturday unanimously resolved to press Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde and other judges of the apex court to forego their nearly two-month-long summer vacation and make up for the time lost to the COVID-19 lockdown in the larger interest of litigants and justice. The resolution said lawyers were willing to work through the holidays, from May 16 to July 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cancel-summer-vacation-to-make-up-for-time-lost-to-covid-19-lawyers-urge-sc-judges/article31320819.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||JAIPUR||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaipur/article31320817.ece
12 April 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Man who ended his life tests negative||The swab test of the patient who ended his life at an isolation ward at the Government Hospital here on Friday has turned out to be negative for COVID-19. The result of the laboratory test done by the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi was out. He was admitted on April 6 with the complaints of cold and fever. According to official sources, his wife had visited him at the isolation ward upon his persuasion a day before he took the extreme step. Spat between couple He was seen quarrelling with her and expressed his displeasure over his relatives failing to call on him at the hospital. The body was handed over to his relatives after postmortem on Saturday and was cremated at Kadambur, his native village near Vikkiramangalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-who-ended-his-life-tests-negative/article31320990.ece
12 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. sets up testing kiosks at 10 of its hospitals across city||The Chennai Corporation has started installing COVID-19 testing kiosks to collect samples from residents in various parts of the city. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said that the testing kiosks have been set up at Corporation hospitals, in 10 locations, including Pudupet. “So far, COVID-19 testing for persons with symptoms was done only at Kilpauk Government Medical College Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, Omandurar Government Estate Multispecialty Hospital and Stanley Medical College Hospital. The new testing kiosks of the Corporation will collect samples from 500-600 persons every day. The centres will start operations from Saturday evening,” he added. “We have avoided primary health centres to prevent infection of pregnant women,” said Mr. Prakash. The Corporation will install 10 additional COVID-19 testing kiosks in two to three days, after which it will be able to collect samples from 1,200-1,300 persons. “The samples will be randomly collected from residents, living within a 100-m distance from the 76 containment zones where positive cases have been identified,” said Mr. Prakash. Pointing to the significance of collecting such samples, he said, “These results are critical. We will know whether the spread of COVID-19 has started. We will know the pattern.” Stressing on the need for home visits by workers for data collection, he said, “We have achieved 90% penetration. So far, 2,488 persons have been identified with symptoms like cold and fever. All the 2,488 persons will be under our radar for three weeks.” Mr. Prakash organised a meeting with media organisations on Saturday. “Over 20,000 persons deliver newspapers in the city. Personnel from newspaper organisations and persons who deliver newspapers should wear masks and gloves, by Monday,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-sets-up-testing-kiosks-at-10-of-its-hospitals-across-city/article31320954.ece
12 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Contributions to CM’s relief fund to be transferred to SDMA||The Tamil Nadu government has said that all contributions made to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) towards efforts to combat COVID-19 will be allocated to the Tamil Nadu State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA). The move follows the Centre’s clarification that such contributions do not qualify as corporate social responsibility (CSR) expenditure. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs said that contributions made to the PM-CARES Fund shall qualify as CSR expenditure, as per Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013. The Chief Minister’s Relief Fund or the State Relief Fund for COVID-19 is not included and does not qualify as admissible CSR expenditure, the Ministry said. However, it added that contributions made to the State Disaster Management Authority to combat COVID-19 shall qualify as CSR expenditure. “The contributions [made] to CMPRF from the date of orders of the National Disaster Management Authority, i.e., from March 24 to June 30, shall be allocated to the Tamil Nadu State Disaster Management Authority and utilised exclusively for activities to combat the spread of COVID-19,” an order issued by Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) S. Krishnan said. “We have directed the transfer of the funds to the State Disaster Management Authority, with the intention of making them eligible as CSR expenditure,” a senior State government official told The Hindu . Recently, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said CMPRF has received contributions to the tune of Rs. 101 crore. “The Centre’s move may result in the unintended consequence of the favouring of the Central fund rather than the State government [fund]. This needs to be rectified to encourage free flow to both Central and State government [funds], based on the Corporates’ preference rather than on fine interpretation of law,” said S.E. Prabakar, a chartered accountant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contributions-to-cms-relief-fund-to-be-transferred-to-sdma/article31320973.ece
12 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Zonal teams to focus on contact tracing||The State government has formed zonal special task teams comprising senior IAS and IPS officers to follow up and ensure that all contact persons of COVID-19 patients are traced. The teams would make sure that the guidelines were implemented effectively and the welfare schemes reached the targeted candidates. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, in an order on Saturday, said 12 teams, each comprising one IAS and IPS officer, would be posted to coordinate with the respective District Collectors in monitoring prompt contact tracing of patients and other cases daily, besides ensuring quick sampling, testing and release of results. The teams would liaise with the authorities concerned to make sure that proper treatment protocol was followed in all hospitals. The move comes a day after CM Edappadi K. Palaniswami expressed concern over the risk of State slipping into Stage 3 of COVID-19. The teams are: Chennai district: Rajendra Kumar and Abash Kumar, ADGP; Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu: T. Udhayachandran and T.S. Anbu, IGP, in Chennai; Vellore, Tirupattur, Ranipet and Tiruvannamalai: Mangat Ram Sharma and V. Vanitha, IGP, Railways, in Vellore; Villupuram, Cuddalore and Kallakurichi: L. Subramanian and ADGP K. Vannia Perumal in Villupuram; Salem, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri: R. Kirlosh Kumar, M.N. Manjunatha, ADGP in Salem.; Erode: T.N. Venkatesh and SP S. Lakshmi; Tiruppur, Coimbatore and The Nilgiris: Kumar Jayanth and Shankar Jiwal, ADGP, in Tiruppur; Tiruchi, Ariyalur, Perambalur and Pudukottai: R. Anandakumar and Shailesh Kumar Yadav, ADGP, in Tiruchi; Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam: M.S. Shanmugam and M.C. Sarangan, IGP, in Thanjavur; Madurai, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram and Theni: C. Kamaraj and S. Murugan, IGP, in Madurai; Karur, Namakkal and Dindigul: Munianathan and Abhay Kumar Singh, ADGP, in Karur; Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari, Tenkasi and Virudhunagar : M. Karunakaran and Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, DGP, Tirunelveli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/zonal-teams-to-focus-on-contact-tracing/article31320979.ece
12 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||129 foreign nationals rounded up||Following the outbreak of COVID-19, 129 foreign nationals, who were staying in various mosques in the State, have so far been held for violation of visa norms and involvement in religious preaching. These preachers hailed from Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and Congo. The police said they had arrived in India on tourist visas and violated the guidelines by travelling to different parts of the country and preaching. They attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi. Police sources told The Hindu that they had landed in different airports in the first week of March or even earlier. Thereafter, the members split up and travelled across the State and stayed in mosques. Many arrested persons had been kept at special quarantines and some were under treatment after testing positive for COVID-19. Visa regulations General Policy Guidelines Relating to Indian Visa says foreign nationals granted any type of visa and OCI cardholders shall not be permitted to engage themselves in “tabligh” work. There will be no restriction on visiting religious places and attending normal religious activities such as discourses. However, preaching religious ideologies, making speeches in religious places, distribution of audio or visual display/ pamphlets pertaining to religious ideologies, spreading conversion and so on is not allowed. Most of them attended the Tablighi Jamaat event between March 12 and 22 and later they split into groups and travelled to south India. Among them, 10 Malaysian nationals were first caught at Chennai airport last Sunday before boarding a special flight to Kuala Lumpur. They have been lodged in a quarantine ward at Poonamallee. They had travelled to Tenkasi and Thiruvananthapuram and involved in preaching activities, the police alleged. When the lockdown was in force, they travelled by a private van to the city to board the special flight to Kuala Lumpur. Subsequently, the Kancheepuram district police booked a case against 10 Indonesians and four Malaysians who stayed in a mosque in the town based on a complaint given by local village administrative officer. Meanwhile, State government facilitated evacuation of 2,470 stranded foreign nationals. The country-wise break of these people is: Malaysia 755, Singapore 488, France 295, Germany 271, Canada 131, Oman 3, Israel 6, the U.S. 281, and Japan 208.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/129-foreign-nationals-rounded-up/article31320976.ece
12 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State govt. may allow ‘liberal’ testing||As the wait for the rapid test kits continue, Tamil Nadu is all set to expand its testing for coronavirus disease (COVID-19), according to senior officials and doctors. A senior doctor said the State was moving towards “liberal” testing. “It will be test, test, test from now. People need to cooperate for two weeks. We are screening all contacts of positive patients and those with symptoms. The Chennai Corporation has set up 10 centres for lifting swabs, and it is important that people voluntarily go for testing. We do not want the community spread of COVID-19 to happen,” he said. “There is a delay in receiving the rapid test kits. But we want to expand the testing by utilising the existing RT-PCR machines. We are continuously monitoring the secondary contacts of persons, who have tested positive, in the containment zone. Testing of these persons will be completed in one or two days,” a health official said. The Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation has placed orders for four lakh rapid test kits. The number of samples being tested had been increasing since the start of April. As on April 1, the number of samples tested in the State since February stood at 2,726. In the next few days, the samples lifted for testing increased, crossing the 5,000 mark on April 6. For the first time, the number of samples lifted increased by over 1,000 on April 9. While 1,094 samples were under process as on April 11, the day saw the highest number of samples lifted till date. From 8,410 samples on April 10, the number increased to 9,842, adding 1,432 to the list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-govt-may-allow-liberal-testing/article31320985.ece
12 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Octogenarian back home after making a full recovery||More than a fortnight after she tested positive, the recovery of an octogenarian from COVID-19 has turned into a story of hope. As P. Vasanthamani, dean of the Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital, from where the octogenarian and two of her family members were discharged, puts it: “Not everything about COVID-19 has to be about fear, as 99% persons survive it.” One of the oldest patients in the State — the 84-year-old — was discharged from the hospital on April 9. A diabetic with hypertension, she came to the hospital for a follow-up on Saturday. As she thanked the doctors and hospital staff, they cheered her on with applause. It all started when her 23-year-old grandson, studying in London, returned home last month. His 54-year-old mother developed symptoms, and both were admitted to KMC on March 24. “We lifted samples from both of them. While the sample returned positive for the mother, it was negative for him. So, we repeated the test after 48 hours and this time, his sample returned positive for COVID-19,” Dr. Vasanthamani said. His grandmother too developed symptoms, and was admitted to KMC on March 25. She tested positive for COVID-19. “All three of them have recovered without complications,” she added. While the mother and son were discharged on April 6 and 8, respectively, after two consecutive samples tested negative, the octogenarian was discharged on April 9. “We have advised them a 14-day quarantine at home,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/octogenarian-back-home-after-making-a-full-recovery/article31320956.ece
12 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai’s tally surges to 182 cases||Chennai remained on top of the list of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) cases in the State. With 10 more persons testing positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, the city’s tally surged to 182. However, the day’s highest number of cases were from Tiruvallur as 16 of the 58 persons who tested positive were from the district. In the last two days, two doctors — a government and a private doctor — have tested positive for COVID-19 in the city, officials said. With this, six doctors have tested positive in the State. Tracing, quarantining The Health Department and the Chennai Corporation have taken up tracing and quarantining family members, patients and hospital staff who had come in contact with the two doctors. Disinfection work had been taken up at a private hospital in north Chennai. Apart from Chennai and Tiruvallur, 12 persons (eight women and four men) from Nagapattinam, 11 persons (10 women and one man) from Coimbatore, three persons from Tiruchi, two men from The Nilgiris, and one person each from Chengalpattu, Cuddalore, Dindigul and Tiruvannamalai tested positive, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. The number of cases in Coimbatore was 97 followed by Erode with 60 cases and Tirunelveli with 56 cases. 1,884 admitted A total of 1,884 persons were admitted to isolation wards of hospitals across the State. A total of 51,996 persons were under home quarantine, and 165 in government quarantine facilities. Another 49,963 persons have completed the 28-day quarantine period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennais-tally-surges-to-182-cases/article31320984.ece
12 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM seeks rapid test kits, Rs. 1,000 cr. immediately||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide COVID-19 rapid test kits and a grant of Rs. 1,000 crore immediately to procure medical and protective material. He made the request while participating in a video conference, chaired by Mr. Modi and attended by Chief Ministers of other States, in the context of Tamil Nadu getting only 64.65% increase under State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF), while other States got 120.33%. The increase was determined on the basis of the 15th Finance Commission methodology. However, Mr. Palaniswami, who spoke from the Secretariat here, thanked the Prime Minister for releasing Rs. 510 crore under the SDRF. In the last three years, Tamil Nadu had faced many natural disasters — Vardah cyclone and severe drought in 2016 followed by Ockhi cyclone in 2017 and the Gaja cyclone in 2018. Still, it got “lesser allocation” under the SDRF, the Chief Minister complained. In recent weeks, Tamil Nadu requested the Union government to provide personal protective equipment (PPEs), N-95 masks and ventilators in sufficient numbers, for which it wanted Rs. 3,000 crore.  Though the text of his speech, as released by the State government, did not refer to his making any suggestion for extending the lockdown, the Chief Minister said “train and flight services should not be resumed. I appeal to Hon’ble Prime Minister and other Chief Ministers not to allow inter State passengers’ movement.” At the same time, there should be smooth inter-State movement of these goods through lorries and supply of essential commodities, including dal and spices from other States through Railways. Renewing Tamil Nadu’s case for the provision of “rapid test kits,” Mr. Palaniswami said the kits were required to cover contacts of positive cases. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had been requested to provide 2 lakh test kits to the State. At present, the State had 12 government facilities and 7 private labs for COVID testing. “This needs to be increased by having at least one per district,” he said. If the lockdown was extended, sections of society, such as unorganised sector workers and agricultural labourers, should be given Rs. 2,000 per family. The Central government should provide additional funds and allotment of essential commodities, he said. Special package Pointing out that “at this hour of prolonged lockdown, we should not allow a food crisis in the country,” Mr. Palaniswami sought the announcement of a special package for agriculture and horticulture promotion. He reiterated various requests of the State government such as the allocation of Rs. 9,000 crore grant for launching a comprehensive plan for combating the effects of COVID-19 and its aftermath on the State’s economy; increasing fiscal deficit limits of 3% of Gross State Domestic Product to 4.5% for 2019-20 and 2020-21 and immediate release of 50% of the Finance Commission’s grants to local bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-seeks-rapid-test-kits-rs-1000-cr-immediately/article31320989.ece
12 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Do not delay decision on extension of lockdown: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday urged the State government to take a decision on extending the COVID-19 lockdown without any delay so that the people could mentally prepare for it. The present lockdown is due to end on April 14. In a letter to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, he pointed out that the Odisha and Punjab Chief Ministers had already extended the lockdown, and similar views have been put forth by Chief Ministers of various States during theall-party meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modirecently. “The country and the State are facing a testing time and we cannot move past it just like that. Every second is a golden period and if the government fails to use it properly it will be subjected to the curse of history,” he said. A copy of his letter was released to the media. Mr. Stalin described as “contradictory” the reports on community spread of the pandemic by the Centre and the State government. “The increase in the number of people who test positive for COVID-19 every day has caused the fear that the State could enter the third stage. This should be prevented,” he said. Mr. Stalin said the people could only maintain personal distancing and all other arrangements should be made by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-delay-decision-on-extension-of-lockdown-stalin/article31320967.ece
12 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T. Nagar gurudwara serves food to 400 migrant workers||Thelangarat the Sri Guru Nanak Sat Sangh Sabha in T. Nagar is usually busy, with food being served to devotees and patients who come for treatment at leading hospitals in the city, and their attendants who stay at the gurudwara. However, ever since the lockdown due to COVID-19, the cooks have been making food for another 400 persons, every day. “We make sambar rice, dal rice, vegetable biryani and khichdi and send the food to a few facilities of the Chennai Corporation in Mylapore zone. They asked if we could supply and we readily agreed,” said Amandeep Singh Kandhari, committee member of the Sat Sangh Sabha. President of the Sat Sangh Sabha, Harbans Singh, said that they were purchasing vegetables and rice on a regular basis from various sources, including Koyambedu. A helping hand “The kitchen runs on donations from various people. And we will be glad to help in any way possible,” he said. The Punjab Association, Chennai, has been providing lunch to close to 1,700 persons, including doctors and supporting staff at various hospitals that treat COVID-19 patients, and a few police outposts as well. Ramesh Lamba, association general secretary, said that the food was being prepared every day at Hotel Radisson Blu, with support from its managing director, Vikram Aggarwal, who is also a committee member of the association. “Members of the association are indebted to the people and government of Tamil Nadu, since they stood with the people of Punjab when they came here during the Partition. We will be soon putting up migrant labourers at our Anna Adarsh College,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/t-nagar-gurudwara-serves-food-to-400-migrant-workers/article31320958.ece
12 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel urges govt. to ensure children on the streets don’t go hungry||The children’s committee from the shelter for homeless girls, run by the Karunalaya Social Service Organisation, has appealed to people and the government to take cognizance of street children and the homeless who have been affected by the ongoing lockdown. “Ever since the lockdown, street children and homeless persons have been the most affected, and their rights need to be protected,” stated an appeal put forth by the children’s committee, to mark the International Day for Street Children, observed on April 12. “With no roof over their heads and no jobs or income, the government should ensure the safety of the homeless. We appeal to them to ascertain the needs of the homeless and street children, in shelters during the lockdown, and provide them necessities,” said the children’s committee. It further urged the government to distribute financial aid and ration to the homeless, and those without a ration card or other identity documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-urges-govt-to-ensure-children-on-the-streets-dont-go-hungry/article31320959.ece
12 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ICMR nod sought for plasma therapy trial||Tamil Nadu’s Health Department has sought the approval of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for trial of convalescent plasma therapy for critically-ill coronavirus disease (COVID-19) patients in the State. An official of the health department, while confirming that ICMR nod had been sought, said that plasma therapy was mainly for treating severely ill COVID-19 patients. The Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital has applied to ICMR for taking up plasma therapy and will launch the trial as soon as it gets the nod. “Plasma therapy involves collection of plasma from a person who has recovered from COVID-19 and transfusion to another patient. When a person recovers from COVID-19, he/she would have antibodies against the virus. Once the patients make a complete recovery and are screened for viral clearance, we can collect the plasma that will have the antibodies,” he said. Blood would be screened for other infections such as HIV and malaria before being taken for transfusion. “This therapy will be beneficial for patients who are severely ill, as their bodies lack the ability to fight the virus,” he said. A senior doctor said the blood of patients, who had recovered from COVID-19, will have the antibodies, which were protein molecules, that had a definite tendency to fight the antigens. In severely ill patients, it will help in fighting the virus. As of April 10, the State has 911 patients with COVID-19. Of this, 44 persons were discharged after treatment and nine have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/icmr-nod-sought-for-plasma-therapy-trial/article31320982.ece
12 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Bakeries open||Starting Sunday, the Chennai Corporation will permit bakeries to remain open from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m. In a tweet, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash announced that bakeries would open from Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bakeries-open/article31320957.ece
12 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Over 1.51 lakh violators arrested||Over 1,51,151 persons have been arrested so far for venturing out on roads, violating prohibitory orders promulgated in the State from March 24, to prevent the COVID-19 outbreak. All of them were released on bail. In the last 20 days, 1,40,176 violations were reported and 1,40,176 first information reports (FIRs) were registered. As many as 1,19,286 vehicles were seized and a total amount of Rs. 53.72 lakh was collected as fine from the violators, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-151-lakh-violators-arrested/article31320966.ece
12 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea of Koreans at Tiruchi special camp dismissed||The Madras High Court has dismissed writ petitions filed by two Korean inmates of a special camp in Tiruchi, alleging non-adherence to social distancing norms and absence of hygienic conditions on the premises, though such measures are needed to stop the spread of COVID-19. Justice S. Vaidyanathan rejected the cases after he was given a virtual tour of the camp through a WhatsApp video call by Special Deputy Collector S.N. Suthanthira Rajan to prove that it had enough space and the premises was hygienically maintained. “After watching the same, this court is able to see that the camp is maintained neatly and there are no stains in the toilets,” the judge said and recorded the submission that the camp had only 73 inmates, though it could accommodate 80 in 40 rooms. Since the two petitioners, Choi Yong Suk and Choe Jae Won, had been booked and detained on charges of evading Goods and Services Tax to the tune of over Rs. 40 crore, ordering their release from the camp would set a bad precedent, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-of-koreans-at-tiruchi-special-camp-dismissed/article31320970.ece
12 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Testing kiosks||The Chennai Corporation has started installing COVID-19 testing kiosks to collect samples from residents in various parts of the city. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said that the testing kiosks have been set up at Corporation hospitals, in 10 locations, including Pudupet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/testing-kiosks/article31321270.ece
12 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||DMK leader’s criticism baseless: CM||Countering Leader of Opposition and DMK president M.K. Stalin, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday accused him of levelling “several baseless criticisms” to give the impression that the government had not taken any steps to combat COVID-19. “It only shows his opportunistic politics,” he said in a 10-page rebuttal to Mr. Stalin’s letter to him earlier in the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-leaders-criticism-baseless-cm/article31320961.ece
12 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees 11 more COVID-19 positive cases||Coimbatore district saw 11 fresh COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday, taking the total number to 97. Ten of fresh cases were women. The district was also brought under the Red Zone category -- the top order in terms of severity of COVID-19 spread. The district also retained the second position in the State in terms of the number of cases, next to Chennai (182), on Saturday. Seventeen districts including Coimbatore were in the red zone while, nine were in the orange zone and eight were in the yellow zone as per the release issued by Tamil Nadu Health Department. 41 positive cases in city The new cases raised the total number of positive cases in Coimbatore Corporation limits to 41. According to sources, the Corporation had facilitated the testing of 47 of the 80 persons whose family members had returned to the city after attending the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi a few weeks ago. Of the 47, 11 had tested positive and the results of 23 were awaited. The 11 new positive cases took the total positive cases in the city to 41. Of the 41, 30 were admitted to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital and 11 to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. The sources also said that at present there were only around 850 persons in home quarantine. Around 2,000 persons, who were in quarantine, had completed the term and were free of symptoms. The sources also said that among those who had returned attending the Tablighi Jamaat conference, 13 had tested but they continued to remain in quarantine in a school on Trichy Road.  Two more test positive in the Nilgiris  Udhagamandalam: Two more persons from the Nilgiris have tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, bringing the total number of people affected by the virus in the district to nine. Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya, said that the two persons who have tested positive are the direct contacts of the eight people who had been placed in isolation since last month. They were among 30 people who were direct contacts of the eight people in isolation. All 30 direct contacts have been placed under quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sees-11-more-covid-19-positive-cases/article31321015.ece
12 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Officials help out alms-seeker||Following media reports of an alms-seeker in Ammankulam suffering without adequate food, officials from the Revenue Department provided groceries to her on Saturday. Based on directions of Coimbatore South Tahsildar S. Arulmurugan, Sowripalayam Village Administrative Officer Devika and Village Assistant P. Viswanathan visited Sheela at her residence in Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board housing unit in Ammankulam. A total of 25 kg of rice, two litres of cooking oil, two kg of sugar and other grocery items were provided, Mr. Viswanathan said. “She lives with her brother, who is visually challenged,” Mr. Viswanathan said. Sheela, who is said to be at least 70 years old, was also found to not possess Aadhaar card and ration card. “We will make arrangements for these after this COVID-19 situation eases,” he said. Sheela, her brother and his wife had been living in the TNSCB tenement and the siblings engaged in alms-seeking, he added. Mr. Arulmurugan said that vegetables would also be provided to her. Officials were collecting details of such people in need, including migrant workers and homeless people. “Any complaint we get, action will be taken immediately,” the Tahsildar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-help-out-alms-seeker/article31321000.ece
12 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man drinks sanitiser, dies||A 35-year-old man from Sulur in Coimbatore died on Saturday after he consumed hand sanitiser, allegedly expecting to get high from the alcohol-based disinfectant solution. The deceased has been identified as E. Bernard, a resident of Karaiya Rayappa Dever Street. The police said that he was working as a delivery agent with an LPG distribution agency. He was not going for work for the last two days due to the lockdown. Addicted to alcohol, he consumed a bottle of sanitiser he had at home around 2.30 a.m. on Saturday. The agency had provided sanitiser to its employees to cleanse their hands as a precaution against COVID-19, the police said. Though the man was rushed to a hospital, doctors declared him brought dead. Coimbatore-based gastroenterologist V.G. Mohan Prasad said that consumption of alcohol based sanitisers meant for sanitising hands was highly dangerous as it could destroy cellular mechanisms of liver, stomach and other organs of the gastrointestinal system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-drinks-sanitiser-dies/article31321016.ece
12 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. keeps animals well-fed in zoo||As people went about stocking groceries and other essentials to brave through the lockdown, the Coimbatore Corporation too did so. It went about buying poultry feed, animal feed, paddy, soya and cereals to take care of the needs of the animals in the VOC Park Zoo. The civic body has stocked enough materials to feed the animals for a month, say sources, adding that to ensure daily supply of vegetables, greens, fruits, chicken and meat, it issued passes authorising suppliers to deliver the goods. With both the delivery of daily supplies and goods with long shelf-life on hand, the Corporation has gone about feeding animals every day just as if any other day, the sources say. The primates, crocodiles, kite, jackal and a few other animals get their daily share of meat, the deer and other animals the cattle feed, birds poultry feed, snakes chicken and rat and monkeys and others, fruits and vegetables. As for rats, the sources say the zoo staff trap the rodents to be supplied to snakes. With the zoo being closed, the Corporation has also undertaken cleaning and disinfection drive, every day. And, the disinfection drive has only intensified after it came to light that the COVID-19 virus has affected tigers in a couple of zoos. The Corporation has over 70 reptiles, a similar number of mammals and over 300 birds at the zoo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-keeps-animals-well-fed-in-zoo/article31320995.ece
12 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Special team to investigate death of tiger, tigress in ATR||The authorities of Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) have formed a special team to investigate the recent death of a tiger and tigress within the limits of Pollachi forest range. Apart from recording statements of people who live in areas that are close to Pothamadai forest beat, where the carcasses of the carnivores were found in decomposing state on Wednesday, the special team is also collecting details of pesticides available in the region and the varieties used by farmers. Preliminary assumption of the Forest Department was that the tiger and tigress aged around ten, seemed to have been together during mating period, died after ingesting flesh of a poisoned wild boar, carcass of which was also found in the area. Samples collected from the carcasses were to be examined at a laboratory at Vandalur zoo and the government forensic laboratory in Coimbatore. Arockiaraj Xavier, Deputy Filed Director of ATR, said the Department would give reward to those giving vital information related to the suspected poisoning of the big cats. The Department suspect that someone left poison in the carcass of the wild boar with an intend to kill wild boars that come to scavenge the remains as they cause damage to crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-team-to-investigate-death-of-tiger-tigress-in-atr/article31321001.ece
12 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||IMFL bottles seized, three held||The Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW) of the police on Saturday arrested three persons who transported Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) in a vehicle on the pretext of transporting vegetables and attempted to sell it. S. Prakash, 34, and C. Arunkumar, 37, from Mariamman Kovil Street near Kovilpalayam and S. Prabhu, 31, from Kurumbapalayam were arrested by a special team. Officials said that the trio transported 60 IMFL bottles in a mini goods carrier on Kotayapalayam - Kondayapalayam road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/imfl-bottles-seized-three-held/article31321014.ece
12 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vehicles selling groceries sought for hill areas||Communist Party of India (Erode north district) has urged the district administration to introduce vehicles selling vegetables in hill areas and establish a special medical centre to cater to the needs of people. In a petition submitted to the Collector, its secretary T.A. Madheswaran said that people in Bargur, Kadambur and Talavadi hills could not purchase vegetables, groceries and essential commodities as shops were closed due to lockdown. “Vehicles selling these items would be of much help to them and the administration should take steps through cooperative societies,” the petition said. He said that many were unable to purchase medicines. “Special medical centres that function round the clock should be established in the three hill areas,” he added. The petition said that the hill areas were receiving rain and people were ready to cultivate crops. Hence, seeds should be supplied to them. The petition said that flowers grown in Sathyamangalam could not be marketed and permission was also denied to transport flowers to Karnataka through Pulinjur Check Post. “The administration should seek permission from the Karnataka government to transport flowers,” he added. He also sought food and basic facilities for the over 100 workers from Bargur Hills, who went to coffee estates in Valparai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicles-selling-groceries-sought-for-hill-areas/article31320996.ece
12 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two fined for entering forest area||Two men, who illegally entered forest area in Anthiyur, took photos and videos and uploaded the footages in social media, were fined. Forest officials said P. Kodeeswaran of Gobichettipalayam and D. Devendaran (24) of Bhavani had entered Kombu Thookiyamman Temple and Thanneerpallam Lake, both located inside the forest area that comes under Anthiyur Forest Range of Erode Division. Both were picked up and taken to the range office. A case was registered and they were levied fine of Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 40,000 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-fined-for-entering-forest-area/article31320997.ece
12 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Special teams formed to help residents in containment zones||Madurai Corporation staff, equipped with safety gear including face masks and gloves, delivered vegetables and groceries at doorstep of residences within containment zones in the city on Saturday, as all these areas have been completely cordoned off. The corporation has formed separate teams to help residents within the containment zones in the city. There are four containment zones in Madurai city - Melamadai, Narimedu, P and T Nagar and Mahaboopalayam. All these areas were identified as they are within one kilometre radius from residences where COVID-19 positive cases were reported. Following a directive from the Collector, all streets in the containment zone were completely barricaded and movement of residents were restricted from Friday, a corporation official said. “Earlier, only streets, with residences where COVID-19 positive cases were reported, were barricaded,” said the official. Collector T. G. Vinay said all containment zones throughout the district were ordered to be completely barricaded to closely monitor residents in these zones. “It is being ensured that only two or three exit points are present in each containment zone. It will help us ensure that there is complete restriction in movement of residents within the containment zones,” he said. The official said pamphlets, with list of shops that will deliver products at homes, were distributed to residents within the zone. In addition, the corporation has deployed three light commercial vehicles for each zone, which will be used to distribute vegetable bags to residents. Volunteers are deployed in each street in the containment zones to aid residents. Assistant City Health Officer S. Vinoth Raja said that around 86,500 households fall within the four containment zones. All these households are screened everyday by a team of 530 field level workers consisting anganwadi workers, domestic breeding checkers and urban health nurses. He said the containment zones were disinfected twice everyday using drone, machine sprayers and hand sprayers.  Only two or three exit points are present in each containment zone. This will ensure that there is complete restriction in movement of residents T. G. Vinay Madurai Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-teams-formed-to-help-residents-in-containment-zones/article31321234.ece
12 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Not only patients, medical personnel too get counselling||The outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic has affected the mental health of medical staff and patients in several different ways. Those affected include doctors and staff nurses working at Government Rajaji Hospital, who are in the forefront of the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. These medical personnel, who discharge their duties while staying away from their families, are vulnerable to mental stress. Regular counselling sessions are being held for them and support systems have been formed to help these medical personnel stay motivated. GRH Dean J. Sangumani says that treating patients during testing times like these, while staying away from families, has caused mental stress among medical staff. “This is first-of-its kind pandemic, which has affected the mental health of medical personnel. All GRH staff, including drivers, are working under stressful circumstances and sometimes they even fail to recall the particular day in a week,” he says. State president of Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association K. Senthil says that medical, paramedical staff and nurses of GRH work for seven days and are quarantined for the next 14 days. “They are quarantined in separate rooms inside Madurai Medical College and at a private hotel. Many of them often get emotional or mentally disturbed as they cannot meet their family members during this period,” he says. “There is also some level of anxiety among medical personnel as they are worried that they might be infected and transmit the virus to the family members”, says T. Kumanan, Head of the Department of Psychiatry, GRH. Regular counselling sessions are being held for the medical personnel to help them manage their anxiety. “Senior GRH doctors regularly speak to those working at isolation wards over the phone. We repeatedly keep telling them that doctors have to discharge their duties, as it is the only way to tackle the pandemic,” says Mr. Senthil. Dr. Kumanan says that contact numbers of around 15 doctors from the Department of Psychiatry have been given out so that those medical personnel who require help can reach out to them. “So far, we have received only a few calls. But, we think the number might increase in the days to come,” he says. Patients at the isolation wards of Government Rajaji Hospital too have been undergoing counselling via telephonic conversation everyday. M. S. Chellamuthu Trust Founder C. Ramasubramanian, whose organisation has partnered with the GRH to provide mental health support to patients, says that it is pertinent now more than ever to provide empathetic care. Sense of anxiety He says that a counsellor speaks to patients everyday as most people in isolation wards tend to develop a sense of anxiety. “This is why it is important to explain in detail the nature of the disease and the road to recovery. If we make this clear, they will gain more confidence,” he says. Referring to the suicide of a 60-year-old man at the Ariyalur Government Hospital, he says that people who are separated from their families may feel hopelessness, worthlessness and fear of isolation. “In case the fear is acute, they will be referred to a psychiatrist or psychologist at the hospital itself,” he says. The Dean said that the hospital’s psychiatry department regularly engages with patients through telephonic conversation. Apart from this, he adds that the Administrative Judge of the Madras High Court Bench in Madurai Justice P.N. Prakash conducted a few counselling sessions to keep doctors motivated. “I regularly tell my staff that by working as a team, we can successfully combat the pandemic,” GRH Dean says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/not-only-patients-medical-personnel-too-get-counselling/article31321220.ece
12 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Child marriage: five booked||All Women Police have booked five persons for conducting the marriage of a minor girl in Vellaimalaipatti near Usilampatti on Friday. Police said that based on a tip-off, Social Welfare Department officials alerted the police about the marriage of a 16-year-old girl with M. Jegadeesh, 24, who was involved in murukku making in Andhra Pradesh, on March 29. After the parents of both the youth and the girl gave an undertaking that the marriage would not be conducted, the girl was sent back with her parents. However, on Friday, Social Welfare Officer Thenmozhi came to know that the girl’s marriage was conducted on April 6. Based on her complaint, the groom, and parents of both the groom and bride were booked under the provisions of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-marriage-five-booked/article31321215.ece
12 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Orphanages stock up on rice and pulses, prevent entry of outsiders||Many orphanages across the district have completely cordoned off their premises disallowing outsiders from stepping in so as to prevent spread of COVID-19. There are a total of 45 homes with 302 children in the district, according to sources in the Child Welfare Committee. Though many students have returned to their families and guardians, those without any support continue to stay. Most homes are prepared for a possible extension of the lockdown by stocking up enough rice and pulses. But all of them say that some step out to buy vegetables once in a few days. Motilal Nehru, who manages the Siddhar Koodam Nam Kuzhandaigal Illam, says that he goes out to buy goods. “On a regular day, there are 51 students. Now, with only 27 students we are preparing food primarily consisting of pulses,” he says. At Al Ameen School's orphanage, only five students are staying. The manager, who does not wish to be named, says that earlier groceries would be dropped at the orphanage as vehicle movement was allowed. “Now, we have to go out. The District Child Protection Unit and the Child Welfare Committee have said that in case we need vehicle pass, we can approach them. It is not a big issue,” he says. B. Pandiaraja, a member of the Child Welfare Committee, says that all homes have been instructed to follow a set of pattern. “In case of obtaining special permission, they can approach us,” he says. He adds that students have been asked to exercise everyday and learn new skills to kill boredom. The manager of St. Ann’s home in Tirunagar says that 23 students, who are at the hostel currently, have been asked to practise their handwriting, play indoor games and use the library there. C. Jim Jesudoss, Executive Director of Sakthi Vidiyal, says that they do not permit extensive viewing of COVID-19 related news in order to keep the minds of children occupied during the pandemic. “Considering that there are only 18 students at the home now, we are careful about what they consume and whay games they play. We do not want them to feel bored so that we are keeping them engaged through group activity,” he says. Child Welfare Committee Chairman M. Vijayasaravanan says that physical and mental distraction is necessary for children during this time. “Those living at homes are used to the environment there. The only difference is that there are no schools. Many students are going back to puzzle solving, playing traditional games and reading. We have instructed managers of homes to ensure that all students are aware of COVID-19 and its symptoms. We hope to make the best of these trying times,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/orphanages-stock-up-on-rice-and-pulses-prevent-entry-of-outsiders/article31321221.ece
12 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||House collapse victim succumbs to injury||A 70-year-old man, S. Kader Mohideen, who was injured in a house collapse in Peraiyur on Friday died in the hospital on Saturday. Police said the man was injured when part of his house collapsed while he was watching television on Pallivasal Street around noon. He was rushed to the Government Rajaji Hospital where he succumbed to injuries on Saturday. The old house was weakened after rain reported in Thursday, the police said. Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan distributed groceries to four migrant workers from West Bengal in Virudhunagar on Saturday. The workers were given 15 kg of rice, one kg dal, and one kg of cooking oil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/house-collapse-victim-succumbs-to-injury/article31321219.ece
12 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Lecture series via video conferencing’||With court operations suspended following the national lockdown imposed in order to counter the spread of COVID-19, advocates have decided to put to use technology to keep themselves engaged. A lecture series launched on Saturday will be conducted via video conferencing applications. In the trial session, advocates were briefed on how to use the video conferencing applications, so that they can participate in the lectures. Both retired and sitting High Court Judges, senior advocates and advocates have been invited to be part of this initiative. Advocate S. Srinivasa Raghavan said, “After the idea was mooted, a good number of advocates want to be a part of the initiative. Lectures will be held via popular platforms like Zoom and Google Hangouts”, he said. Many advocates have already suggested topics and experts will be roped in to deliver lectures. High Court judges have also expressed their willingness to deliver lectures on the topics suggested for the benefit of the advocates, he said. In order to ensure good number of participants, premium versions of the applications have been purchased. “The initiative was launched so that there is a continuous learning process. We intend to continue this initiative even after the lockdown is lifted”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lecture-series-via-video-conferencing/article31321222.ece
12 April 2020||Mayiladuthurai,TAMIL NADU||Spotlight shifts to marking of boundary for new district||Now that the State Government has issued an official order announcing formation of a new district with Mayiladuthurai as headquarters, the spotlight will shift to marking of boundary, according to votaries of the development. The new district, which will be the 38th in the State, has been carved out of Nagapattinam district, following several years of struggle by various sections of the public spearheaded by Mayiladuthurai Chamber of Commerce and other welfare organisations. The public are relieved that the government has at last taken cognisance of the difficulty faced so far by the people in Mayiladuthurai and surroundings to avail themselves of the utility of all government schemes due to the rather distant location of the district headquarters at Nagapattinam. Even the government officials in Mayiladuthurai and surroundings had to face the discomfort of having to spend an entire day for to and fro travel to Nagapattinam. While it is apparent that the new districts will encompass four taluks: Mayiladuthurai, Sirkazhi, Tranquebar and Kuttalam, there are expectations in some quarters that Kattumannarkovil, which is currently in Cuddalore district, will be annexed with the new Mayiladuthurai district for administrative convenience The public in Kattumannarkovil also had been facing the same problem of excessive distance from the district headquarters. The distance between Kattumannarkovil and Cuddalore Collectorate is 70 km. Whereas the taluk is only 28 km away from Mayiladuthurai, Rajendran, Senior Advocate, and member of BJP National Council, said. The public in Mayiladuthurai are impressed by the gesture of the Dharmapuram Adheenam to offer 60 acres of its land on the outskirts of the town to establish the headquarters. The Mutt authorities are also keen that the government medical college for the district must be established in the land it has offered at Mulapakkam, about half a kilometre from the Mayiladuthurai-Nagapattinam Highway. The government is understandably keen on taking possession of the land at the earliest for establishing the Collectorate and other important offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spotlight-shifts-to-marking-of-boundary-for-new-district/article31321246.ece
12 April 2020||NEW DEHLI,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry didn’t get a penny from Centre to fight COVID-19: CM||Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayansamy said the Union Territory needs at least Rs. 300 crore to fight the COVID-19 pandemic but has not got a penny from the Centre. To add to this, Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi was constantly interfering in the day-to-day working of the government, he said. So far, only seven COVID-19 cases had surfaced in Puducherry. Mr. Narayanasamy lauded his Cabinet Ministers and the administration down to the level of health workers for effectively managing the spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-didnt-get-a-penny-from-centre-to-fight-covid-19-cm/article31320965.ece
12 April 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Functioning of grocery shops||As part of the measures to contain the spread of the novel corona virus, the Pudukottai district administration has announced that grocery shops in the district will henceforth function only on three days a week. Collector P.Uma Maheswari, in a press release, said that the shops would function only from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/functioning-of-grocery-shops/article31321267.ece
12 April 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||More than 10,000 get assistance||Collector K Veera Raghava Rao has on Saturday said essential commodities were given to 10,056 unorganised workers, including 316 persons from other States. Speaking to reporters, he said the Revenue Department conducted a survey and identified the beneficiaries. They were given Rs. 1,000 each, 15 kg of rice and other essential commodities. Regarding the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Rao said 45 samples were sent to the lab and 43 had tested negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-than-10000-get-assistance/article31321214.ece
12 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||EPFO to receive grievances online||Following lockdown, the regional Employees Provident Fund Organisation will organise its monthly grievances redress meeting, Nidhi Apke Nikat, online. The public can register their grievances on the website epfigms.gov.in or use social media handles likewww.facebook.com/epfosalemon Facebook and @EpfoSalem on Twitter to raise grievances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/epfo-to-receive-grievances-online/article31321002.ece
12 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Exams postponed||The Controller of Examinations of Periyar University has informed its affiliated colleges that the semester and practical examinations scheduled for the months of April and May have been postponed due to lockdown for COVID-19. Officials said that the examinations would be rescheduled after lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exams-postponed/article31321004.ece
12 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Two die at sago plant||Two employees of a sago plant near Attur died when they inhaled toxic gas from the biogas unit of the plant on Saturday. The deceased were identified as M.Arumugham (45) and his nephew A.Karthik (20) from Sadasivapuram.The police said, Karthik went into the plant to check the biogas chamber and fainted inhaling the gas. While trying to save Karthik, Arumugham also fainted inhaling the gas. Both died on the spot. Further investigation is on||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-die-at-sago-plant/article31321003.ece
12 April 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||11 foreigners held for overstaying||Eleven foreigners - seven from Malaysia and four from Indonesia - were arrested on a charge of overstaying here on Saturday. As one among them had fever, all the 11 persons were kept in an isolation ward at the TB Hospital in Amaravathipudur in Karaikudi. Police said that they came to New Delhi in February and stayed there till March 18. The next day they visited Dindigul and reached Ilayankudi on March 21. Since then, they had been visiting mosques and propagating the Tablighi Jamaat ideologies. The police, who arrested them in a farm house where they had been staying, produced them before Judicial Magistrate Sunil Raja who directed them to be remanded in judicial custody. As they were kept in judicial custody in the isolation ward, the police strength at the TB Hospital had been increased with round-the-clock security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-foreigners-held-for-overstaying/article31321223.ece
12 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||TMC Hospital to conduct virus tests from Monday||Swab tests to confirm the presence of COVID-19 virus will be conducted at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital from Monday. Arrangements have been made for testing 100 swabs per day Disclosing this to reporters at the Collectorate here on Saturday evening, Collector, M.Govinda Rao said that hitherto the swabs were sent to Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital. Stating that over 7,000 persons, including 6032 who had a travel history to foreign countries, were under observation in the district, the Collector said that throat swabs from 536 persons who had links with the 78 persons attended the New Delhi Conference were collected and sent for the test. Of these, 349 turned negative and results were awaited with respect to others. At the same time, the health condition of 11 persons who tested positive in the district was stable and protein and vitamin-rich diet was being provided to them along with the medicines. In addition to the 2,400 beds that were ready to treat COVID-19 patients, 155 educational institutions and other establishments have been identified where an additional of 10000 beds could be set up in case of any exigency. Further, areas such as Adhiramapattinam, Kumbakonam and Orathanadu, where the number of persons who have returned from foreign countries or from other States such as New Delhi were high, had been earmarked as hotspots and the thrust was on containment measures at these places. Brushing aside the allegation of non-availability of protective gears for doctors and others posted for duty at the COVID-19 special wards, he said 7800 personal protective equipment (PPEs), over 7000 N95 masks and 1.10 lakh triple layer masks were available with the hospital authorities. Apart from this the women self-help groups in the district have produced 1.60 lakh masks and were distributed to the field staff for their use. The WSHGs continue to manufacture the masks, he added. Responding to the call for enrolment of names as volunteers to help the 17,749 government staff deployed in the COVID-19 containment exercise, Mr.Govinda Rao said hitherto 3,125 persons registered their names with the officials and 28 non-governmental organizations have come forward to assist the government staff. When his attention was brought to the lack in disinfecting exercise in some rural pockets, he rebutted the same by pointing out that 5122 persons have been deployed all over the district for this work and they were carrying out the mass disinfecting exercise daily. As far as the e-pass facility offered by the government to help those in the dire need to move out of Thanjavur district for medical treatment, marriages or funerals, 1200 such passes have issued. Similarly, over 1000 SoS calls have been received at the COVID-19 care/complaints cell and all of them have been attended or resolved immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tmc-hospital-to-conduct-virus-tests-from-monday/article31321259.ece
12 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Vattathikottai shows the way||Vattathikottai, a village in Peravurani block, has shown the way in implementing COVID-19 containment measures. After a person from nearby Ooranipuram tested positive for the novel corona virus, elected local body representatives and block officials requested the villagers to stock the essential commodities required for a week. It was decided to close all the shops in the area for a week from April 8. Not even a single shop functioned in the village since April 8 and all the streets in the village have been barricaded to prevent unnecessary movement of public through the hamlet said the Peravurani Panchayat Union chairman, Sasikala. A team of 260 volunteers has been formed to ensure that ration goods along with the Rs. 1000 cash relief were delivered at the doorsteps of ration cardholders in the villages coming under the panchayat union. Further, all roads excluding the 20 major district roads in the PU have been barricaded and a 55-member traffic regulation team comprising the police and local volunteers have been formed to ensure that the panchayat union was free from unnecessary movement of vehicles. Stating that 8 mini-vans have been deployed to sell vegetables at the door steps of consumers, she said enumeration of those having travel history to foreign countries or to New Delhi and other States have been completed and handed over to the Revenue Department, she added. Further, the health condition of villagers was being ascertained frequently and `kabasura kudineer’ was being supplied to the people. Apart from keeping a tab on the health condition of public, those involved in the COVID-19 prevention exercises were also being subjected to health check-ups, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vattathikottai-shows-the-way/article31321247.ece
12 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Plea to disburse arrears of wages for job scheme workers||Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam and Communist Party of India have demanded disbursement of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) wage arrears. In memorandums addressed to the district administration, its district secretary N.V. Kannan and CPI district secretary M. A. Bharathi said wages for January, February and March had not been disbursed. Though availability of essentials had been ensured, it would be ridiculous to leave people without sufficient funds. Mr. Bharathi demanded that 21-day wages be released in advance to beneficiaries along with ration, free of cost. He demanded distribution of Rs. 10,000 and free ration to ulemas and staff attached to mosques and dargahs and members of unorganised sector workers’ welfare board for April, May, June and July. Such assistance should be extended to street vendors who have not obtained identification cards. The government should release pension benefits to members of unorganised sector workers’ welfare boards. Mr. Bharathi suggested that the three-month fishing ban period to begin on April 14 be rescheduled to January 15-March 15, 2021 and Rs. 10,000 be provided to fishermen. He demanded free distribution of ration goods to rice cardholders till July 2020 and an increased relief of Rs. 10,000 per card. He urged the district administration to form committees to ensure that prices of essential commodities did not shoot up. Stating that a similar situation prevailed in Tiruvarur district, where some wholesale and retail traders of essentials had closed their establishments in view of shortage of stock, the TNVS district president S.Thambusami and district secretary V. S. Kaliyaperumal have demanded steps to ensure free availability of essentials. They urged the district administration to initiate steps to protect paddy bags stacked in open storage points in view of widespread rain recorded in some parts of the State. Pointing out that cotton cultivation had been taken up on a large scale, they complained that in some areas non-availability of fertilizers had caused concern among farmers. Urea should be moved to places where scarcity existed and made available to farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-disburse-arrears-of-wages-for-job-scheme-workers/article31321253.ece
12 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Funds donated||The Maruthupandiyar Educational Institution has donated Rs. 12,00,007 to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. The amount, including the voluntary contribution of one month salary of employees of the group of institutions, was made to the Fund towards the COVID-19 containment measures, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/funds-donated/article31321260.ece
12 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Drone deployed at Boldenpuram||The corporation has deployed a drone at Boldenpuram, a containment zone, to monitor movement of residents after a 72-year-old woman from this area died of COVID-19 in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital on Friday. As the viral infection from the woman spread to her son and daughter-in-law, the three were undergoing treatment in a private hospital from where they were shifted to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital’s COVID-19 ward. The woman did not respond to the treatment and died on Friday and the body was buried in the night. “The body was wrapped properly and was taken to the burial ground with police protection. A 15-feet-deep pit was dug into which the body was laid. Disinfectant was filled in the pit for every two feet. As her relatives were afraid of contracting the viral infection, none turned up,” said a police officer. Since areas closer to the house of the deceased have been declared a containment zone and restrictions imposed on movement of residents, the corporation has deployed the drone. “As they are not allowed to move out, all their needs are being met by the officials, who supply essentials and medicines to the people quarantined at home,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drone-deployed-at-boldenpuram/article31321229.ece
12 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile sample collection unit launched in Thoothukudi||The district administration has deployed a mobile sample collection unit here to collect blood and swab samples from COVID-19 suspects living in containment zone instead of asking them to come to Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for giving samples. The areas surrounding the houses of COVID-19 positive patients are declared as ‘containment zones.’ The containment zones in Thoothukudi district are Boldenpuram, Kayalpattinam, Petmanagaram, Ayyanarooththu, Thangammalpuram, Authoor and Kembalabath. These areas are sealed and no outsider is allowed to enter while the residents of containment zones cannot move out of their houses. With the help of volunteers, officials look after their day-to-day needs like essential commodities and medicines. Since blood and swab samples would be collected from the people living close to the COVID-19 positive patients’ houses, the mobile sample collection unit has been launched. Collector Sandeep Nanduri, Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan and other senior officials monitored the exercise. As a glass wall fitted in the vehicle with two holes for taking blood and swab samples separates the suspect and the health worker, probability of infection is relatively less. The health worker, wearing long gloves on sanitised hands, puts the hand through the holes to take the samples from the suspect sitting on the other side of the glass wall. “The mobile unit will visit the seven containment zones. If required, one more vehicle will be commissioned soon,” the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-sample-collection-unit-launched-in-thoothukudi/article31321231.ece
12 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||FPO launches mobile retail sale of vegetables||A couple of Farmers Producers Organisations (FPO) of Tiruchi district have launched mobile retail outlets to sell vegetables and bananas to residents at their doorsteps during the lock down period. While the Tiruchi Malaikottai Farmers Producers Company has ventured into vegetable sales in Tiruchi city, the Tamil Nadu Banana Growers FPC has started selling banana in the rural areas of Tiruchi and Namakkal districts. The initiative was part of the measures ordered by Collector S.Sivarasu to enable residents purchase vegetables and fruits at their doorsteps and prevent overcrowding at the markets. The move to sell bananas through the FPC was intended to help banana growers reeling under a slump in the price of the fruit due to the lockdown. According to G.Chakravarthi, chairman, Malaikottai FPC, the first day of the sale through a mini goods carrier on Thursday met with an overwhelming response from residents as they started the sale near Irattai Vaical on Vayalur Road and ended at Thennur. “The demand is very high. We plan to add three or four vehicles so as to serve more areas such as Tiruverumbur. We also plan to launch a mobile outlet at Manachanallur soon,” Mr.Chakravarthi said. The company, which has about 800 shareholding farmers as members, sources locally grown vegetables and fruits from its members and other farmers. Hill grown vegetables such as beetroot and carrot are purchased from wholesale dealers. “We sell at a very nominal price and are not looking at profits in the venture at this stage,” he said. The vegetables and fruits are procured from farmers in Manachanallur, Tiruverumbur, Manikandam and Andhanallur areas. Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu Banana Growers FPC based at M.Puthur near Thottiyam has started selling banana through mobile outlets in villages in and around Thottiyam in Tiruchi district and in some villages in Namakkal district as well. “Currently we have deployed three goods vehicles for retail sales and each vehicle sells about 1.5 to 2 tonnes of the fruits a day. We sell the fruit at a nominal price, lesser than the market price,” said A.Subramanian, treasurer of the FPC. According to Mr.Subramanian the initiative has brought some succour to the banana growers, who were severely hit by the lockdown and fall in demand, which have come right at the time of harvest. Instead of being forced to sell the banana at throwaway prices as low as Rs. 3 a kg, the mobile sale of the company fetches them up to Rs. 10 a kg, he said. He points out even this was possible only after the district administration took steps to issue passes to vehicles transporting banana. The company procures the banana, mostly poovan variety, from its members and sells in the villages. It also transports some quantity to markets in Kerala and Karnataka. The lockdown had hit the FPC too badly. The company has been making value added products such as dry banana, banana fig, powder, juice, cookies and energy drinks. Some of the products were even exported. But production has come to a standstill now as the products could not be delivered to the buyers. The company also runs a Primary Processing Centre which has a cold storage, grading and sort yards and other necessary infrastructure. This too lies idle. “If we get major orders, we have the infrastructure to deliver,” said Mr.Subramanian. But as of now, such possibility seems far fetched. Mr.Subramanian suggests that the government can procure banana from farmers and supply to essential workers, including health workers and patients at hospitals. “If handling perishable fruits is a problem, we can supply dry bananas or banana figs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fpo-launches-mobile-retail-sale-of-vegetables/article31321249.ece
12 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 3 more in Tiruchi, 12 in Nagapattinam test positive||Three patients tested positive for COVID-19 at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here on Saturday increasing the total positive cases in the hospital to 39. Two women aged, 46 and 60, and an 80-year-old man, are family members of a man who had taken part in the single source event at New Delhi early in March and tested positive last week. Official sources said that the 80-year-old man has a locomotor disability while the 60 year-old woman was visually impaired. “By isolating them soon after their son tested positive, we have ensured that they were tested early on. The patients are stable and responding to treatment well,” doctors said. The district administration traced 165 individuals who were contacts of the 36 patients who tested positive. Of them, 103 tests have returned negative while the test results of 59 patients are awaited. A total of 42 patients, including three positive patients hailing from Karur, Perambalur and Ariyalur, are undergoing treatment at the isolation ward the MGMGH. Sixty-nine others who tested negative after attending the Delhi event are currently being monitored in institutional quarantine at the Jamal Mohammed College campus. Collector S. Sivarasu said that of 3,045 people who had been quarantined at home after travelling abroad and other States, 2,729 have completed 28 days. Meanwhile, 20 containment zones, including 9 within the city, have been created to prevent community spread. Meanwhile, the Musiri Institute of Technology - College of Agriculture and Technology has donated a Walk In Sample Collection Kiosk (WISK) to the MGMGH so that healthcare providers can safely collect samples from patients for COVID 19 testing. A glass chamber with attached rubber gloves for the doctor to put their hands through would ensure the safety of the medical personnel during collection of samples. Stimulation of nose and throat while collecting swabs and samples can lead to sneezing and coughing which could increase spread of the viral infection. “The specialised cabin offers the much-required safety for the doctors doing the sample collection,” R. Yeganathan, Medical Superintendent, MGMGH said. Nagapattinam Twelve patients, all relatives of previously tested positive patients who attended the single source event in Delhi, have tested positive for COVID-19 in Nagapattinam district on Saturday. The patients, eight females and four males, all parents or spouses of the patients are undergoing treatment at the Government Headquarters Hospital, Nagapattinam. Already 12 people, including a doctor, are undergoing treatment for COVID-19 raising the number of patients to 24 in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-3-more-in-tiruchi-12-in-nagapattinam-test-positive/article31321264.ece
12 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Volunteer groups join corporate entities to help the less privileged||Volunteer groups are collaborating with corporate entities in the city to help out less privileged residents who are struggling for sustenance in the wake of the nationwide lockdown to stem the COVID-19 pandemic. No Food Waste (NFW), a Coimbatore-based NGO that redistributes surplus meals among the poor, has partnered with Reliance Foundation to give away rations to 3,000 needy families in Coimbatore, Salem and Tiruchi. Each relief pack contains 10 kg of rice, 2 kg of dal, sugar, oil and spices, adding up to 15 kg. Its Tiruchi chapter distributed packs to those at Ariyamangalam dumping ground on Thursday. Those who want it had to register their identity proofs and phone numbers. In a press release, it said a second initiative with other corporates and philanthropists is being planned to reach out to 20,000 poor people like daily wage earners and those without ration cards in Chennai, Tiruchi, Salem, Erode, Tiruppur, Madurai, Dharmapuri, Hyderabad and West Godavari district. A group of residents of Srirangam has got together for the past one week to distribute aid given by Tiruchi district-level employees of the Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited of India. “Many essential service providers like ambulance, lorry drivers and police personnel are unable to eat properly due to closure of highway restaurants. Apart from the poor and homeless people living in suburban areas, many autorickshaw and fish-cart operators are waiting for relief. So we have been distributing lunch and pre-packaged food items through pick-up points at 11 HP petrol stations and fanning out to remote areas in the city to look for deserving recipients,” said Arudra Saravanakumar, a film-maker who is leading the effort with four of his friends. So far, the group, which moves around in two vehicles, has given lunch packs, biscuits, buns, bread, water bottles and milk shakes to at least 1500 people. “Extending the lockdown may make it difficult for volunteers like us to function alone, as there are so many needy residents who have been badly hit by loss of their livelihood. More companies could dedicate their Corporate Social Responsibility to the corona virus relief effort this year, so we don’t have to exclude anyone who is in need,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/volunteer-groups-join-corporate-entities-to-help-the-less-privileged/article31321256.ece
12 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Artists pitch in to create awareness||The Tiruchi district branch of the Tamil Nadu Artists Association is painting the town with awareness messages for COVID-19. The paintings, being done on arterial roads in the city depict the ‘evil’ virus along with messages to people to stay indoors and practice social distancing. The idea came about when the the association members discussed their plight of the lockdown robbing them of their livelihood with one another. “We came to a decision that as our duty towards the community, it was important to create awareness. We approached the authorities to make multi-colour emulsion paint art pieces in prominent places in Tiruchi,” said U. Nagendran, President, Tiruchi district branch of the Tamil Nadu Artists Association. The artists usually paint hoardings, political and social messages on walls across the district. Some of them do private commissions too. “Now with all supplies running dry, and no new assignments, we were sitting and whiling away time when one of our members pitched this initiative,” Mr. Nagendran said. So far, three paintings - one at Palpannai, and two near the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital have been completed. The team gathered at the the Karur Bypass Road on Saturday morning after getting necessary approval from the Tiruchi City Corporation and police authorities. “We are looking to paint about 30 locations across Tiruchi district and 15 within the city,” A. A. Francis, another member, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/artists-pitch-in-to-create-awareness/article31321262.ece
12 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||New teachers in private schools may not get promised salary||Having completed the process of recruiting teachers for the forthcoming academic year during January-February, managements of private schools are not unduly worried about adequacy of teaching staff, but there seems to be an element of uncertainty whether the newly-recruited teachers will be paid the salaries they have been promised. On their part, the managements apprehend that the trend of salary cuts in the government and non-government sectors will reflect in expectations from the parents that the fee structure must also be revamped to suit their financial situations. “As we have been sounded of a salary cut in the 20-30 % range, it is only reasonable on our part to expect a corresponding decrease in the fee structure,” a parent said. According to officials, the State Government has, for now, advised the managements not to collect the fee. But, no decision has been taken as yet on prevailing upon the managements to ease the financial burden of the parents, a senior official said. In the event of the government instructing private schools to reduce fee structure citing slump in economy, the managements will, in turn, pass the burden on the teachers by effecting cut in their salaries, a worried teacher said. The managements will scale down the salaries of the newly-recruited teachers without the slightest hesitation, citing depleted cash flow, he said. There are indications that the government would have a re-look at the fee structure, and keep a tab on the amounts collected from the students, sources said. Meanwhile, private schools have entirely dropped the idea of conducting special classes for the summer vacation due to the uncertainty over the duration of the lockdown period. The scope for conducting classes during summer vacation does not seem to exist in the backdrop of a steady increase in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the State, a functionary of a management of a group of schools said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-teachers-in-private-schools-may-not-get-promised-salary/article31321252.ece
12 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to sell vegetables in all wards||The Tiruchi Corporation has sought to expand the reach of its initiative to sell vegetables at the door step of city residents by extending the service to all the 65 wards in the city. Although the Corporation recently launched the service earlier this month, the vegetables were sold through a goods van in each of the four zones. In an attempt to ensure that residents stayed indoors and prevent crowding at the markets, the civic body has now decided to extend the service to all wards using push carts. “Corporation workers will henceforth sell the vegetable bags on push carts in each of the 65 wards. The workers engaged in the exercise would wear protective get such as face masks and hand gloves,” Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said in a communication. According to civic officials the civic body was procuring the vegetables from wholesale traders. Each vegetable bag, comprising about 10 items, is sold at Rs. 100. The phone numbers of the Corporation employees deployed in each ward are also given in the push card. “Residents can call the numbers and indicate their requirement,” an official said. Sources indicated that the goods vans would also go around the zones selling the vegetables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-to-sell-vegetables-in-all-wards/article31321250.ece
12 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Veterinarians offer help to stray dogs||The Department of Animal Husbandry has come forward to offer assistance to 21 animal welfare volunteers in Tiruchi for feeding stray dogs. As a token of assistance, a group of veterinarians collected 100 kg of rice and handed over it to animal welfare volunteers on Saturday so as to provide food to the stray dogs. S. Ganesh Kumar, Veterinary Assistant Surgeon, said that stray dogs were finding it difficult to find food due to closure of restaurants and eateries due to the curfew. However, animal welfare volunteers continued to provide food to them. The veterinarians too had decided to support the stray dogs. As a token of support, 100 kg of rice was supplied to the volunteers. They would in turn provide cooked food to the dogs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veterinarians-offer-help-to-stray-dogs/article31321258.ece
12 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vigil stepped up at elephant rescue centre||All six elephants, accommodated at the Elephant Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre (ERRC) at M.R. Palayam on the outskirts of Tiruchi, have been quarantined as a precautionary measure to prevent them from contracting COVID-19. The sprawling centre, abutting the Tiruchi-Chennai National Highway, is home to six elephants, translocated from different parts of the State. Malachi from Madurai was the first elephant to be accommodated at the centre and Jameela  from Tirunelveli was the latest addition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vigil-stepped-up-at-elephant-rescue-centre/article31320974.ece
12 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Telemedicine service for pets||Pet lovers of Tiruchi can make use of the 24/7 telemedicine service for pets launched by Sanchu Animal Hospital. Real-time ‘video consultation’ would be offered by specialised veterinarians through the service. The service will be available on the popular digital platforms such as WhatsApp, Zoom, Google Hangout, etc. and the pet owners can visit: telemed. sanchuanimalhospital.com or call 94452 60101 to avail the service. “I am confident that our telemedicine service launch marks the next chapter in the future of pet care,” C.K.Ranganathan, founder of the hospital, said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/telemedicine-service-for-pets/article31321269.ece
12 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Three-colour card system introduced||With Melapalayam registering 32 COVID-19 cases so far, the corporation has started distributing cards in three colours - green, blue and red - to the residents there to prevent crowding in shops and vegetable markets. The card system has been introduced to curtail number of people coming out of their houses to purchase grocery items or vegetables every day. Different colour cards have been distributed to different areas. Those holding green card can come out on Monday and Thursday, blue card on Tuesday and Friday, and red card on Wednesday and Saturday. They can come out of their houses between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m. and carry the card and an identity proof. They should be aged above 15 years and below 60 years. They must strictly follow physical distancing. Volunteers are distributing the cards. “While distributing the card, we ask the residents to abide by the regulations and cooperate with the officials in preventing community spread of the virus,” said Milleth Ismail, one of the volunteers. As 175 persons were found to be in close contact with the 16 COVID-19 positive patients from Melapalayam who participated in a religious conference in Delhi, the officials tried to take blood and swab samples from the ‘high risk contacts.’ After a lot of persuasion, 153 of them gave samples of which 16 tested positive to take the total number of COVID-19 patients from Melapalayam to 32. The remaining 22 persons refused to cooperate with corporation and revenue officials and hence samples could not be collected from them. Locking their houses from inside, they did not come out arguing that they were healthy. The officials spoke to them over mobile phone. When they stopped attending to the calls, the officials, through public address system, requested them to come for the mandatory test since they were close to the COVID – 19 positive patients. A team of Melapalayam locals, including a doctor, an advocate, representatives from a Muslim organisation and Jamaaths, continued the persuasion till Friday night but in vain. “As the attempt continued on Saturday also, they finally agreed to give samples in the evening,” said S.S.A. Ghani, Tirunelveli City district president of Social Democratic Party of India, who was one among the negotiators. Now health officials are worried about people from this containment zone stealthily straying into other parts of Tirunelveli. “Since all roads leading to Melapalayam have been sealed by the police, some people are going to Tirunelveli Town and Pettai in the early hours through fields and return at night. This may lead to community transmission of the viral infection, which will be disastrous,” warned a doctor attached to the Department of Public Health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-colour-card-system-introduced/article31321218.ece
12 April 2020||TIRUPATTUR,TAMIL NADU||Vigil to be heightened||The district administration is thinking of strict enforcement of lockdown period up to April 14 in the wake of increased positive cases for COVID-19 in the State. The total number of cases in Tirupattur district stands at 16 as on Friday and in Ambur it was 13. He said that people can call 7667689852 for advice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vigil-to-be-heightened/article31320986.ece
12 April 2020||Tiruvannamalai,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 patient discharged||A 28-year-old novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) patient was discharged from the Tiruvannamalai Government Medical College Hospital on Saturday. He had spent 14 days in hospital and his subsequent blood tests showed ‘negative’, according to Health Department officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-patient-discharged/article31320971.ece
12 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Horticulture Dept. prepares for flower show despite uncertainty over event||Despite the looming threat of cancellation, Horticulture Department workers in the Government Botanical Garden in Udhagamandalam are busy pruning plants, organising the viewing galleries and mowing the garden’s expansive lawns in preparation for the district’s iconic flower show, scheduled for the middle of May. With just over a month left for the 124th Flower Show, what should have been one of the busiest few weeks on the calendar for the Horticulture Department have turned into a daily balancing act of managing the gardens while also looking ahead towards making the final arrangements for the flower show. The 55-acre Botanical Garden, which usually has a small army of a few hundred workers putting in long-hours every day, now is being readied by only 50 staff, all of whom reside in the department’s quarters in and around the garden itself. Preparations for the flower show, which is the marquee event of the Nilgiris’ summer festival, started well in advance in November itself, officials said, adding that April was usually reserved for decorating and arranging the garden in the weeks leading up to the show. “There has been no announcement yet on the flower show. So, for all intents and purposes, we are preparing for the event with the available manpower,” said a Horticulture Department official from the Nilgiris, adding that if the gardens were not maintained, weeds would quickly takeover and the lawns would become unmanageable. “We have stopped workers residing in the town from coming to work in the garden, and have enforced strict personal distancing norms and other measure between the workers to keep them safe,” said M. Radhakrishnan, Assistant Director of Horticulture, the Nilgiris district. Mr. Radhakrishnan said that imported seedlings were prepared for the flower show well in advance and that the plants had started blooming already. “However, it seems unlikely that we will import cut flowers from other parts of the world for the flower show if it is indeed held this year,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/horticulture-dept-prepares-for-flower-show-despite-uncertainty-over-event/article31321006.ece
12 April 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Case against ‘missing’ patient||The Villupuram West Police have booked a case against a COVID-19 positive man from Delhi, who went missing after he was released from quarantine from the Villupuram Government Hospital on April 7 following a clerical error. Based on a complaint by Senthil Kumar, Deputy Director of Health Services, the police have registered a case against the man under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease) of IPC, Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act, Tamil Nadu Public Health Act and 51 (b) of Disaster Management Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-missing-patient/article31320977.ece
12 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Use Amma ambulance for treatment of cattle’||The district administration has asked the people to make use of the Amma ambulance services by calling 1962 for providing emergency treatment for cattle and other animals. The same number can be called for providing food for stray dogs too. People can also call the Regional Joint Director (Animal Husbandry) over phone 94450-01132, seeking help, said Collector R. Kannan. “With hotels closed, food waste on which the stray dogs feed is not available. We have a network of volunteers who can feed the animals,” the Joint Director, S. Arunachalakani said. Though the district did not have much stray cattle, he said that fodder was available and people who want to feed such stray animals can get in touch with the Assistant Directors, he said. Other officials whose intervention could be sought are AD (Animal Husbandry): Virudhunagar 94450-32590, Srivilliputtur 94450-32592 and animal right activist, S. D. Selvaram over 88700-00031. Selvaram, managing trustee of Animal Care Trust functioning in Rajapalayam, said stray cattle were dependent on the vegetable waste in markets. But, waste has dwindled these days. He said that lot of greenery was available in areas like Rajapalayam and Srivilliputtur thanks to the recent showers. The stray cattle can feed on them. The trust had some stock of fodder. “If people call us we can arrange fodder for cattle through volunteers,” he added. The Animal Husbandry Department will chalk out a plan of action to help stray animals, Mr. Arunachalakani said. “Treatment of animals at the veterinary hospitals was continuing as usual,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/use-amma-ambulance-for-treatment-of-cattle/article31321227.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation begins cash disbursement for street vendors||Coimbatore Corporation on Saturday began providing financial relief to street vendors to overcome the impact of lockdown induced by the COVID-19 pandemic. Sources familiar with the development said as of Saturday afternoon, the civic body had credited to bank account the relief of Rs. 1,000 each to more than 1,800 of the 6,169 street vendors. By Monday or Tuesday, the Corporation would complete crediting the money to the eligible among the remaining vendors. The Corporation began crediting the money to each vendor’s bank account based on an announcement by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on the floor of the Assembly that the State Government would extend the financial relief. Thereafter, the Government had transferred Rs. 61.69 lakh to the Corporation for disbursement – to be credited to each vendor’s bank account. To facilitate the transfer of money, the Corporation had on Friday asked vendors with vendor identity card to come forward to share their bank account details to officials at the head office in Town Hall or the five zonal offices. Initially, the Corporation had difficulty in collecting the bank account details because the vendors were apprehensive if it were some prank. After dissemination of the information that the vendors could call the Corporation officials on landline numbers, they came forward. Many among the vendors were not aware of the IFSC code of the branch where they operated their account and a few among them could not convey to the officials the details. Several such persons reported directly to the Corporation officials at the Town Hall office, the sources said. Further, to the complete the process at the earliest, the Corporation had on Saturday deployed close to 30 persons to call up the vendors to seek the bank details. The Corporation that had so far only the vendors’ vendor identity number, name, phone number and Aadhar details, now also had their bank details. It would soon complete the money disbursement, the sources added. The list that the Corporation went by to credit the COVID-19 financial relief was of 2016. There were many redundancies in the list and the number of actual vendors was twice that of the civic body’s, said S.M. Ubaidu Rahman, a member of the Town Vending Committee. He said that he had asked the Corporation to consider also including those vendors who did not make it to the list – that is vendors who did not have vendor identity card.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-begins-cash-disbursement-for-street-vendors/article31321009.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||The virus versus women||We are just beginning to learn and feel the magnitude of the direct and indirect impact that this pandemic is having on the lives of women across the globe. COVID-19 is not just a health issue. It has complex interactions at the social, economic, cultural, political and gender relations level. Data reveals that the virus does not impact women as severely as men. Women do get infected and develop complications. Just less than men. Women are bigger casualties due to the nature of their work, the impact of the economic downturn, the lockdown and the stay-at-home mandate, adding to the existing deep fissures in gender parity. These will have a negative impact in the short term and will be more pronounced in the long term. Health workers Women make up nearly 70% of the global health care work force. As nurses, doctors, therapists, cleaners and caregivers they are in harm’s way with gruelling schedules, compromised safety, lack of protective equipment and poor representation at leadership levels. The thought of how the pandemic will affect their own lives, and their families is a major source of anxiety and stress. Watching many patients die is a heavy emotional burden for many of these women with the potential for serious post-traumatic stress disorders soon. The economic downturn will have the harshest impact on women. More women work part time, provide a major share of childcare and elder care. They are under paid, unpaid, unorganised and undervalued. Small businesses such as salons, fruit and flower shops are often women-owned. This also exacerbates the economic insecurities and gender inequalities that already exist. The economic shocks felt by women can drive them to take heavy interest loans, multiple jobs and low paying or risky jobs. It is well known that during times of crises, violence against girls and women becomes real. We are seeing this yet again. Lockdown, unemployment, financial hardship and access to alcohol are making men/spouses angry and edgy, leading to domestic abuse. The WHO and the UN Women are deeply concerned and flagging this aspect of the pandemic regularly. Pregnancy should be viewed as a high-risk state. Women missing their antenatal visits/ scans and post-partum visits due to fear of infection and lack of transportation will compound to the existing crises. Maternal morbidity and mortality are likely to go higher now. Gender based violence, economic insecurities, care giving, front line health care work, loss of physical and emotional support from family and friends due to physical distancing and lockdown, concerns about pregnancy, contraception and abortion, worries about the future of education, physical and mental well-being of their children. Nearly 700 million girls are out of school now and many adolescent girls who are forced to stay at home run the real risk of being burdened and exploited with domestic chores and caregiving. Many may never return to school. It is important to anticipate these challenges and begin the remedial measures at local and the national levels. Transwomen‘s lives have been upended even more during this lockdown. Begging and commercial sex work are not options. Discrimination and lack of family support for many have made them more marginalised now. Many trans women on hormones are unable to access and afford the medications and getting good health care has always been a challenge for the LGBTQIA+ community. Way forward How can we make this pandemic a catalyst for building a better tomorrow for our girls and our women? By taking a gendered approach to the entire situation. a) We need women included in decision making and in leadership roles. b) Healthcare workers need to have adequate Personal Protective Equipment and mental health support. c) Data needs to be disaggregated based on gender d) Special needs of pregnant women to be addressed through a hotline e) A plan to offer Wellness Clinics post COVID for everyone, particularly women f) Transwomen and disabled women to be assisted through the local government g) Prioritising physical and mental health of women now and beyond the pandemic These are very unusual times. They need more than the usual solutions. We need a bright light, a gender lens and good leadership. What are we waiting for?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-virus-versus-women/article31320964.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Meat shops to be shut down||Meat shops in the district will not function from Monday, Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani told presspersons here on Saturday. The meat shops will be closed till further orders. In an effort to help the public get the essential commodities during the lockdown period, grocery and vegetable shops are open from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m. Only one member of a family should go out the buy essential items such as vegetables, grocery, or medicine. At the shops, personal distancing should be maintained. Traders should not sell the essential commodities at higher prices. If they do so, action will be taken against them. If the public face any problem in purchasing the essentials, they can approach the district administration, he said. Action will be taken against those who violate the lockdown and come out. The Corona relief fund announced by Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami has been disbursed to 93 % of the PDS card holders and the distribution continues. So far, 546 people in the district have been tested for COVID-19 and 97 have tested positive. Results are awaited for 22 more. Further, people in 97,000 houses in Coimbatore city, Mettupalayam, Annur, Pollachi, and Anamalai areas have been screened by 700 health workers, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meat-shops-to-be-shut-down/article31321010.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to await Centre’s decision on extension||Asked why the State government should wait for the Central government’s decision when States such as Odisha and Punjab had gone for an extension, Mr. Shanmugam asserted that “it is not a matter wherein one State can decide unilaterally. At the video-conference, all the CMs were also of the view that it would not be proper if one State took a decision which was different from that of another. So, they had all decided that all the States should function in a unified manner and they should rally behind the Prime Minister.” Moreover, there was “no hurry” for Tamil Nadu to decide on the issue as the lockdown would remain in force till 6 a.m. on April 15. One more factor that was considered by the State government was that T.N. was placed second as far as the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases was concerned. The Cabinet, which reviewed steps taken to tackle the spread of COVID-19 and examined the status of every district, recorded its appreciation for the cooperation extended by people and the services rendered by front line health workers, doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, officials of various departments, conservancy workers and the police. Asked whether the State government would provide more assistance to daily wage earners and workers in the unorganised sector if the lockdown was extended, the Chief Secretary said that as and when the extension was done, the CM would announce the government’s steps. On the launch of the scheme of fair price shops selling grocery items at Rs. 500 a bag, Mr. Shanmugam said that the government felt that the price was on the higher side. So, the authorities had been advised to prepare similar bags with lower quantities of groceries for Rs. 100 or Rs. 150 a bag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-to-await-centres-decision-on-extension/article31320981.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||With 58 fresh cases, T.N.’s virus count at 969||These are over and above what the Centre will supply to the State. On the row over supplies from China, the Chief Secretary said only a limited number of companies were producing the kits. As the consignment, meant for India, was reported to have been diverted to the United States, it was expected that “our country will get the next consignment, in which Tamil Nadu will get 50,000 kits, in view of the State’s earlier order. We hope to get another 50,000 kits,” he said. Asked why the consignment went to the U.S., he said, “You all know the answer.” Mr. Shanmugam said the State government had got even patients with mild symptoms admitted to hospitals despite the Centre’s advice of letting such patients remain at home. On allowing more testing facilities in the State, he said that the Dharmapuri government medical college had been given permission by the Central authorities on Friday. This was apart from 12 government facilities and 7 private laboratories. The Centre’s approval was awaited for government medical colleges in Kanniyakumari, Thanjavur and Vellore. As for converting public places into temporary wards, Mr. Shanmugam said that an official group had made an assessment of the State’s requirements. It had identified hotels, hospitals and large buildings, in which three lakh patients could be accommodated. The government, which was working on projections regarding the spread of COVID-19, would come out with its findings in a few days. Asked whether the State government would bear the expenses for tests done at private hospitals, the Chief Secretary said that the Chief Minister was looking into the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-58-fresh-cases-tns-virus-count-at-969/article31320987.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man in isolation ward dies||A 61-year-old man from Perundurai, who was admitted to the COVID-19 isolation ward at the Erode District Headquarters Hospital on April 8, died on Saturday. Sources in the Health Department said that he was admitted with complaints of trouble in breathing and other ailments and was undergoing treatment. Swab sample was lifted from him and sent for laboratory analysis for COVID-19 and the report was awaited, sources added. However, he died on Saturday morning. His body was kept in the mortuary. Doctors said that only after the arrival of the victim’s lab report, would the body be handed over to relatives. Meanwhile, the victim’s residential area was cordoned off and workers sprayed disinfectants in the street and houses at Perundurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-in-isolation-ward-dies/article31321017.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three booked for attacking migrant worker, wife||Perumanallur police booked three persons on charges of attacking a migrant worker and his wife while demanding rent in Perumanallur in Tiruppur district on Saturday. According to the police, the three accused allegedly asked the couple Bijay Barjo and his wife Sibani, who were from Odisha, to vacate the house in Paramasivampalayam if the rent of Rs. 1,500 was not paid. When the couple pointed out that they were out of work due to COVID-19 lockdown, the accused allegedly assaulted them and verbally abused the couple. The couple have been living in the rented house for three years, police said. Balasubramaniam was the owner of the house, who allegedly attacked the couple with his wife Pushpa and relative Senthil, according to police. Based on a complaint from Sibani Barjo, Perumanallur police registered a case under sections 341 (Punishment for wrongful restraint), 294(b) (uttering obscenities) and 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code. Efforts to nab the accused are under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-booked-for-attacking-migrant-worker-wife/article31321013.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur gets more isolation wards||With Tiruppur witnessing an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, the district administration is converting educational institutions into isolation wards for the patients. An official from the Revenue Department said that 100 beds have been arranged at the isolation ward in Jaivabai Municipal Girls Higher Secondary School last week. Prior to this, another 100 beds were set up in a private engineering college at Palankarai, Avinashi, the official added. “We are targeting 1,000 beds for the district,” the official said. More educational institutions and other locations will be identified at the earliest for conversion into COVID-19 isolation wards, according to the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-gets-more-isolation-wards/article31321012.ece
12 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||We are helpless: industrialists||Industrialists have expressed helplessness in paying wages to their workers during the lockdown period. At a meeting with Suresh Angadi, Union Minister of State for Railways, several industrialists said they were facing a very hard time and could not afford to pay wages to their workers for this month. “Almost all of us paid wages to labourers last month, but we will not be able to this month. The Union and State governments should pay their wages instead,” said an entrepreneur.“The labour laws in the country don’t allow us to dismiss labourers for reasons such as lockdown or lack of demand or finances. We have to keep them on our rolls and pay them wages. It adds to our burden. The government should come to our rescue,” he said. Another industrialist demanded that the State government instruct the Hubli Electricity Supply Company waive power bills as factories are not working at all and the output and transactions were nearly zero. “Factories have been forced to foot the power bill even during the lockdown. The government should waive these bills till the lockdown is lifted,” he said. Some others said it was difficult for most of them to get supply of raw materials or transport finished goods owing to the lockdown. One person said that Equated Monthly Instalment moratorium announced by banks was not a moratorium in fact. For one, it is optional and discretionary. Secondly, the banks plan to collect the pending dues after three months, by charging additional interest. This is unfortunate and the Centre should tackle this issue in the interest of industries, the entrepreneur said. The Minister responded by saying that he would convey these concerns to the government. He also said he would help settle all local issues by discussing with the Deputy Commissioner. Joint Director of Industries Dodda Basavaraj asked factories to provide protective equipment, masks, gloves and headgear to all workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-are-helpless-industrialists/article31321071.ece
12 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Briefs||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has intervened to ensure that a poor family gets medicines at Narasapur village in Belagavi district. Pavitra Arabavi, a resident of Narasapur, called the CM’s office saying that the family had run out of medicines and had no money to buy them. Mr. Yediyurappa called Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli about the matter. Officers then went to Ms. Arabavi’s house and delivered a month’s supply of medicines, said a release. Those who need such assistance can call the CM’s office at 080-22032848.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefs/article31321073.ece
12 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Life inside city’s two containment zones||On a street at Bapujinagar, Shabbir Ahmed, a senior citizen, waited outside a Nandini milk booth on Saturday afternoon. It had a small handwritten board announcing that it will open by 5 p.m. He had two hours to wait, but already a small group of people had arrived there. “We haven’t had milk in two days now. There are children at home,” said Mr. Ahmed, his mask muffling some of the words. Residents in two wards — Padarayanapura and Bapujinagar — that were sealed on Friday after being declared COVID-19 containment zones are struggling to adjust to the new life. Five positive cases were reported in the area. However, vehicles, especially two-wheelers, were seen entering and leaving the containment zone. Several people also entered and left these zones on foot. But their movement was relatively restricted as the residents themselves have blocked most of the roads with stones and tree branches. This is over and above the barricades put up by the police. A health survey is under way in both the wards. “Most of the residents are cooperating with the survey. As far as we have observed, flu or even common cold is not prevalent in these areas,” said Shanta, a nurse conducting the survey in one of the areas, and added that there was a need for an awareness campaign to sensitise citizens about COVID-19. Fresh supply Shortage of milk and vegetables are the biggest complaints of residents of these areas. “There has been no milk or vegetables for two days, contrary to announcements made about auto-rickshaws and pushcarts being deployed for the service,” said Subhadra Bai, a resident of Shamanna Garden. The councillors of Bapujinagar and Padarayanapura told The Hindu that their wards got only 900 litres and 3,000 litres of milk, respectively, on Saturday. They held multiple meetings on Saturday with civic authorities, who promised to improve milk supply from Sunday. “We have made arrangements for supply of vegetables also from Sunday. We have kept two entry and exit points open, and have identified people with pushcarts in our wards who will be given vegetables and fruits at specified points,” said Imran Pasha, councillor, Padarayanapura. Saleem Ahmed, a resident of Padarayanpura, said the area had a large demography of poor labourers working in the beedi sector, stitching bags, and rolling incense sticks. Most of them work from home, but that has now stopped. “The supply of food and rations to the poor is key, but it has not begun,” he said. Families who are financially stable are worried, too. “We have rations for the next few days. All shops are closed and if our experience is anything to go by, we cannot depend on the civic authorities,” said Anuradha, a resident of Bapujinagar. The two councillors have asked the civic administration to distribute ration kits, not just to the poor but to all households in the two wards. “When we have sealed down the entire wards, it is our duty to ensure that citizens have a comfortable life at home if we want them to cooperate. If that is not done, they will grow restless,” said Azmal Baig, councillor, Bapujinagar. Mr. Pasha, councillor, Padarayanapura, had a similar opinion. “Universal distribution of ration kits is the need of the hour,” he said. Bapujinagar and Padarayanapura have placed requests for 25,000 and 12,000 ration kits, respectively, based on the number of households in these wards. “We will soon take a call and provide for ration to all the needy,” said Sarfaraz Khan, Joint Commissioner, BBMP, nodal officer for distribution of ration kits in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/life-inside-citys-two-containment-zones/article31320911.ece
12 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State moves to 11th position from 3rd, but more tests are key||Although Karnataka has moved to the 11th position from third in terms of number of identified positive cases, health experts and doctors say the State Health Department now has a mammoth task of testing all secondary contacts of positive patients as well as those with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). With the lockdown to be extended for two more weeks, doctors said the Health Department has to now step up testing and this is the only way to control the infection. The State government had two days ago told the High Court of Karnataka that health infrastructure for COVID-19 is being prepared by projecting that there will be 10,000 positive cases in the State by the end of April. The State’s COVID-19 task force has also recommended that the nearly 7,070 secondary contacts identified in the State have to be tested in the next two weeks. Sources in the task force said this is a crucial “to-do” task. Besides, the government should also procure more PPE kits, masks and other material to deal with the situation. “The Centre recently asked the States not to procure these material directly and all supplies would be made by the Centre. It is not correct to centralise procurement as it would virtually paralyse and suffocate the treatment strategy and preparedness. It will also cause undue delay,” said a member of the task force. “While the Centre is not able to meet the requirement of Centrally-funded institutions such as AIIMS, how can we expect that the requirement of all States will be met without delay? The States should be allowed to procure, and supplies from the Centre are welcome,” said the member. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), told The Hindu that based on the task force’s recommendation, all 7,070 secondary contacts apart from 2,175 primary contacts would be tested from now on. Clarifying that the numbers submitted before the court were purely “projections” and should not be misinterpreted, the official said: “We have taken into account the worst-possible scenario. We are preparing keeping this in mind.” On the State’s facilities, he said: “As of now, we have 11,036 isolation beds, 1,685 ICU beds, and 784 ventilators.” He said testing in the State is done as per Indian Council of Medical Research and Government of India protocols. “Although the Centre has not made testing of all primary contacts compulsory, Karnataka has been testing all primary contacts and Deputy Commissioners have been directed to test secondary contacts too,” he said. Apart from the one lakh rapid test strips that are likely to arrive on April 13, the State had placed an order for 10,000 RNA test kits from Pune. “While 1,500 of these have arrived, we will get the remaining by Tuesday. With this, we will be able to test primary and secondary contacts,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-moves-to-11th-position-from-3rd-but-more-tests-are-key/article31320932.ece
12 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Elaborate health measures taken in zoos, elephant camps, govt. tells HC||The State government has told the High Court of Karnataka that the State Forest Department and the Karnataka Zoo Authority have initiated elaborate measures to protect the health of captive elephants and animals in zoos in view of the COVID-19 outbreak. Additional biosecurity measures, including daily health screening of staff, had been introduced in the nine zoos and all elephant camps to ensure that there is no possible transfer of the virus from man to elephants and other animals, the government said in its statement. The instructions were issued to observe symptoms consistent with COVID-19, such as respiratory signs of nasal discharge, coughing and laboured breathing through direct observation in elephants. In case of symptoms, the animals are to be isolated and samples to be collected and sent to the designated animal health institutes to initiate COVID-19 testing, while following all biocontainment and safety measures as per the national protocol. Those dealing with elephants, particularly mahouts and kavadis in camps, and having contact with animals in zoos are regularly screened, the government said, while stating that even animal-keepers have been told to maintain minimum contact. The staff coming from areas where COVID-19 positive cases are detected or persons under home quarantine were requested to strictly follow the rules, and only healthy staff are being allowed to enter the zoo and report to duty after screening every day. All vehicles carrying food material are required to pass through a trough filled with anti-microbial solution in zoos so that microbes attached to the tyres are removed, the government said, while stating that food and medicinal requirements of animals during lockdown had been ensured. The Forest Department has also instructed conservators and deputy conservators of forests (CF/DCF) to check the availability of food supplies to the private, temple and mutt elephants in their jurisdiction. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna, which is hearing PIL petitions on issues owing to COVID-19 lockdown, has directed the CF/DCF to find out availability of food to private, temple and mutt elephants, and ensure supply through NGOs in case food is inadequate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elaborate-health-measures-taken-in-zoos-elephant-camps-govt-tells-hc/article31320927.ece
12 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Relaxations likely during next phase of lockdown||The next phase of lockdown in Karnataka for additional two weeks will come with relaxations for agricultural and industrial sectors, so as to allow slow regaining of economic activity. Addressing a press conference after the videoconference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa noted the impact of COVID-19 on the rural economy. He said lockdown norms have been relaxed for farmers to enable them to commence land preparations during the coming kharif season. Already, several districts have received rain during the last few days. “The Prime Minister said fishing activity can be restored and processing of fish yield can be done. This has come as a major relief for coastal districts Udupi, Uttara Kannada, and Dakshin Kannada in our State,” said Mr. Yediyurappa. Noting the measures taken by the State government to fight COVID-19, Mr. Yediyurappa said the State’s ranking in the country in cases has slipped from third to 11th in the last couple of weeks. “Mr. Modi said the next two to three weeks are critical and it will decide whether we have succeeded or failed. If the situation worsens, we have to face the crisis,” said Mr. Yediyurappa. Lockdown measures Mr. Yediyurappa said 365 check-posts have been installed in Bengaluru city alone and 588 check-posts in other parts of the State to regulate unnecessary movement of vehicles. A total of 43,432 vehicles have been seized, 1,558 FIRs registered, and 2,682 persons arrested during the lockdown period till now. The police have tightened vigilance during nights in all border areas and check-posts. About 50 foreign activists of Tablighi Jamaat have been identified and put on quarantine. A total of 269 in Bengaluru and 485 people in other parts of the State, who attended the event in Nizamuddin, have been identified.  The Prime Minister has instructed States to take steps to check selling of goods at higher prices in the black market, the Chief Minister said. All shops related to essential commodities have been kept open and all vehicles transporting farm produce have been allowed to transport goods to market in urban areas, Mr. Yediyurappa said. In a tweet, the Chief Minister said: “My Cabinet and I attended the video-conference about #COVID19 with Mr. Modi today. We discussed vital strategies and actions to implement around the State. We are doing and will do everything in our control to tackle this pandemic.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relaxations-likely-during-next-phase-of-lockdown/article31320929.ece
12 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many institutions switch to webinars||Cultural organisations and NGOs are increasingly turning to webinars or online seminars to get their message across and the response so far has been positive, they said. Bengaluru International Centre, which used to host events almost every day before the pandemic and subsequent lockdown, has launched BIC Podcasts and BIC Streams webinars, which are held twice a week. “As a community space, our aim is to engage with people, and the times we are now living in have given rise to new ways of engagement,” said V. Ravichandar, Hon. Director, BIC. “Though they are not a replacement for a session in the physical space, these online initiatives are working well,” he said. Aikyam Community for Sustainable Living has also been organising webinars on climate change and sustainable living. “The COVID-19 pandemic is a man-made disaster where viruses in wildlife jump to humans due to destruction of forests and the wild. There is an awareness of this aspect today that has created a keen interest in sustainable living practices," said Sandeep Anirudhan, an activist from the city.  No more physical boundaries One advantage to online is that they do away with physical boundaries. The Centre for Financial Accountability, Delhi has started a ‘Solidarity Series Webinar: Conversations during lockdown and beyond’, which has found a big following among the activists in the city. “We used to only host lectures earlier. But the response to the webinar series has been overwhelming and we are able to reach a wider audience across the country," said Gaurav Dwivedi, associate director, CFA. The series that began on March 31 was expected to end by April 14, but has now been extended on popular demand. Here to stay Book Bramha, a book catalogue website for Kannada books, has begun a series where a short story writer reads one of his stories to the audience online every evening at 6.30 p.m. “We have had several noted writers like Amaresh Nagudoni read their work. Jayant Kaikini and Vasudhendra are also scheduled to read their stories,” said Devu Pattar, Executive Director, Book Brahma. Given the success of webinars they are likely to stay even after the lockdown, activists say. In the cash-strapped environment that activists work in, webinars are friendlier on the pocket and the technology ensures that people watch the discussion later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-institutions-switch-to-webinars/article31320908.ece
12 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Delay in BBMP budget: Mayor seeks guidelines||The Financial Year (2020-21) has already begun but Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has failed to present a budget for the city. Delay caused by various factors including the lockdown has forced Mayor M. Goutham Kumar to write a letter to the Chief Secretary seeking guidelines on how to present the budget at this time. In his letter to the government, the Mayor noted that the BBMP Commissioner had not submitted the budget proposals before the Standing Committee for Taxation and Finance by January 15. “The financial year has already begun, but owing to lockdown, there has been a delay in presentation of the budget. For the first time, the BBMP is facing this kind of a situation. In this time, guidelines are required on how to present the budget and maintain the financial condition of the BBMP,” said Mr. Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/delay-in-bbmp-budget-mayor-seeks-guidelines/article31320920.ece
12 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP sets up helpline to assist needy||The BJP has set up a helpline to assist the needy during the COVID-19 crisis. According to a release by BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel, the helplines 080-68324040 and 87225 57733 has so far assisted 1,23,898. The BJP workers have taken up various programmes to assist people during lockdown, he said, adding that two lakh food packets were being distributed to the poor every day. So far, more than 20 lakh such food packets had been distributed. It said that 5,95,505 ration kits had been distributed. It had taken up a programme to make masks at 7,000 centres. The intention was to provide masks to the poor at their doorstep, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-sets-up-helpline-to-assist-needy/article31320924.ece
12 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Community survey in rural areas from today||In the wake of the growing number of COVID-19 positive cases, the Bengaluru Urban district administration is set to conduct a community survey at the village level. A team consisting of Asha and anganwadi workers, and school teachers will carry out the survey to identify influenza-like illnesses. Deputy Commissioner G.N. Shivamurthy directed the team to visit villages and cover at least 60 houses per day. The team will send villagers to fever clinics if they have cold, fever or cough - all symptoms of COVID-19. Their throat swabs will be taken for tests, and two other teams will facilitate the quarantine process. If the samples come back positive for COVID-19, patients will be sent to the designated hospitals for treatment. The DC warned that officials disobeying government orders will face the disciplinary action. He said that survey will commence from Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/community-survey-in-rural-areas-from-today/article31320919.ece
12 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A third of city police to get a week off on rotation||Keeping in mind strict enforcement of the lockdown, Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao has directed unit heads to keep a third of the force in reserve. The aim is to provide one section of the overworked force complete rest from work for a week while the remaining two-third of the force work. “After a week, the next one-third of the force at the station level will be given a break so that they have time to return to work rejuvenated,” Shashi Kumar, DCP (North), said. 15,000 personnel The city has around 109 law and order police stations and 42 traffic stations. Around 15,000 personnel have been deployed on ground since the start of the lockdown. “They are working round the clock against all odds and are more exposed as well as vulnerable to infection. The workload is heavy, and stress levels are high. A week’s rest will help them regain the physical and psychological strength needed to combat the pandemic,” another police officer said. The divisional DCPs have been instructed to prepare a list of personnel who are to be reserved and send them on leave for a week. Most police personnel have been working round the clock and have not even gone home for days on end by choosing to remain that the police stations. “This initiative will help them spend some quality time with their family,” said Mr. Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-third-of-city-police-to-get-a-week-off-on-rotation/article31320915.ece
12 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six police personnel booked for ‘custodial death’||A circle police inspector attached to Hoskote station and a sub-inspector of police from Thirumalashettyhalli station, along with four other police personnel, have been suspended after a 55-year-old man booked in a theft case died under mysterious circumstances while in their custody. The deceased, Munikullappa, was arrested by the Thirumalashettyhalli police for allegedly stealing alcohol from a wine shop on April 7. On Friday, a police team escorted him for the spot inspection, where he allegedly fell to his death in a 20-ft-deep dry well. While the police claim that Munikullappa, in his bid to escape, slipped and fell into the well, his family members have accused the police of beating him to death and dumping the body in the well. Based on the complaint filed by the family, a case of murder has been booked against circle police inspector Raghu, sub-inspector of police Rakesh and four other police personnel. “The accused officials have been kept under suspension and the Deputy Superintendent of Police has been instructed to conduct a probe,” said Inspector-General of Police (Central range) Sharath Chandra. A report would be submitted to the DG & IGP recommending a CID probe, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-police-personnel-booked-for-custodial-death/article31320921.ece
12 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||FCI’s foodgrains stock stands at 538 lakh tonnes||D.V. Prasad, MD of Food Corporation of India (FCI), said the corporation has a stock of 538.19 lakh tonnes foodgrains comprising 301.73 lakh tonnes of rice and 236.46 lakh tonnes of wheat in the country. During the lockdown period, FCI has moved a record 17.56 lakh of rice and 8.46 lakh tonnes of wheat, totalling over 26.02 lakh tonnes to States across the country through 929 train loads. In a press release, he said that FCI has brought in about 2.44 lakh tonnes of foodgrains through 87 train loads into Karnataka since the announcement of the lockdown and this has enabled the State government to supply foodgrains to nearly four crore beneficiaries. A total of 2.76 lakh tonnes of rice and 0.43 lakh tonnes of wheat have been released to the State during this period. Mr. Prasad said a new beneficiary scheme had been introduced for supply of foodgrains to charitable institutions/NGOs engaged in providing cooked meals to the needy at a subsidised rate of Rs. 21 per kg for wheat and Rs. 22 per kg of rice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fcis-foodgrains-stock-stands-at-538-lakh-tonnes/article31320925.ece
12 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Money safe in PMJDY accounts, says SBI CGM||Abhijit Majumder, Chief General Manager, SBI, Bengaluru Circle, has appealed to customers to refrain from rumours that the DBT (Direct Benefit Transfer) credit of Rs. 500 by the government as relief to Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) accounts will be returned to the government if not withdrawn during the lockdown period. Clarifying that there was no such clause and the money is safe in the customers’ PMJDY account, Mr. Majumder said it can be withdrawn even after the lockdown period. He asked customers to withdraw money only in case of emergency and asked them to use digital channels for banking transaction, and minimise visiting branches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/money-safe-in-pmjdy-accounts-says-sbi-cgm/article31320914.ece
12 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man held for Facebook post||The Belur police on Saturday arrested a person on the charge of posting content disturbing communal harmony on Facebook. The accused is Thej Kumar Shetty of Bikkodu, near Arehalli in Belur taluk. The Arehalli PSI filed a complaint after he noticed objectionable content on the Facebook page of the accused. Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda told presspersons that this was the third such case reported in Hassan in recent days. “I appeal to the public not to post or circulate any content that could disturb peace and communal harmony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-facebook-post/article31321069.ece
12 April 2020||Hassan/Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Workers sent away by estate owner rescued||The Chikkamagaluru police on Saturday stopped a truck at the Hiremagaluru check-post and rescued 28 people, including nine children, who were forced to travel amid rice bags to their native place. Their employer, an estate owner in Belur taluk, allegedly forced them to leave for Hagari Bommanahalli in Ballari district. The police stopped the vehicle and found the people surrounded by rice bags. Upon enquiry, they learnt that they were all travelling to their native place as there was no work at the estate. The police registered a case against the truck owner and the driver. The Chikkamagaluru district administration has provided the workers and their children with shelter and food. Another case Based on information received from the Chikkamagaluru police, their Belur counterparts registered a case against the owner of Pura Estate, located near Bikkodu. The owner had sent the workers away. Hassan Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda said so far, the police have rescued 80 workers and provided them shelter in the district. “It is the responsibility of estate owners to ensure that workers do not leave during the lockdown. If they have problems in providing food and shelter to the workers, they should consult the district administration,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/workers-sent-away-by-estate-owner-rescued/article31321068.ece
12 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Minister visits fever clinics||In the wake of the continued lockdown in the district, the Dharwad district administration has set up seven ‘fever clinics’ in the twin cities of Hubballi and Dharwad to help those in need get medical assistance. On Saturday, Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar, who is also the district in-charge, visited the clinics. The objective is speedy diagnosis of COVID-19 symptoms such as fever, cough, respiratory problems, and dehydration. These fever clinics have been set up under the National Urban Health Mission. Mr. Shettar visited the fever clinic set up at Purohit Nagar near Tejaswi Nagar in Dharwad and sought details of its functioning and inspected the facilities there. Deputy Commissioner Deepa M. said the fever clinics were being run with the help of doctors and paramedical staff serving at Urban Primary Health Centres. “All the necessary medical equipment and protective gear, including thermal scanner, N-95 masks, and hand sanitisers, have been provided to the clinics. The cost is being borne using the district calamity relief grants,” she said. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Yashwanth Madeenkar said that the clinics have been set up at the Dharwad District Hospital, Madarmaddi, Barakotri, Purohit Nagar in Dharwad, Chitaguppi Hospital, and KIMS Hospital (two clinics) in Hubballi. RCH Officer S.M. Honakeri said the waste generated at these clinics would be treated as biomedical waste and disposed of as per the guidelines. If private clinics intend to function as fever clinics, they should be registered first and then will be given proper training to extend the required medical assistance, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-visits-fever-clinics/article31321076.ece
12 April 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Minister warns fair price shops||Deputy Chief Minister and district in-charge Govind Karjol has directed Food and Civil Supplies officials to cancel the licence of fair price shops charging for foodgrains and providing less than the quantum mandated to beneficiaries. On Saturday, he directed officials to ensure that the appropriate quantity of foodgrains is supplied to cardholders free of cost. The Minister also directed them to provide temporary BPL ration cards to those who have applied across the district, until the permanent ones are issued. The department has received 15,793 applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-warns-fair-price-shops/article31321077.ece
12 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||10-month-old discharged in Mangaluru||The 10-month-old baby who was the youngest COVID-19 patient in Karnataka, and who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital here, was discharged on Saturday. The baby, from Sajipanadu village in Bantwal taluk of Dakshina Kannada, was admitted to K.S. Hegde Hospital at Deralakatte on March 23 and tested positive on March 25. After treatment, the baby tested negative on April 7 and 8, according toa release issued by Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh. he mother and the grandmother of the baby too have tested negative for COVID-19. They too were discharged from hospital on Saturday. Treating the baby was a challenge for the doctors. All of Sajipanadu village had been sealed following the positive test result. But according to the release, the disease has not spread to any others in the village. Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada did not report any positive COVID-19 case for the seventh consecutive day on Saturday. With six persons who had tested positive being discharged in the district so far, there are six active patients now. She said that 3,347 persons in the district have completed 28 days of home quarantine. They do not have any symptoms of COVID-19. Another 2,598 persons are currently under home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/10-month-old-discharged-in-mangaluru/article31321085.ece
12 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Kasaragod patients’ insistence on choice of hospitals puts DK officials in a fix||At a time when the Dakshina Kannada district administration is putting measures in place to contain the spread of COVID-19, some people from Kasaragod in Kerala insisting that they be allowed to get treatment in private hospitals of their choice and not the designated hospital, in Mangaluru has put the administration in a tight spot. Only emergency cases from Kerala are being allowed into Mangaluru for treatment after the Supreme Court intervention. “Since the number of positive cases as well as number of people under quarantine in Kasaragod is very high, every patient entering Karnataka has to be seen with caution and as a potential carrier of the virus. Not every hospital in the city is COVID-19-ready. K.S. Hegde Medical Academy (KSHEMA) with 1,400 beds came forward to help the administration to get Kasaragod emergency patients by reserving an entire floor,” said Sandeep Rai, president of Association of Medical Consultants, Mangaluru, and professor of paediatrics with KSHEMA. A National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare-accredited hospital, KSHEMA treated the 10-month-old baby from Bantwal for COVID-19, who was discharged on Saturday. This is the designated hospital for patients coming from Kerala since the district administration decided not to expose every hospital to risky cases, said Dr. Rai said. Of the “emergency” cases received by KSHEMA since Wednesday, only one, a case of heart attack, needed emergency treatment. Others appeared to be “decoy patients”, who went back and spoke to media channels in Kerala levelling allegations on the hospital and the district administration, Dr. Rai alleged. Regarding reports of doctors temporarily stationed at Kerala’s part of Talapady issuing medical certificates to patients arriving from Kasaragod, Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh said only medical officers at taluk hospitals in Kasaragod could issue such certificates. “We are monitoring the situation carefully,” she said. Ms. Rupesh said designating KSHEMA on the city outskirts for Kasaragod patients was not to allow possible spread of COVID-19 in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kasaragod-patients-insistence-on-choice-of-hospitals-puts-dk-officials-in-a-fix/article31320934.ece
12 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Patient not missing||A patients who arrived from Kasaragod to Mangaluru seeking treatment for headache has told the Kasaragod police that she had gone back to Kannur for treatment since she was not allowed to go to the hospital of her choice. She told the Kerala police that she was attended to by a “fatty doctor” (sic) at KSHEMA after a long wait and she had decided against availing treatment. The Kasaragod police told the Mangaluru city police that the patient had not gone “missing” after visiting KSHEMA as alleged, and she was now admitted at a medical college hospital in Kannur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/patient-not-missing/article31320936.ece
12 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Two held for threatening ASHA||An activist of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and another person were arrested by the Mangaluru Rural police on the charges of intimidating and threatening an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) on Saturday. The accused are Ismail, 45, and Ashraf, 32, of Badriya Nagar. The police said the accused prevented the health worker from performing her duties in Uddabettu. Vasanti, 45, of Malluru, was visiting houses to find out details of pregnant women and persons with blood pressure and diabetes when the accused allegedly intimidated her. The duo have been booked under Sections 353, 354, 504, and 506 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-held-for-threatening-asha/article31321084.ece
12 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Swab collection kiosks donated||The Rotary Club of Mangalore on Saturday donated three COVID-19 swab collection kiosks to the District Government Wenlock Hospital here. The kiosks were manufactured on a war footing by Maroor’s Aluminium and Interiors at a cost of Rs. 1.5 lakh, said a release from the club. The facility will reduce the requirement of PPEs for individual healthcare workers and are completely sealed, reducing the contact between patient and paramedics/doctors, the release said. The kiosks were donated in the presence of DMO Sadashiva, DHO Ramachandra Baiari, RMO Julian Saldanha and other senior specialists of Wenlock Hospital. President of Rotary Club of Mangalore Jathin Attavar, secretary Pramod, community service director Aditya Pai, and past presidents Rajendra Kalbavi, Yatish Baikampady, Dijaraj Nair were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swab-collection-kiosks-donated/article31321083.ece
12 April 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Green passes for movement of farmers during lockdown||The Agriculture Department will be issuing green passes to facilitate the movement of farmers in the State. After a meeting with representatives of farmers’ associations in Mysuru on Saturday, Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil told reporters the passes will be issued by the taluk-level officials of the Agriculture Department primarily to facilitate the movement of farmers from one place to another to continue their agricultural practices. “We have heard that several farmers stay in taluk headquarters and are prevented from going to their fields in the villages. Agriculture Department officials have been instructed to identify such farmers and issue them a green pass so that they can move around”, he said. The meeting also discussed the difficulties farmers were facing in procuring fertilizer from different places and the obstruction placed on their movement by the police. He appealed to the police to ensure that unnecessary hurdles are not created for the farmers. Several farmers had complained that they were not able to find mechanics to repair their broken-down tractors. The government will make efforts to transport mechanics from the towns to the villages to repair them. The Minister said the government was aware of the problems faced by floriculture farmers. There is absolutely no demand for flowers ever since the temples closed and the jatras were cancelled. Hence, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had asked for a survey of loss suffered by the floriculture farmers so that appropriate compensation can be paid after the lockdown ends. Farmers’ leader Kurbur Shanthakumar, who participated in the meeting argued for compensating the losses suffered by the farmers on account of supply chain disruption during the lockdown.  Meeting discusses problems farmers are facing in procuring fertilizer from different places and obstructions placed on their movement by the police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/green-passes-for-movement-of-farmers-during-lockdown/article31320922.ece
12 April 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Anti-Muslim propaganda will hit marketing of farm produce’||Farmers’ leader Badagalapura Nagendra fears that the anti-Muslim propaganda in the COVID-19 outbreak will hit the marketing of agricultural produce. Speaking at a meeting convened by Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil in Mysuru to discuss the woes of farmers during the lockdown, he said Muslims constitute a key segment of the marketing agents in wholesale markets of the State. “Whether it is silk, mangoes or vegetables, they (Muslims) are the key marketing agents. In view of the anti-Muslim propaganda, they are not coming to the markets”, he said before appealing to the State government to speak to them and convince them to return to the markets. “ Mr. Nagendra also urged the State government to speak to Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Goa and Maharashtra so that the respective government agencies directly purchase and transport the agriculture produce grown in the regions of the State close to the border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anti-muslim-propaganda-will-hit-marketing-of-farm-produce/article31320923.ece
12 April 2020||Raichur,KARNATAKA||2,280 motorcycles seized||The police have seized 2,280 motorcycles after their riders were found unnecessarily roaming around despite the lockdown in Raichur. Action according to law was initiated against the accused for violating the guidelines, Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2280-motorcycles-seized/article31321087.ece
12 April 2020||Raichur,KARNATAKA||Undertrials released||Following directions from the Supreme Court, jail authorities released nine undertrials from the district jail on Friday. They had been lodged there for the past seven years for various crimes, as per a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/undertrials-released/article31321086.ece
12 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Pending wages under MGNREGA will be cleared in a week: KSE||Emphasising the need to employ the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) as a means to mitigate the financial distress created in rural areas by the lockdown, K.S. Eshwarappa, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, said on Saturday that pending bills to the tune of Rs. 1,039 crore related to payment of wages to workers under this job scheme would be cleared in a week. He was speaking after inaugurating a workshop for elected representatives in the city on the implementation of river rejuvenation works under MGNREGA. Mr. Eshwarappa said the Centre had released an amount of Rs. 1,861 crore to Karnataka recently for the implementation of works under MGNREGA. Of this, Rs. 1,039 crore will be used for the clearance of pending bills. The remaining Rs. 822 crore, along with Rs. 257 crore allocated by the State government, will be used to take up fresh works during the lockdown, he said. To resolve the financial distress created by lockdown, the daily wage under MGNREGA has been revised from Rs. 249 to Rs. 275. Referring to the disruption in supply chain caused by the lockdown, he said farmers who have grown the crops having relatively low shelf life were facing difficulties in selling them. Moreover, many rural people who were commuting to urban areas daily for work have been rendered jobless. “It is the right time to take up works under MGNREGA, with the twin purpose of creating permanent assets for the community and resolving financial distress in rural areas,” he added. On the river rejuvenation initiatives planned by the State government in nine districts under MGNREGA, he said that the construction of check-dams across rivers and percolation pits on their banks would be taken up to prevent waterbodies from going dry during the summer and to enhance the groundwater level. To prevent soil erosion, saplings of plants and trees endemic to the region will be planted on the river banks. These works will create ample employment opportunities in rural areas during the lockdown, he said. He also cautioned officials to take precautions to ensure the maintenance of social distancing when such works are taken up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pending-wages-under-mgnrega-will-be-cleared-in-a-week-kse/article31321078.ece
12 April 2020||Tumakuru,KARNATAKA||Birthday bash: No case against MLA||The C.S. Pura police of Gubbi taluk in Tumakuru district filed cases on Saturday against three persons who organised the birthday bash of BJP MLA Masala Jayaram, throwing lockdown norms to the wind. However, no case has been booked against the MLA who took part in the event on Friday. The police said they registered cases under section 188 of Indian Penal Code 188 against Ravi, Vasanth Kumar, and Honne Gowda who had organised Mr. Jayaram’s birthday at Iduguru. Cake was cut by Mr. Jayaram in the presence of a group of his supporters and biryani was served to those who attended the celebrations. Police are on the lookout for the three persons as they are absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/birthday-bash-no-case-against-mla/article31320937.ece
12 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Chemists told to collect details of people buying paracetamol||The district administration has issued directions to all chemists in Vijayapura to keep a record of all those who purchase paracetamol from them. Briefing presspersons after the daily review meeting on COVID-19 on Saturday, Deputy Commissioner Y.S. Patil said that the decision has been taken to keep tabs on people who buy medicines to control fever. “Fever is one of the primary symptoms of COVID-19. Some people may buy paracetamol thinking they have the common fever, but it might be COVID-19. Therefore, just to keep track of it, we have directed chemists to collect from customers details such as their contact number and address. In future, we might need this information,” he said. Saying that the district administration was giving permission to people who wish to go to hospitals in other districts for emergencies, Mr. Patil said that when they return, they will have to go into home quarantine. He said if the people don’t want to remain at home, they should stay in the city where they travelled to for treatment till the lockdown is over. Asked about the status of medicines in the district, Mr. Patil said there was no shortage for now.  Some people may buy paracetamol thinking they have the common fever, but it might be COVID-19. Therefore, we have asked chemists to collect details Y.S. Patil, Deputy Commissioner, Vijayapura||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chemists-told-to-collect-details-of-people-buying-paracetamol/article31321081.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Engage with bored, frustrated children’||If parents are aware of the physical and mental impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, they can channelise their efforts to ensure minimal impact on children and adolescents. Evidence from recent and past health disasters (COVID-19, China 2019; Ebola, African countries 2014-2016; and SARS-COV, Asian countries, 2003) show that prolonged home confinement leaves negative effects on physical and mental health of children, adults, and the elderly. During such a lockdown period, children and teenagers are found to be physically less active, spend unlimited screen time, have irregular sleep patterns, and take less favourable diets, resulting in weight gain and a loss of cardiorespiratory fitness (The Lancet, March 04, 2020). Fear, inadequate information about the infection, frustration, boredom, lack of in-person contact with classmates, friends, and teachers, lack of personal space at home, lack of outdoor activities, and family financial crisis are found to be stressors of such a pandemic which could have problematic and enduring effects on children and adolescents and even on the productivity in adult years. Children eventually return to their normal functioning with consistent and constant support. Parents themselves may be affected and frustrated. Self care, tolerance, acceptance, patience, reconciliation, forgiveness, and respecting the “me time” of everyone even when under the same roof could help adults to deal with and face challenges in relationship. There are parents who believe that it is fine that children sleep more to avoid fights between siblings, or have more screen time without knowing the long-term implications. Properly channelising the physical energies of children could result in reducing physical fights with siblings, and communicating with them patiently and empathetically result in reduced anger outbursts and argumentative behaviours. Active engagement of the child and keeping a check on his/her activities in an inevitably boring period in their life is an important parenting task. Engage them in telephonic conversations with their own friends, relatives, and neighbours to continue social connection. Play, draw, paint, act, do gardening, cook or clean the house with them. You might find a good partnership, and it is going to make parenting easy in the years to come. Keep them close to you during the home confinement. It is an opportunity to enhance your interaction with the child and improve family bonds. Involve them in the preparedness of lockdown — for example freezing the food, hand washing, use of sanitisers, or helping others. Have accurate and up-to-date information about the pandemic from trusted sources (CDC or WHO) alone and provide them information appropriate to their age. Acknowledge and validate the child’s thoughts, feelings and reactions. Their questions and concerns are important and appropriate. Be honest with your feelings when children enquire about you. Be hopeful, genuine and validate their concerns. They will be watching you and worried about you as well. Learning healthy or unhealthy behaviour is possible by prolonged repetitive patterns of doing. Lockdown days may be sufficient enough in forming behaviours. Unhealthy habits to cope up with issues or boredom formed during this locked down period is also a learning experience. Helping children to give up those unhealthy behaviours later becomes another task for parents.Let them engage in Internet-based activities but encourage them to pursue alternative interests or develop new interests. Seek professional help if children show signs of stress or trauma that do not solve relatively quickly. The NIMHANS Helpline 080-46110007 is one such resource.  (Dr. Bino Thomas is assistant professor of Psychiatric Social Work and consultant child and adolescent psychiatry services, NIMHANS, Bengaluru)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engage-with-bored-frustrated-children/article31320913.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Basic needs||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/basic-needs/article31320918.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||On the frontlines||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/on-the-frontlines/article31321080.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Lockdown till month-end in Karnataka||However, public transport is likely to remain off the road and schools and colleges continue to be shut. “The Centre stressed the need for a relaxation of lockdown in a graded manner,” said Mr. Yediyurappa. The Centre is expected to provide a set of detailed guidelines in a couple of days on relaxation norms to be followed by States during the extended period. The Prime Minister had a four-hour-long discussion with Chief Ministers via videoconference and evaluated the lockdown impact on various sections of the people. The State Cabinet on Thursday unanimously decided to extend the lockdown period in order to contain the spread of COVID-19 cases. However, the government deferred taking a final decision till the meeting with Prime Minister on Saturday. “I humbly request you to do your part and #stayathome so that we can get out of this at the earliest,” Mr. Yediyurappa appealed in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-till-month-end-in-karnataka/article31320938.ece
12 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Duck roast goes missing from Easter platters||Be it Christmas or Easter ‘Kuttanadan’ duck roast has pride of place on the dining tables of Central Travancore families. But with the COVID-19-induced lockdown restrictions in place, many foodies have decided to give the dish a miss this Easter. For hundreds of duck farmers and retailers, the pain is even greater with business going south. Bency Thurathayil, a seasoned duck farmer at Champakulam, had reared 10,000 birds with an eye on Easter. He says only 10% of the ducks have been sold till Saturday afternoon. “I have been engaged in duck farming for the past four decades. Days before Easter and Christmas, I used to receive bulk orders. But, with lockdown in place, we are receiving far fewer orders when compared to last year’s. Local sales too have fallen with people choosing to stay indoors,” says Bency, who is also the secretary of the Alappuzha Jilla Tharavu Karshaka Sangham. Four lakh ducks Duck farmers say it is the biggest crisis they have faced after the bird flu of 2014 and 2016. They have reared more than four lakh ducks for the festival period. According to them, rearing a duck costs around Rs. 110, while a duck weighing between 1.5 kg and 2 kg would fetch them anywhere between Rs. 210 and Rs. 250. Ducks reared in Kuttanad have many takers, especially in Ernakulam and nearby areas. Besides, ducks are sold at roadside shops along the Alappuzha-Changanassery road, with each selling an average 1,000 ducks during the festival period. Sophy Jose and her husband have been running a duck stall at Kaithavana for the past 14 years. The couple have bought 200 ducks from a farmer in view of Easter but could only sell less than 20 ducks in the last two days. “We have stopped taking stocks from farmers, as there is hardly any sales even for the cut price. People are reluctant to come to the shop for fear of being caught by the police,” says Sophy. Although some farmers and outlets have announced home delivery of dressed and undressed ducks, it has failed to spur the sale in a great way, says Benny, a farmer from Champakulam.  A duck stall owner who bought 200 ducks for Easter sale, could sell only 20 in the past two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/duck-roast-goes-missing-from-easter-platters/article31321196.ece
12 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||2,000 isolation beds likely in houseboats||Houseboats, the mascot of Kerala Tourism, had helped rescue thousands of stranded people from Kuttanad during the deluge in 2018. Two years on, it is set to play another pivotal role by joining the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic in Alappuzha. As part of a contingency plan, the district administration will convert bedrooms in houseboats into isolation rooms. According to Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran, 2,000 isolation beds will be set up in houseboats. The District Collector has already held discussions with boat owners in this regard. 700 licensed boats There are around 700 licensed houseboats in the district. “We are expecting an inflow of people from overseas and other States after the end of the COVID-19 lockdown period. More people may have to be quarantined. Converting houseboats into isolation beds is part of the measures to deal with any possible emergency in the district. The converted rooms in houseboats will be used only if the need arises. Besides, 60 hotels and resorts and other structures with attached toilet facilities have been identified for isolation of people,” says a Health Department official. The district has so far witnessed five COVID-19 cases. While three remain under treatment, two have made full recovery. Health Department officials have inspected the houseboats. The boats will be anchored at the Finishing Point in Alappuzha. “There will be medical teams and other medical facilities inside the boats. If a person isolated in a houseboat tested positive for COVID-19, the boat will be detached from the group of vessels. The person will be shifted to hospital if the situation demands so,” the official adds. Happy to help Kevin Rozario, general secretary, All Kerala Houseboat Owners and Operators Samiti, says they are happy to hand over boats. “There are hardly any tourism- related activities now. We are not expecting our boats to set sail again anytime soon given the global situation. By handing over the boats, we are joining society in its fight against the disease,” Mr. Rozario said. The houseboat sector had faced huge losses due to the back-to-back floods. COVID-19 is the last thing the industry needs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2000-isolation-beds-likely-in-houseboats/article31321176.ece
12 April 2020||Chennai,KERALA||Chennai Corporation sets up testing kiosks||The Chennai Corporation has started installing COVID-19 testing kiosks to collect samples from residents. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the kiosks had been set up at Corporation hospitals in 10 locations, including Pudupet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-sets-up-testing-kiosks/article31320952.ece
12 April 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||It’s yesterday once more in Munnar||It’s yesterday once more for the plantation town of Munnar. It has once again returned to the old days when all essential items used to be provided in the plantations. Then, residents had only nominal dependency on the main town. After it was identified as a COVID-19 hotspot in Idukki, the district administration announced total lockdown in Munnar last Thursday and all shops, except medical shops and petrol pumps, were closed. Vegetables in shops in the town were moved to shops inside the plantations. With Tamil Nadu reporting a spurt in cases, the chances of the disease spreading in plantation areas were high. Porous border An official at the collectorate said people in Munnar constantly moved across the border, despite the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of the disease. With restrictions on traffic on main roads, people used the porous routes to move across State borders and transport goods. A quiet life “Before Munnar was developed into a hill destination, it was essentially a plantation-based town. People came out only on Sundays and it was a quiet life on the other days,” said Kumaradas, a former plantation worker in Old Munnar. Those who lived in the workers’ quarters usually purchased goods from shops in the plantations run by retired hands. Goods not available in these shops were bought from the Munnar general market. Mr. Kumaradas said the town slowly turned into a tourism destination over the years. “Hospitals, roads, schools, and grocery shops were provided by the estate management,” said Jijo Jayaraj, who had studied the evolution of Munnar. Ration shops used to function inside the plantations and there was enough stock of essential items, a plantation official said. He added that at present people from outside were not allowed into the plantations.  Before tourism took centre stage, people used to buy goods from shops inside plantations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-yesterday-once-more-in-munnar/article31321197.ece
12 April 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Patient from Mahe dies in Kannur||A 71-year-old man who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital died on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Mahroof, a resident of Cherukalai in Mahe. Mahroof had severe pneumonia and was on ventilator support after his admission with symptoms of COVID-19. He had a history of renal and heart ailments. Meanwhile, the Health Department could not ascertain how he contracted COVID-19. Religious ceremonies Preliminary investigations revealed that Mahroof had visited various parts of the district and was in contact with many others. He participated in religious ceremonies at M.M. High School in Mahe during March 15-21. He travelled with his son-in-law on a motorbike to attend an engagement function at Champad in Panniyannur on March 18. More than 45 persons participated in the function. The same day, he along with 10 others attended prayers at the Eroor mosque. There were seven other people in the mosque at that time. On March 23, he had fever and sore throat and was taken to the Telemedical Centre at Thalassery. On March 30, he went to the medical centre again. He was admitted there at 11 a.m and later shifted to the ICU. He was then taken to Aster MIMS Hospital in Kannur by ambulance at 4 p.m. and on April 6 his swab test was carried out. Test negative Health Department officials said they had traced some people who came in contact with him. As many as 27 people were tested for the disease and all of them turned negative for COVID-19.  Mahroof had a history of renal and heart ailments and was admitted to hospital on March 30||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/patient-from-mahe-dies-in-kannur/article31321190.ece
12 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Jeeva Vayu to the rescue of patients at Ernakulam GH||The Jeeva Vaayu ventilator developed by Adi Shankara Institute of Engineering and Technology, Kalady, was handed over to General Hospital, Ernakulam, on Saturday. Minister for Agriculture V.S. Sunil Kumar handed over the emergency ventilator in the presence of the college and Health authorities. “It is the first emergency ventilator developed by an engineering institute under the Kerala Technological University (KTU). It includes all technical specifications like pressure monitoring, volume control, airflow monitoring, and backup battery mechanisms,” said Ajay Basil Varghese, nodal officer, Technology Business Incubator and Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Centre under the institute. The product provides visual and audio alarm system for low supply pressure, airway pressure, leakage detection, power failure, and low battery indication. “We are in the phase of getting product certification for mass production. The base model can be made at a cost of around 10,000, while the price of the high-end model will be around 30,000,” said Mr. Varghese. The product was developed by startups including iCube Design Studio, RIOD Logic Pvt. Ltd., and Machbee incubated at Adi Shankara Technology Business Incubator. An expert team from the department of biomedical engineering at Lisie Hospital, Ernakulam, was also involved in product design, according to college officials. Two new machines Two new ventilators have been installed at the Ernakulam General Hospital. The ventilators and associated equipment were bought using the Indian Oil Corporation’s Corporate Social Responsibility funds amounting to Rs. 25 lakh. MP’s initiative The initiative to procure the ventilators was taken by Hibi Eden, MP representing Ernakulam, keeping in mind the needs of regular patients after the Government Medical College, Kalamassery, had been converted into a COVID-19 care centre, said a press release. Mr. Eden has so far allocated Rs. 1.46 crore from his MPLADS fund for the fight against the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jeeva-vayu-to-the-rescue-of-patients-at-ernakulam-gh/article31321165.ece
12 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fan war proves costly for ‘Yellow Army’||‘Manjapada’, aka Yellow Army, the famed fan base of the Indian Super League football team Kerala Blasters FC (KBFC), has suffered a major blow after its official Facebook group with over two lakh followers has been taken down by the social media giant. To make matters worse, the fans’ Facebook page with over three lakh followers also seem to be in danger. Social media war A social media war of sorts has been raging between the fans of the KBFC and the Indonesian football club Persib Bandung ever since they were pitched against each other in the third round of an unofficial contest conducted by a little known Twitter handle to find out the football club with the largest fan base. At the end of what turned out to be a slugfest marked by quite smutty and provocative online campaign, the KBFC pipped their Indonesian counterparts. KBFC fans celebrated it by taunting and raising the cacophony level on the Facebook page of their rivals, who have now allegedly got back by targeting the immensely popular social media platforms of Manjapada. “Usually, we are careful about admitting anyone into our group. Yet, someone seems to have managed to intrude into our Facebook group, posted something and got it reported. Since thousands of posts were getting approved in the group since the Twitter contest we could not pinpoint the damaging post. But we still have no clue why our group was taken down by Facebook without any warning,” said Somu P. Joseph, one of the admins of the group and working committee member of the Manjapada. Unpublished status Though they have turned the Facebook page into ‘unpublished’ status to safeguard it from spamming, it seems to be on the verge of being deactivated, if not already so. “When a Facebook page is turned ‘unpublished’, it will not be visible and even if it happens to be visible, visitors will not be able to access it. But even then admins usually still retain access rights to settings, which has not happened in this case giving us the impression that it was also in danger of being deactivated. However, we have approached Facebook and we may be able to retain our page after all,” said Mr. Joseph. The Manjapada has deactivated its Instagram account in an effort to safeguard it from spamming. With the fourth round of the fans’ contest against the Turkish club Galatasaray looming large, the Manjapada desperately needs its social media in full swing to mobilise support and the present crisis seems to have hit those plans, pretty badly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fan-war-proves-costly-for-yellow-army/article31321170.ece
12 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Work on Vyttila flyover resumes||The PWD (NH Wing) resumed work on the Vyttila flyover on Saturday, nearly a month since it was halted as part of COVID-19 precautions. “We have mobilised half the regular strength of migrant workers and others who were engaged in the construction work. The other half had left for their home States even before the national lockdown was announced in March. We are making efforts to bring them back but are unsure of how they can be transported to Kerala,” said sources associated with the flyover project. On Saturday, work began on tying steel rods that were laid to reinforce the deck slabs over girders. One more slab has to be completed on the eastern side and four more on the western side of the flyover’s Palarivattom side. This work will begin in right earnest on Monday, it is learnt. “Work can gain momentum once workers take up their respective jobs. An all-out effort will be needed to complete concreting work on the flyover before monsoon. For this, procurement of cement will have to be fast-tracked. Though tarring should follow concreting work, it is doubtful during rainy weather. Moreover, the tarring specifications were revised a month ago, and bitumen is expected to arrive from Gujarat. Thus, it is doubtful whether the structure can be opened to traffic in June, the revised deadline,” official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-on-vyttila-flyover-resumes/article31321157.ece
12 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ensure daily garbage removal, Collectors told||The Local Self-Government Department has asked all District Collectors to ensure that local bodies immediately start removing solid waste daily, as large quantities have started piling up across districts following the lockdown. The Collectors have been instructed to ensure movement passes for vehicles and persons engaged in sanitation and street cleaning, including members of the Haritha Karma Sena and staff of Clean Kerala Company. Measures should be put in place for transport of non-biodegradable waste to recycling and storage facilities. The entire chain is declared as essential services, according to an advisory issued by the department. Waste piles up The move comes amidst reports of a spike in waste generation in households across the State. “There has been a considerable increase in food waste during the lockdown period. Special attention is being given to proper collection and disposal of food waste,” Biswanath Sinha, Principal Secretary, Local Self-Government (Urban), said on Saturday. An assessment by the department reveals that food and vegetable waste have accumulated in streets and other public places during the lockdown period. An increase in waste generation is reported from spots such as community kitchens and temporary camps for migrant workers and the needy. Efforts by local bodies to clear the waste are not reaching the expected levels in view of the absence of sanitation workers.  The secretaries of the local bodies have to ensure that solid wastes are removed daily from all institutions, residences, streets, and dumps. They have been told to give additional care to the treatment of waste generated by temporary settlements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensure-daily-garbage-removal-collectors-told/article31321169.ece
12 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Eight booked for birthday fete at community kitchen||The Palarivattom police registered a case against eight persons, including a Kochi Corporation councillor, for allegedly celebrating a birthday at a community kitchen, in violation of social distancing norms. On April 6, the community kitchen at Anchumana allegedly celebrated the birthday of Chakkaraparambu councillor P.M. Naseema. “A cake was cut at the community kitchen in violation of the instruction that no more than five persons should assemble at a place during the lockdown,” said Palarivattom police sources. Arrested The Central police arrested a man for posting an obscene image on social media allegedly with the intention of hurting religious sentiments. The accused, P.V. Jyothis of Malappuram, was charged with Section 153 (A) (Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of the Indian Penal Code. The Kochi city police also registered 40 cases, arrested 46 persons and took into custody 30 vehicles for violating the lockdown on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eight-booked-for-birthday-fete-at-community-kitchen/article31321158.ece
12 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Action against illegal fund raising||A district-level review meeting held here on Saturday decided to act tough against those involved in illegal fund raising in the COVID-19 situation. It was found that some organisations were found seeking money from the public in the name of voluntary work. The organisations and individuals involved in voluntary work should route it through the government systems, according to an official release. The meeting decided that issuing passes by local bodies for movement of vehicles and individuals will not be permitted. Such passes issued by elected representatives through the civic bodies had led to various complaints. These passes will have no legal validity. Action will be taken against those using such passes, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-against-illegal-fund-raising/article31321167.ece
12 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||No new cases||No new COVID-19 case was reported nor any person placed under home surveillance in Ernakulam on Saturday. On the day, 242 persons were removed from surveillance. Four persons were admitted to hospital isolation facilities on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-new-cases/article31321162.ece
12 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||26 cases filed against ration shop dealers||The central zone of the Legal Metrology Department has registered 26 cases against ration shop dealers for irregularities in the distribution of free foodgrains announced by the government following the outbreak of COVID-19. The cases were registered under Section 30 of the Legal Metrology Act. The 26 cases figured among the total 129 registered by the Department after carrying out 1,472 inspections in Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Idukki districts, said R. Ram Mohan, Joint Controller. Overpricing Fifty-four cases were registered for overpricing of bottled water, while 34 cases were lodged for overpricing of masks and sanitisers. The public may reach out to the department on overpricing at the following numbers of the district-level deputy controllers: Ernakulam - 9447264040, 9447206463, 8281698067; Thrissur - 9447739878, 8281698084; Palakkad - 9400578032, 8281698092; and Idukki - 9447599782, 8281698057.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/26-cases-filed-against-ration-shop-dealers/article31321166.ece
12 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Seven held for brewing spurious liquor||Seven persons were arrested in two different incidents by the Ernakulam Rural police and Excise officials on the charge of attempt to brew spurious liquor. The Aluva range excise arrested a four-member group from a house near Aluva while they were engaged in illicit brewing. In another incident, three persons were arrested from Piravom for illicit brewing of liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seven-held-for-brewing-spurious-liquor/article31321159.ece
12 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Cashew sector bracing for yet another decline||When cashew factories across the State downed their shutters on March 24, they had inside tonnes of raw material at various stages of processing. Already 18 days into the lockdown with very little time left to salvage the stock, many processors are bracing for yet another downward spiral that will leave the sector in total chaos. “Each day is costing us lakhs of rupees and if we are not able to reopen soon it will mean the end of the road for many. Unlike other sectors, this is an ailing industry and we have been facing crises after crises for several years. If we manage to solve an issue, another one pops up almost instantly. COVID-19 and lockdown happened at a time when we had regained some hope due to various factors including government intervention and now we are back to square one,” says a processor. Many processors have heavily invested for the new season, paying huge advance amounts to many African countries for procuring raw cashew nut (RCN). Since the industry has come to a standstill with even the domestic market going through a dull phase, they feel an immediate intervention is essential. Usually a factory will have several tonnes of the product at a time in various sections that include shelling, peeling and grading. It takes eight to 12 days to complete processing and mostly they are released to the market the same week without any delay.  “The workers had to leave them halfway when the lockdown was announced. If we don’t finish processing and packing them in airtight containers, the entire stock will be damaged,” the processor said. Even a slight change in colour will move the nuts to a lower grade and if they are kept half-done for several days chances are higher for them to go stale.  Mould and insects “Mould will start growing on them or they will get infested with insects. Over 200 factories are currently functioning in Kerala and the loss will be over Rs. 300 crore. We want to restart operations with at least half our employees to stay afloat,” says Nizamudeen I., president, Federation of Cashew Processors and Exporters. The cashew sector is also looking forward to a dip in exports due to the imminent economic recession and the processors are also demanding an extension of the moratorium for the repayment of loans for a period of 12 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cashew-sector-bracing-for-yet-another-decline/article31321199.ece
12 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Two test negative in Kottayam||Two more persons who had maintained close contact with a COVID-19 patient from Alappuzha tested negative on Saturday. According to officials with the district Health Department, the Kanjirappally native who travelled along with the patient in same car from the Cochin airport to Kottayam and the Manjoor native who drove the car have tested negative for the virus. The authorities are awaiting the results of six more samples who maintained a close contact with the person. During the day, three more persons were admitted to the special isolation ward at the hospitals in Kottayam. The total number of persons remaining in home quarantine in the district is 2,593. To Kasaragod Meanwhile, a medical team from the Government Medical College Hospital in Kottayam is expected to join the COVID -19 care activities in Kasaragod by April 15. The hospital authorities have already prepared a list of 25 medical staff comprising doctors and nurses, who volunteered to serve at the newly opened medical college hospital in the district. “While the government has already asked us to be ready, an order is expected to be issued by Monday. The team will be leaving for Kasaragod once we receive the order,” said a top official at the GMC. Among those who have shown interest in the service included 12 nurses and five nursing assistants, who were part of the first batch on duty at the coronavirus isolation ward here. The team will be divided into five teams, each comprising two doctors, two nurses and a nursing assistant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-test-negative-in-kottayam/article31321200.ece
12 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||KC(M) leaders meet online to honour Mani||With COVID-19 outbreak applying the brakes on gatherings, Kerala Congress (M) leaders and workers went online to pay tributes to K.M. Mani, its founder, on his first death anniversary. As many as 177 Kerala Congress (M) leaders across 47 countries participated in a gathering convened at 6.30 p.m. on Friday using the videoconferencing application Zoom. “It was indeed an emotional experience for KC(M) supporters from different time zone. The programme opened a platform for interaction among the attendees, who expressed their deep love for Mr. Mani through varied means — from poems to short narratives,” said Pramod Narayanan, general secretary, KC(M). The event, according to Mr. Narayanan, was a major relief to those who could not offer their prayers at Mani’s tomb at the cemetery due to the lockdown. “We could also bring in people who usually do not attend party events. They were all glad that they could pay tributes to a leader who always had deep concerns about the plight of non-resident Keralites,” he added. The suggestion for an online gathering was first given by the social media wing of the KC(M). Arrangements, including the list of attendees, were soon taken care of. The technical aspects were taken care of by a team led by Syriac Chazhikadan, which held at least three preparatory meetings ahead of the event. Takes stock Party leader Jose K. Mani, MP, who attended the online meeting, addressed the expatriates in different countries and took stock of the impact of the deepening COVID-19 crisis on the life of the Indian diaspora. Thomas Chazikadan, MP; Roshi Augustin, N Jayaraj, MLAs; and party leaders including Stephen George, P.M. Mathew, Alex Kozhimala, Mohammed Iqbal, Pramod Narayan, and Abraham P. Sunny of the Pravasi Kerala Congress UAE chapter, among others; participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcm-leaders-meet-online-to-honour-mani/article31321178.ece
12 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Penal action likely against owners of impounded vehicles in Kozhikode||Hefty fine and other penal actions are on the cards against owners of vehicles that were temporarily impounded for violation of lockdown norms in Kozhikode district. For now, it has been decided to collect a compounding fee of Rs. 10,000, apart from initiating other legal actions against each owner before releasing the vehicle from Monday. According to officials, there are 2,817 vehicles in police custody now, and a majority of them are motorbikes. To free up space near the police station, there is a plan to shift the newly seized vehicles to the Armed Reserve Camp at Maloorkunnu. More than 50% of the vehicles were seized in the initial days of the lockdown. Action was also taken against those who failed to produce self-declaration forms. Though the impounded vehicles will be released on payment of compounding fee, violators who have been booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act will have to face court proceedings. Meanwhile, officials attached to the Police Media Centre said there was no let-up in violations, going by the daily figures. According to them, over 6,000 cases were registered in the State in the last three days for violation of the Epidemic Diseases Act. More than 4,500 vehicles were also seized, they said. There were also instances where emergency vehicles like ambulances were misused for suspicious trips. One such ambulance, which was allegedly used for service of no emergency nature, was impounded from the city on Friday. In the light of the incident, highway patrol squads are checking all ambulances. The use of drones has been recommended in areas where lockdown violations are rampant. The city and rural police have already secured high-resolution drone cameras for enforcement. They will be frequently used in places where the District Collector recently imposed stringent regulations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/penal-action-likely-against-owners-of-impounded-vehicles-in-kozhikode/article31321152.ece
12 April 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Evacuate the elderly from Gulf: Kanthapuram||Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliar, general secretary, All India Sunni Scholars Association, has said all institutions under his organisation, including the Markaz here, will be opened for quarantine of Gulf returnees. In a a letter to the Prime Minister and Union Minister for External Affairs, he said steps should be taken to evacuate pregnant women and elderly persons who are on visit visa from Gulf countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/evacuate-the-elderly-from-gulf-kanthapuram/article31321174.ece
12 April 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Space station can be seen tonight||Sunday evening will be a lucky day for star watchers in the State. They can see the International Space Station (ISS) moving across the sky. The ISS will move across the sky from north to south between 7.21 p.m. and 7.28 p.m. “It will be like a moving star,” said Unnikrishnan Mangalassery, joint convener of the Malappuram Amateur Astronomers Society (MAAS). The ISS, whose astronauts Oleg Skripochka (Russia), Andrew Morgan and Jessica Meir (U.S.) are set to return to earth on April 17, will emerge 10 degrees from the northern horizon and disappear 12 degrees into the southern horizon. According to MAAS, the maximum elevation will be 67 degrees from the western horizon. Launched in 1998 The ISS, which is 73 metres long and 109 metres wide, was launched in 1998. It circles the earth every 92 minutes and does 15.5 orbits a day at an altitude of 400 km. Three new astronauts will replace the trio when they leave for earth. Mr. Mangalassery said the star watchers should look up the sky facing west, and they should expect the ISS to emerge on their right side in the northern hemisphere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/space-station-can-be-seen-tonight/article31321171.ece
12 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||No new COVID-19 case in Pathanamthitta district||The district administration could heave a sigh of relief with more number of persons admitted to COVID-19 isolation wards at various hospitals in the district getting discharged. The admissions to the isolation wards have gone down to 14 after three more persons got discharged from the hospitals on Saturday. As of now, seven persons are in the isolation ward at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, five at the District Hospital at Kozhencherry, and two at the General Hospital at Adoor. Discharged District Medical Officer A.L. Sheeja said so far 132 persons, including the seven persons cured of COVID-19, got discharged from the isolation wards in the district. Collector P.B. Noohu said all 20 persons from the district who were home-quarantined after their arrival from the controversial Tablighi Jamaat meet at Nizamuddin in Delhi tested negative for COVID-19. Test results The DMO said the clinical examination results of the 80 throat swab samples received from the virology laboratory at Alappuzha on Saturday were negative. As many as 6,229 persons were home-quarantined in different parts of the district as on Saturday evening. Of them, 1,646 persons came from abroad, 4,583 people from other States, and 228 primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-new-covid-19-case-in-pathanamthitta-district/article31321202.ece
12 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Exemptions for a slew of services, depts.||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Saturday that Kerala would ease the curfew restrictions incrementally once the Centre finalises its strategy. It would give individual States the latitude to execute their region-specific withdrawal plans. Mr. Vijayan said it would open critical sectors, such as processing of food and manufacturing of medical equipment initially. However, high-risk localities in the State would remain shut. The State has exempted a slew of services and departments from the COVID-19 lockdown. It has issued a circular naming the sectors that could operate despite the ban on free travel and the imposition of social distancing norms. Kerala has exempted six public sector units from the lockdown and eased restrictions for farmers and other vital service providers. The CM’s office has codified the exemptions following discussions with the Centre. The Centre had earlier exempted the Armed Forces, the Postal Service and Accountant General’s Office from the national curfew among other vital departments. Mr Vijayan said the Centre should operate special one-stop trains to return 3.85 lakh migrant workers in Kerala to their home States. He urged the Centre to transfer money to their bank accounts to help them tide over the loss of employment. Kerala also told the Centre to make the public distribution system all-inclusive. The State required 6,42,000 tonnes of rice to replenish its food stock. Kerala asked Mr. Modi to operate cargo trains to ferry harvest, including fruits and vegetables, from production centres to markets in State. Movement of essential freight into Kerala has picked up. However, the State required to increase the import of LPG to meet domestic demand. The Chief Minister said he had asked the police to strictly impose social distancing norms and prosecute persons who venture out of their homes without a pressing reason. Easter and Vishu shoppers had turned out in large numbers and the State could ill-afford such privileges. The Chief Minister said some drivers regularly offered rides on their ambulances to make money by helping others evade the travel ban. Others, mostly two-wheeler riders, travelled between districts and across State borders by negotiating the desolate railway tracks. The police were up to their tricks. Mr Vijayan said the government viewed the attempt to poison a drinking water source in Munnar seriously. The government has ordered local bodies to enumerate unoccupied homes and apartments to accommodate ailing persons in the event of a health emergency. He asked managements of unaided educational institutions to pay the full salary for their employees and to waive the tuition and hostel accommodation fee of students until further notice. Apiculturists The Chief Minister exempted apiculturists from the lockdown. Persons who cultivate and sell ornamental fishes and coconut tree climbers could also expect some relaxations. Mr Vijayan said he did not notice the compliments paid by BJP State president K. Surendran to the government for its effort to control the epidemic.However, the Chief Minister said any encouragement was welcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exemptions-for-a-slew-of-services-depts/article31321183.ece
12 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Condition of five remains stable||Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said here on Saturday that the health condition of all five COVID-19 patients, including two children, in the district remained stable. As many as 136 people were included on the quarantine list on Saturday even as 687 people completed the 28-day mandated isolation period. Currently, there were 4,180 people who were in home quarantine. Twenty-one symptomatic people were admitted to hospitals in the district. Thirty-four people were discharged on the day after recovering from ailments.  Of the 121 test samples sent for examination, 108 results have returned negative. Corona care centres that functioned in the district accommodated 102 people. The City police registered cases against 74 people for violating the lockdown norms and confiscated 58 vehicles. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police registered 353 cases and arrested 328 people. As many as 231 vehicles were seized in the various police station limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/condition-of-five-remains-stable/article31321205.ece
12 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Aid for Malayali diaspora||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday announced financial benefits ranging from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 15,000 for Keralites engaged in blue-collar jobs in foreign countries. The Chief Minister said help desks remotely operated by the Department of Non-Resident Keralites Affairs (NoRKA) had sprung up across the Gulf region to support the COVID-19-affected Malayali diaspora. Mr. Vijayan thanked the rulers of the United Arab Emirates for “embracing Malayalis as one of their own” during the time of the crisis. He said Malayali associations, clubs and other social organisations had ensured that pandemic-affected Keralites got food and medical attention. They had ensured the quarantine of persons who tested positive for the illness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aid-for-malayali-diaspora/article31321243.ece
12 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Fresh relaxations for domestic helps mooted||The K.M. Abraham-led expert committee on strategies for lifting the lockdown restrictions has mooted new relaxations in the existing guidelines by permitting cleaning and utility services for flats, apartments, and residences in urban areas, including movement of domestic workers. It has allowed domestic helpers and helpers for personalised assistance to the elderly and the disabled. Production units for essential commodities, including non-factory production units, and local artisan units, including tailors, all of whom are largely women, should also be allowed. The task force pitches for allowing certain activities in which women dominate in its suggestions for the second phase of easing the restrictions. These include activities under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) with observance of protocols such as use of cloth masks and sanitisers. All micro, small, and medium enterprises will also reopen during this phase with adherence to protocols. Though women’s enterprises are not specifically mentioned, the micro-enterprise sector has predominantly women. Special loan facility The measures for livelihood revival proposed by the committee include special loan facility for Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) card holders. Of the 2.1 crore Jan Dhan card holders in the State, 33.54 lakh are women, as per the statistics of the Ministry of Financial Services. An overdraft facility of up to Rs. 15,000 is proposed to be extended to all PMJDY bank account holders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fresh-relaxations-for-domestic-helps-mooted/article31321184.ece
12 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||207 Maldivian nationals evacuated on two flights||As many as 207 Maldivian nationals stranded in Kerala for the past three weeks following the suspension of international flights as part of the COVID-19 containment measures were evacuated on Saturday on two flights from the Thiruvananthapuram international airport to the island nation. Maldivian, the national airline of Maldives, operated the first flight at 10.20 a.m. with 50 adults and two children. The second flight carried 152 adults and three children. Mohammed, a government employee who got stranded, said the Male consulate staff in Thiruvananthapuram took care of their needs and thanked the State government for allowing them to fly back to Male. The airline secured the permission of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation for the flight and other clearances from the State and Union governments. Stanley Paulus, representative of India for Maldivian, said the airline would operate another flight, A-320, in the Male-Bengaluru-Kochi-Male sector on April 14 to clear the remaining Maldivian nationals. The airline has secured permission to operate a flight every Wednesday to ship cargo from Thiruvananthapuram to Male until April 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/207-maldivian-nationals-evacuated-on-two-flights/article31321203.ece
12 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Squads to check stale fish smuggling||Faced with the threat of stale and contaminated fish being smuggled through interstate borders, the district administration has intensified surveillance at check-posts. The move comes in the wake of over 21 tonnes of inedible fish being seized and destroyed in various parts of the district since the lockdown came into effect. Fifteen tonnes of rotten sail fish and tuna varieties were confiscated in Poovar, Alamcode, and Kadampattukonam on Saturday. A few days ago nearly six tonnes of stale fish were destroyed in Kadinamkulam. ‘Safe Fish’ squads, comprising food safety, revenue and police officials, have been deployed at the border points to check incoming loads of commodities. The squads are stationed at the check-posts in Amaravila, Attinpuram, Netta, and Madathara, according to C.L. Dileep, Assistant Commissioner of Food Safety, Thiruvananthapuram. Tourism and Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran stressed the need to step up vigil at the check-posts to rein in smuggling of stale fish. Such loads should be ideally destroyed at the border point itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/squads-to-check-stale-fish-smuggling/article31321204.ece
12 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||INCOIS issues tidal flooding alert||Low-lying areas along the Indian coast, including those in Kerala, are likely to experience flooding during high tides till Sunday, the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) has warned. “Sustained strong onshore winds, high near-shore waves/swells and heavy rainfall and associated discharge can cause nuisance flooding (public inconveniences), especially at high tide times along low-lying coastal areas,” the INCOIS said in an advisory. Kerala, Lakshadweep and south Tamil Nadu coasts can expect rough seas till Monday night. Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kochi, Ponnani, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod are likely to experience surges intermittently during high tides. The phenomenon is due to the combined effect of swell waves, reaching heights of 1.7 metres to two metres, and spring tides. Agati, Amini, Andrott, Bitra, Chetlat, Kadmat, Kalpeni, Kavaratti, Kiltan and Minicoy in the Lakshadweep Islands also are likely to experience surges intermittently during high tides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/incois-issues-tidal-flooding-alert/article31321189.ece
12 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Promoting students’ creativity||The guidelines for the Aksharavriksham scheme rolled out by the General Education Department to promote the creativity of students against the backdrop of school closure owing to COVID-19 have been published. Students in the State studying in Classes 1 to 12 can send their poems, stories, or articles in English or Malayalam to Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE)’s SchoolWiki portal (www.schoolwiki.in). The articles selected will later be published as a book by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT). Students’ creations should reach their class teachers by April 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/promoting-students-creativity/article31321193.ece
12 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Students’ health in focus||Avadhikala Santhoshangal, a programme for which the State Council of Educational Research and Training joined hands with Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE), has got off to a start with KITE’s Samagra portal helping improve students’ health and sporting abilities and promoting their creativity. ‘Exercise at Home’ on the portal has exercises that students can do at home, while there are videos too of activities that help explore their artistic talents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-health-in-focus/article31321194.ece
12 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Farming revived in Kottoor forest||Forest Minister K. Raju formally launched the distribution of crop seeds to the youth among the tribespeople of Kottoor forests, which form part of the Agasthyavanam Biological Park (ABP) forest range, on Saturday. Cooperative farming will be taken up at the fields of the Kottoor forest settlements at Kaithode and Mankode under the aegis of self-help groups. The launch of the Vanika market intervention scheme to ensure fair price for the produce has encouraged many youths to take up farming.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farming-revived-in-kottoor-forest/article31321206.ece
12 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2nd Janakeeya restaurant opened||Mayor K. Sreekumar inaugurated the second Janakeeya restaurant being run by the civic body and Kudumbashree on the Priyadarshini Planetarium compound at PMG Junction. On the first day, three orders were received here while at the first such restaurant near Overbridge, more than 2,000 orders were received. The meal parcels are priced at Rs. 20 while for home delivery the cost is Rs. 25. The third Janakeeya restaurant will be opened near the NS depot at Vallakkadavu on Sunday. The numbers for ordering food have changed— 9496434448, 9496434449, 9496434450. Order can also be placed online through www.covid19tvm.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2nd-janakeeya-restaurant-opened/article31321207.ece
12 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Webinar||The APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University is organising a webinar on ‘Computed Tomography Technology and its role in managing COVID-19’ on April 14. The programme is being held in association with Germany-headquartered medical technology company Siemens Healthineers. Students, faculty members, research scholars can attend the session through Zoom or Google Hangout. While registration is free of cost, there will be a cap on the number of participants. Visitwww.ktu.edu.into register for the webinar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webinar/article31321187.ece
12 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Waterlogging damages crops in Thrissur||Crops in more than 50 acres of land in Aloor panchayat here have been damaged due to waterlogging, which has developed allegedly after the illegal construction of a check-dam. A check-dam constructed at Vaduvanthode at Ayyan Padka has been a bone of contention for the past four years. It has allegedly led to flooding in over 50 acres of farmland at Manattukunnu, Aloor and Thazhakkad, belonging to 60-odd farmers. Crops including vegetables, nutmeg, plantain, areca nut and coconut have been damaged, with farmers pegging the losses over four years at Rs. 60 lakh. However, farmers were not given any compensation as it was classified as man-made crop loss, said Raman Namboodiri, chairman of Karshaka Samithi, Ayyan Padka. Following years of legal battle by farmers, the High Court directed the authorities to form a committee led by the District Collector with farmers and panchayat officials as members. Though a meeting was held in February, no decision was taken, said farmers. They alleged that the construction of a check-dam every year at Ayyan Padka was part of the strategy of the sand mafia to acquire farmlands at cheap rates. If crops got destroyed every year, farmers would be forced to sell their land, they added. The check-dam has been creating two different issues for two panchayats. “If acres of farmland at getting destroyed due to waterlogging in Aloor, farmers in Velukkara are struggling due to water shortage,” said Vaxarin Perappadan, district president of Loktantrik Yuva Janata Dal. With the lockdown in place, farmers were a helpless lot as they could not submit complaints to the authorities, said Mr. Namboodiri. The farmers have sought the urgent intervention of the Agriculture Minister in the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/waterlogging-damages-crops-in-thrissur/article31321150.ece
12 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Sanitiser tunnels unscientific: KSSP||The Kerala Sastra Sahitya Parishad (KSSP) has claimed that sanitiser tunnels installed at strategic centres in the State are not scientific. Parishad president A.P Muraleedharan says there is no scientific evidence for the effectiveness of such tunnels for disinfection and it would mislead people about preventive measures. Such tunnels give an impression that if people pass though it they would be safe and disinfected. A mist of 1% strong sodium hypochlorite is spayed in such tunnels. Various countries, including India, follow the disinfection guidelines given by the World Health Organization and the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention in America. They do not recommend sodium hypochlorite or hydrogen peroxide for fumigation. Hypochlorite solution is used to clean tables, floors, and equipment in hospitals. But laboratories handling viruses or operation theatres do not use it for fumigation. “The virus in hands, which mainly spreads the disease, will not be destroyed by such sanitiser tunnels. For that, washing of hands with soap and water or using sanitiser is the best way. Viral infection of the respiratory tract is the main cause of the disease. For preventing the infection one has to use mask. Sanitiser tunnels do not prevent such infections,” it says. For preventing viral infection, any chemical needs a specific contact time. So such mist spray would not even destroy viruses present on surfaces or non-living objects.The KSSP urged the government to stop installing such tunnels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sanitiser-tunnels-unscientific-kssp/article31321180.ece
12 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||KAU provides online access to books, databases||E-books, journals, research papers, databases, hitherto available only in colleges and research stations through the library system of the Kerala Agricultural University (KAU), can be accessed from home in the COVID-19 lockdown period. The facility is being arranged by the Consortium for E-Resources in Agriculture of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, and other vendors of databases and e-resources. Log-in IDs and passwords had been mailed to the teachers, librarians, researchers and students of the KAU. Plagiarism checking services of theses and research articles were also provided from home, said a release. Those who wanted to urgently take books from the KAU Central Library could avail of the service, once in a week. Other universities, colleges and research institutions could also avail of all services of the library system in accordance with the norms of the inter-library rule. For details, visit:www.kau.in;www.kaucentrallibrary.org; or contact: e-mail -library@kau.in; or phone: - university librarian, Dr. A.T. Francis: - 9496839409; division heads :- books, Dr. N.B. Nisha: – 9495037603; inter-library loan, K.V. Alphonsa - 9400763526, e-resource, Dr. V.S. Swapna - 9446434149.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kau-provides-online-access-to-books-databases/article31321163.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Seven more positive cases in Kannur||Seven more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kannur district on Saturday. District Collector T.V. Subhash said that while two of them had arrived from Dubai, three persons, including a 14-year-old child, were natives of Kathirur, and the remaining two were from Mooriyadu. The two women from Kathirur aged 68 and 40, and the child were admitted to the Kannur District Hospital. Similarly, the other two, aged 87 and 43 were Mooriyadu natives. The swab test for the 87-year-old was done at Aster MIMS Hospital, while the test for the 43-year-old was done at the Thalassery General Hospital. All the Kathirur and Mooriyad natives contracted the disease from affected patients. The two persons who arrived from Dubai were a 33-year-old man from Central Naravoor, Koothuparamba, and a 29-year-old from Kottayam in the district. They had arrived on March 17 and March 18 respectively at the Karipur airport. While the person from Koothupramba was admitted to the Thalassery General Hospital, the other person was admitted to the COVID Care Centre. With this, the number of COVID-19 cases in the district has reached 72. Of those, 37 have recovered and have been discharged. There are 7,881 persons under surveillance in the district at present. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, two girls aged 8 and 10 tested positive for the disease when results of lab tests were received on Saturday. According to the Health Department, the girls contracted the disease from their mother, who hails from Kasaragod, and is undergoing treatment at the Kanhangad hospital. Both are now under observation at the Kanhangad hospital. With the new cases detected on Saturday, the number of cases in the district has gone up to 133. In Kozhikode One more person tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode on Saturday, taking the total number of COVID-19 patients in the district to 13. According to District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, the 67-year-old from Edachery had been undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Two of his sons had come from Dubai and were under home isolation since March 18. He was discharged after his body fluid samples had tested negative on April 2. However, the medical board at the hospital suggested testing the samples again, the result of which turned out to be positive. His family members had been shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital for detailed tests, said Dr. Jayasree. Another 437 people were removed from the list of home quarantine on Saturday, bringing down the total number of those under observation to 17,387. Medicine delivery Meanwhile, District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao has directed local bodies to ensure delivery of life-saving drugs. If they are not available in government hospitals or Karunya medical stores, local bodies should seek the help of sponsors to get them from the open market. Help desks should be set up for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seven-more-positive-cases-in-kannur/article31321155.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Correction||The antibiotic used in the treatment of the COVID-19 patient at the Government Medical College, Ernakulam, was azithromycin, and not erythromycin as was wrongly mentioned in the report titled, “Even the first response to treatment is crucial: Expert” that appeared in these columns on April 11. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/correction/article31321153.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Need of the hour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/need-of-the-hour/article31321161.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Partners in crime||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/partners-in-crime/article31321209.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Wasted harvest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wasted-harvest/article31321173.ece
12 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five new positive cases in Kurnool, total goes up to 82||There is no let up in the number of COVID19 positive cases getting reported in Kurnool district and on Saturday at 8 a.m., the number of positive cases went up from 77 to 82 with five new cases getting reported. District Collector G. Veerapandian on Saturday said the district received results of 108 samples of the primary contacts of Delhi returnees and of them while 103 samples turned negative, 5 new positive cases were reported. The lockdown is being implemented very stringently and to not give any leeway. The Kurnool district administration has decided to close all chicken, meat and fish markets/shops on Sunday in the entire district, which are potential for large gathering of people and getting infected. The District Collector has requested the people to cooperate with the local officers and police “till we get out of Coronavirus spread.” He has asked the Revenue Officers and Police personnel to keep strict vigilance in their respective areas. Meanwhile, the number of people coming onto streets has also significantly come down with barricades built across main roads and connecting streets in the Red Zones. Availability of grocery, milk and vegetables at doorstep in the Red Zones has improved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-new-positive-cases-in-kurnool-total-goes-up-to-82/article31320882.ece
12 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 tests at RDT hospital from today||A modern COVID-19 testing laboratory will start functioning on the Rural Development Trust’s Bathalapalli Hospital premises from Sunday, announced District Collector Gandham Chandrudu. The RDT Bathalapalli hospital has a laboratory that houses diagnostic machines used for testing drug-resistant tuberculosis (TB) and those have now been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for conducting COVID-19 tests. The Bathalapalli laboratory has six such machines and can take up 20 samples at a time, thus taking the capacity to 120 per day. As part of its efforts in increasing the number of COVID tests, the ICMR on Friday approved the use of these diagnostic machines and has validated ‘TruenatTM beta CoV test on TruelabTM workstation’ and has recommended it as a screening test. Those samples that test positive here, would be sent to Microbiology Laboratory in Government Medical College in Anantapur for confirmation. Meanwhile, the Microbiology Laboratory had been testing COVID-19 samples since March 24, and has got more than 1,300 samples so far. From Anantapur district 1,076 samples have been obtained so far and sent to various laboratories for testing and of them 15 were positive, 593 negative and results of 423 are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-tests-at-rdt-hospital-from-today/article31320878.ece
12 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||PPEs, masks distributed to GGH doctors, staff||Anantapur district did not report any new COVID-19 positive case since 8 a.m. on Friday, giving a sigh of relief to the district administration and medical fraternity. Doctors, house surgeons and staff nurses along with other paramedical personnel, who had expressed concern over lack of personal protection equipment and N-95 masks, were handed over those materials by District Collector Gandham Chandrudu and Assistant Collector M. Jahnavi at the Government General Hospital here on Saturday. All junior doctors and house surgeons resumed duties on Saturday. The protection equipemt was handed over by the Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust to the District Collector on Friday. Mr. Chandrudu expressed gratitude at the gesture of the trust in supplying the materials worth Rs. 1.80 crore. “This will give immense boost to the confidence of personnel working in the care of COVID-19 patients,” the Collector added. Mr. Chandrudu along with Ms. Jahnavi inspected the Bathalapalli hospital premises and other laboratory premises on Friday night, where a treatment and quarantine facility had been opened and the RDT also proposed to have COVID-19 testing facility, if the government permitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ppes-masks-distributed-to-ggh-doctors-staff/article31320876.ece
12 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown violators taken to task by Anantapur police||Police ramped up enforcement of the lockdown in Anantapur, seizing hundreds of vehicles and issuing challans worth Rs. 1.15 crore on Saturday as the number of coronavirus cases in the district rose from three to 15 in the span of a week. Three major areas from where four cases were reported within the city have been cordoned off, with police erecting barricades and not allowing anyone to go in or out of the containment zones. The red zones in the city are Ram Nagar, Maruti Nagar, Jesus Nagar, Sai Nagar and 80-feet road. Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu went round the city to inspect the implementation of red zone restrictions and instructed Deputy Superintendent of Police G. Veeraraghava Reddy to ensure that all police personnel are wearing the Personal Protection Equipment given to them, and in the absence of PPEs, are at least wearing gloves and masks. The SP also interacted with the ANMs and ASHA workers and instructed them on how to coordinate with police personnel. Mr. Yesu Babu said that all in the red zones, people could get their essentials by ordering online and get all services at their doorstep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-violators-taken-to-task-by-anantapur-police/article31320877.ece
12 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka’s first ‘sanitiser bus’ rolls out of scrap yard||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is converting old buses slated to be scrapped into “sanitiser buses” to disinfect people in public places. On Saturday, one such bus was launched in the city. KSRTC Managing Director Shivayogi C. Kalasad said the buses, to be called ‘Sarige Sanjeevini’, would be operated in city limits for police personnel, health workers, pourakarmikas and others carrying out essential services during the lockdown. “There are various measures to curb the spread of COVID-19, this is one among them. We can’t say that the buses will completely disinfect people. They have to follow other measures, such as maintaining personal hygiene, and washing hands. This is one of the proactive measures taken by the corporation,” he said. The bus was modified at the central workshop of the KSRTC at a cost of Rs. 20,000. Modifications include installation of sprinklers. People need to enter from the front door and exit via the rear end to get disinfected. “In districts such as Mysuru, Mangaluru, Chikkaballapur and others where COVID-19 positive cases have been reported, the KSRTC is planning to operate sanitiser buses. We may convert 18 to 20 buses for now,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnatakas-first-sanitiser-bus-rolls-out-of-scrap-yard/article31320854.ece
12 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TDP leaders involved in most Excise violations’||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Excise K. Narayana Swamy on Saturday alleged that a majority of violations in the excise policy was due to the involvement of the TDP leaders. Addressing the media in Tirupati after a videoconference with the personnel of the Excise and Prohibition Department, Mr Narayana Swamy said all the violations would be viewed seriously. They could lead to the invoking of the PD Act, jail terms and huge penalties, apart from cancelling bar licences. “Unfortunately, a small fraction of the department personnel are working hand-in-glove with the TDP leaders operating bars and encouraging illicit liquor dens. Such staff will face suspension and dismissal from service,” the Minister said, adding that stocks at all the wine shops and bars, before and after lockdown, would be verified, and the violators would be taken to task. SEC row Referring to the appointment of new State Election Commissioner, he said it was in tune with the constitutional provisions. TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu was making it an issue to protect his vested interests, he alleged. Referring to the comments of JSP president Pawan Kalyan on the issue, Mr Narayana Swamy wondered what more could be expected of a “paid artiste.” Lockdown Referring to the lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19, he said it was unfortunate that a section of the minorities were not cooperating with the officials in following the social distancing norm. “It is unfortunate that some of them are attacking and abusing the officials enforcing the guidelines,” he added. He appealed to the people to desist from gathering at places of worship and confine their prayers to their households.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leaders-involved-in-most-excise-violations/article31321282.ece
12 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders logs worth Rs. 17 lakh seized, 2 held||The Piler rural police on Saturday raided an agricultural field and seized a dump of red sanders logs worth Rs. 17 lakh at a forest fringe village, and arrested two persons who were said to be repeat offenders in red sanders smuggling cases. Circle Inspector (Piler Rural) S. Murali Krishna headed a special party with Sub-Inspectors Hari Prasad and Lakshmi Narayana of Rompicharla and Yerravari Palem police stations, and raided the field at Ganugachinta, a village in the Rompicharla mandal of the district. Accused V. Prasad Reddy (46) and Bukke Giri Naik (28) were nabbed by the police personnel. ‘Raids will continue’ The accused were allegedly planning to shift the dump after the lifting of the lockdown. The duo reportedly told the police that the logs were procured from the Seshachalam hills. “Searches are under way to arrest the other members involved in maintaining the dump. Raids would continue at all suspected areas to detect any dumps,” the police officer said. Pat for team Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar and Deputy SP (Madanapalle) A. Ravi Manohar Achari lauded the special party for unearthing the red sanders dump.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-sanders-logs-worth-rs-17-lakh-seized-2-held/article31321274.ece
12 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chinta urges FCI, RBI to bail out the poor affected by lockdown||Former Union Minister Chinta Mohan on Saturday urged the Central government to initiate steps immediately to utilize 80 million tonnes of food grains available with the Food Corporation of India (FCI) to bail out poor families affected by the lockdown imposed in view of the COVID-19 outbreak. Anticipating the impact of the lockdown to last until May 31, the former Minister said apart from distributing 30 kg of rice or wheat to every poor family, steps should also be taken to give away Rs. 2,000 to them, from the 8 lakh crores available with the Reserve Bank of India(RBI). In a press release issued on Saturday, highlighting that about one hundred doctors were infected while treating the patients, he said many more were at the risk of contracting the infection and urged the Centre to provide with sufficient equipment and protective gear to the medical and paramedical fraternity. A medical doctor himself, Dr. Mohan also demanded that Rs. 1 crore medical insurance be provided to doctors, nurses, journalists, policemen, health workers and other warriors leading the battle from the front against the virus. Meanwhile, Dr. Mohan has suggested to the Centre to extend the lockdown till May 31, saying that the lockdown has to be in place for at least 70 days as in the case of China, to beat down the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chinta-urges-fci-rbi-to-bail-out-the-poor-affected-by-lockdown/article31320879.ece
12 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Charred body of unidentified woman found in forest near village in Chittoor||Mystery shrouds the death of a woman, whose charred body was found by the side of a pond in a forest location at Tharigodu village of Gattu panchayat of B. Kothakota mandal on Saturday. According to information, some shepherds found smoke emanating from the bushes close to the pond in the morning. Finding that it was a woman’s body burning, they immediately informed the B. Kothakota police. Before the police could rush to the spot, the body was burnt beyond recognition. Police suspect it could be a murder as pieces of cable wire around the charred neck suggested strangulation. Deputy SP (Madanapalle) A. Ravimanohar Achari, who inspected the spot, told the media that a gunny bag at the scene suggested that the woman might have been murdered somewhere and the body carried to the isolated place here. A team of forensic experts and a dog squad reached the spot and some clues were collected. The body was sent to the area hospital for autopsy. The official said that the CC camera footage at the key junctions of Madanapalle rural side would be verified for possible clues about the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/charred-body-of-unidentified-woman-found-in-forest-near-village-in-chittoor/article31321275.ece
12 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,600 tonnes of vegetables distributed||Tirupati Urban Development Authority chairman and MLA Chevireddi Bhaskar Reddy on Saturday launched distribution of 1,600 metric tonnes of vegetables at 10kg per family in Chandragiri assembly constituency. The distribution was initiated at the local market yard at Chandragiri town. He said that the vegetables were procured in bulk from the farms at various places in Chittoor and neighbouring districts. Speaking to the media, Mr. Bhaskar Reddy said he would continue to extend all the necessary material to them during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1600-tonnes-of-vegetables-distributed/article31320880.ece
12 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||One more succumbs to coronavirus in Guntur||A 70-year-old woman from Dachepalli succumbed to COVID-19 on Saturday, taking the toll to two in the district. Earlier this week, a 45-year-old man from Narsaraopet had died at the Infectious Diseases (ID) Hospital, where the doctors initially said he was a TB patient. However, the victim’s samples later showed that he had contracted coronavirus. The woman from Dachepalli too was admitted with symptoms of lung infection. Her medical history indicated that she had been suffering from TB. The day also witnessed a steep rise in the number of positive cases. With 14 new cases coming to light in the city, the tally in the district went up to 75. Surprisingly, 10 of the new cases were from a single family residing at Kummari Bazaar, where a man, his wife, three sons, daughters-in-law and grandchildren were all infected. ‘Complete lockdown’ District Collector I, Samuel Ananda Kumar announced several new measures in view of serious condition. He said a complete lockdown would be observed on Sunday when people would not be allowed even during the relaxation hours between 6 a.m. and 9 a.m. All shops, with the exception of medical shops, would remain closed. “I urge people to stay indoors as the situation is turning serious. Please buy essential commodities to last for 15 days and ensure that you stay indoors. We are also thinking of relaxing the lockdown on alternative days. All these measures are aimed at containing the rapid spread of COVID-19,” the Collector said. Containment zones The district administration declared 12 containment zones in Guntur and all access roads to these areas had been blocked. “The local administration is making efforts to supply vegetables to the residents of these areas,” the Collector added. Referring to the facilities at the quarantine centres, the Collector said quality food was being served to the patients for Rs. 50 a meal, which comprised dry fruits, fruits, eggs, and rice and vegetables. Deputy Inspector General of Police, Guntur Urban, P.H.D. Ramakrishna, urged people not to stir of their houses as the spread of coronavirus was quite rapid in the district. Superintendent of Police, Guntur Rural, Ch. Vijaya Rao, said of the 14 new cases, eight were linked to the Nizamuddin returnees. Ponnur, Narsaraopet, Atchempet, and Macherla were declared as red zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-more-succumbs-to-coronavirus-in-guntur/article31321285.ece
12 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Top officials meet SEC||Commissioner and Director of Municipal Administration, and Election Authority Vijay Kumar Srkr on Saturday called on Justice (Retd.) V. Kanagaraj, at his office and briefed him on the status of the conduct of elections to the urban local bodies in the State. DGP D. Gautam Sawang too formally met Mr. Kanagaraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/top-officials-meet-sec/article31321283.ece
12 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Priority to protect agriculture sector, says KCR||Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday emphasised that the government should protect the agriculture sector and ensure that there was no shortage of essential commodities during the lockdown enforced to contain the spread of coronavirus. ‘ The Chief Minister urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend the present lockdown by two weeks. Mr Chandrasekhar Rao made these suggestions during the four-hour video conference held by the Prime Minister with all the chief ministers on Saturday. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao said measures should be taken to run rice mills, oil mills and other agriculture-based industries. “India is fighting against the coronavirus unitedly and the fight should continue with the same spirit. International media is also praising the country for its valiant fight against the coronavirus,” he said. Acknowledging the Centre’s support to the States in the fight against the virus and appreciating the Prime Minister for speaking to Chief Ministers from time to time, he said it was giving a great moral courage to the CMs. Country’s lifeline “For our country the lifeline is agriculture. Not only providing food to people, agriculture provides livelihood to many. It’s not possible for any country to feed India with its 135 crore population. We are self-sufficient as far as foodgrains are concerned. This situation should continue. We have to stand by farmers who feed us.” He wanted agriculture to be linked with MNREGA and the scheme should continue for at least two months. A policy should be brought by which farmers would pay half the wages for labourers and other half would be from the MNREGA funds. This would support farmers during this difficult period.  FCI stocks By giving rice required for people for the next three months, the FCI godowns in the country could be emptied. The newly procured foodgrains could be stored in these godowns. In Telangana, 6,849 procurement centres were created at the village-level to prevent crowding of farmers at one place. Only for the procurement of paddy, the government gave Rs. 25,000 crore bank guarantee. “We are procuring paddy in the villages and depositing money in the accounts of the farmers directly. The paddy thus procured is milled into rice and supplied to the FCI. To get money from the FCI, it will take four to five months. Till such time, the Centre should take measures so that banks would not put any pressure for the payment of dues,” he said. ‘Strategic policy’ Mr Rao said a strategic economic policy was needed to counter the fallout of the epidemic. The country could fight the global crises in 1918 due to Spanish Flu and the global economic recession in 2008. RBI should implement quantitative easing policy. Called Helicopter money, this would enable the States and financial institutions to accrue funds and come out of the financial crisis. “Release 5% of funds from the GDP through Quantitative easing Policy,” he suggested. The Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) limit for market borrowings should be increased from 3 % to 5 %. The Centre should take initiative to postpone for six months, the monthly interest paid by the States on debts from the Centre, he suggested. Task Force Mr Rao wanted a task force be created under the chairmanship of the PM. In the backdrop of the lockdown, an action plan on how to help farmers should be prepared and be implemented to ease the economic situation. Along with the Chief Minister, Medical and Health Minister Eatala Rajender, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP Mahender Reddy, and Principal Secretary Ramaakrishna Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/priority-to-protect-agriculture-sector-says-kcr/article31321130.ece
12 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spitting COVID-19 patients leave police personnel terrified||What are policemen afraid of these days? Flying spittle! Yes, cops on duty at hospitals treating COVID-19 patients or suspects are having to face a unique challenge — the patients are often spitting all over the ward and even from the windows, exposing hospital staff and policemen to the risk of contracting coronavirus. While no such positive cases have come to light yet, a few police officers deployed at Gandhi Hospital, King Koti Hospital and Chest Hospital told The Hindu that they are unable to carry out their duty in peace because of the seemingly invincible habit of people spitting frequently. While the positive patients have been put up in the quarantine facility at Gandhi Hospital, the suspects are in the wards. “Many of them used to chew paan or tobacco. Though the products are not available in the market now, frequent spitting has become a habit for them, which makes others, especially suspects, and people working at hospitals more vulnerable to contracting the deadly virus,” a police officer deployed at Gandhi Hospital told The Hindu requesting anonymity. Patients counselled When compared to last week, the menace has come down now, but still they notice people spitting out from the windows. “We inform the medical staff about it. They have counselled and explained the health hazards to others,” he said. The officer said that on several occasions they have ‘warned’ the patients of booking criminal cases if they spit out openly or misbehave with the staff. “Despite personal protection gear, we are still vulnerable and pray nothing goes wrong here due to unruly patients. Many of us are terrified to go back home, as we could be potential carriers of the virus and infect our family members,” said another police officer. At least 200 police personnel are deployed in three shifts at Gandhi Hospital. He said spitting menace was ‘out of control’ last week at Gandhi Hospital when a large group of suspects got admitted. According to the officer, the situation is no less different at Chest Hospital, King Koti Hospital or other government facilities across Telangana. On Wednesday, the State government banned spitting in public places and institutions with immediate effect, as it might potentially lead to the spread of COVID-19 and other infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spitting-covid-19-patients-leave-cops-terrified/article31321104.ece
12 April 2020||KANNUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman cured of COVID-19 gives birth||A woman, cured of COVID-19, gave birth to a boy at the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital on Saturday, the first such case in Kerala and the third in the country, according to hospital sources. A Caesarean section was performed on the 29-year-old Kasaragod native. The woman had contracted COVID-19 from her husband, who was found afflicted on his return from Dubai. The couple were hospitalised on March 27. They were declared cured after their two test results turned negative and were scheduled to be discharged two days ago. However, since the woman was nearing her delivery date, she stayed back, said S. Ajith, head of gynaecology, who led the surgery team. The surgery was done in a specially equipped operating theatre with extra security measures. Baby under observation The couple are now housed in the isolation ward. The child, weighing 3 kg, will be under observation for some days. N. Roy, Principal, Kannur Government Medical College, said special arrangements were in place at the operation theatre since a Caesarean had been done earlier on a suspected COVID-19 patient there. The woman was discharged after results were negative. Dr. Roy said 15 COVID-19 cases were treated and discharged from the hospital. Fifteen patients were still undergoing treatment. Two COVID-19-afflicted pregnant women had been cured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-cured-of-covid-19-gives-birth/article31320847.ece
12 April 2020||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Use of homoeopathy: HC seeks the response of State||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Saturday sought the response of the State government to a petition demanding that homoeopathic practitioners be allowed to use and distribute homoeopathic medicines as prophylactic medicines against COVID-19. The petition was filed by M.S. Vineeth, a lawyer from Kozhikode. The petitioner said though the State Secretary of AYUSH had approved the use of Ayurveda for prevention, mitigation, and rehabilitation of COVID-19 patients, homoeopathy was completely left out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/use-of-homoeopathy-hc-seeks-the-response-of-state/article31320846.ece
12 April 2020||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Captive elephants under watch in Karnataka||The COVID-19 advisory to monitor the health of captive tigers has now been extended to captive elephants in the State. Manoj Kumar, Deputy Conservator of Forests (DCF), Nagarahole, told The Hindu that there is no specific advisory from the directorate of Project Elephant. But a communiqué has been issued by the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) to ensure sanitary conditions in jungle camps and to reduce human contact with elephants, he said. These elephants are captured from the wild on being marked as “troublesome” and indulging in crop raiding. They are darted, tranquillized, chained, and led to the crawls and tamed before being declared fit to serve in combing operations or in capturing other elephants that stray into human landscape. Some are rescued from circuses or have been sold to temples. Karnataka has nearly 150 captive elephants including those under the Forest Department. While there are 14 camp elephants in Bandipur, there are 61 in Nagarahole jurisdiction. There are 6 elephants at the Mysuru palace. Each elephant is assigned to a mahout and his assistant or kavadi who bathe, provide water, fodder, and maintain a general watch over them. In the wake of the advisory, the authorities have conducted health camps for mahouts and their families in the jungle camps and instructed them to minimise socialising with the public in their hamlet. Mr. Kumar said the premises of the mahouts and kavadis have been disinfected and even the ration they receive through PDS is subjected to screening. Masks and sanitizers have been distributed while the practice of scrubbing the elephants when they bathe, has been discontinued. Nagarahole veterinarian Muijb said the camp elephants are allowed to water bodies and physical contact with mahouts has been reduced. Meanwhile, the big cats in the jungles are under watch and camera traps installed to assess their density and presence have been switched to video mode to ascertain if there are health issues evident in their gait.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/captive-elephants-under-watch-in-karnataka/article31320852.ece
12 April 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||High drama at police station as YSRCP MLA stages dharna||YSRCP MLA from Kovur N. Prasanna Kumar Reddy staged a demonstration in front of the police station at Buchireddipalem on Saturday as the police booked a case against him and seven others. They were charged with violating the social distancing norm laid down to check the spread of COVID-19 during distribution of essential commodities to the poor in his constituency on Friday. Peeved at the police action, the MLA threatened to quit politics if any punitive action was taken against his followers. The police booked a case under IPC Sections 188, 269 and 270 for alleged violation of the lockdown in force and also initiated disciplinary action against police personnel concerned. Giving a go-by to social distancing, the ruling party had mobilised a large number of people for the distribution of rice and other essential commodities. “The YSRCP men in my constituency have only responded to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s call to come to the aid of the poor in this hour of crisis,” the upset MLA said.  Meanwhile, the number of infected persons rose to 41 in Prakasam district with one more person testing positive on Saturday. One person had so far been discharged after recovery. Collector P. Bhaskar led the containment action plan in Markapur and K.K.Mitla, where one person each had contracted coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-drama-at-police-station-as-ysrcp-mla-stages-dharna/article31321287.ece
12 April 2020||Special Correspondent,ANDHRA PRADESH||First sanitising tunnel comes up in Vizag||The first sanitising tunnel for public use was inaugurated on Saturday by Joint Collector L. Shiva Shankar at the temporary rythu bazaar that has come up at Dr. L. Bullayya College Grounds. Set up by Moray Smart Solutions, a Vizag-based company that deals with fire safety and security equipment and solutions, the company has named it as ‘Scanitizer’, as it can perform a number of tasks. The tunnel built in a canopy measuring 10 / 12 feet, is fitted with four sprinklers that spray water vapour mixed with sodium hypochlorite. The number of sprinklers can be added and even the canopy size can be altered and sprinklers can be placed both overhead and from the sides. It all depends on the requirement and can be tailor made to the specifications, said B. Jagadeesh Kumar, Managing Director of the company. The concept of sanitising tunnel, has gained prominence after the outbreak of COVID-19. The advantage is that it can sanitise a number of people at the same time and can cater to a large gathering. Describing the tunnel at Bullayya college, Mr. Jagadeesh said, “At a time five to six persons, who enter and exit the rythu bazaar, can walk through the tunnel. It takes about 3 to 5 seconds to walk through, and it is enough time to disinfect the person including his or her clothing, as we use sodium hypochlorite solution.” Since the spraying or dousing is done in vapour form, people do not get wet and the spraying is done through high pressure dousing pumps, using sprinklers or nozzles.  Smart sensors Moreover, sprinklers are connected to smart sensors and open up only when a person walks through.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-sanitising-tunnel-comes-up-in-vizag/article31321299.ece
12 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srikakulam closes inter-district borders||Srikakulam district administration on Saturday closed all its inter-district borders at Pydibhimavaram, Patapatnam, Rajam, among other places, to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The A.P. Odisha border at Itchapuram was closed three weeks ago. Collector J. Nivas and Superintendent of Police R.N. Ammi Reddy reportedly directed all the officials concerned to enforce the restrictions on movement of vehicles and individuals strictly. Meanwhile, the authorities said news of infected people entering the district were fake. Srikakulam continued to be in ‘zero positive cases’ category while the number of cases has been increasing in other districts. Medical tests were conducted for nearly 1,300 foreign returnees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srikakulam-closes-inter-district-borders/article31321295.ece
12 April 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||ONGC plugs gas leak||The Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) teams on Saturday plugged a minor gas leak from two lines of a well near Pasarlapudi Lanka in East Godavari district. “The leak has been reported from PSP 37 and PSR 41 points,” said Akrati Bhatia, Communication Officer, ONGC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ongc-plugs-gas-leak/article31321294.ece
12 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram/Bengaluru/Chennai/Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||New cases on the rise in the South||The death of one person with COVID-19 in Guntur in Andhra Pradesh and a spike in cases in that city marked the progression of the viral infection on Saturday, with about 100 new cases being reported in the southern States. Data from Telangana were awaited. COVID-19 positive cases in Andhra Pradesh crossed the 400-mark on Saturday with 24 new cases reported from four districts. There were 17 new cases in Guntur on Saturday. Kerala’s Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan hoped that a low rate of disease transmission would help the State, which is projected to reach a critical phase over the next three to four weeks. The number of people who were newly testing positive for COVID-19 seemed to be on the decline, while the number of those testing negative after treatment was up, he told the media. On Saturday, 10 new cases were reported in Kerala, three of them with history of foreign travel. The rest were primary contacts of imported cases. Seven new cases were in Kannur, two at Kasaragod and one at Kozhikode. The State total for positive cases was 373, and 228 were under treatment. The State has so far tested samples of 14,163 persons, of which 12,818 results had been negative. Mr. Vijayan said while focusing on containing COVID-19, one should not lose sight of other diseases, and those patients should not suffer. District Collectors had been asked to remove “disinfectant tunnels” set up in public places, he said. The Public Works department was continuing to identify and list rooms with attached bathrooms across the State, which could be used as isolation rooms, should a situation arise. Already over 2.5 lakh rooms had been identified, of which 1.10 lakh room were ready to be used. Local bodies were also being asked to identify empty houses or apartments within their jurisdiction. Mysuru cluster Mysuru in Karnataka had five fresh cases on Saturday, and added to another five from the day before, the city was seen as an emerging cluster. The source of infection in the first case from a pharma company in the district was not identified. Eight new cases were reported in Karnataka on Saturday, taking the total number to 215, according to official data. A 10-month-old baby, the youngest patient in Karnataka in Mangaluru was discharged. Of Saturday’s new cases, apart from the five in Mysuru, the others included a 32-year-old private doctor, who got the infection from a patient, and a 10-year-old boy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntur-sees-spike-in-cases/article31320857.ece
12 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leader seeks recall of Governor||Telugu Desam Party leader and former SAAP chairman P.R. Mohan sat in protest at his residence (in view of lockdown) at Srikalahasti on Saturday to express his displeasure against Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan affixing his signature on the ordinance reducing the tenure of the State Election Commissioner. Claiming the action as “politically motivated,” Mr. Mohan appeal to the President to recall the Governor for “setting a bad precedent and sending a wrong message” to the people of the State. “The Governor has failed to honour his predecessor’s appointment. Normally, political appointees are shown the door after change of guard. But in this case, a person holding a constitutional position had to face such a humiliation,” he observed. ‘Political vendetta’ The Governor should have taken legal opinion before signing the ordinance, Mr. Mohan said. Staff Reporter in Vijayawada writes: BJP parliamentary constituency in-charge K. Dileep alleged that the shunting out of the SEC through an ordinance was a part of political vendetta. In a press release, Mr. Dileep said the government’s action was a mockery of democracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leader-seeks-recall-of-governor/article31321288.ece
12 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||New State Election Commissioner gets down to work||The new State Election Commissioner (SEC), Justice (Retd.) V. Kanagaraj, who assumed office on Saturday morning, said the COVID-19 lockdown period gave him time to do some groundwork and take charge of the situation. With bundles of books and reports with him to go through, Mr. Kanagaraj said he was already on the job. He, however, hinted at taking a call on the local body elections once the severity of the pandemic reduced. ‘Extraordinary situation’ Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Kanagaraj dubbed the situation as an extraordinary one, which needed to be handled differently. He dedicated his first day of work indoors to evaluate some key documents pertaining to the elections. “The whole world is worried about the pandemic, and humanitarian considerations take precedence over other issues. Meanwhile, I’ve got some key documents and books related to the State polls. Got into my job and going through them for now. Taking advantage of the current holidays for indoor work,” Mr. Kanagaraj said. Responding to the divergent opinions over his appointment, he said, “It is 100% constitutional and has come through an ordinance post a decision by the State Cabinet.” “Constitution decries class legislation, but not a reasonable classification. If anyone has any objection, they can challenge the Act, but not the execution part of it. Ultimately, it’s people’s will that triumphs over. Post Independence, some of the British officials and the Nizam of Hyderabad wanted to take refuge in the United Nations, but the law of free India prevailed,” he added.  Vast experience Mr. Kanagaraj had served as Judge of the Madras High Court for nine years and had several landmark judgments to his credit, particularly in cases related to the education sector and women and children safety. Justice Kanagaraj had graduated from the Madras Law College in 1972 and started practising as member of the Salem Bar Association in 1973. He had the distinction of sitting in the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, which was the only Bench created after 57 years of Independence, on its inaugural day. Since his retirement from the Madras High Court, Mr. Kanagaraj resumed his legal practice in the Supreme Court, where he had been a senior advocate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-state-election-commissioner-gets-down-to-work/article31321279.ece
12 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railway hospital sets up ‘throat swab collection window’||To prevent the spread of COVID-19 and ensure safe environment for doctors while treating patients who are suspected to have contracted the virus, Railway Hospital, Vijayawada, has come up with a unique way of collecting throat swab samples from persons with symptoms. A swab collection window was developed converting one of the windows of the ENT Clinic of the hospital using glass pane fixing two gloves. “Samples would be sent to the government lab and the results are expected in 48 hours. We tested two persons, of which one was negative and the result of the second person is awaited,” Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) P. Srinivas said. Testing method involves collection of samples from inside the clinic. The individual suspected to have contracted the virus, whose samples are being taken has to walk up to booth and stand in exterior front of the glass pane. The swab would be collected without any physical contact. Samples collected would be kept in viral transport medium and preserved in cold chain for despatching it to testing centres of the State government. After collection of throat swab sample, gloves and window would be disinfected with sodium hypochrorite before proceeding to the next patient. Collection process is fully non-exposing to the doctor and would be completed in two minutes, said Vijayawada Railway Hospital Assistant Chief Medical Superintendent Naseer Hussain. “Swab sample collection is the safe and cost effective method developed on the lines of phone booth testing system being followed in Kerala, without any physical contact from the suspicious persons,” said Dr. Naseer. The DRM complimented Chief Medical Superintendent V.V. Satyanarayana, ENT specialist Ravikanth and the team of doctors for developing the innovative way to collect samples. Flow chart A separate flow chart was designed and circulated among all the employees as per guidelines of the World Health Organisation (WHO) to treat the suspicious patients with fever to prevent the virus. Employees suffering with fever and recent history of foreign visits were being regularly monitored by gathering reports from all departments regularly. Isolation wards and quarantine facilities were being strictly monitored and disinfected frequently to avoid the pandemic, the DRM said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/railway-hospital-sets-up-throat-swab-collection-window/article31320888.ece
12 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||No water available in Srisailam reservoir for irrigation||Water available for irrigation in Srisailam reservoir is currently zero tmcft. The level of water in the dam is 823 feet, that is 30 ft. below the MDDL (minimum draw down level) and there is no water available for irrigation as per the design norms in this multi-purpose dam, according to sources. The capacity of the dam at FRL (full reservoir level) of 885 ft. is 215.81 tmcft. The dam gates were operated a record number of times this monsoon when the river was in spate several times. With the summer still ahead, the water level in the reservoir is closer to dead storage of 705 ft rather than the FRL. The dam can hold 130.16 tmcft when it is at MDDL of 853 ft. but the level in the reservoir was 823 ft. The water level is currently 30 ft. below norms. Nearly 100 tmcft has been used in excess. Nagarjuna Sagar slightly better off The situation in the other huge dam of the Telugu State Nagarjuna Sagar is slightly better. There is only 66 tmcft available for irrigation. What happened to the water in Srisailam Reservoir, the lifeline for Rayalaseema and to some extent Krishna Delta, is a million dollar question. According to sources, 175 tmcft was drawn from Pottyreddipadu Head Regulator, 44 tmcft for Muchchumarru scheme, 145 tmcft from Nagarjuna Sagar Right Main canal, 170 tmcft for Krishna delta, and 88 tmcft for Nagarjuna Sagar Left Main Canal (Telangana), as per records. But the AP irrigation engineers suspect that more than 88 tmcft was drawn from the NSP Left Canal. While the normal ayacut of Telangana was 6 lakh hectares, crop was sown in something close to 15 lakh hectares and water to the tune of 260 tmcft was utilised, they allege. There are allegations that Telangana was able to draw the water with the help of an important member of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) who has not been entirely impartial.  Complaints against KRMB One of the big complaints against the KRMB was that it was not making Telangana submit the water being utilised on Palair, Lankasagar, Wyra, RDS, Musi, Vokkachetti Vagu and Kothapadu vagu, all small projects, schemes and tributaries on the Krishna River in Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-water-available-in-srisailam-reservoir-for-irrigation/article31321277.ece
12 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||GO reducing tenure of SEC challenged in High Court||An advocate from Prakasam district, T. Yogesh, on Saturday filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the Andhra Pradesh High Court seeking declaration of the variation of tenure of the State Election Commissioner (SEC) as arbitrary and in violation of Articles 14 and 243 K (2) of the Indian Constitution. He was referring to the Government Order (GO) Ms. No. 617 (dated April 10), through which the State Government reduced the tenure of the SEC to three years, which resulted in the termination of N. Ramesh Kumar’s services. The petition is likely to be heard by the High Court on April 13, according to sources. Mr. Yogesh argued that as per Rule 3 of GO Ms. No. 927 issued by the Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Department on December 30, 1994, the term of the SEC should be five years and Article 343 K(2) of the Constitution prohibited the alteration of conditions of service, including tenure. ‘Abuse of power’ The petitioner further contended that the issue of the impugned GO in the middle of the local body election process amounted to gross abuse of power and needed to be nailed under Article 14 of the Constitution. The court should, therefore, give an interim relief by setting aside Rule 5 of GO 617 pending disposal of the PIL, he prayed while adding that the independence of the SEC was at stake and there was an inherent danger of the political executive and its advisers using it (SEC) as a tool for subverting the process of law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/go-reducing-tenure-of-sec-challenged-in-high-court/article31321280.ece
12 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Churches go online to spread Easter message||In view of the ongoing lockdown, priests in churches have asked devotees to stay home and offer family prayers on Easter Sunday. A couple of churches, however, are using technology to connect with the faithful on the occasion. “We have been giving live telecast of the special prayers offered at the church for the last three days. The church members join the prayer sessions from their homes,” says Nakka David Raju, Parish Priest of Arogyamatha Catholic Church at Kankipadu. Fr. David Raju is sad that people are unable to celebrate together on an important occasion like Easter, but adds in the same breath: “We realise that it is for the public good and the situation demands a complete lockdown. However, I am happy that we are able to reach out to the church members by using technology.” The church has roped in Solomon and Joshi, two youngsters, to video-record and live-stream the event uing Open Broadcaster Software (OBS), a free and open source software. The duo i getting ready to live-stream the special mass on Saturday night at 10 p.m. Members of Church of South India’s All Saint’s Church on the premises of Bishop Azaraiah School have been joining pre-recorded prayer sessions telecast in the evening hours during the Lent days. The ‘Holy Week’ for Christians begins on Palm Sunday and ends on Holy Saturday and the days in between commemorate significant events, including the Last Supper and the crucifixion of Jesus Christ on Good Friday. For members of the Gunadala Mary Matha shrine, the Bishop’s Good Friday message was uploaded on YouTube but on Easter day, only three pastors will be present in the church as part of the celebrations. “We intend to remain closed until further instructions from the government,” said Fr. William Jairaju Eleti, the church priest. The city has a sizeable population of Roman Catholics and almost 90% of them have been tuning in to Divyavani, a Catholic TV channel run by the Telugu Catholic Bishop’s Council. The channel telecasts special sessions of prayers in eight slots, both for Telugu and English languages. Many families were gearing up to join the ‘Saturday night vigil’, a special mass at 11 p.m. that will culminate in Easter celebrations on Sunday. Monseigneur Muvvala Prasad from St. Peter’s Church in One Town says that the coronavirus pandemic might lead humanity on a better path. “Man’s greed for wealth has reached a saturation point. Who knows, we may emerge from this lockdown crisis as kinder, humbler and better human beings,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/churches-go-online-to-spread-easter-message/article31320883.ece
12 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. launches helpdesks to spread COVID-19 info||The State government has launched chatbot-interactive WhatsApp and Facebook helpdesks where people can access all information related to the COVID-19 outbreak on their smart devices and computers. One can get all the information on Facebook by starting a conversation with the ArogyaAndhra page of the Department of Health. To get information on WhatsApp, users need to add phone number 8297 104 104 to their contacts and drop a message on the number. The interactive chatbots will provide information about the COVID-19 latest status, health facilities, isolation centres, lockdown information, government assistance guidance, ways to donate to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund and latest press bulletins. All the information will be given in English and Telugu languages as chosen by the user. In a tweet, the Chief Minister’s Office has thanked the team from Facebook and individuals who volunteered to develop the digital helpdesks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-launches-helpdesks-to-spread-covid-19-info/article31321290.ece
12 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Decision part of reforms, says Ambati||YSR Congress Party MLA Ambati Rambabu on Saturday said reducing the tenure of the State Election Commissioner (SEC) to three years was part of reforms brought in by the government in the local body elections. The MLA said the government chose to deviate from the past norm of appointing a retired IAS officer to the post and instead opted for a retired judge. He said IAS officers worked closely with the CMs and Ministers, and so the government thought it better to appoint a retired judge to strengthen the election system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/decision-part-of-reforms-says-ambati/article31321289.ece
12 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trusts’ gesture||Maarpu, a charitable trust, has distributed essential commodities to more than 500 poor people at Vanupamula, a village in the Pedaparupudi mandal in Krishna district on Saturday. Pamarru MLA K. Anil Kumar appreciated the activities of the charitable trust set up in memory of freedom fighters Smt. Ravuri Manorama and Ravuri Arjuna Rao by their family members. Kesavabhatla Charitable Trust chairman Kesavabhatla Srinivasa Rao along with his staff distributed about five tonnes of rice on Saturday to railway coolies, porters, vendors and auto drivers and those who lost their livelihood due to the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trusts-gesture/article31320886.ece
12 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister: mobile outlets will supply essentials in containment zones||Mobile outlets will supply essential commodities to the 7.6 lakh people in the seven COVID-19 containment zones in the district, District In Charge Minister Kurasala Kannababu has said. Steps would be taken to press volunteers into service from Sunday for the task. He visited Akkayyapalem in the city, one of the seven zones, accompanied by Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao and District Collector V. Vinay Chand, on Saturday. The police would keep a 24x7 vigil and residents would be supplied commodities at specified timings, Mr. Kannababu said. The Minister complimented officials for their hard work and the firm measures taken to prevent the number of cases rising. Detailing the steps taken to help those in the containment zone, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said for families not having ration card essential commodities for 15 days would be supplied. A survey will identify the pregnant in the zone to ensure them medical services, he said. Mr. Vinay Chand said for three km in the containment zones survey would be conducted to identify people with COVID-19 symptoms and carry out tests to them. Teams have been constituted at the rate of one for a population of 100. While four COVID-19 patients who had tested positive were discharged after successful treatment, another 16 were undergoing treatment, Mr. Vinay Chand said. Sub-Collector S. Venkateswar and other officials participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-mobile-outlets-will-supply-essentials-in-containment-zones/article31321298.ece
12 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jana Sena Party slams removal of State Election Commissioner||Senior leaders of Jana Sena Party condemned the sudden removal of the State Election Commissioner (SEC) by the State government and termed it unconstitutional. Speaking to the media here on Saturday, JSP General Secretary Bolisetty Satyanarayana said that the State government has taken the decision to abruptly limit the tenure of the SEC to three years was untimely, not transparent and against the provisions of the Constitution. Even the appointment of V. Kanagaraj, a retired judge, was unconstitutional, he said. However, senior advocate T.V.S.K. Kanaka Raju says there is no patent illegality or unconstitutionality in reducing the term of the office of the SEC. The reduction of tenure is in conformity with the mandate of Article 243K(2). Therefore, the reduction of tenure can never be equated with removal from office, said Mr. Kanaka Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jana-sena-party-slams-removal-of-state-election-commissioner/article31321300.ece
12 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for fake COVID-19 video||The cybercrime police arrested a person for creating and sharing a fake video on the COVID-19 situation, here on Saturday. The accused has been identified as P. Srinivas (58), a resident of Pithapuram Colony in Maddilapalem. According to Cybercrime Inspector V. Gopinath, the accused created a video in which he introduced himself as a resident of Maddilapalem and claimed that a dairy farm owner and six other persons from his area had attended religious meetings at Nizamuddin, New Delhi. He went on to claim that the seven persons, after returning from Delhi, did not self-isolate themselves and are spreading the infection among residents. The accused also asks the public to not purchase any of their milk products in the video. Following a complaint, police investigated the case and found that the video was fake and was created and circulated by Srinivas. A police team nabbed Srinivas on Saturday and sent him to remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-fake-covid-19-video/article31321291.ece
12 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revoke suspension of Narsipatnam doctor: HRF||The Human Rights Forum (HRF) has urged the government to revoke the suspension of Sudhakar Rao, an anaesthetist at the Narsipatnam Area Hospital in the district, and withdraw the criminal case registered against him. The government had suspended Dr. Sudhakar Rao from service on April 8 and lodged a criminal case against him for his outbursts against non-availability of N-95 respirators (masks) in the 150-bed hospital. “The suspension and booking of a case against a senior government medical officer is an expression of intolerance. It is unfair,” said K. Sudha, HRF A.P. State general secretary, here on Saturday. “Doctors, who are in the forefront of the fight against COVID-19, are facing grave consequences because of the shortage. With many in the country testing positive for coronavirus and quarantined, there is an element of truth in Dr. Sudhakar Rao’s apprehension and predicament,” she observed. “Dr. Rao’s intemperate remarks are not premeditated. The government ought to have empathy for doctors such as Dr. Sudhakar Rao. Penalising him is uncalled for,” said M. Sarat, HRF Vizag president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/revoke-suspension-of-narsipatnam-doctor-hrf/article31321292.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||All in a day’s work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-in-a-days-work/article31320859.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safe zone||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safe-zone/article31320890.ece
12 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Facing any COVID-19 emergency, solution is just a call away||Sexagenarian D. Mohan Krishna of Pragathinagar urgently needed medicines for his ailing wife. The elderly couple paid money online but no one to depend or send to the shop for delivering the medicines. He called up the newly-set up COVID control room of Cyberabad police. Within the next few hours, a volunteer knocked on his doors carrying the bag of medicines. Hundreds of citizens like Mr. Krishna facing emergency situations are receiving this ‘helping hand’ in the form of a control room. Be it transporting medicines, rushing ailing patients to hospitals or delivering groceries to old age homes, the COVID-19 control room staffers are serving people round the clock during the lockdown. Soon after the government announced the lockdown, Cyberabad police top brass anticipated it would be difficult to give personal audience to the grievance of every citizen. That is how the COVID control room was born on March 24. In less than 3,000 square feet area, four policemen and around eight volunteers work in three shifts. For the first few days, the control room had to attend 2,000 calls a day on an average. “One day, we answered more than 3,000 calls. Now, it is averaging around 1,200 calls a day,” Traffic Additional DCP Ch. Praveen Kumar Reddy, heading the control room, said. “The control room has two mobile numbers — 9490617440 and 9490617431. The phones keep ringing. Medical emergencies apart, people stranded due to lockdown are calling for passes. Interestingly, a lot of citizens and organisations came forward to do their bit,” he said. “Many of them wanted to distribute food voluntarily and sought permission. But Cyberabad Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar did not allow voluntary food distribution since it involved the risk of spread of the virus. Staff of the control room coordinate all such calls and now we’re distributing 25,000 food packets each day in areas under the commissionerate,” he added. The police took the help of voluntary organisations such as Robin Hood Army, Ramchandra Mission, and some private companies, to distribute food packets. Society for Cyberabad Security Council, which had been in the frontline in public service, is doing its bit by providing infrastructure and logistics support. All of them are coming to the rescue of people in need during lockdown. Coordinating with donors, they distributed 9,200 groceries among poor families in different localities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/facing-any-covid-19-emergency-solution-is-just-a-call-away/article31321112.ece
12 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rain, hailstorm leaves standing crops damaged in 41,500 acres||At a time when the farming community in the State is largely worried about harvesting their rabi crop like paddy, maize, bengalgram, groundnut and fruit crops due to the shortage of labourers caused by the COVID-19 lockdown, some are distressed further with the damage left by the untimely rain and hails this month. The untimely rain and hailstorm have left about 20,000 farmers across the State distraught with their standing crops such as paddy, jowar, maize, wheat and sesame getting damaged in 38,500 acres and vegetable and fruit crops in another 3,000 acres. Official sources stated that farmer-wise enumeration of crop damage was being done to take the matter to the notice of the government for necessary help. “The field-level officers were told to submit the details of damage of the crops insured to the (insurance) companies concerned within 72 hours of damage for getting timely compensation,” the sources said. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy suggested the farmers again to insure whatever crops they cultivate without fail to be assured of compensation and to minimise losses. He advised the farmers to take up rabi sowings by planning a harvest by March-end to avoid untimely rain damage in April.  Mainly paddy According to officials of the Agriculture Department, paddy was damaged in about 37,640 acres followed by jowar in about 670 acres. The remaining crops were damaged in extents of less than 100 acres each. Giving district-wise details of the damage, the officials said Mahabubnagar suffered most with crop damage in about 8,560 acres followed by Yadadri-Bhongir (7,940), Wanaparthy (7,675), Siddipet (4,867), Medak (2,562), Rangareddy (2,538), Narayanpet (1,232) and Jogulamba-Gadwal (1,066 acres). Sangareddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Jangaon, Nalgonda, Nagarkurnool, Jayashankar-Bhupalapally, Adilabad, Rajanna-Sircilla and Vikarabad district have also suffered crop damage in the untimely rains, but in smaller extents. In all, the damage was noticed in about 100 mandals of 17 districts. When contacted, the Horticulture Department officials estimated the damage most for mango crop (2100 acres) followed by vegetables (500 acres) and acid lime (250 acres). The damage to banana, sapota, muskmelon, watermelon, guava, chilli, onion and flowers in very small extents. The horticultural crops damage occurred in 10 districts with Warangal Rural suffering most in 1,388 acres, Yadadri (400), Rangareddy (375) and Sangareddy (338 acres).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rain-hailstorm-leaves-standing-crops-damaged-in-41500-acres/article31321125.ece
12 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Pocket guide for self-protection’ of COVID-19 frontline workers||The Telangana Health department has issued a ‘Pocket Guide for Self Protection’ for COVID-19 frontline workers, which has details on precautions that need to be taken before, during and after working hours. The guide suggests the workers to carry two to three masks every time they step out of home and to take a polythene carry bag to store all the used masks. The guide was prepared by the Indian Institute of Health and Family Welfare (IIHFW), National Health Mission (NHM) and the Telangana government. During work hours, the masks have to be used all the time. Change it every six-hours or whenever it gets soiled. Meals should not be skipped. Warm water has to be sipped as often as possible. Hand hygiene measures have to be taken once an hour or each time after contact with any foreign body such as files, papers. Safe practices After work hours, the frontline workers were suggested to sanitise their belongings such as mobile phones, wallets, keys with disinfectant before leaving office. While entering home, they have to ask someone to open the door. After entering home, they have to take shower. Used clothes have to be washed after soaking them in hot water mixed with antiseptic liquid for 20 minutes. Used masks have to be immersed in 1% hypochlorite or 7% bleaching solution, or in boiling water mixed with antiseptic liquid for 20 minutes before washing and being sun-dried. The guide suggests inhaling steam for two to three minutes, maintaining distance from elderly people at home or those with co-morbid conditions. A few questions were answered in the ‘Myth breakers’ section. It states only the healthcare workers who work in close contact with COVID-19 positive cases, such as in ICU, labs, house keeping staff at COVID-19 positive wards and others require full personal protection equipment. Those in clinical areas require only masks and gloves to protect themselves. Other workers need only a mask as suggested if they work in public places other than hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pocket-guide-for-self-protection-of-covid-19-frontline-workers/article31321097.ece
12 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RSS activists ‘checking’ ID cards sparks outrage||Photographs circulating on social media purportedly showing lathi-wielding Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) activists, standing near a barricaded highway and checking commuters’ documents, has sparked outrage. The incident is said to have happened on Thursday near Gudur checkpost in Bibinagar. The photographs showed at least seven persons dressed in RSS uniform — khaki trousers, white shirts and black caps — and carrying lathis, as they ‘checked’ the documents of those seeking to cross the barricades. The photos were shared by several Twitter users who sought to know in what capacity and under whose authority the activists were present there. The images were also tweeted by the handle ‘@friendsofrss’ which described it as ‘RSS volunteers helping police’. “Why do they have sticks? And what power they hold? Is it authorised? @KTRTRS,” tweeted Sai Kiran, a Twitter user. Social activist S.Q. Masood expressed concern and tagged Telangana Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy and Rachakonda Commissiner of Police Mahesh Bhagwat and sought a clarification, describing the incident as ‘unfortunate’. “The photos show some policemen standing in the background. This is an alarming situation,” he told The Hindu . Mr. Bhagwat said, “I was informed of the incident and the photos came to me. They [RSS activists]had come to us asking if they could volunteer. We said, ‘Nothing doing’. We have decided not to take help from any religious or political organisation.” Touching upon the legal aspects, senior lawyer L. Ravichander said that the police was right in turning down any such offer as policing cannot be delegated to any organisation. He explained that the prerogative to stop people rests with the government. “If you are not an authority and are doing this, then it is an infringement on fundamental rights, and therefore, impermissible,” he said, adding that if police personnel are seen in the background in the photographs, it could be perceived as a failure of law and order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rss-activists-checking-id-cards-sparks-outrage/article31321119.ece
12 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||IIIT-H dishes out food too||When it comes to technology, they offer easy solutions to complex issues and when it comes to the humane aspect, they are dishing out food packets for migrant workers caught in the lockdown. A group of teachers and students from the International Institute of Information Technology Hyderabad (IIIT-H) has set up a community kitchen to prepare food packets to serve the needy. Entirely volunteer-driven, the initiative was undertaken by the institute in association with the Telangana Social Impact Group (T-SIG) and the State government. The food packets prepared are distributed by volunteers from various NGOs who also take care of the transport. University officials said that the idea was mooted by Prof. Ramesh Loganathan and it received support among those residing on the campus. The group managed to cook and pack 2,561 meal boxes in just eight days with the volunteers dividing time between themselves with the active support of professors Aniket Alam and Radhika Krishnan, and also Shatrunjay Rawat, who is currently in charge of the mess operations. Keeping food simple and sumptuous, the volunteers opted for one-pot meals such as khichdi, rajma-chawal, chole-chawal, dalia upma, and jeera rice, among others, with emphasis on nutrition and wholesomeness. Each day, approximately 150 to 160 boxes are prepared and dispatched at 12 noon and at 5.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iiit-h-dishes-out-food-too/article31321114.ece
12 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||More donations pour in||TRS in-charge of Malkajgiri constituency and secretary of MLRIT institutions Marri Rajashekar Reddy donated Rs. 30 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF). The cheque was handed over to IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao at Pragathi Bhavan. Mr. Reddy said he was contributing his mite to the government to support its initiatives in fighting the coronavirus and help lakhs of people stranded from other States and also those who have lost daily earnings due to the lockdown. Telangana State Finance Commission chairman Rajesham Goud has donated his one month salary to the CMRF while Lahari Infra Project MD Srinivasa Rao handed over a cheque for Rs. 5 lakh to Mr. Rama Rao on Saturday. Other contributors include Karani Spices from Narasampet in Warangal district (Rs. 2.11 lakh) and Vavilala Gram Sarpanch Ghanta Padma Bhaskar (Rs. 50,000). For both, Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao handed over the cheque to Mr. Rama Rao. Anganwadi teachers from Parakala in Warangal district, K. Prasanna Rani and Y. Rama Devi announced Rs. 10,000 donation to the CMRF while Baloji Lakshmi, who works as Anganwadi aayah, pledged Rs. 3,000 donation. The cheques were given by MLA Challa Dharma Reddy to Mr. Rama Rao at Pragathi Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-donations-pour-in/article31321101.ece
12 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Keeping visitors from home quarantined persons||After launching and continuing community watch programme to prevent the spread of coronavirus in Mahabubnagar, the district administration has now taken to another initiative to keep people away from visiting houses where the identified primary or secondary contacts of COVID-19 positive cases, including those who returned from a religious meet in Delhi, are undergoing home quarantine. As part of the initiative, a red-coloured sticker would be pasted/displayed beside the entrance of the house where the home-quarantined persons are dwelling. The sticker would carry details of the 14-day quarantine period, name of the family head as also the numbers of district helpline and police helpline. District Collector S. Venkata Rao stated that the stickers were printed with three languages — Telugu, English and Urdu — so that everybody could understand that the house is under quarantine. It would not only help the quarantined family but others too to be safe. Community watch The measure had been taken as a continuation of the community watch under implementation, educating people on the spread of infectious virus as also collecting the details of persons having cold, cough and fever so that medical teams could visit them for help. Community watch teams were working effectively not only in 442 gram panchayats in the districts but also in the three municipalities. “The community watch team are working as an additional mechanism to the medical and health teams deployed for the purpose,” the Collector said adding that they were also educating people the need for maintaining social distancing, washing hands with soap regularly, at least once an hour when awake, and about wearing masks. Meanwhile, 60 SHG women were making (stitching) masks with the material provided by the District Rural Development Agency for the last 15 days and supplying them to the government machinery going into the field. The women are making about 3,000 masks a day and so far they have made about 45,000 masks and they are being supplied to the government departments for use among their field staff.  COVID-19 in Palamur Six places from where 7 positive cases of those who returned from markaz and their primary contacts were found locked down and declared red zones Disinfection of all such areas twice daily, including of houses, by fire services and municipal departments 3 programme officers, 10 medical officers and 40 teams continuously monitoring house-to-house to verify contacts and health issues of inhabitants Revenue, police, municipal administration and anganwadis working in coordination with medical and health department A disinfection chamber is arranged at Rythu Bazaar area to prevent spread of virus there||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/keeping-visitors-from-home-quarantined-persons/article31321121.ece
12 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||All-in-one app on coronavirus||An app titled ‘T COVID 19’ developed to be a single source of information on the pandemic was launched by IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao on Saturday. The departments of Health and Information Technology, Electronics and Communications (ITE&C) of Telangana government have developed the app in collaboration with AWS, Cisco and Quantela, a city-based startup. The app will equip people with accurate information about COVID-19 and help curb spread of fake news, a release on the launch said. Mr. Rao said it is an all-in-one app that provides official information, precautionary guidelines and a multitude of other services in the best interest of citizens on one platform. Key functionalities include sharing of authentic, official statistics on the number of active cases and other relevant statistics and enabling people to take approved self-assessment tests to understand his/her medical conditions and avoid unnecessary panic. The app also has an integrated telemedicine module of ‘Call Health’ that allows the patient to remotely book an appointment with a medical professional. The app also has information on approved labs and test centres, isolation wards and quarantine centres. It will help the government identify locations that infected persons visited in recent times, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-in-one-app-on-coronavirus/article31321100.ece
12 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS starts tele-counselling for COVID-19 patients, suspects||COVID-19 patients, suspects and those under home quarantine can now dial ‘108’ for mental health counselling. Even people suffering from alcohol withdrawal symptoms, medical and paramedical staff on COVID-19 duty can use the services. It was reported in these columns that healthcare professionals had requested the State government to provide counsellors to pacify COVID-19 patients and suspects admitted to isolation wards in government hospitals. Two days ago, Health Minister Eatala Rajender said they will start offering psychological counselling services. On Saturday, chief operating officer of GVK-EMRI ‘108’, P. Brahmananda Rao said that people can dial the number for counselling. “Initially, the helpline will be active round the clock with five counsellors per shift who will attend minor problems. If a caller has a serious or very serious issue, a psychiatrist will evaluate the situation and decide further course of action. If required, the caller will be taken to hospital,” he said. A total of 53 counsellors working under NHM programmes were trained in matters relating to COVID-19. Two psychiatrists are also part of the service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-starts-tele-counselling-for-covid-19-patients-suspects/article31321106.ece
12 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre asks railways to transport perishables||In a major relief to the farming community growing fruits and vegetables across the country, including in Telangana, the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare has decided to arrange for transport of the perishable produce with the help of railways from the areas of production to the markets in other parts of the country. The decision was announced during a video conference by Additional Secretary (Cooperation and General Coordination) in the Ministry Abhilaksh Likhi along with Executive Director of the Railway Board Shailendra Sharma with Agriculture secretaries and Horticulture Mission directors of States on Saturday. The video-meet was attended by Secretary (Agriculture) B. Janardhan Reddy and Commissioner (Horticulture) L. Venkatrami Reddy on behalf of Telangana. The State officials discussed about the logistic support needed for the transport of sweet lime, mango, acid lime, melons, flowers, vegetables and a few other fruits. Use of railway parcel wagons for transporting the perishable agricultural produce between different States was discussed.  Special officer The Railway Board has appointed special officers for every zone for the purpose with Chief Commercial Manager (Freight and Parcel Service) of South Central Railway B.S. Christopher as the coordinator for Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh. The special parcel wagons would be arranged from Karimnagar, Khammam, Nalgonda and Secunderabad railway stations and Sanathnagar goods shed. According to the officials, the facility could be availed by farmers, farmer producer organisations (FPOs) and traders for transporting fruits, vegetables and flowers from the places of production. Every supplier would have to book at least 23 tonnes of freight to avail the service by applying for it two days in advance. Besides, they have to arrange both loading and unloading of the freight, including sending it to the destination markets from the railway stations, on their own. Horticulture and Marketing officials, traders, farmers and FPOs may contact Mr. Christopher on mobile number 970137052 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-asks-railways-to-transport-perishables/article31321126.ece
12 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Free counselling at UoH||Faculty at the Centre for Health Psychology, University of Hyderabad, who are also the founding members of the Association of Health Psychologists (AHP), will provide emotional support for rehabilitation of coronavirus patients through tele-counselling. There are about 130 volunteers trained by the core team of the association. The material and training modules have been developed by AHP along with a few faculty members. Counsellors with the highest academic background and years of experience have volunteered to provide 24x7 support. One can dial the helpline number 9985010680, said Meena Hariharan of the Centre of Health Psychology, UoH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-counselling-at-uoh/article31321115.ece
12 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Chemists’ plea for testing||The Telangana Chemists and Druggists Association has requested the government to test medicine dealers for COVID-19, stating that they come in contact with those buying medicines at their stores. Association members, in a representation to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, said they are faced with the threat of contracting and spreading the infection. Association president Ch. Janardhan Rao said pharmacists, field staff, billing staff and delivery boys come under essential services and so, phase-wise tests must be conducted to check if they are safe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chemists-plea-for-testing/article31321098.ece
12 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Constable injured in chase during lockdown||A constable with Dundigal police station suffered severe head injuries when he chased a motorist who sped past the barricades at a temporary check post at Bahadurpally on Saturday. The accident occurred around 9.30 a.m. when an unidentified man, suspected to have been transporting toddy on his bike, did not stop at the check post. Soon, constable Ramachandraiah got onto a civilian’s bike and tried to nab the suspect. “When they reached Katta Maisamma temple on the Balanagar-Narsapur State highway, their two-wheeler skidded on the road and both the bike rider, Krishnamurthy, and the pillion police officer fell off,” Dundigal inspector A. Venkatesham said. The constable was rushed to a private hospital at Suraram and later shifted to a corporate hospital at Somajiguda, where he is battling for life. Krishnamurthy escaped with minor injuries. A case was registered against Krishnamurthy under Section 337 (Causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/constable-injured-in-chase-during-lockdown/article31321107.ece
12 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Suspected COVID-19 patient found dead||A 77-year-old man, whose body was found on the roadside near Shanti theatre in Narayanguda on Friday evening, is suspected to have died of COVID-19. The victim, Sher Bahadur, a native of Nepal, was working as a watchman at a bar and restaurant in Lalapet. Narayanguda sub-inspector D. Karunakar Reddy said that around 6.30 p.m. on Friday, a chicken shop owner Naveen noticed the body and alerted the police. They found a medical prescription slip of Government Hospital, King Koti, in his pocket referring him to Gandhi Hospital for COVID-19 test. “On Thursday, Bahadur developed symptoms of cold, cough and fever. Soon, his employer Eshwar took him to the primary health care centre in Lalapet, where doctors suspected COVID-19 and referred him to Gandhi Hospital. Later, he was sent to King Koti Hospital, where doctors again referred him to Gandhi Hospital, as he is above 60 years,” the officer said. Bahadur came out of King Koti Hospital and did not go to Gandhi Hospital, where COVID-19 patients from across the State are being treated. “He was just moving on the roads and on Friday evening, he was found dead,” Mr. Reddy said. According to him, there was a delay in shifting the body of the watchman. “Since Friday evening, the body was lying on the street and next day around 9 a.m., the GHMC officials shifted his body to the morgue,” he said. A case was registered and an investigation has been launched.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/suspected-covid-19-patient-found-dead/article31321109.ece
12 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two held for manufacturing spurious sanitisers||With the arrest of two persons, police on Friday busted a spurious hand sanitiser manufacturing unit and seized 580 bottles of sanitisers worth Rs. 90,000. In a joint operation, sleuths of the Commissioner’s Task Force (South Zone) team, along with Shalibanda police, apprehended the accused, who were manufacturing and supplying the duplicate sanitisers to medical shops at Rooplal Bazaar and Shalibanda. The accused are Omer Farooq (25), a private employee from Sastripuram, and Md. Abdul Quddus (42), a businessman from Rooplal Bazaar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-held-for-manufacturing-spurious-sanitisers/article31321105.ece
12 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Pastor, 6 minors among 13 held for Good Friday prayer meet||Thirteen people, including a pastor and six minors, were booked by Bachupally police of Cyberabad for conducting a prayer meeting at a house in Nizampet on Good Friday. Bachupally inspector P. Jagadeeshwar said that 20 people participated in the congregation by violating the lockdown norm. The incident took place at Srinivasnagar Colony around 11 a.m. on Friday and came to light only after a few locals alerted the police. Soon a team was rushed to the spot that photographed and videographed the gathering. The officer said that 13 people were taken into custody and a case under sections 269, 270, 271, 336 and 188 of the IPC, Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act and Section 51(B) of Disaster Management Act was registered against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pastor-6-minors-among-13-held-for-good-friday-prayer-meet/article31321108.ece
12 April 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||A ryot’s crusade against COVID-19||The COVID-19 scare has seen some people contributing in one way or the other to the Union and State governments’ efforts to fight the dreaded disease. Bamandla Ravinder (40), a dalit farmer, from the interior Chimalakuntapally village of Ganneruvarm mandal has launched a campaign against coronavirus in his own way. Ravinder has two acres of land and is also an agricultural labourer. After noticing people moving out freely during ‘Janata Curfew’ on March 22 and later during the lockdown period from March 23 onwards and not maintaining social distancing or wearing masks, he decided to tour villages and educate people about the importance of preventing the spread of coronavirus. Accordingly, he purchased a public address system worth Rs. 20,000 and mounted it on his bike. He displays two posters reading ‘corona’ in bold letters and launched the mission from March 26 onwards and is informing people about the deadly virus and how it has caused havoc in China, USA, Spain, Italy and other countries, including India.  Daily routine He daily tours 50 km to 150 km depending on the distance to various villages and till date has toured 190 villages in Ganneruvaram, Manakondur, Koheda, Husnabad, Chigirumamidi, Karimnagar town, Kothapalli, and Thimmapur mandals traversing 1,800 km. Initially, he had decided to tour only some villages in Ganneruvaram mandal. Following huge response from the villagers, he is continuing his awareness tours by spending Rs. 300 per day on petrol. He starts everyday from his village and carries a lunch box and water. His wife, who is also an agricultural labourer, is supporting his cause by providing monetary assistance. After touring the villages, he returns home. During his campaign, he advises the villagers sitting in groups to maintain social distance and cover their face with masks or towels and wash their hands with soap regularly. Urging villagers not to leave their homes, he asks them to alert the police or officials if they notice any foreign returnee in their village. He claimed that the police appreciated his cause and some of the villagers also felicitated him for taking up a novel cause. He wants to continue his campaign till lockdown is lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-ryots-crusade-against-covid-19/article31321134.ece
12 April 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Frontline warriors being treated badly’||Sanitation workers who strive for cleanliness and hygiene in various wards of the municipalities during COVID-19 crisis are being treated badly by the government, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president and Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said on Saturday. “I’ve met workers in Miryalaguda and on Saturday workers in Nalgonda. Both the groups said they are yet to receive their salary dues for the past two months. Is this the way to motivate our frontline warriors?” he wondered. Mr. Reddy was here on Saturday, distributing groceries to poor families, felicitating sanitation and accredited social health activist (ASHA) workers. Speaking to press persons at the District Medical & Health Office, he said the sanitation workers were treated badly and demanded that the State government immediately release all dues and substantial incentives, while also pay full salaries to the employees, including contract and outsourced staff. Speaking on the State of agriculture produce management he said sweet lime, a major crop with a close to Rs. 500 crore annual revenue in the district, should also be included in the Rs. 30,000-crore procurement plan of the State government. The Congress leader reminded the recent instructions by the Supreme Court, on free COVID-19 diagnosis tests by private and government agencies, and wondered why the TRS government was not permitting ICMR-approved labs to ramp up testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/frontline-warriors-being-treated-badly/article31321123.ece
12 April 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||NTPC donates Rs. 99 lakh||NTPC-Ramagundam has donated an amount of Rs. 99.12 lakh to the Peddapalli district administration on Saturday for assistance towards providing PPE kits, sanitisers, three ply masks and N95 masks for those working to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. NTPC AGM (HR-CSR) Rafiqul Islam presented the e-cheque to Collector Sikta Patnaik. Mr. Islam informed her about the steps taken by NTPC such as distribution of essential grocery items to 4,500 migrant workers, conduct of special health camps in labour colonies, sanitisation of plant and township premises, streamlining of manpower deployment; preparedness for quarantine facilities etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ntpc-donates-rs-99-lakh/article31321102.ece
12 April 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DIST.,TELANGANA||No new cases in Warangal city||In a great relief to the residents of Warangal city, the number of COVID-19 positive cases stayed at 22. All these active cases are being treated at Gandhi Hospital in Secunderabad. Meanwhile, as many as 230 primary contacts of the coronavirus positive patients connected to the Tablighi Jamaat were tested negative. One more person who has no contact with Tablighi Jamaat cases also tested negative. The other 142 persons are in government quarantine centres. Isolation ward The number of persons at the isolation ward of the MGM Hospital is four. While 14 persons are in the government quarantine centres, the number of persons home quarantined is 787. Meanwhile, the tele-medicine service being offered by the district administration from April 8 is gaining popularity among the residents. On Saturday, doctors received 59 calls. In all, tele-medicine service has so far provided advice to 181 needy persons.  Disinfection The Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation (GWMC) continued spraying of disinfectant in the city. Municipal Commissioner Pamela Satpathy inspected the installation of disinfection tunnel at the vegetable market in Balasamudram and directed the officials to ensure customers enter the market premises only through the tunnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-new-cases-in-warangal-city/article31321132.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Lockdown in State extended till April 30||The government had resolved to promote children from classes one to nine whose exams could not be conducted due to lockdown. A decision on the SSC exams which were suspended after they were conducted for two subjects would be taken in a few days, he said. He added that the government may have to announce sealing of inter-State borders with Maharashtra in a day or two as there was a spurt in coronavirus cases across the long border, which is over 600 km. All religious programmes and mass gatherings would not be permitted till April 30. Only food processing units, including rice, flour and oil mills, would be allowed. He expected all those under quarantine and undergoing treatment for coronavirus to be discharged by April 24 unless there was a fresh spurt in the spread of the virus. Not a single person in quarantine or treatment was serious. He said he had requested Mr. Modi to extend the norms applicable for donations to PM CARE to Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. The State had requested hike in the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management limit up to 6% of GSDP to enable higher borrowings. The government would initiate tough action against adulteration of food items. The coronavirus patients would not be allowed to be treated at private hospitals because supervision on them was difficult. Referring to procurement of foodgrains, which had just begun in villages, he said it was decided to buy bengal gram at minimum support price for Rs. 800 crore. Already, the government had furnished guarantees for purchase of paddy and maize to the extend of Rs. 30,000 crore. He denied any relaxation in closure of liquor outlets till the lockdown was lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lockdown-in-state-extended-till-april-30/article31321113.ece
12 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||‘Tests done in all 30 districts of Odisha’||The State government has covered all 30 districts of the State in conducting COVID-19 test, Odisha Mission Director of National Health Mission Shalini Pandit said here on Saturday. Since about 80% of total 50 positive cases in the State so far were asymptomatic, special teams were holding camps at the gram panchayat level and collecting samples on a random basis to detect infections, said Ms. Pandit. Observing that detection of more cases was not a bad sign, Ms. Pandit said testing of more samples will lead to ruling out of infections at the grassroots level. Stating that only 8% of the total COVID-19 patients in the State were found to be aged 60 years and above, Ms. Pandit said lockdown and social distancing had helped save the aged people who were at risk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tests-done-in-all-30-districts-of-odisha/article31321053.ece
12 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Four charged under NSA in Meerut for obstruction||Four persons, including the imam of a mosque in Meerut, were arrested on Saturday, after a crowd allegedly stopped police from sealing the Jali Kothi area of the city, police said. Three persons from the area had tested positive on Friday night. “The area was to be sealed on Saturday morning. But when the city magistrate and the police tried to carry out the orders of the District Magistrate, a crowd gathered near the Daree Wali Masjid area and stopped them from carrying out their duty. Some stones were hurled at officials. They were pushed and shoved, leading to a minor injury to the city magistrate,” said Meerut Senior Superintendent of Police Ajay Sahni. “Action has started against the four under the National Security Act. We are making announcements that strict action would be taken those who will interfere in the work of the district administration,” Mr. Sahni said. Attack condemned Sheher Qazi Zainus Sajidin Siddiqui condemned the attack. “Three persons belonging to a religious group were taken to hospital last night [Friday] and the officials came to take some others today [Saturday]. There are unverified reports that the policemen used abusive language but throwing stones at officials cannot be justified. I have appealed to all to cooperate,” he said. Meerut has 51 COVID-19 positive cases so far. In a related development, a 58-year-old Ayurvedic doctor in Bulandshahr died in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Saturday, after testing positive for COVID-19, a district information department release said. With this, the death toll in U.P. has reached 5. SDM Vedpriya Arya told The Hindu that the person was admitted to a Bulandshahr hospital on April 7. “Later, he was referred to Delhi where he tested positive on April 10. His clinic has been sealed. His son and wife have been quarantined in Delhi while two others have been tested and put in home quarantine,” he said. He added that the nurses have been sent to institutional quarantine. “We are trying to find all the patients who visited the hospital in the last 14 days. Their samples will be taken.” According to the release, the Bulandshahr hospital has also been sealed and the samples of the doctor and medical staff are being taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/four-charged-under-nsa-in-meerut-for-obstruction/article31321051.ece
12 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Odd-even scheme started in Aligarh||The Aligarh administration has drawn inspiration from Delhi government to enforce the lockdown effectively in the city. Like Delhi tried to curb pollution by using the odd-even scheme for vehicles, Senior Superintendent of Police, Aligarh, Muniraj P. has directed residents to use vehicles ending in an odd number on odd dates and even-numbered vehicles on even dates during the lockdown. “Together with the District Magistrate, I felt that it could effectively control the movement of people. We are seeing positive results,” said Mr. Muniraj. Both two-wheelers and cars have been covered under the scheme. Mr. Muniraj said the police were motivating people to buy essential supplies for three-four days in one go.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odd-even-scheme-started-in-aligarh/article31321052.ece
12 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Woman entrepreneur stitches face masks for villagers||Taking an initiative to help poor villagers during the COVID-19 pandemic, a woman entrepreneur running a craft centre in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur district has started stitching face masks for protection against the novel coronavirus and is distributing them for free in rural areas. The craft centre, Kirti Craft, in the small and dusty Konrer village has been offering livelihood opportunities to the poor and needy women by honing their skills for tailoring and employing them for garment production. Before the nationwide lockdown started, about 55 women were working at the centre. Suman Singh, 43, who runs the centre, has decided to utilise the closure period to stitch face masks and distribute them among villagers. “I stitch 80 to 100 masks everyday, spending six hours on my sewing machine. We distribute the masks every evening to villagers who gather at our centre while adhering to social distancing norms,” Ms. Singh told The Hindu . Kirti Craft is the biggest tailoring centre in Deeg block of Bharatpur district, making an annual turnover of Rs. 20 lakh. The garments manufactured at the centre are sold locally and exported to Argentina, Germany and Japan through a Jaipur-based export house. Bharatpur-based Lupin Foundation helped Ms. Singh in starting the tailoring centre at her home in 2013 and assisted her in obtaining loan for purchasing the single-needle lockstitch sewing machines. Ms. Singh later acquired a five-thread interlocking machine as well, which helps workers in speedy sewing of garments. ‘Small contribution’ Ms. Singh said she had decided to distribute free masks because it would be wrong to earn profit during the current pandemic. “This is our small contribution to the efforts to contain the spread of virus,” she said, adding that she was also supplying double layer face masks for the use of doctors and paramedical staff at the Primary Health Centre in Konrer. The cotton fabric for masks is available in sufficient quantity at the centre, while the string or elastic is attached as per the need. Ms. Singh and her two children wash the cloth with sanitiser before stitching masks and take care of hygiene until they are given to the villagers. Besides Konrer, which has a population of 4,500, nearby villages such as Kasot, Jatoli and Deeg have also benefitted from Ms. Singh’s initiative. Her unit is known in the region for its regular experiments with new designs, fabric and colours for garments. Ms. Singh was felicitated by the Union Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises at a workshop of the Consortium of Women Entrepreneurs of India in Jaipur in February this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/woman-entrepreneur-stitches-face-masks-for-villagers/article31321050.ece
12 April 2020||JAIPUR/CHANDIGARH,||Gehlot suggests ‘food for work’ plan||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday suggested during a videoconference of Chief Ministers with Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the Centre launch a “food for work” programme, on the pattern of a similar initiative taken by the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee during the 2001-02 drought, to help out those whose livelihood was under threat during the nationwide lockdown. He said the Union government had a sufficient stock of foodgrains for such a scheme. During the interaction, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh also came up with suggestions for several health and relief measures for the people and special concessions for the industry and agriculture sectors on an urgent basis. Mr. Gehlot said people like ragpickers, rickshaw and cart pullers, daily wage earners, nomadic workers and destitute persons were unable to earn their livelihood during the present crisis. “This food-for-work programme should be brought in a new form to give relief to such people,” he said. The Rajasthan government had compensated such vulnerable population by providing a cash amount of Rs. 2,500 each to more than 31 lakh families which were not covered by any other scheme, said Mr. Gehlot. Mr. Gehlot reiterated his demand for a grant of Rs. 1 lakh crore to the States to enable them to deal with the pandemic. “The payment of first instalment should be made based on the population and the subsequent instalments given as per the prescribed formulas of the GST Council or the Inter-State Council,” he said. He asked for an increase in the borrowing limit for the States as well as in the treasury deficit limit to 5% of the GDP. The Punjab CM underlined the need to increase the number of tests being done and go for rapid testing, at least in the State’s hotspots such as Nawanshahr, Dera Bassi and Mohali. Capt. Amarinder further requested Rs. 500 crore for quick upgrade of infrastructure of government hospitals in Punjab. On the relief measures, he urged the Centre to defer recovery and waive interest and penalties on industrial loans for six months. He also asked the Centre to think of some innovative solutions for relief to daily wage workers and industrial labour either through ESIC funds or under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. Referring to the harvesting and procurement operations set to begin in Punjab next week, Capt. Amarinder reiterated his demand for bonus to farmers to incentivise staggered procurement of wheat. He also called for quicker movement of foodgrains lying in FCI godowns in Punjab, along with waiver of three months’ interest on crop loans and deferment of recovery of crop loans by commercial banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gehlot-suggests-food-for-work-plan/article31321047.ece
12 April 2020||Srinagar,||‘Allow window for return before lockdown extension’||Regional parties in Kashmir demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should ensure the shifting of stranded J&K residents before rolling out any fresh lockdown programme to counter the COVID-19 outbreak. According to the J&K official figures, over 800 students and 2,500 others from J&K are stranded in 18 States across India. National Conference leader Sajjad Shaheen appealed to the Prime Minister to keep in mind the plight of thousands of stranded students, labourers and small traders from J&K stuck in different parts of the country. “The government should provide a window for return of these stranded persons so that they could return home and join their families,” said Mr. Shaheen. The NC leader said he has been receiving SOS calls from the stranded people and their families. ‘Survival difficult’ CPI(M) leader M.Y. Tarigami said the lockdown has made survival of hundreds of locals from J&K, stranded across the country, difficult. “Women and children also among the stranded. Handicrafts, labourers and students from J&K are stranded in Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana. They have exhausted their earnings and are facing difficulties,” he said. A group of Kashmir labourers, who were reportedly putting up in a tent in Himachal Pradesh, were told by the police to vacate. Several patients from J&K who had gone to Delhi and Chandigarh for treatment are stuck there, Mr. Tarigami said. Jammu & Kashmir Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari also expressed concern over the plight of J&K residents stranded in various parts of the country. “A number of J&K students and pilgrims evacuated by the Government of India from Iran have been declared negative for COVID-19 after spending a mandatory quarantine period in Mumbai and Rajasthan. Ironically, it is the J&K authorities who have shown complete indifference towards them and have refused their return to their homeland,” Mr. Bukhari said. He demanded special domestic flights to facilitate the return of the stranded J&K residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/allow-window-for-return-before-lockdown-extension/article31321054.ece
12 April 2020||Rome,||U.S. reports highest daily death toll||The U.S. became the first country to report more than 2,000 coronavirus deaths in a single day, marking a grim milestone as billions around the world celebrated the Easter holiday weekend under lockdown from home. The global death toll from the virus surged past 103,000 on Friday, with the U.S. quickly becoming the epicentre of the pandemic that first emerged in China late last year. Europe has so far shouldered the majority of all deaths and infections — though there were signs of hope the curve could be starting to flatten in some of the hardest-hit countries. In France, nearly 1,000 new deaths were confirmed on Friday but the country reported a drop in the number of intensive care patients for a second day running. Italy, meanwhile, said the number of daily deaths was starting to level off — though the government resisted pressure to lift its lockdown, extending confinement measures until May 3. Most deaths in Italy With 18,849 dead, Italy has the highest global death toll, but it is likely soon to be surpassed by the U.S. where fatalities continued to mount this week. On Friday, the U.S. reported 2,108 new deaths, the highest daily toll out of any country since the outbreak was first reported in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in December. With more than half a million reported infections, the U.S. already has more coronavirus cases than anywhere else in the world. The global infection rate now stands at more than 1.7 million, though with many countries only testing the most serious cases, the numbers are likely far higher. But President Donald Trump said that with the U.S. infection trajectory “near the peak” and social distancing working well, he was considering ways to re-open the world’s biggest economy as soon as possible. He acknowledged the risk of higher death tolls if businesses restart too soon — after the World Health Organization on Friday cautioned countries against lifting lockdown measures too quickly. “But you know what? Staying at home leads to death also,” Mr. Trump added, pointing to the economic suffering for millions of Americans. It is unclear when that will be possible, with New York Governor Andrew Cuomo saying millions in the State will have to be tested before it can reopen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-reports-highest-daily-death-toll/article31320775.ece
12 April 2020||CHICAGO,||Crime drops globally as virus keeps people indoors||The COVID-19 pandemic that has crippled big-box retailers and mom and pop shops worldwide may be making a dent in illicit business, too. In Chicago, one of America’s most violent cities, drug arrests have plummeted 42% in the weeks since the city shut down, compared with the same period last year. Part of that decrease, some criminal lawyers say, is that drug dealers have no choice but to wait out the economic slump. “The feedback I’m getting is that they aren’t able to move, to sell anything anywhere,” said Joseph Lopez, a criminal lawyer in Chicago who represents reputed drug dealers. Overall, Chicago’s crime declined 10% after the pandemic struck, a trend playing out globally as cities report stunning crime drops in the weeks since measures were put into place to slow the spread of the virus. Even among regions that have the highest levels of violence outside a war zone, fewer people are being killed and fewer robberies are taking place. Still, law enforcement officials worry about a surge of unreported domestic violence, and what happens when restrictions lift — or go on too long. It’s rare for a city to see a double-digit drop in crime, even over a much longer period. During New York City’s 1990s crime decline, one of the biggest turnarounds in American history, crime dropped about 40% over three years. That makes the drop-offs occurring now — in a period of just a couple of weeks — even more seismic. Across Latin America, crime is down to levels unseen in decades. El Salvador reported an average of two killings a day last month, down from a peak of 600 a day a few years ago. Limits on movement Much of the decrease has taken place because of tougher security policies and gang truces. But the imposition of near-total limits on movement is likely driving it down further, according to analysts and national statistics. In Peru, where crime levels fell 84% last month, Lima mortician Rawl Gonzalez usually has as many as 15 bodies a day — many are homicide victims. This week, he napped on a bench after six hours without a client. “There are almost no killings or car accidents these days,” Mr. Gonzalez said. In South Africa, police reported a stunning decline during their first week of lockdown measures. Police Minister Bheki Cele said reported rapes were down from 700 to 101 over the same period last year. Serious assault cases plummeted from 2,673 to 456, and murders fell from 326 to 94. The U.S. virus epicentre in New York saw major crimes decrease by 12% from February to March. In Los Angeles, 2020 key crimes statistics were consistent with last year’s figures until the week of March 15, when they dropped by 30%. “There’s a lot fewer opportunities for criminals to take advantage of,” said Joe Giacalone, a former New York Police Department sergeant who now teaches at John Jay College of Criminal Justice. “Most burglars, they wait for you to leave the house.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/crime-drops-globally-as-virus-keeps-people-indoors/article31320784.ece
12 April 2020||Chennai,||U.S. announces visa sanctions on nations refusing to accept citizens||President Donald Trump has ordered the relevant departments of his administration to impose visa sanctions on countries that do not accept their citizens who are currently in the U.S., if the U.S. seeks to repatriate them to their home countries. The order is motivated by the COVID-19 pandemic, according to a memorandum issued by the White House on Friday night. “Countries that deny or unreasonably delay the acceptance of their citizens, subjects, nationals, or residents from the United States during the ongoing pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2 create unacceptable public health risks for Americans. The United States must be able to effectuate the repatriation of foreign nationals who violate the laws of the United States,” the order says. Scope of the order As it is worded, the scope of the order is unclear. While the clause above says it is motivated by the U.S. wanting to repatriate foreigners violating U.S. laws, there is another clause that says the sanctions process could be initiated if a foreign country delays accepting its nationals and such an action hampers the U.S.’s response to the ongoing pandemic. The Secretary of Homeland Security shall inform the Secretary of State, “… if any government of a foreign country denies or unreasonably delays the acceptance of aliens who are citizens, subjects, nationals, or residents of that country after being asked to accept those aliens, and if such denial or delay is impeding operations of the Department of Homeland Security necessary to respond to the ongoing pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2.” Within seven days of receiving such a notice from the Department of Homeland Security, the Secretary of State is required to initiate a plan to impose visa sanctions. Sanctions shall end when the Secretary of Homeland Security certifies that the host countries are accepting their nationals. The memorandum expires on December 31 this year unless extended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-announces-visa-sanctions-on-nations-refusing-to-accept-citizens/article31320785.ece
12 April 2020||Kabul,||U.S. General meets Taliban leaders||The head of U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan has met with Taliban leaders to discuss a reduction in violence in the war-weary country, officials said on Saturday, with the insurgents accusing the Americans of violating a landmark agreement. Washington signed a key deal with the Taliban in February that promised the withdrawal of U.S. and foreign troops from Afghanistan by next summer, provided the militants start talks with Kabul and adhere to other guarantees. U.S. General Scott Miller held discussions with the group in Doha on Friday night, U.S. forces spokesman Sonny Leggett said. “General Miller met with Taliban leadership last night as part of the military channel established in the agreement. The meeting was about the need to reduce the violence,” he said. Suhail Shaheen, a Taliban spokesman, said the meeting was about the “implementation of the agreement as well as its violations, particularly attacks and night raids in non-combat areas”. The Taliban has accused U.S. forces of aiding the Afghan government with air support, causing civilian casualties. The U.S. has denied the accusations. ‘False allegations’ A U.S. defence official accused the Taliban of making false allegations in a bid to pressure the U.S. into pushing forward a prisoner release swap with Kabul. The deal requires the Afghan government — which was not a signatory to the accord — to free up to 5,000 Taliban prisoners, and for the militants to release 1,000 pro-government captives in return. A Taliban team met with the government to discuss a comprehensive prisoner swap last week, but walked out of the talks soon after officials offered a piecemeal release of the prisoners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-general-meets-taliban-leaders/article31320777.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Taiwan, WHO clash over ‘early warning’ claim||Taiwan on Saturday released the text of its December 31 communication with the World Health Organization (WHO) that has been at the centre of a controversy about the first warnings of the COVID-19 outbreak. Both Taiwan and the U.S. had accused the WHO of ignoring a December 31 warning of “human-to-human transmissions” from what was then an unknown pneumonia. On Saturday, Taiwan’s Health Minister Chen Shih-chung quoted the text of the December 31 email, which read: “News resources today indicate that at least seven atypical pneumonia cases were reported in Wuhan, China. Their health authorities replied to the media that the cases were believed not to be SARS, however, the samples are still under examination, and cases have been isolated for treatment. I would greatly appreciate if you have relevant information to share with us.” The email did not mention human-to-human transmissions, but Taiwan’s Foreign Ministry, in a tweet, said, “treated in isolation means human-to-human transmission”. Alert to WHO on Jan. 5 The communication did not, however, carry additional information beyond what the WHO had been informed by Wuhan authorities. The WHO said on January 5 that its country office in China was on December 31 “informed of cases of pneumonia of unknown etiology (unknown cause)” and “national authorities report that all patients are isolated and receiving treatment in Wuhan medical institutions.” “Based on the preliminary information from the Chinese investigation team,” the WHO concluded then, “no evidence of significant human-to-human transmission and no healthcare worker infections have been reported”. Beyond the early warning controversy, the WHO has faced broader criticism for some of its early actions as the outbreak was spreading. On January 14, the WHO repeated that investigations had found no evidence of human-to-human transmissions based on information provided to them by China. It would later, however, emerge that Wuhan authorities had not disclosed to the WHO that medical workers had, by late December, been reported as being infected in some Wuhan hospitals. Until mid-January, Wuhan authorities publicly announced there was no human-to-human transmission. Wuhan was locked down on January 23. By that time, an estimated five million people had left ahead of an annual holiday. Taiwan is not a member of the WHO as China has opposed its entry into international bodies. Taiwan was the first to begin screening passengers from Wuhan, starting December 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taiwan-who-clash-over-early-warning-claim/article31320779.ece
12 April 2020||Tokyo,||Japanese filmmaker Obayashi, who portrayed war’s horrors, dead at 82||Nobuhiko Obayashi, one of Japan’s most prolific filmmakers who devoted his works to depicting war’s horrors and singing the eternal power of movies, has died. He was 82. The official site for his latest film, Labyrinth of Cinema , said that he died late on Friday. Mr. Obayashi was diagnosed with terminal cancer in 2016, and was told he had just a few months. But he continued working, appearing frail and often in a wheelchair. He stayed stubbornly true to his core pacifist message through more than 40 movies and thousands of TV shows, commercials and other videos. Mr. Obayashi’s Miss Lonely , released in 1985, was shot in seaside Onomichi, the picturesque town in Hiroshima prefecture where Mr. Obayashi grew up and made animation clips by hand. Mr. Obayashi was a trailblazer in the world of Japanese TV commercials, hiring foreign movie stars like Catherine Deneuve and Charles Bronson, highlighted in his slick film work that seemed to symbolise Japan’s post-war modernisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/japanese-filmmaker-obayashi-who-portrayed-wars-horrors-dead-at-82/article31320787.ece
12 April 2020||Brasilia,||Virus kills Brazil tribal boy||A Yanomami indigenous boy has died after contracting COVID-19, authorities in Brazil said on Friday, raising fears for the Amazon tribe, which is known for its vulnerability to disease. The 15-year-old boy, the first Yanomami to be diagnosed with the virus, was hospitalised a week ago at an intensive care unit in Boa Vista, the capital of the northern State of Roraima, officials said. He died of severe respiratory complications on Thursday night, said the Brazilian Health Ministry. A Yanomami rights group said the boy had come in to contact with “many” other indigenous people after he began showing symptoms. The Hutukara Association blamed “inadequate medical care” for the boy’s death, saying he went more than two weeks without a diagnosis from the time he first went to the hospital with symptoms. It called on the authorities to help them undergo testing and self-isolation. It also urged the government to crack down on illegal gold miners on indigenous lands, believed to be the source of the contagion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/virus-kills-brazil-tribal-boy/article31320780.ece
12 April 2020||Madrid,||Spain’s daily toll falls again||Spain registered a fall in its daily death toll from the new coronavirus for a third consecutive day on Saturday with 510 people dying, the government said. It was the smallest daily increase since March 23 in Spain, which is suffering one of the worst COVID-19 outbreaks in the world. The update for the last 24 hours raised the country’s overall number of fatalities to 16,353 and the number of confirmed cases to 161,852.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/spains-daily-toll-falls-again/article31320772.ece
12 April 2020||Havana,||Havana, April 11, 2020 (AFP) -||Cuba hit out at the U.S. on Friday over its nearly 60-year-old embargo, which Havana described as “even more cruel” given the suffering caused by COVID-19. “The United States' economic-financial blockade is the most unfair, severe, prolonged system of sanctions of all time by one country against another,” said Nestor Marimon, a Health Ministry official.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/havana-april-11-2020-afp/article31320781.ece
12 April 2020||London,||London, April 11, 2020 (AFP) -||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Saturday was making “very good progress” in his recovery in hospital from coronavirus, officials said, two days after leaving intensive care. The 55-year-old leader was hospitalised on Sunday.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/london-april-11-2020-afp/article31320783.ece
12 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Reliving Eden while relaxing with family||The genius is at work, but in a different sport. Cricketing great V.V.S. Laxman, who is trying his hand at table tennis, is hosting the ‘VVS Cup’ at home, featuring his family members. “It is good to be with the kids in what is obviously the longest break of my career, though for an unfortunate reason as the whole world is battling COVID-19,” said the 45-year-old Laxman in a chat with The Hindu on Saturday. Being active Asked how he was spending time during the lockdown, he said: “we are playing table tennis, carrom and chess. It is important to be active, especially when you are confined indoors. “I am making the most of this break by reading books, watching films and some cricketing moments, including my own. The whole family saw the Kolkata Test innings — 281 against Australia in 2001 — again. It is a different feeling to watch it now as the kids have grown up,” said the stylish batsman. “We also enjoyed watching my ODI hundred in Lahore (2004) and the 2007 Johannesburg Test victory (where he scored a crucial 73 in the second innings).” Cricket runs in the family as Laxman’s son Sarvajit has shown talent, scoring two half-centuries in the Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) league recently. A Warner fan “My son is a left-hander and a fan of David Warner. He seems to be enjoying his game. I am trying to teach him a few things on the art of batting,” said Laxman. “Obviously, he cannot have a better mentor than his father!” About bringing up his children, he said: “We are trying to inculcate values, teaching them not to take things for granted and also be good human beings. “This is the most enjoyable phase. When I was in town earlier, I was either busy with my commitments, or my wife Sailaja was busy with her schedule at the 1st Innings Play School started by us.” Laxman is also involved in various awareness campaigns, appealing to the citizens to stay indoors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/reliving-eden-with-family/article31320897.ece
12 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vineeth lending a helping hand during the crisis||India and Jamshedpur FC winger C.S. Vineeth has joined a government helpline centre in Kannur to advise people on how to face the COVID-19 pandemic. “After I came back home, I got a call from the Kerala Sports Council asking whether I would like to help with the COVID-19 helpline. “I joined to do whatever little I could do to help during an emergency,” said Vineeth, who began working at the centre on March 28 The much-loved 31-year-old intends to continue working at the helpline centre till the end of the lockdown. “The plan is that we will continue this helpline till the dangers of the Coronavirus are averted and the lockdown comes to an end. “The situation in Kerala is much-improved now, of course,” the crafty winger said. Taking precautions Though Vineeth and his co-workers at the helpline centre were not directly in touch with people, they are taking all the precautions. “Of course, we are following the guidelines prescribed by the Governmen. “We are provided with gloves, masks, and sanitisers, which we use quite often. But those of us working here are not exactly exposed. We all just go home, and come here.” The JFC attacker feels that the curve has flattened in Kerala, with the number of cases going down over time. The number of calls that he has been getting have also decreased, since the time he started working at the centre. Fall in numbers “Before, we used to get over 150 calls per day. Now, that number has gone down a lot. We just need to stay strong and wade through these troubled times,” Vineeth said. “I would like to urge everyone to stay at home and follow the government’s guidelines. It’s a good time to spend with your family. Stay safe people, and take care.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vineeth-lending-a-helping-hand-during-the-crisis/article31321140.ece
12 April 2020||LAUSANNE,||Foreign Olympic tourists face a predicament||Thousands of fans planning to travel to the postponed Olympics face uncertainty over flight refunds and reimbursements from hotels and fear they may become victims of greed. The International Olympic Committee has said that tickets for sporting events will be refunded if people cannot attend in 2021, but admitted that it could “not comment on hotel or flight bookings which were done through third parties“.  Lisa Delpy Neirotti, a professor of sport management at the University of Washington had reserved 31 rooms for her students for 26 days at a cost of $90,000. She says that if she does not ask for the ticket reimbursement, hoping that her students can make the new dates from July 23 to August 8 next year, there is “no guarantee” that the hotel and plane reservations will be postponed accordingly. “We are still waiting on both the hotel and the airline. They said it would take a while to let us know. Need to step in “I truly believe that if hoteliers and airlines start to be greedy and not work with Olympic fans or organisations, the government will need to step in, as it will not look good for Japan tourism, but for Japan as a country,” said Lisa. In 2018, the Japanese ministry of tourism said that it was counting on 600,000 foreign spectators attending the Games, providing a significant economic windfall. But many of those prospective visitors remain at an impasse, three weeks after the postponement was announced. Hoteliers affected The delay will also affect the Japanese hotel industry, which had already seen hotel bookings fall in March compared to last year. An official with the Tokyo organising committee said the issue surrounding hotel reservations was “under consideration”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/foreign-olympic-tourists-face-a-predicament/article31320944.ece
12 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Gallant Narayanan falls in semifinals||After an incredible run, S.L. Narayanan fell on the threshold of a title-clash against Magnus Carlsen in the Banter Blitz Cup late on Friday night. Narayanan, who gatecrashed into the semifinals with wins over some better-known names, lost to Iranian Alireza Firouzja 9-6, while Carlsen reached the final beating Russia’s Sanan Sjugirov 9-0. ‘Horrible’ blunder “I think it (the margin) should have been much closer,” said Narayanan, who saw the checkmate coming in the final game, even before his rival could make the rook-move. “Horrible,” was how the country’s 10th-ranked player described his blunder in the final game where he was clearly better. Even after the painful finish, the soft-spoken GM from Thiruvanathapuram remained gracious. “This is my favourite time-control (three minutes for a player, for a game, with no increment) and I’m thankful to Chess24.com for giving me the opportunity to play against some of the best.” Indeed, Narayanan gained the respect of the chess world by pulling off some sensational victories in the 128-player $50,000 knockout tournament, that offers $14,000 to the winner. In ensuring $4,000 by performing beyond his rating of 2618, Narayanan defeated Spain’s Ivan Salgado Lopez (2584) 8.5-0.5, Egypt’s Bassem Amin (2686) 8.5-4.5, Carlsen’s ‘second’ Norway’s Jon Ludvig Hammer (2608) 8.5-2.5 and Germany’s Alexander Donchenko (2646) 8.5-6.5 to reach the quarterfinals. He beat Venezuela’s Eduardo Hurrzaga Bonelli (2607) 8.5-6.5 in a tough quarterfinal before facing the formidable Firouzja, rated 2728. The online event began on September 25 with no fixed schedule as matches were played at times convenient for both players. The other Indians in the fray were Nihal Sarin (lost in the third round), Vaibhav Suri, R. Praggnanandhaa (second round), S.P. Sethuraman, Abhijit Gupta and Surya Shekhar Ganguly (first round).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gallant-narayanan-falls-in-semifinals/article31320899.ece
12 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Quadri confident of making it to Tokyo||Aruna Quadri is one of the most sought-after table tennis players in European clubs right now. A Nigerian by birth, the 31-year-old has plied his trade in Portugal and France also. Ranked 18th in the world, Quadri will be playing in the Bundesliga from September. In the ITTF-Africa Top 16 Cup in February, which was the Olympics qualification tournament, Quadri sustained a thigh injury, ruining his hopes of making it to Tokyo. But he felt his chances of making it are bright — “more than 90%.” Quadri said he is confident of making the Olympic cut at the World qualification tournament in Qatar. “I will definitely make it,” said Africa’s top-ranked player, who became the first from his country to reach the Olympics quarterfinals at Rio 2016. Quadri is spending quality time with his family in Lisbon now. ‘Stay safe’ Speaking to The Hindu , he said: “The situation is just like how it is in the rest of the world. Everyone should stay safe.” Quadri said he was doing his best under the present circumstances. “I am enjoying my time with family.At this moment, health is wealth,” he said. Praise for UTT Having played in the first two editions of Ultimate Table Tennis (UTT), Quadri was all praise for the way it was organised. “It was like a family. It was one of the best-organised leagues in the world. I learnt a lot from the talented Indian players. I believe the learning was mutual.” Quadri has fully recovered from the thigh injury and is eagerly waiting for the lockdown to be lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/quadri-confident-of-making-it-to-tokyo/article31320946.ece
12 April 2020||Sydney,||India served wake-up call: Langer||Australia’s unprecedented home Test series defeat to India in 2018-19 served as a “wake-up call” for Justin Langer, who reckons the series will prove as the defining moment of his coaching career. Langer was appointed Australia coach in May 2018, following the infamous ball-tampering scandal that saw skipper Steve Smith and his deputy David Warner slapped with year-long bans. Without their star batsmen, the Australians struggled.  And, Australia tasted its first Test series loss to India on home turf. Virat Kohli’s men handed Australia a 2-1 defeat. “That was a massive wake-up call and a really tough time in my life,” Langer was quoted as saying by the Australian Associated Press on a podcast. “In 10 years’ time, I will look back on that period and it will be the making of my coaching career,” he said. Langer compared it to another difficult phase of his life, when he was dropped as player at the start of 2001 Ashes. “In 2001 when I was dropped from the Australian team at 31 years of age, I thought that was the end. That was the making of me as a cricketer and a person. It was amazing what lessons you can learn in adversity,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-served-wake-up-call-langer/article31321019.ece
12 April 2020||Mumbai,||Don’t push Dhoni into retirement: Hussain||Doubting Thomases should be careful about what they wish for as there will be no second coming for a once-in-a-generation player like M.S. Dhoni if people “push him into retirement”, former England captain Nasser Hussain said on Saturday. Hussain, one of the most respected voices in world cricket, feels the soon-to-be 39 former captain still has a lot to offer to Indian cricket. “Once Dhoni is gone, there is no getting him back. There are some legends of the game, they are once-in-a-generation cricketers, don’t push him into retirement. “Only Dhoni knows his mental state and in the end selectors select and players turn up when asked to,” Hussain told Star Sports on its new show ‘Cricket Connected’. Dhoni last played for India in the 2019 World Cup semifinal against New Zealand in July. “Is MS Dhoni still good enough to get into the Indian side? It’s as simple as that. “That should apply for anyone across the board. What I have seen, I think MS has a huge amount to offer for Indian cricket,” said Hussain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dont-push-dhoni-into-retirement-hussain/article31320895.ece
12 April 2020||New Delhi,||Will consider leading AIFF, says Bhutia||Former India captain Bhaichung Bhutia has said he will consider contesting for the post of All India Football Federation (AIFF) president in future. Bhutia retired in 2011, after being Indian football’s posterboy for more than a decade. “That is definitely something to be considered in future,” he said when asked if he wants to become AIFF president one day, while answering questions on Facebook. “At the moment I am focusing on grassroots football with the Bhaichung Bhutia Football School and United Sikkim Club and also at district level (in Sikkim),” said Bhutia. Current AIFF president Praful Patel has effectively been at the helm of affairs since 2008, when then chief Priya Ranjan Dasmunshi fell ill. He was elected president in 2012 and again in 2016, and is unlikely to be eligible this year under the Sports Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-consider-leading-aiff-says-bhutia/article31320941.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Saqlain live!||Catch Pakistan spin legend Saqlain Mushtaq in a live chat on Sportstar’s Instagram handle ( @Sportstarweb ) on April 12 (Sunday) at 2.30 p.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saqlain-live/article31320891.ece
12 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lockdown blues for Chahal||Yuzvendra Chahal says he can stay away from home for three years once the lockdown is lifted. “I will get lock-downed from my home, I will not come back to my home. I can’t take this anymore, can’t stay at home for longer now. These days of staying at home will suffice for the next three years now,” Chahal said in a chat with a TV presenter. “I will live in a nearby hotel but will not stay at home, that’s it for me now, can’t bear anymore lockdown days.”PTI  I will surely go and bowl at least a ball on the day lockdown is lifted||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lockdown-blues-for-chahal/article31320893.ece
12 April 2020||London,||Liverpool legend Dalglish tests positive||Liverpool legend Sir Kenny Dalglish has tested positive for COVID-19 but is asymptomatic, his family has announced. The Dalglish family released a statement on Friday saying the 69-year-old was admitted to hospital on Wednesday for treatment of an infection and received a routine test for coronavirus. “Unexpectedly, the test result was positive but he remains asymptomatic,” the statement read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/liverpool-legend-dalglish-tests-positive/article31320939.ece
12 April 2020||nairobi,||Kipchoge’s advice to athletes||World marathon record-holder Eliud Kipchoge says he focuses on strength-training while in isolation to stay injury-free. The Olympic marathon champion was due to defend his title in Tokyo and use the London marathon on April 26 as his gauging race. He warned fellow athletes not to switch off training, saying if they push their bodies too much when the situation around the world improves, they will be prone to injuries. “Keep training, doing what you used to do. I have a physio all the time and when something emerges, it will be easy to solve,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kipchoges-advice-to-athletes/article31320942.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 07:29 IST,||Sudoku - April 12, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-12-2020/article31321362.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Not all survivors of violence can stitch bags for a living’||Prasanna Gettu is co-founder of the Chennai-based International Foundation for Crime Prevention and Victim Care (PCVC) that works to support and rehabilitate women and LGBTQIA+ persons affected by domestic and interpersonal violence. PCVC operates a 24x7 helpline, and works with the Tamil Nadu government to offer assistance to burn survivors. They also run shelter homes, coordinate with the police to establish a first line of defence, support children from families that have seen domestic violence, and conduct intervention programmes in schools, colleges and workplaces. Last month, Gettu was conferred the Anne Klein Women’s Award 2020 by the Germany-based Heinrich Boell Foundation that aims to celebrate pioneers of feminist causes. Excerpts from an interview: PCVC began as an assistance centre for victims of all crimes. How and why did the focus shift to domestic violence? PCVC was started in 2001 by three of us who had gone to Tokiwa University, Japan, for a postgraduate diploma in Victimology and Victim Assistance. We were impressed with the victim assistance centres there and wanted to start something similar here. That’s how PCVC began, in a one-room office in Parry’s Corner, provided to us by the father of one of the co-founders. In one year, we noticed that 99% of our clients were women, especially women affected by domestic violence. And they came from all strata of society. It is a myth that domestic violence happens only in low-income, uneducated families. The upper strata simply have the means to keep the violence hidden. The first question they asked was where they could stay if they walked out of their abusive homes. Victims from the middle and upper classes preferred returning home to staying in government-run shelters. This realisation made PCVC open an undisclosed free shelter where women and children, including boys up to the age of 16, could take refuge. In 2002, two of us received professional training in domestic violence and crisis intervention from the U.S. We stayed in shelter homes to learn how they were managed. We have lately ventured into providing services for the LGBTQIA+ community. The violence they face from their families is interpersonal violence. In that regard, it’s not different, but the services required are very different. What trends have you noticed during the lockdown? We received fewer domestic violence calls on our helpline. This, however, is no indication that instances of domestic violence have reduced. With abusers in close proximity all day, accessibility to phones has decreased. Survivors also probably thought that during a lockdown, they cannot complain or leave home. We are widely publicising that our call and chat facilities, and shelter homes, are available. We are bracing ourselves for increased distress calls once the lockdown ends or if it’s extended. How has your work evolved? In 2001, we did not have a vision. If a victim came to us, we supported her in a manner we thought right. We don’t do that now, we don’t madly do anything. We are more structured and practical. For instance, we operate with the understanding that it is always safer to involve the police. Our Udhayam programme is a coordinated response project with the local All Women Police Stations in Chennai, to establish a first line of defence. We have learnt to avoid a confrontational approach with the perpetrators. This serves two purposes. One, it ensures our safety. There’s a constant threat to us and our families, mostly from the victim’s family and the perpetrators. When my children were growing up, I would drop and pick them up from school. I’d double-lock our house. I have now accepted this challenge as a part of my work but I like to stay safe. Two, it has become the value system within which PCVC operates. It is difficult for our staff to keep calm sometimes, but I push for it. Earlier, we provided solutions. We now realise that just makes the victim more dependent on us. The solution needs to come from them. We continue to keep the victim at the centre but we let her define her trauma and work as per her schedule. We focus on her strengths — everybody has strengths. We cannot ask all survivors to stitch bags and make a living. Women have returned to studying, learnt driving and baking. Whatever they want to do, we support them. We now understand that emotional abuse, financial control, gaslighting, intimidation, physical abuse, coercion, threatening and blaming, sexual abuse, stalking and dating violence — these are all forms of interpersonal violence, none smaller than the other. It’s been a learning for me too. My courses did not teach me that criminology is skewed and not women-centric. What I have learnt over these 20 years is perhaps worth a dozen Ph.Ds. What has been the biggest hurdle for PCVC? Getting our stakeholders to understand how serious and all-pervasive domestic violence is has been the biggest hurdle. We have been asked why we work only with survivors of interpersonal violence, when there are so many other types of victims, like those of war, HIV/ AIDS, etc. In this scheme of things, they think of domestic violence as very minor. Openly talking about violence in personal spaces is still considered taboo and makes people uncomfortable. I see a change in the younger generation. There’s awareness. They recognise that they don’t have to tolerate any form of violence any more. This can only mean that women are now beginning to value themselves. It is my job to tell the woman that she is valuable. With a formal law in place, things are looking up. There is more media coverage. In my experience, working closely with the government, for the Chennai Safe City project and otherwise, I have seen a sea change in attitude. Senior officers are now focused on increased action for social change. What else can aid this social change? A country that starts investing in families, instead of investing so much in detection and prevention of crimes, will be on the path to a violence-free, crime-free society. Every home should realise that they are responsible for bringing up their sons well. Men want happiness, women want happiness — that is gender equality. Abusive behaviour is always learnt behaviour. It is simply a manifestation of what the abuser has learnt all their life.  Postgraduate diploma in Victimology and Victim Assistance from Tokiwa University, Japan  One of the few practising victimologists in the world  Professionally trained in domestic violence and crisis intervention  PCVC operates a toll-free domestic violence helpline called Dhwani that provides emergency interventions   My courses did not teach me that criminology is skewed and not women-centric. What I have learnt over these 20 years is perhaps worth a dozen Ph.Ds||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/not-all-survivors-of-violence-can-stitch-bags-for-a-living/article31320685.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Framed in solitude||Patrice, the famous composer, is dead in a car accident. His crowded public funeral service, lush with flowers, music and media persons, is screening on the television set, with the tentative hand of his wife Julie (Juliette Binoche) gently stroking the two lonely coffins on screen — those of Patrice and their only child — as though this desperate, fleeting caressing of the image would somehow compensate for the farewell she could not say in person. It’s one of the most devastating sequences in Krzysztof Kieslowski’s Three Colours Blue , an ode to unforeseen and unfathomable loss and grief and the frantic quest for closure and reconciliation. The recollection of this haunting scene is particularly heart-wrenching in the time of lockdown, when one has been reading one painful account after another, of video chats replacing last goodbyes; of quick, curtailed funerals by strangers rather than by family. It is as though Kieslowski, through his mise-en-scène back in 1993, envisioned the gargantuan existential crisis that would befall us in 2020. Yet, even as we mourn the loss of human touch during the pandemic, it’s to the world of images I’ve been turning for comfort and escape, for answers and hope, often for that fellow feeling, of being in it together, sometimes just for the thrill of it.  Too familiar Contagion, Steven Soderbergh’s sci-fi film, eerily foresaw, almost a decade ago, what infected meat (“Somewhere in the world, the wrong pig met up with the wrong bat”) and not washing hands properly can lead to. The references to sanitisers and not touching one’s face sound way too familiar — “Our best defence has been social distancing. No hand-shaking, staying home when you’re sick, washing your hands frequently,” says Dr. Ellis Cheever (Laurence Fishburne). There is Dr. Erin Mears (Kate Winslet) talking about how the average person “… touches their face two-three thousand times a day. Three to five times every waking minute. In between, we’re touching doorknobs, water fountains, elevator buttons and each other.” Adding to the foreboding, the film shows how a lack of understanding of the gravity of the situation leads to a wider global spread of both disease and panic. We seem to be actually living in Contagion’s script. Referring to blogger and conspiracy theorist Krumwiede (Jude Law), Dr. Cheever says, “In order to get scared, all you have to do is to come in contact with a rumour or the television or the Internet. I think what Mr. Krumwiede is spreading is far more dangerous than the disease.” Replace Krumwiede with, well, we have several candidates for that slot today. Human dimension Another much-watched film today is Aashiq Abu’s Virus (2019), about the Nipah epidemic in Kerala in 2018 and the medical, governmental and bureaucratic efforts that went into its containment. Its story of the bravery of several unknown people who helped manage the disease resonates in 2020 — Kerala’s health minister K.K. Shailaja, played by Revathy in the film, is again leading from the front. The plague in the South Korean series Kingdom , set in the 16th century, holds telling parallels with the outbreak today. You see Spanish film The Platform with a whole new perspective when you view it in conjunction with the hoarding of food and goods and the verticality of privileges that have become ignominious sideshows in the battle today. Besides the nitty-gritty and details in “virus” films or even serials like Pandemic or Outbreak , there are movies that underline the other significant aspect — the immense human toll. The pandemic has altered all aspects of our lives in the blink of an eye. It’s the exploration of this human dimension, the many paradoxes and dilemmas — not necessarily explored in films about disease and disaster alone — that has been the most compelling for me. Little banal things Take the identical rhythm of each day spent in isolation, summed up best in Munshi Ameerullah Tasleem’s sher (couplet): Subah hoti hai shaam hoti hai, umr yun hi tamaam hoti hai (A lifetime gets spent seeing morning lead on to evening.) From morning chai with rusk to evening coffee with a handful of dried fruits, except for minor, work-related changes of pattern in the middle, life these days often feels like Phil’s (Bill Murray) in Harold Ramis’ Groundhog Day (1993). As he says, it’s all about déjà vu; of yesterday, today and tomorrow becoming no different from each other. It’s as though one is living in a never-ending time loop. The newness of the first few days of work from home aside, many of us, after nearly a fortnight of solitary confinement, are nearing a point of mental exhaustion if not breakdown. At times it feels like one is Shaurya (Rajkummar Rao) in Vikramaditya Motwane’s survivor thriller Trapped (2016), marooned in the safety of one’s own home. It can make one feel like an island, craving human company and connection, valuing the little banal things we have always taken for granted and which are now out of reach, like a humble vada-pav. I barely saw my neighbours’ faces this past month, only exchanging WhatsApp messages about grocery stores and quarantined buildings. I have video-consulted with my GP on an emergency health issue, even though it’s only a five-minute walk to her clinic. In such a situation there’s every likelihood of some of us turning into lonely Theodore (Joaquin Phoenix) of Spike Jonze’s Her , who bonds with an artificial intelligence programme, the OS called Samantha (voice of Scarlett Johansson). In contrast to that, coming back to Three Colours Blue , is Julie, deliberately withdrawing from the world: “Now I have only one thing left to do: nothing. I don’t want any belongings, any memories. No friends, no love. Those are all traps.” Cast away at home, bereft of family ties and bonds of friendship, can we, like her, cut ourselves off from everyone and everything, even dissociate from our memories? Self-isolation and social distancing notwithstanding, can we free ourselves ever from vital human connections? Sitting by my computer, with no one around me, staring at a still street from my window, I believe the answer is a resounding no.  You see Spanish filmThe Platformwith a new perspective when you view it in conjunction with the hoarding of food and goods and the verticality of privileges||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/framed-in-solitude/article31320751.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||In our wildest dreams||It is after sunset, and I can hear sounds I haven’t heard in years: the chorus of chirping crickets, serenading frogs and screeching owls. By day, the squabbling squirrels that hang out on the Bauhinea trees that line the footpath, and the brahminy kite perched on the electric wire, let me come up closer than they used to before. My backyard, frequented by a couple of red-vented bulbuls and a coucal, now has new visitors — sunbirds flitting from corner to corner, hovering around the pomegranate flowers, checking out the dried leaves. And the green bee-eaters I hadn’t seen in years are back! Some 15 years ago, when we first moved into this neck of the woods in Bengaluru, bee-eaters kept us company, perched in large groups on the electricity lines; and now here they are again, hanging out on an African tulip tree near our neighbour’s house. My mother reports that the crows seem bolder, swooping closer to her when she ventures outside. The world is certainly a quieter place in these days of the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic. With cars off the streets, seismologists investigating earthquakes in London, Brussels and Los Angeles report that the ambient noise levels are so low they are now better able to detect even smaller seismic events in these cities. Naturalists across India, stuck at home, are reporting wildlife sightings in their backyards. Twitter, Facebook and Instagram videos show us exciting scenes of wild animals walking down urban streets. Newspapers report that the air is so clean you can see the snow-capped Himalayas from Jalandhar, hundreds of kilometres away — something not seen in decades. Delhi’s air quality this March was the best it’d had in five years for that month. So is the earth really ‘healing’? Are animals ‘reclaiming the planet’? Has nature ‘triumphed’? The answer is yes and no: sifting truth from fake news depends on what you are looking at, the angle you are looking at it from, and how long a look you are prepared to take. True or false There have been some clear hoaxes. No, scores of deer did not occupy a road in Coimbatore or Ooty; those were actually a herd of sika deer in Japan’s Nara Park shot several years ago. Another video claiming to be the first sighting since the 1990s of the critically endangered Malabar civet, in Kozhikode, turned out to be of the more common small Indian civet cat, one that scientists said could have been sick and disoriented. And no, the canals of Venice do not now have dolphins, even though the waters indeed run clearer and it’s just as exciting that ducks, cormorants, crabs and fish have reclaimed the canals. Venetians are now beginning to talk of possibly reducing motorised boat traffic so that some of this returning biodiversity can be preserved. Other stories are true. Coyotes and foxes are now being spotted across American cities; raccoons were seen in Panama; wild boars infiltrated Barcelona’s city centre; a puma was spotted in Santiago, the Chilean capital; and deer explored subway stations in Japan — heaven knows what they made of it. Other animals, less wild, are also beginning to explore the now-quiet streets. Cashmere goats have taken to walking the streets of the Welsh seaside town of Llandudno. Imported during Queen Victoria’s reign to supply wool, these goats normally graze on the rocky outcrops outside the town, but now, in the absence of traffic, they are drawn to the inviting hedges and gardens of the town. In another Welsh county, Monmouthshire, an adorable video shows a herd of sheep taking over a deserted children’s playground, trotting on a roundabout, clearly having the time of their lives. Back home, a nilgai was spotted in Noida, a sambar in Chandigarh, a rhinoceros in Sonapur near Guwahati, and peacocks on the streets of Coimbatore. Olive Ridley turtles are nesting undisturbed in large numbers on the beaches of Odisha, benefiting from the rare lack of human predators. Taking advantage of this rare opportunity, several citizen science groups have begun to gather data. Macau’s annual City Nature Challenge has scaled down its objectives, asking participants to look at whatever they can spot within their apartment — a cockroach under the sink or a potted plant in the balcony. At the University of Washington, scientists have launched a community science programme, asking volunteers to monitor birds using the eBird app for 10 minutes, either in their backyard or in any local green space. Bird Count India has launched a Lockdown Birding Challenge, asking people to observe birds in their backyard for 15 minutes, twice a day, using eBird to upload the data. Backyard science The objectives of many of these citizen science programmes are threefold. Most obviously, they seek to gather data about the impact of the lockdown and the reduced human disturbance on bird, insect and animal activity. Second, they hope to educate people about nature in their backyard, helping parents and children come together for “wow” moments as they spot a brilliantly coloured butterfly or watch a potter wasp building a neat mud nest. Finally, it is about mental health. In these stressful times, watching and listening to nature can help: a moment of fleeting magic can make all the difference. Waking up to the delightfully mismatched orchestra of squirrels, crows and bulbuls, and going to bed with the hum of crickets vibrating through your window are little things that melt away the stress. But there has been a downside for wildlife too. Conservationists and wildlife researchers worry that an unfounded fear of wild creatures like bats can lead to people trying to eliminate them in these times of fake news and social media misinformation. Two trees with large bat roosts, for instance, were felled in Mysuru recently, because local people were afraid of picking up viruses from them. But this will not succeed in keeping people safe — it will only drive the bats to other habitats, possibly even closer to human residences. Brief reprieve Perhaps saddest of all is the realisation that any breather the world may be getting now is only temporary, a brief reprieve. Our reckless tendency to over-consume has unmistakably been the cause for the swift global spread of the virus from Wuhan to the farthest and most distant corners of the world. Greenhouse gas emissions are down, but the excessive volumes of CO2 that we have pumped into the air for decades will not disappear in a few days or weeks or even months of lockdown. This is an ever-expanding spiral of environmental degradation that we have brought upon ourselves. This short respite only serves to show us how poorly we have lived our lives so far, and to give a brief taste of how it could have been had we lived life differently. When the crisis winds its way out, and we return to the chaos and frenzy of urban living, will we remember that we have the right to see blue skies and faraway mountains, breathe clean air and listen to the chorus of birds? Or will we push these thoughts away, diving back into our computer screens, headphones plugged in? If there is hope, it lies in the possibility that social distancing and lockdowns can lead to shifts in imagination. Can we — those of us fortunate enough to live under a roof, with food in our bellies and cash in our bank accounts — understand that daily life needs to slow down, that we need to spend more time looking at flowers that blossom and the butterflies that drink their nectar? Will businesses and employers allow us to return to a quieter, more harmonious way of life? Unless this period of social distancing leads to a fundamental requestioning of our ways of living and working, consumption and leisure, unless we can engineer a fundamental cultural shift, tales of the world healing itself will remain just that — dreamy tales. The writer is a professor of sustainability at Azim Premji University, and co-author ofCities and Canopies: Trees in Indian Cities.  Greenhouse gas emissions are down, but the excessive volumes of CO2 that we have pumped into the air for decades will not disappear in a few days or weeks or even months||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/in-our-wildest-dreams/article31320719.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Hop in and shut out||The first thought that crossed my mind when the lockdown was announced was: finally I’ll have time to read all those books, swiftly chased by: what if I don’t have enough? As a freelancer, living off Maggi noodles and black coffee, unyoked from the calendar of night and day, social distancing is a lifestyle choice, not an imposition. But the thought of being stuck at home and not having anything to read was claustrophobic. Binge watching is intolerable, given that I already spend so much of my professional life in front of a screen. The same goes for e-books; only the printed page will do. As critic Joe Queenan said, “My philosophy is simple: Certain things are perfect the way they are. The sky, the Pacific Ocean, procreation and the Goldberg Variations all fit this bill, and so do books.” Gateway drugs The lockdown came at a point when I didn’t want to read a single word any more about pandemics, pathogens or pneumonia. At the first sign of the approaching storm, I behaved like the usual news junkie, scouring the underside of the web for conspiracy theories, or looking up fiction about outbreaks. As the storm hit, one moved from the abstract to the practical — does drinking Assam tea help (it’s the theaflavins you see), for how many hours does the virus survive on different surfaces, ranked, and so on. Now that we are in the ominous silence of the storm’s eye, you want to stop scrolling Twitter, shut down the newsfeeds, rather like King John who said, “Do not seek to stuff my head with more ill news, for it is full.” This is the time when you want to read yourself out of the moment. Fortunately, the shelves that surround me in my apartment are designed for one and only one thing: escape. I grew up in a boarding school, located on an enormous island of basalt upraised into the sky, isolated and remote. At an early point in my scholastic career, it was found that my appendix was planning to kill me and had to be dispensed with. During a long spell in the school hospital I discovered piles of luridly covered American sci-fi magazines. Even in those pre-Internet days I knew that the model of the solar system these magazines conjured up had been hopelessly overtaken by science, but I didn’t care. The image of Mercury with one side broiling under a sky-filling sun, the other in frozen darkness, and a thin strip of inhabitable twilight in between; the ancient ruins of Mars built by a master race now long extinct; the sinister denizens of the swamps of cloud-shrouded Venus — all these burnt like liquid fire in the brain, far superior to the world of class politics, slip tests and athletic bravado. Once out of the hospital, my search for the fix led me to the senior library, with its soaring ceilings and wonderfully comfortable chairs next to wall-high windows. There, arrayed like archaeological strata, were rows of vintage sci-fi, filled with strange names like Asimov and Heinlein, Kuttner and Kornbluth, Le Guin and Williamson. Adventures featuring dashing spacemen on far-flung planets, quests that usually had whole galaxies at stake, impossible machiner and sleek-finned ships that cleaved the stars. This was the gateway drug that led me to fantasy, horror, pulp thrillers and other genre intoxicants. Grow up? Even then, there was always the unasked question that persisted through college and the decades beyond — when will you start reading something serious? When will you finally ‘grow up’? When will you put behind escapism and confront reality. As C.S. Lewis said, only jailors are opposed to escapism. Only, in the immediate here and now, escape means not from tedious jobs or bad marriages but from rooms the size of our skulls. Nobody said it was easy — as long ago as in the 17th century, philosopher Blaise Pascal had declaimed “The sole cause of man’s unhappiness is that he does not know how to stay quietly in his room.” Indeed, being confined led the desperately bored 18th century writer Xavier de Maistre (he was under house arrest for unauthorised duelling) to write the inspired A Journey Round My Room , a parody of conventional travelogues (for example, Chapter V is ‘The Bed’). Like other solitary workers from home, I know well this strange geography. How many times I’ve woken up at 2 a.m., having slept through the day, to start working. The days blur and bleed into one another. Sam Lipsyte advises in his novel Homeland : “When you work at home, fellow alums, discipline is the supreme virtue. Suicidal self-loathing lurks behind every coffee break. Activities must be expertly scheduled, from shopping to showers to panic attacks.” Fatal inversion By some fatal inversion, the inside has now become the outside, the hermeticism practised by the solitary worker suddenly replicated on a planetary scale. For me, the only change is that now I am woken by birdsong instead of traffic noise. As panic-stricken citizens were ransacking supermarkets, I have no doubt that others like me were casting a critical eye over their book supply — would it last three weeks? The first estimate is invariably wrong: we grossly overestimate our reading speed — even at one book a day, we should have enough — but there are fears. Fears of being trapped in tedious narratives, starting on trilogies with missing entries and so on. However, a decade of collecting and even outright book-hoarding means I’m reasonably safe from such a fate. The poet Frank Bidart is supposed to have boasted that were a cataclysm to end the world and only his cramped Brooklyn flat were recovered, it would still be possible to reconstruct the entirety of Western civilisation from its contents. All bibliophiles secretly feel that their own collections will stand this supreme test, recreating whatever their obsessions were; in my case it would be literature of the imagination. By the end of the first week my apartment floor was littered with piles of books. I had decided to categorise them, make reading lists on a thematic basis, the daydream of every reader. For example, I could choose to read only those novels where chess provides motive power to the plot, say Zweig’s Schachnovelle or Pérez-Reverte’s The Flanders Panel . Metaphysical mayhem Another taxonomical method is size; as Stalin is supposed to have said, “Quantity has a Quality of its own”. One shelf buckles under the weight of a row of giant tomes, such as the Zones of Thought series by Vernor Vinge, a massive trilogy spanning millions of years and thousands of alien races that I’ve been too daunted to confront. Or Perlmann’s Silence by Pascal Mercier, featuring metaphysical mayhem at a conference of philosophers. Another mode of organisation is picking an author and burning through their oeuvre. This immediately draws me to a shelf which holds the Fandorin series by Boris Akunin. Set in fin de siècle Russia, the thrillers have been described as what would happen if Tolstoy and Conan Doyle collaborated on a Russian equivalent of Sherlock Holmes. Akunin uses a literary mechanism that I always appreciate — the character ages as the books progress over two decades — making a sequential reading even more appealing. In this manner more and more piles are now accumulating, but I haven’t actually started reading anything. In the face of the formless panic that stalks the air, the atavistic urge is to retreat into the cave and pull the blanket over your head. In short, abandon the new, and turn back to what once gave you joy. Re-reading gives a feeling of control, because you know exactly what the characters are going to do, their fates predetermined. In Richmal Crompton’s Just William series, William Brown and the Outlaws will always save the day. Or go back to Billy Bunter and  its repetitive but effective formula. I know that the years I spent hoarding these treasures have not been wasted. Meanwhile, news sites now have blinking icons showing infection counters. Over the vacant streets there hangs a silence. A silence that smells like an aftermath. Now I think of my home as a spaceship. Grocery runs means cycling the airlock and stepping into the uncaring void. Supermarkets are alien planets where you forage while thinking all the while, who is infected? Who isn’t? Paranoia is as essential for survival as a spacesuit. It is not a coincidence that in fantasy and sci-fi the space ships always have escape hatches, wardrobes conceal portals, there are magical doorways drawn in the air, and wormholes to transport you away. Sometimes escape is the only option. The writer is a freelance journalist and graphic novelist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hop-in-and-shut-out/article31320724.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Return of the native||Adhith Swaminathan and his team witness a prehistoric phenomenon on remote Little Andaman Island every year. After nightfall, six-foot-long leatherback sea turtles haul their half-ton hulks onto sandy beaches and lay their eggs. The research group has monitored their reproductive efforts for a decade to assess their fortunes. Each December, Swaminathan and his team of six set up camps on the uninhabited stretches of South and West Bays under a collaborative project of the Dakshin Foundation and the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru. There they remain for the next three months, walking the coast under the stars on the lookout for any turtle that emerges from the waves. Just for a signal If the West Bay team members need a mobile phone signal, they walk 20 km to South Bay, wading across a creek with crocodiles, and climb up a lighthouse to snatch a conversation with friends and family. The physical and social distancing means no television, internet, or restaurants. A tiny solar panel provides a trickle of electricity to charge phones and torchlights. They live in such basic splendour for the honour of checking out egg-laden female sea turtles, the patterns of whose backs resemble the starry sky above. If the expectant mother sports tags on her flippers, she already has a place in the record sheets that details when she was marked and how often she has nested. If she has no identification, the men punch a metal strip with a unique number to each hind flipper. And she gets a datasheet of her own. Leatherback populations worldwide declined when people stole their eggs and built hotels and villas on their nesting beaches. In India, between 200 and 250 turtles nest every year on the few undisturbed shores of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The 2004 tsunami dealt a blow to the species by dramatically changing the islands’ coastlines and obliterating some beaches. For some years after the disaster, few of these giant reptiles visited. As sandy shores formed, the largest turtles in the world returned to dig holes in which to drop their billiard ball-sized leathery round eggs. Today they come ashore in the same numbers as before the tsunami. “At a time when many species are struggling, it’s astonishing that a creature so huge has bounced back,” says Swaminathan. “It shows the leatherbacks can adapt and are resilient.” Thoughtful swimming But the giants are particular about where they nest. Not any beach will do. Unlike other turtles that have a hard shell, leatherbacks are encased in rubbery skin. For this reason, they avoid beaches with offshore coral reefs and rocks that may rip their fragile bellies. But they don’t scout high and low for ideal nesting sites. They tend to return to the same spots where they were born a decade or more earlier, locations their fore-mothers chose several generations ago. Their unerring navigational skills ensure the females who nest on West Bay rarely show up on South Bay or vice versa. If that sounds easy, consider that these leatherbacks travel for almost a year from halfway across the world, eating little for the duration, to lay their eggs. After covering up their nest pits, the worn-out mothers head back into the ocean, drawing on their reserves to power the return journey. The 10 turtles that Swaminathan and his crew tagged with satellite transmitters in the early 2010s departed in two directions. One lot went southeast towards Cocos (Keeling) Islands while a female reached Western Australia, and the other group made a beeline for Madagascar and the Mozambican coast. At these feeding waters in the Southern Hemisphere, the female leatherbacks gorge on gelatinous jellyfish. When they hit peak condition two or three years later, they make a 10,000-km voyage across the Indian Ocean to a tiny speck of an island where six men await them.  The patterns on the backs of egg-laden female sea turtles resemble the starry sky above||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/return-of-the-native/article31320762.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump and the decline of America||“Empires are complex structures and cannot be dismantled solely by the whims of a single ruler,” writes Sreeram Chaulia in his book, Trumped: Emerging Powers in a Post-American World . But actions by rulers at critical historical junctures could trigger the unravelling of empires. Chaulia gives several examples to buttress his theory. Emperor Ashoka’s decision to switch to pacifism after the bloody conquest of Kalinga would lead to the decline of the Maurya Empire. Dom Pedro II’s decision to loosen his monarchical grip was a pivotal moment in the collapse of the Brazilian empire in the 19th century. In late 20th century, Mikhail Gorbachev’s reforms would weaken the Soviet Union’s grip over the republics, leading to the eventual disintegration of the USSR. The U.S., according to Chaulia, is facing its moment of reckoning like other empires did with President Donald Trump’s ‘offbeat individualism’ taking centrestage. The stronger side of the book is that Chaulia doesn’t extricate the leader from history. He doesn’t look at the decline of the U.S. as a Trump problem. Rather, Trump is a product of that decline whose economic nationalism and isolationist policies could precipitate the fall of the American empire  bringing in radical changes in the global system. The U.S.’s relative decline, Chaulia writes, is a secular trend, which was visible even during the stints of Trump’s predecessors. The difference with Trump is that he doesn’t share the American establishment’s liberal internationalist worldview. Since World War II, American Presidents have played a key role in shaping the liberal international global order, which during the Cold War acted as a bulwark against the Communist bloc and thereafter as a U.S.-centric unipolar system. Trump sees the liberal international global order as a “conspiracy concocted by liberal American elites to impoverish and suppress ordinary American people.” So he’s adopted a neo-mercantilist, transactional capitalist policy that’s rooted in American nationalism. This is Trump’s America First doctrine, which practically precipitates America’s decline as a global power. Bipolar contest again? So what comes next? Russia and China have already established themselves as big powers in their immediate regions. Does the American decline mean that the world will again slip into a bipolar contest? Or a tri-polar one? It doesn’t have to, according to Chaulia. There are emerging countries which could seize the moment. “The path to a multipolar world never seemed less imminent than when Trump arrived on the scene,” he writes. In the book, he identifies four such emerging powers — India, Turkey, Brazil and Nigeria. Next in line The central message of Trumped is that emerging powers can seize this moment only if they have the apt political leadership. Brazil’s far-right President Jair Bolsonaro, who has pulled the country back from the South-South cooperation approach adopted by his leftist predecessors and moved closer towards a declining U.S., doesn’t tick all the columns. Nor does Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, whose short-sighted adventurism in West Asia is not helping Turkey’s strategic path to greatness. But Narendra Modi of India and Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria are ‘safer bets’ for their respective countries, writes Chaulia. When Trump assumed presidency, India wanted the special partnership to continue. But there was a problem. Trump’s predecessors saw India as a democratic bulwark against a rising communist China. They saw China as a threat to the liberal international order. Here Trump himself doesn’t subscribe to this liberal internationalism. His problem with China is its trade practices. And Trump sees India’s trade practices also in the same light. Chaulia believes that the India-China standoff at Doklam was a historic opportunity for the U.S. to make sure where it stands. But the Trump administration remained ambivalent, much to the surprise of the Indians. Trump’s decision to hold talks with the Taliban seeking an exit from Afghanistan also undermines India’s interests in the region. A disappointed Modi decided to reassert India’s strategic autonomy. Chaulia gives the examples of India’s S-400 missile system deal with Russia and Modi’s outreach to China through the Wuhan summit after the Doklam standoff. Strategic autonomy, or previously non-alignment, has been the bedrock of India’s foreign policy. India has shifted its foreign policy directions in accordance with changes in the global order, but has always been wary of surrendering its strategic autonomy. Unlike Bolsonaro, Modi followed suit, reasserting the historical trend. But to shift its emerging power status into a big power one, India needs to do more, especially in the neighbourhood. Its ties with Pakistan is immensely hostile. China has made steady inroads to most of its neighbouring countries. Ties with Bangladesh, an all-weather friend, have also strained after the citizenship row in India. How can India become a stable big regional power if it fails to maintain its benign influence on its neighbours? Therefore, while Chaulia’s assessment about the decline of the U.S. and the Trump opportunity holds true for our times, it’s to be seen whether emerging powers, including India, is ready for the moment.  Trumped: Emerging Powers in a Post-American World Sreeram Chaulia Bloomsbury  Rs. 799    Trump doesn’t subscribe to liberal internationalism. His problem with China is its trade practices. And he sees India’s trade practices also in the same light||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/trump-and-the-decline-of-america/article31320739.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Karuna-0, India-1||Twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week there is only one shloka constantly vibrating in my head: ‘Go Karuna, Karuna Go; Karuna Go, Go Karuna’. I’ve been playing an EDM remix of this mantra non-stop and at full volume on my 2,000-watt home theatre system. Needless to say, it is working brilliantly. The wall of sound I’ve erected around my house is so strong, so high and so thick that not a single Karuna Virus can break in. I am aware that I’m just one among India’s 130 crore soldiers fighting a historic battle. The fact that the whole world is now looking at India as a shining example of how to beat back the Karuna Virus is a proud moment for the nation. Therefore, my dear fellow Indians, do accept my congratulations for doing a fantastic job of executing Phase I and Phase II of India’s unique strategy against Karuna Virus. Shock of its life In Phase I, by banging pots and pans at high decibels — a WHO-approved torture technique — we not only weakened the Karuna Virus by making it deaf, we also gave it the shock of its life. According to the health ministry website, as a result of the collective pandemonium produced by 130 crore patriots, 56 billion Karuna Viruses in India have so far tested positive for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). This is the reason COVID-19 has been spreading more slowly in India than in countries like Italy and Spain. Just put yourself in the virus’s shoes: would you feel like jumping into strangers’ mouths and swimming into their lungs if you were suffering from PTSD? But it is Phase II that truly embodies the genius of India’s strategy against Karuna Virus. We all know how viruses think, how they organise their defences. They are always changing their genes, mutating this way and that way to arm themselves against potential new vaccines. But they were unprepared for the magnificent ambush that India unleashed on April 5. Pincer movement Devised by our beloved leader, it was a cunning pincer movement that caught the Karuna Virus unawares. First we confused the virus by suddenly turning off all the lights. The Karuna Virus, unable to see, was thenerifying in panic. Then came the second blow from the opposite direction: tiny bursts of pure, disinfected, organic light from candles. First plunged into darkness, then blinded by light, the virus was so disoriented it couldn’t tell its RNA from its elbow. While it was still reeling from this onslaught, thousands of Indians delivered the knockout punch: firecrackers and disco music. As per data released by the Icy Yama, 9 billion Karuna Viruses went insane during the 9-minute blitzkrieg of April 5. More significantly for India, especially from a geo-political perspective, another 12 billion Karunas decided to leave India and go — to Pakistan. As the health ministry has pointed out, “Our strategy is, instead of virus chasing us, we chase the virus”. It is also why this whole obsession with PPEs, testing kits, etc. is misplaced — these are all reactive and defensive measures. They entail responding to the terms set by the virus — playing on its turf, as it were. Thankfully, unlike other countries, India did not fall into this trap. Rather, India’s strategy has been to go on the offensive. To make the virus react to our moves. So, instead of taking action in the realm of public health, we are attacking the virus where it least expects to be attacked – in the spiritual and cosmic realm. The Karuna Virus has no defence against the vibrations produced by the ‘Go Karuna Go’ mantra or the photons released by the agni in every diya or the collective willpower of 130 crore Indians. Having pushed the Karuna Virus on the defensive, we now have to deliver one last blow to neutralise the threat once and for all. Yes, I’m talking about Phase III of the battle against the virus. It’s simple: you donate your next 10 months’ salary to PM CARE, a fund set up specifically to enable every Indian to demonstrate how much they care for the PM. In case you are unemployed and therefore unable to donate salary, don’t panic. You can donate one finger a month for 10 months. This collective show of love and loyalty to the PM, modelled on the highly effective practices of the Yakuza — Japan, by the way, has done a terrific job of containing the virus — will inflict lasting psychological damage on the Karuna Virus, incapacitating it permanently. Being the world’s sole spiritual superpower, this is India’s special gift to humanity: a psycho-spiritual vaccine against Karuna Virus. While the conventional vaccine contains physically weakened specimens of the virus being targeted, India’s innovation is to create psychologically and spiritually weakened specimens of the organism. Simply put, this is the beginning of the end for Karuna Virus worldwide. From ‘Karuna Go’, it’s now Karuna-0, India-1.  Instead of taking action in the realm of public health, we are attacking the virus where it least expects to be attacked – in the spiritual and cosmic realm||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/karuna-0-india-1/article31320747.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1April 12 is celebrated as International Day of Human Space Flight since 2011, which was the 50th anniversary of a particular mission. That mission lasted 108 minutes and was a single orbit around Earth. The person handling this mission was an Air Force pilot who had earlier been a foundryman in a steel plant. Who was this person who, 59 years ago, made this historic ascent? 2This explorer was originally a bee-keeper by profession. He led the first mechanised expedition to the South Pole and led other expeditions to remote corners of the earth. Later in life, he became an active environmentalist and also devoted his energies to humanitarian efforts on behalf of the Nepalese. He wrote an autobiography titledNothing Venture, Nothing Win. Who is this person who we know better, for having reached heights no one else had, with a friend? 3This gentleman was appointed the first National Professor by the new government of Independent India. He went on to become the first non-Caucasian individual to win a Nobel Prize in science. A keen lover of music he also investigated the harmonic nature of the sound of the tabla and mridangam. He started a company which manufactured potassium chlorate for the match industry. Who was he who had such fascination with light? 4Born in present day Patna in 475 CE, this person is regarded as the first mathematician-astronomer from ancient India. His major work covers arithmetic, algebra, plane trigonometry, and spherical trigonometry. It also contains continued fractions, quadratic equations, sums-of-power series, and a table ofsines. In it he talks about howpiis irrational, a theory which was only proved in Europe in 1761. The Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics in Pune has a statue of him in its courtyard. Who was this pioneer physicist? 5This king suffered from chronic bronchitis and was close to death. His lead physician knew that the end was near but realised if he passed away after midnight the news would not be printed in the morning newspaper but in the less respected evening journals, which could embarrass the family. So, the king was injected with morphine and cocaine after which he died at 11:55 p.m. and the news made it to the morning papers. Which king was this who was the first monarch of the currently reigning House of Windsor? 6Henry Dunant was a Swiss businessman who, on a business trip in 1859 to Italy, witnessed the aftermath of the Battle of Solferino. This inspired him to create the International Committee of the Red Cross to care for wounded soldiers. This led to him and Frédéric Passy, a French pacifist, becoming the first people to win a certain award in 1901. What award did they win which, according to the founder’s will, is administered in Norway? 7The Joshee Crater is named after Anandibai Joshi, who was the first Indian-origin woman to earn a medical degree in the U.S. The Jhirad Crater is named after Jerusha Jhirad, who was the first woman to be awarded a government of India scholarship to study in the U.K. and her efforts to improve medical education, especially for women, in India earned her the Member of the British Empire (MBE) title in the U.K. and the Padma Shri in India. These women were trailblazers and are honoured by these craters named after them. Where in the universe are these three craters located? 8Frank Whittle was an English Royal Air Force officer. On April 12, 1937, he successfully ran an experimental engine. It had four parts, a single stage centrifugal compressor, a combustion chamber, an axial flow turbine and a convergent propelling nozzle. Although he showed the functionality of this engine, the first operational version of this was shown by Hans von Ohain years later. What did Whittle run for the first time on that date which is now a common feature on aircraft? 9On April 12, 1907, a new flag was created on the orders of King James VI of Scotland. He had inherited the English and Irish thrones, thereby uniting the crowns of England, Scotland and Ireland. What is the name of this flag which we would see in many other flags as well? 10Armalcolite is a titanium-rich mineral ((Mg,Fe2+)Ti2O5). It was first discovered in 1969 and named after the three men who were closest to it at that time. The synthesis of Armalcolite requires low pressures, high temperatures and rapid quenching from about 1,000 °C to the ambient temperature. Who are the three people it is named after? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article31320753.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||When prevention takes a back seat||It was a high-level meeting of a committee comprising top cardiologists, administrators and officials, discussing strategies to improve care of patients with major heart disease in the country. The meeting ended up with plans to have more cardiac cath labs, intensive care units, hi-tech interventions and staff training; sadly no one talked about prevention of a disease that can be kept at bay if measures are adopted early — on an average, a decade before it manifests. I feebly suggested a few preventive strategies, with hardly any impact. People, awe-struck with advances in technology, big data and balance sheets, were already packing their files, closing laptops and putting left-over peppermints into their pockets. I prayed that the policy-makers answer my prayers — maybe, some day. Vaccines, hand sanitation, nutritious food, regular exercise, all are meant for the same result: maintaining good health and prevent diseases. But the high-level meeting discussing “preventive medical strategy for 2020” strangely ended up with handshakes (now namaste courtesy corona) and dates for the next meeting; and nobody believes that we are doing anything worthwhile. The first thing in a preventive strategy is the belief that the strategy will work. A society that doesn’t believe in a strategy (for instance, vaccination) is unlikely to benefit from it. The main challenge in preventive medical strategy is its acceptance. A person suffering from a splitting headache or an unbearable chest pain is likely to land up in the hospital emergency room, even if he hates a hospital (most of us do) or doesn’t believe in modern medicine. But decision to vaccinate a child, check blood cholesterol or following a healthy lifestyle needs acceptance; a conscious and voluntary decision. A sick patient, with no belief in modern medicine, has a high chance of ending up in hospital, often resulting from the collective decision of more informed neighbours or relatives to rush him or her there. But for a healthy man to adopt preventive steps, the stock answer will be “I am so busy”, “I don’t have time”, or “I would think about it”. With all the hi-tech medical advances, scans and biomarkers at our disposal, we have failed to impress the people at large on our commitment to impart preventive health care. It is our fault; you and me included. tinynair@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/when-prevention-takes-a-back-seat/article31320705.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Everywoman’s narrative||This novel, first published in South Korea in 2016, led to a minor upheaval there. While feminists lauded it for bringing to light the lifelong discriminations faced by South Korean women in a largely patriarchal society, detractors alleged that it made sexist generalisations against men and distorted reality. One can imagine a similar book stoking similar reactions in India: happy societies are all alike, aren’t they? Little rules Middle-class, 30-something Kim Jiyoung, whose mind starts unravelling suddenly, is an everywoman. When she is born, her paternal grandmother is disappointed because she had hoped for a boy; growing up, she and her elder sister share a room while their brother gets one of his own; when she is stalked, her father blames her; although she works hard, she never gets a promotion while undeserving male employees go places; her looks are commented upon by random men she meets at work; once she becomes a mother, she has to give up her career and independence to look after the child — if none of this sounds startling to us, it is because most women in Asia are in the same situation. Not surprisingly, the novel became a bestseller in Japan, China and Taiwan. And why just Asia. As the Metoo revelations proved, even in seemingly privileged nations, the ‘second sex’ remains under-privileged oftener than not. Kim’s story is told in a flat monotone, indicative of the banality of the endemic evil of gender discrimination. Cho Nam-Joo can hardly be accused of bending reality to suit her narrative — she backs up her presentation of the hurdles women are confronted with at every stage of their lives with hard data, which are cited in the footnotes. So, abortion of female foetuses, daughters supporting male siblings’ career to their own detriment, the glass ceiling in workplaces, women earning less than men in the same position — all this is supported by statistics and reports, lest they be mistaken as fiction. And Cho Nam-Joo doesn’t spare women either — many of them, even presumably enlightened ones like Kim’s teachers, are shown as having internalised patriarchal diktats and weaponising them against their own sex. When the crisis comes — Kim starts speaking in the voices of other women, like that other much-abused woman, Grace, does under hypnosis in Atwood’s Alias Grace — you see it almost as an inevitability, the figurative made literal. Kim is one in the long line of women whose life is predetermined before her birth and whose minor resistances can create no ripple. “The world had changed a great deal, but the little rules, contracts and customs had not, which meant the world hadn’t actually changed at all.” Denied her own voice, the voices of other women in her unconscious come to the surface, scaring everybody around her. Last seen, she is recovering with the help of therapy and medicines. But when the doctor treating her says, “while her symptoms have decreased in frequency, they have yet to disappear,” you fear what Kim will turn into once her symptoms do disappear under the male psychiatrist’s ministrations. A model ‘normal’ citizen, like her mother, mother-in-law, her sister-in law, grandmother, who are deemed normal only because they have successfully taught themselves not to rock the boat? Forever passive Here, a spoiler alert is in order: Kim’s story is narrated by the psychiatrist based on her and her husband’s account of her life. He appears to be a woke man who has been made aware of a reality other than that of the average Korean male’s by following his wife’s career trajectory — a promising medical student, she ends up as a stay-at-home mommy. He is sympathetic, of course, but so is Kim’s husband. Yet neither of them actively helps their respective wives to choose differently. And the final remark the doctor makes about his female colleague who is quitting because of her pregnancy — “Even the best female employees can cause many problems if they don’t have the childcare issue taken care of. I’ll have to make sure her replacement is unmarried” — makes him, at one fell stroke, one of ‘them’, the Korean males and institutionalised females in positions of power who must screen a female applicant’s personal life before considering her for the job. Given this, how reliable a narrator has he been all through? Considering Kim Jiyoung as a work of literature rather than a social document, I wish this aspect of the narrative was explored further. Kim is forever passive — whenever something goes wrong, she is shown crying, rushing out, outraged, mortified — and that’s that. Didn’t she hit back, ever? She could have chosen not to become a mother — facts show that South Korea’s fertility rate has been decreasing down the years — why did she do what her husband wanted of her despite knowing that motherhood might mean the end of her career? Is the novel the doctor’s subjective interpretation of her story or is it Kim herself who is doggedly naïve throughout? Reading Kim Jiyoung it seems women are fated to be victims. Surely that’s not true?     Kim Jiyoung, Born 1982 Cho Nam-Joo, trs Jamie Chang Simon & Schuster India  Rs. 450    When the crisis comes — Kim starts speaking in the voices of other women— you see it almost as an inevitability||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/everywomans-narrative/article31320723.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Fiery Himalayan encounters at Nathu La and Cho La||Subsumed by the prominent discourse that attributes the current restrained texture of the India-China deterrence model to deft politico-diplomatic manoeuvring, the military dimension has often been consigned to the background. Among other reasons for the lack of awareness of the many face-offs and skirmishes along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), and the border with China across the state of Sikkim, is the lack of archival data and official narratives that are available in the public domain. While there is still some reporting in recent times, the period between 1962 and 1971 continues to lie in the ‘grey zone’ of public consciousness with regards to the military dimension of the India-China relationship. Probal Dasgupta, an ex-Indian Army officer who served in the Gorkha Regiment for several years before embarking on a career in consultancy, has written a detailed account of two fierce encounters between the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) across two 15,000-feet mountain passes in Sikkim in Watershed 1967: India’s Forgotten Victory Over China . Two fire fights Sandwiched between the two India-Pakistan wars of 1965 and 1971, the Nathu La and Cho La fire fights of September 1967 have surprisingly been underplayed even in the Indian military with war colleges rarely discussing their impact and relevance. The narrative explains the strategic landscape in the sub-continent during the tumultuous days of the 1965 India-Pakistan War; the twists, turns and intrigue in the progressive amalgamation of the kingdom of Sikkim into the Union of India; and the constant Chinese attempts to prevent the accession. Even as Lt Gen Harbaksh Singh was orchestrating India’s military revival in the 1965 war with Pakistan, the Chinese played their cards carefully and commenced applying pressure on the Sikkim and Bhutan fronts, something that surely played on the Indian leadership as they negotiated a ceasefire. The constant jostling for ground across the Tibet-Sikkim border including on the desolate Giagong Plateau in north Sikkim at 18,000 feet comes out vividly, and not many know that several Indian soldiers from the Assam Rifles were killed there in an attack by the Chinese in December 1965. This alerted Major General (later Lieutenant General) Sagat Singh, the divisional commander of the Gangtok-based 17th Mountain Division, that something was cooking. Sagat Singh and two battalions of the Indian Army, 2 Grenadiers and 7/11 Gorkha Rifles, are at the heart of the narrative. While the former showcased his initiative and aggression by going against the diffident posture demonstrated by his corps commander, and advocated a tough posture against the Chinese along the Sikkim watershed, the latter were more than a match when the guns boomed. Dasgupta does not hold back any punches when he writes that the Indian battalions at Nathu La and Cho La almost wilted in the face of the initial Chinese artillery barrage and withering machine gun fire. However, it was excellent leadership at all levels that helped the Grenadier battalion fight back with extremely effective artillery support. The fight at Cho La a few days later was equally fierce, with close quarter combat seeing the Gorkhas get the better of the Chinese who retreated after suffering heavy casualties. While individual acts of gallantry get their due weightage, Dasgupta highlights the larger strategic landscape in which India chose to downplay the impact of the Nathu La and Chola skirmishes. He argues forcefully that it was the Nathu La and Cho La experiences that set the stage for India’s robust responses at Sumdorong Chu in 1986/87, and then again at Doklam in 2017. The book is well-researched, and has impactful photographs and maps. It follows an easy-to-read crossover style of writing that would appeal to a wide cross-section of readers. Dasgupta does yeoman service to the broader discipline of military history by bringing into focus a turning point in India-China relations.  The reviewer is a military historian and author ofIndia’s Wars: A Military History 1947-1971.  Watershed 1967: India’s Forgotten Victory over China Probal Dasgupta Juggernaut  Rs. 595||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fiery-himalayan-encounters-at-nathu-la-and-cho-la/article31320732.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Calm and confident||Kerri Sanborn, of Delray Beach, Florida, has been one of America’s leading players for more than four decades. She was South in today’s deal. Sanborn has declared many hands in her long career with only a 4-3 trump fit. Very few, however, have seen her as the player with only three trumps. She accepted North’s invitation with an air of great confidence. She let the opening heart lead run to her queen and calmly led the king of spades from her hand. East ducked his ace, thinking it a routine move defending against declarer’s “known” four-card trump holding. Sanborn led a diamond to dummy’s king, winning the trick, and a diamond back to her jack, losing to West’s ace. West, who thought Sanborn’s trumps were headed by the ace and king and maybe the jack, put dummy in with the queen of diamonds hoping Sanborn would take a trump finesse. Sanborn cashed the ace of hearts and ruffed a heart. The ace - king of clubs and a club ruff brought Sanborn up to nine tricks. She led a heart from dummy, and when East ruffed with the seven, Sanborn over-ruffed with the jack and had 10 tricks. East might have ruffed with the ace and led a spade to West’s queen, but then the 10 of spades in dummy would be the tenth trick. There might have been a little egg on the defenders’ faces, but it was very well played by Sanborn!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/calm-and-confident/article31320756.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Couple’s cleaning time||Respected Madam/ Sir,  Sometimes something will happen in life and you will thinkkadavuley, whatkarumamthis is full peace of mind is gone. But then what is the true story? True story is totally different. True story is that so much peace of mind is coming that Guinness Book is also checking, hello Mr. Mathrubootham this is too much peace of mind. What happened? No more suspenses. I will explain. Tuesday morning itself Mrs. Mathrubootham came and said, “Old man, please do some housework. Whole day sitting and reading novel and watching news and cinema on DVD means house will clean itself?” I said, “Kamalam, breakfast idli has not even reached the stomach, before that itself you will start eating head for lunch?” She came back with bucket and mug and said, “You please put water in all the plants in house. People are dying means plants should also die?” Madam/ Sir, this is the beginning of the whole story. Like that, like that I went to balcony. Put water in plants. I went to kitchen. Put water in plants. I went to bedroom. Put water in plants. Then I went to front door. Nearby the lift two-three plants are there. Alive or dead nobody knows. There also I put off water. Then I told Kamalam all watering is complete. She said, “Don’t forget to put water in cactus on top of TV stand.” I said, “Every day you have to give water means it is cactus or buffalo? Better to get buffalo.” Just then my mobile started making sound. I put the mug down and did some two minutes talk with dear friend Mohammed Usman. He said, “Mathrubootham, you want to watch some film on TV and talk on WhatsApp at the same time?” I said, “Of course any time ready, have you seenSeven Brides for Seven Brothers?” He said, “Never, I will purchase online.” I said, “Usman, dance means this only is dance. It is superhit.” We set appointment for 4 p.m. Then Madam/ Sir, as I am turning to put phone down, my hand is hitting mug of water. Mug fell behind TV stand, onekaja-bujasound came, thenboom-beem-boom. Kamalam came running like Ashwini Nachappa. What happened, she asked! “Means what? Water falling on plug. TV gone. DVD gone. Optic fibre colour-changing table lamp gone. Internet router also gone. Nothing is working.” She grabbed bucket and mug and said, “Please sit quietly somewhere. Better you do nothing only. Hopeless fellow.” Madam/ Sir, how to sit quietly in one corner? No TV. No DVD. Nothing. I tried to watch some internet items on phone. But Kamalam said, old man don’t use all internet, what if some emergency is there? I said, “Ok, ok.” Then I put phone call to electrician. But he cannot come immediately because of lockdown. “Sir, I will try for tomorrow,” he said. Kamalam said, never mind please help me clean storeroom. After store cleaning, I said, “Kamalam, come to bookshelf, let us arrange novels properly in alphabetical order.” Then like that, like that we cleaned both Godrej almaris, changed sitting room sofa position, changed two-three fused bulbs, put new painting on wall near washbasin, cleaned pressure cooker washer in boiling water, then tried recipe for Punjabi lassi. Enjoyment means too much couple’s enjoyment. Suddenly phone call came. It was electrician asking if urgent means he can get permission. I said, “Kamalam, leave it. Tell him to come tomorrow. No hurry is there.” One big smile came on Mrs. Mathrubootham face. As if Poornima Jayaram. Then we started to clean freezer. Yours in domestic satisfaction, J. Mathrubootham||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/couples-cleaning-time/article31320764.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||A difference in the classroom||Ask an average person about government schools and the first reaction would most likely be ‘ill equipped’ followed by ‘teachers don’t turn up’. But that’s not true of all government schools. And that’s what S. Giridhar sets out to document in Ordinary People, Extraordinary Teachers: The Heroes of Real India. From the outset, the author makes it clear where his sympathies lie. The first registrar and COO of the Azim Premji University, Giridhar was also one of the earliest members of the Azim Premji Foundation and has spent over 20 years documenting public education in India. In this book, he writes about teachers who have changed the way people look at government schools. The opening chapter is about improvements: getting books and uniforms on time, decline  in caning and fights among children and a major reduction in teacher absenteeism. This is only the beginning. Giridhar goes on to show his readers that government school teachers don’t really deserve the bad press they get. He writes about headmasters and teachers who have worked to get the community involved in the school; who encourage parents to educate their children instead of sending them to work. And ensure — by letting children of migrant labourers stay in school — that they don’t drop out. For children to get food and school supplies even if they have to pay for it, coping with bureaucracy and red tape, the teachers ensure that schools get better infrastructure — whether as classrooms, toilets, drinking water or playgrounds, teaching aids and training and so forth. Several challenges Giridhar also points out the challenges are different in each place. “In Uttarkashi, the terrain and climate are a logistical trial for children and teachers alike; in the plains of Udham Singh Nagar, the pupil-teacher ratio is inimical to a conducive learning environment; Yadgir in northeast Karnataka grapples with the problem of irregular livelihoods because of the migration of parents...; and Sirohi in southern Rajasthan which has a significant tribal population (Garasias, Bhils and others) who speak their own dialects, needs teachers who can use a mix of Marwari, the local dialect and Hindi to initiate any interaction in the classroom.” What kind of a school do you want? This was the question Harish Chandra Singh Rawat of Government Model Primary School in Shivlalpur, Uttarakhand, took to the community. At the other end of the country in Gedhalamari, Karnataka, Sangaiah is waging a battle to ensure that the boy:girl ratio of the school remains at 50:50. “I don’t want the girls to drop out of school at any cost,” he says. All this is stated in a lucid and simple manner. In fact the matter-of-fact writing makes one wonder if we’ve gotten ourselves mixed up. Yes, there are over a million government schools and Giridhar has visited only 110. But are we taking into account our urban privileged view? Why cannot a government school have the same facilities as an urban private school without having to fight for it? Are we focusing too much on the few bad apples and not considering the roomful of untainted good ones?  Ordinary People, Extraordinary Teachers: The Heroes of Real India S. Giridhar Westland  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-difference-in-the-classroom/article31320736.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Undying frenzy amid lockdown||On Day One of the lockdown, I woke up early and rushed to my terrace to view the world around me. The first thing I see is two vegetable carts down the empty road, their owners hidden behind big handkerchiefs. A minute later a familiar young woman appears. Then a couple of teenage boys saunter by. As a DTC cluster bus roars into the bus stop in a cloud of dust and these people clamber in, I think how do you stop a billion-plus people from leaving their homes? How do you convince them that there is a rapidly growing menace that will soon engulf us, if we don’t comply? As soon as the lockdown was announced, people rushed out and crowded their neighbourhood groceries — social distance be damned. The hoarding instinct, the crowding mentality and the complete disregard of the message of physical distancing was frightening. It would have been amusing, in a cynical sort of way, if it wasn’t for the fact that that we are more connected to each other than ever before in deadly viral networks. This behaviour is personal, and it endangered each one of us, our elderly parents and children. Is it some middle class anxiety of a post-Partition generation grown up on tales of material loss and scarcity? Or is it something more recent, more selfish and insular, a creeping disconnection from the real world and real people that has permeated our society in the past decade or so? Whatever the cause and whether we choose to acknowledge it or not, this is an unprecedented, unknown and overwhelming crises in which apathy, elitism and callousness will harm each individual, family, city, state, nation and the whole world. Could we in our wildest dreams imagine it would be so hard to stay at home. Human interaction will never be the same again. nitasha.devasar@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/undying-frenzy-amid-lockdown/article31320711.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Panda date||Two pandas in a Hong Kong zoo, which is closed to visitors for the lockdown, took advantage of the privacy to finally mate. Zoo officials have been trying to get Ying Ying and Le Le interested in each other for over a decade now. “We hope to bear wonderful pregnancy news to Hong Kongers this year and make further contributions to the conservation of this vulnerable species,” said the relieved zoo in a press note.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/panda-date/article31320687.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Pay cuts||In a move to shore up finances to combat the pandemic, the salaries of the President, Vice-President, MPs and Governors are to be cut by 30% for one year, while the MPLADS fund — the Rs. 5 crore per annum each MP receives for constituency development — was suspended for two years, saving Rs. 7,900 crore for the Consolidated Fund of India to go towards pandemic relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pay-cuts/article31320689.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Berned out||Senator Bernie Sanders suspended his bid to become the Democratic Party’s candidate for the U.S. presidency, effectively confirming former Vice-President Joe Biden as the presumptive nominee. Sanders, who had led the race early on with some convincing victories, fell increasingly behind Biden, who racked up wins after his triumph in South Carolina.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/berned-out/article31320691.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Billion-dollar tweet||Among the host of billionaires pledging support for the fight against the pandemic, Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey made the biggest commitment by promising to donate $1 billion — roughly 28% of his wealth. Meanwhile, the Rajasthan High Court stayed an FIR filed against Dorsey in 2018 for hurting the sentiments of Brahmins by holding up a placard saying, ‘Smash Brahminical Patriarchy’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/billion-dollar-tweet/article31320693.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Slow forward||WhatsApp acted to curb pandemic-related misinformation by making it harder to forward messages. If a message has already been forwarded five times or more, you can now only forward it to one contact at a time. This comes amid panics caused by fake messages going viral, including some that triggered panic buying and a recent one purporting to be from WHO that claimed the lockdown in India would be extended till June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/slow-forward/article31320695.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Patient No.10||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson was taken into intensive care at St Thomas’ Hospital in London when he continued to show symptoms 10 days after testing positive for COVID-19. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab is acting in his stead. Messages of support poured in from world leaders, including U.S. President Donald Trump, who added that he had asked pharmaceutical companies to get in touch and help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/patient-no10/article31320697.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The Tokyo way||Japan announced a month-long emergency in Tokyo and six other prefectures that have been severely impacted by COVID-19. This grants more authority to regional governors but is not a lockdown. The measures are largely voluntary, and public transport will not be shut down. Tokyo governor Yuriko Koike criticised the measures as insufficient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-tokyo-way/article31320699.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Chinese pause||As Wuhan, the original epicentre of COVID-19, came out of its 76-day lockdown, there was an exodus with residents rushing to take trains bound for the countryside. Even as China saw its first day without a virus-caused death, the U.K. and New York State in the U.S. reported their deadliest days so far, with 786 and 731 deaths, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/chinese-pause/article31320701.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Tiger fever||A tiger in New York’s Bronx Zoo tested positive for the coronavirus. The four-year-old Nadia, who developed a dry cough, and a few other big cats in the zoo that also showed symptoms, were infected by a zookeeper who was caring for them. “It’s the first time, to our knowledge, that a [wild] animal has gotten sick from COVID-19 from a person,” said the zoo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tiger-fever/article31320703.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The Magnificent Conman of Cairo||Adel Kamel, trs Waleed Almusharaf  Hoopoe Fiction £10.99 With a foreword by Naguib Mahfouz, this is the story of two men from two ends of the social spectrum whose lives cross in unexpected ways. Kamel’s satirical voice packs in social commentary, riveting drama and subtle humour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-magnificent-conman-of-cairo/article31320721.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Mum & Dad||Joanna Trollope  Macmillan $7.57 (Kindle price) Gus and Monica have created a vineyard and wine business in Spain from the ground up. When Gus suffers a stroke, their three grown-up children in London must relocate and step in. As long-simmering resentments and tensions rise to the surface, can family ties hold them together?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mum-dad/article31320726.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The Secret Hours||Santa Montefior   e  Simon & Schuster Rs. 399 When her mother dies, Faye realises that she knows nothing about her. Determined to fulfil her mother’s last wish, Faye travels to the picturesque village of Ballinakelly to scatter her ashes on the hills overlooking the sea in a remote corner of Ireland. Does her mother’s past hold the key to Faye’s future?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-secret-hours/article31320728.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The Boy from the Woods||Harlan Coben  Penguin Random House Rs. 599 Wilde was found in the New Jersey backwoods as a child. Now a security expert, he lives off the grid, shunned by community. Till a girl goes missing and Wilde must race against time to save her life and expose the town’s dark secrets in the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-boy-from-the-woods/article31320730.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||God is Neither a Khomeini nor a Mohan Bhagwat||Shajahan Madampat  The Book People Rs. 350 The pieces in this volume argue against zealotry and exclusivism of all hues. Quoting from experience, Madampat says, “...my engagement with the textual and lived worlds of religious faiths convinced me that all of them contain rich inner resources...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/god-is-neither-a-khomeini-nor-a-mohan-bhagwat/article31320734.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Pharma: Greed, Lies and the Poisoning of America||Gerald Posner  Simon & Schuster Rs. 899 A writer traces the heroes and villains of the trillion-dollar-a-year pharmaceutical industry in America and uncovers how those once entrusted with improving life have often betrayed that ideal to corruption and reckless profiteering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pharma-greed-lies-and-the-poisoning-of-america/article31320741.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Transformative Law and Public Policy||Edited by Sony Pelliserry  Routledge India Rs. 995 Case studies from Asia, Europe and Australia, examine how judicial and political institutions are closely linked to socio-economic concerns of citizens. They seek the utilisation of legislative and executive, private and public spheres of society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/transformative-law-and-public-policy/article31320743.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The Coronavirus: What you Need to Know about the Global Pandemic||Swapneil Parikh, Maherra Desai, Rajesh Parikh  Ebury Press/PRH Rs. 188 What is the novel coronavirus that has caused the global infection rate to cross a million and led to many deaths? Three professionals help readers understand the disease, and how they can protect themselves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-coronavirus-what-you-need-to-know-about-the-global-pandemic/article31320745.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3095||Across  1 A U-boat, to begin with, has never exploded in German transport lanes (8) 5 Ancient vessel emptied, filled with fizzy wine (4,2) 10 Horrible baby’s malodorous sample (7) 11 You finally admitting dead pager’s broken? Perhaps get a new phone (7) 12 Piece of cloth on goolies? (5) 13 Tired, I cry about trendy street food (5,4) 14 Dean’s address is, surprisingly, never ever dry (4,8) 18 ‘Quakerism’ ... not ‘quaking’ ... ? (8,4) 21 If parties needing animation, drinks served beforehand (9) 23 Hellish character, government by the wealthy? Not half (5) 24 Country songI Eat Bananaslacking gravity (7) 25 Country dancing rodeo mostly welcoming cougar, oddly (7) 26 Knock off turbulent priest beforehand (6) 27 Rovers maybe making itinerant crusades (4,4)  Down  1 Set up in first pad, adolescent achieves accommodation (6) 2 Beckett character turns up, carrying finally, finally a tiny pooch (3,3) 3 In audition, smile I supposed to be welcoming expression (2,2,5) 4 Foal had idly relaxed in hay for time off (4-3,7) 6 Primarily, annoyed, narked, getting extremely ratty? (5) 7 ‘Where to drink, Everyman?’ (Everyman, at last, answers.) ‘When to drink?’ (8) 8 To start with, Nicomachus died in his home with painful sickness (3,5) 9 Army officers diverted stream in regions (14) 15 Poet represented azure pond (4,5) 16 Prepare for fight ... or settle (6,2) 17 Merit given by the Queen to traitor (8) 19 Cockney bruiser returns to wasteland (6) 20 Dates and locations for actions (6) 22 Nooky after pub: do you agree? (5)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3095/article31320759.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19: younger patients develop fewer neutralising antibodies, study finds||Analysis of blood samples from 175 patients with mild COVID-19 disease who were discharged from the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Centre as on February 26 revealed that about 30% of patients had unexpectedly low levels of antibodies against novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2). Ten patients had such low levels of neutralising antibodies that these could not be detected, while two patients showed very high levels.  The study threw up another surprise — the plasma of elderly and middle-age patients had significantly higher amount of neutralising antibodies and spike-binding antibodies than young patients. The median age of the patients was 50 years and the median length of hospital stay was 16 days and median disease duration was 21 days. The study was posted on medRxiv preprint server on April 6. Preprints are yet to be peer-reviewed and published in scientific journals. Disease duration Though about 30% of patients failed to develop high amounts of neutralising antibodies even after recovering from COVID-19 disease, the disease duration was not longer than older patients. Likewise, older patients who had more neutralising antibodies did not recover faster. So immaterial of the amount of neutralising antibodies found, both young and old patients took the same time to recover. The amount of neutralising antibodies generated in response to vaccination determines the efficacy of the vaccine in protecting against the virus. In this case, if infection with actual virus has not resulted in eliciting strong antibody response and hence elevated neutralising antibodies, it is not clear if the vaccine which had killed or weakened viruses would be able to produce high amounts of antibodies. But the researchers were not able to detect viral DNA in the blood samples collected, and information about viral load was not available for all the patients. So it is not known if the young patients had lower viral load thus resulting in lower amount of neutralising antibodies. “This study is preliminary,” the authors caution.  The team led by Jinghe Huang was able to detect coronavirus-specific neutralising antibodies 10-15 days after onset of the disease, and the level remained stable thereafter. Mild symptoms All the 175 patients included in the study had only mild symptoms. The researchers excluded patients who had been admitted to intensive care units because many of them already had antibodies from donated blood plasma. The efficacy of passive antibody therapy, otherwise called as convalescent plasma therapy, relies on the concentration of neutralising antibodies in the plasma. The low levels of neutralising antibodies in younger patients who have recovered from the disease strongly suggest that convalescent plasma should be titrated before being used for therapy. The authors wonder if the low levels of neutralising antibodies in about 30% of patients would put them at risk of infection rebound or reinfection and suggest that further studies are undertaken to understand this. Immune response The higher amounts of neutralising antibodies found in older patients may be due to “strong immune response” in aged people, the study suggests. But whether the elevated neutralising antibodies found in older people protect them from progression to severe and critical conditions is not known. But the world over, it has become clear that older COVID-19 patients are at higher risk of adverse disease outcomes. Studies carried out earlier using the SARS virus infection in aged macaques resulted in elevated immune responses, resulting in more severe pathology than younger adult macaques. The researchers also found that antibodies generated in response to novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) could bind with 2003 SARS strains. However, the binding was not able to stop the SARS virus from replicating. This raises the possibility of developing a vaccine that might be effective against both novel coronavirus and the 2003 SARS virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/covid-19-younger-patients-develop-fewer-neutralising-antibodies-study-finds/article31320842.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Why hospitals are hotbeds of coronavirus transmission||Across the world, hospitals have become hotspots for novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) infection. And hundreds of healthcare workers have been infected in many countries, and some have died too. While the availability and quality of personal protective equipment (PPE) and the duration of exposure with severe and critical patients have been a factor in determining if healthcare workers were safe or not, a study posted on March 16 in a preprint repository medRxiv reveals how certain areas in the hospitals and certain objects had more viruses. In another study posted on March 16 in a preprint repository medRxiv, a team of researchers collected 626 samples from 13 hospital function zones, five major objects, and three major PPE from the Zhongnan Medical Center in Wuhan during the period February 7-27, 2020. Preprints are yet to be peer-reviewed and published in scientific journals. The study was carried out as 1,688 healthcare workers had become infected with novel coronavirus in China, including 1,080 healthcare workers in Wuhan, the epicentre of the epidemic in China. Widespread hospital contamination could have resulted in occupational exposure for healthcare workers in the hospital on a daily basis. Routes of transmission The primary routes of transmission of the virus are through large respiratory droplets and close contact, and contact with surfaces and objects contaminated with the virus. Once in contact with the virus on objects and surfaces, there is high risk of infection.  The study led by Xinghuan Wang from the Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University found at 31.9%, the intensive care unit specialised for taking care of COVID-19 patients was the most contaminated in the hospital followed by obstetric isolation ward for COVID-19 pregnant women (28.1%), and isolation ward for COVID-19 patients (19.6%). They found nearly 14% of all commonly used hospital objects and medical equipment had the virus on them. Among the most contaminated objects in the hospital were the self-service printers (20.0%), desktop/keyboard (16.8%), doorknob (16.0%), telephones (12.5%) and medical equipment (12.5%). In China, the self-service printers are commonly used by patients themselves to print out examination or test reports in a hospital. At 20.3%, hand sanitiser dispensers were the most contaminated objects followed by hand gloves (15.4%). Survival duration Earlier, a team led by Vincent J. Munster from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases found that the novel coronavirus survived up to one day on cardboard and three days on plastic. Now, another team of researchers led by Leo L. M. Poon from The University of Hong Kong found shorter survival time of the virus on different surfaces. Dr. Poon’s team did not find any virus on printing and tissue papers after three hours, while infectious virus could be found on treated wood and cloth on the second day. Both the teams published their results in a letter. While Dr. Munster’s team published the results on March 17 in The New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Poon’s team published it in The Lancet on April 2. Much like the NIAID team, the researchers from The University of Hong Kong found that the virus could persist longer on smooth surfaces — infectious virus could be found on glass and banknotes even on day three, while they could find viable, infectious virus on stainless steel and plastic up to day six. The NIAID team had found that the virus survived the least time — four hours — on copper, while they could find virus for relatively longer time on plastic (three days) and stainless steel (two days). The virus survived for a day on cardboard.  The most interesting but disturbing finding published by Dr. Poon’s team is the presence of infectious virus on the outer layer of the surgical mask even on day seven. But the amount of virus found on mask on day seven was only 0.1% of the original number. Temperature and pH The University of Hong Kong researchers also found that at room temperature, the virus could survive in a broad range of pH conditions — pH 3-10. They also studied the ability of different disinfectants to kill the virus. Compared with hand soap, no infectious virus could be found five minutes after the virus culture was added to various disinfectants. The study thus shows that surfaces can be made free of the virus using regular disinfectants. “The SARS-CoV-2 can be highly stable in a favourable environment but is also susceptible to standard disinfection methods,” they write. They also caution that method they used to recover virus from different surface that were tested does “not necessarily reflect the potential to pick the virus from casual contact”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/why-hospitals-are-hotbeds-of-coronavirus-transmission/article31320841.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||When should we blow the shofar?||The novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) has already left a large footprint; it has spread itself far and wide. And it is spreading even further. It has killed in thousands. A wartime situation prevails. Strangely, we are fighting an invisible enemy. And yet our ability to return victorious is not obvious. Especially, when we may be able to blow the shofar. An infected person can transmit the virus directly to many uninfected persons. The larger this number – called the Basic Reproductive Ratio, R0, pronounced R-nought – the more contagious is the disease caused by the virus. The faster it will spread in the community. R-nought can be viewed as the product of three numbers: (1) the number of days an infected person remains infective (that is, can infect others), (2) the number of susceptible persons available to infect and (3) the chance that a susceptible person gets infected. The easiest way to keep R-nought low is to keep ourselves distanced from every other person. That way, the chance that a susceptible person gets infected remains low. It is not sufficient to distance ourselves only from those who show symptoms of infection. We have to continue to distance ourselves from every other person. Many apparently normal persons may actually be infected without showing symptoms of infection. Therefore, just as R-nought influences the spread of COVID-19, our behaviour also influences R-nought. A person infected with SARS-CoV-2 can remain infective for 10-to-14 days. During the initial phases of spread, there will be a large number of uninfected persons to infect. For SARS-CoV-2, R-nought has been estimated to be between 2 and 3. Let us take the best case scenario. Assume R-nought to be 2 and the infective period to be 10 days. Then, the first person will infect two others, each of whom will infect two others (22), each of these four persons will infect two others (23) and so on. In 10 days, this one infected person will have infected 2,046 persons. A person who is infected or has recovered cannot be infected again. At least not in the next several months or even years. An infection activates the immune system which learns to recognize the virus and remembers it. The next time the virus tries to infect him, his immune defenses are able to recognise and protect him against further infection. Therefore, as the infection spreads, there will be less and less number of uninfected persons to infect. An increasing number of persons in the community will have gained immunity from having been infected earlier. This is called herd immunity. (If there was a vaccine for SARS-CoV-2, it would have helped achieve herd immunity without a large number of persons being infected. A vaccine simulates the effect of an infection and builds immune resistance to the virus. We have eradicated polio in this way.) As herd immunity increases in the community, many infected persons will not find another person to infect during the entire infective period. R-nought will then be less than one, on average. Consequently, there will be few new cases arising and existing cases will recover or die. Spread of the disease will slow down and the pandemic will end. COVID-19 may be long-lasting There is also a related issue to consider. When there is an outbreak, persons in the community get symptomatically infected one after another. The length of time between appearance of two successive persons with symptoms of infection is called the Series Interval. This interval informs us about the spreadability of the virus. The shorter this interval, the greater the speed of spread through the community. For SARS-CoV-2, the Series Interval is between 5 and 7 days. For influenza, this interval is 1.3 days. Therefore, influenza spreads four to six times faster than COVID-19. Is this good news for us? The answer is no. COVID-19 is spreading through the community slowly. Herd immunity will therefore arise slowly. This means that the COVID-19 pandemic is going to last for a long time. The current lockdown cannot go on forever. Is there a scientific basis to determine when the lockdown may be lifted? Will the lockdown be lifted only after everyone in the country becomes immune to the virus? No; we can never be sure that everyone has gained immunity. However, if the chance that an infected person finds a person to infect is sufficiently low, then the virus will stop spreading. Then the lockdown can safely be lifted. This will happen if a certain proportion of individuals in the country is immune. This proportion is called the “herd immunity threshold.” It is calculated as 1-(1/R0). For SARS-CoV-2, R0 is 2 or 3. An R0 of 2 would mean a herd immunity threshold of 1-(1/2) or 50%. An R0 of 3 would mean a herd immunity threshold of 1-(1/3) or 67%. We should play safe. Therefore, lockdown can be safely lifted if about two-thirds of our population attains immunity to the virus. But how would we know that two-third of our citizens has gained immunity. We need to estimate this proportion by testing our citizens selected randomly and in large numbers. Surveillance testing in communities has now been initiated in India. We hope that the results of these tests will be used to determine when to blow the shofar. A policy is immediately required Daily wage earners are now unable to earn their daily bread. Families are going hungry. Enforcement of the lockdown is leading to clashes — of citizens with the police, between groups of villagers and so on. Yet lifting the lockdown before herd immunity threshold is achieved will be disastrous. However, a hungry person does not have the luxury of being mindful about personal and public health arising from this virus. Either food has to be provided by the Government and by those of us who can afford, or we will have to soften the lockdown and allow them to work. Certainly, all large gatherings — including religious and political gatherings — must continue to be banned. If distancing can be maintained and the net of symptom-monitoring and community-testing can be cast more widely, then allowing a minority of our citizens to work even during the period of lockdown may be a socially viable option. A policy is immediately required. A compromise It may be extremely difficult for us to ensure, as science dictates, that two-third of all our citizens have gained immunity. We may identify geographical regions where COVID-19 appears to be affecting people in large numbers. In these regions, lockdown may be extended, surveillance-testing intensified and spread of the infection more strictly monitored. Infected persons should be isolated. Further, contract tracing — identification and listing of persons in close contact with an infected person, testing to identify infected persons among contacts and isolating them or, if testing of all contacts is infeasible, isolating all contacts and following them up for signs of infection — will serve to reduce the likelihood of infection. Thereby R-nought will be reduced in that region. If the spread of the infection from these high-intensity regions can be arrested, then there will be an overall reduction of infection in the country. Of course, surveillance-testing and deep monitoring should continue at some level throughout our country to identify new pockets of high-intensity that may arise whether or not the general lockdown is lifted on April 14th. .  (The writer is currently an emeritus professor at the   Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/when-should-we-blow-the-shofar/article31320839.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Coronavirus: two vaccines enter human trials, 60 in pre-clinical stage||With the genetic information of the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) available online, governments across the globe, top private players, academics and not-for-profit organisations are working at a breakneck pace to find a COVID-19 vaccine. According to the “DRAFT landscape of COVID-19 candidate vaccines” released by the World Health Organization (WHO) on April 4, two vaccines are currently being tested on humans. This includes a non-replicating viral vector vaccine developed by CanSino Biological Inc. along with the Beijing Institute of Biotechnology. A non-replicating vector vaccine can be developed either using a virus that is killed or a part of the virus. Since it is not a complete virus, it cannot replicate inside the host; but the antigens trigger our immune system to produce antibodies, which help fight the disease in case we contract it in the future. RNA vaccine According to the Chinese Clinical Trial Registry, men and women between the ages of 18 and 60 were recruited and tests are being conducted on three groups of 36 participants each. Three dosages are being tested — low, medium and high. The second is a messenger RNA vaccine developed by Moderna and National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. In RNA vaccines, the messenger RNA from the pathogen is used. The messenger RNA gets translated into antigenic protein recognised by our immune cells and antibodies are produced. But mRNA is a highly unstable molecule making it difficult to handle. So the mRNA is encapsulated in a small ball of fat or lipid nanoparticle (LNP). This LNP acts as a delivery vehicle that helps the mRNA cross the host cell membrane and once inside the mRNA is released. According to the website clinicaltrials.gov, forty-five subjects (18 to 55 years of age of both sexes) will be enrolled and divided into three groups. They will receive an intramuscular injection on days 1 and 29 in the deltoid muscle. An analysis published on April 9 in Nature Reviews Drug Discovery by the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) notes that “the global COVID-19 vaccine R&D landscape includes 115 vaccine candidates, of which 78 are confirmed as active and 37 are unconfirmed (development status cannot be determined from publicly available or proprietary information sources).” Along with the two vaccines mentioned by WHO, the list includes one vaccine developed by Inovio Pharmaceuticals and two from Shenzhen Geno-Immune Medical Institute. Vaccines from India The WHO draft adds that 60 candidate vaccines are in preclinical trials. This list contains the DNA plasmid vaccine developed by Gujarat based Zydus Cadila and Live Attenuated Virus vaccine developed by the Serum Institute of India. DNA vaccines are made by taking genes from the pathogen and inserting it into the host's body with a vector. The host cells produce the protein of the viral gene and this is recognised as a foreign antigenic protein by the host’s immune system. DNA vaccines are comparatively easy to make, transport, store and are cheaper. Live attenuated virus vaccine is created by reducing the virulence of a pathogen or weakening it, but still keeping it alive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/coronavirus-two-vaccines-enter-human-trials-60-in-pre-clinical-stage/article31320838.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Study indicates sex-specific differences in immune system||A study led by researchers from Australia finds crucial differences in the way the immune system acting in the body fat of male and female mice operates. Studying the visceral adipose tissue (VAT) in the mice, they find key differences. Visceral adipose tissue is fat tissue that is found in the abdominal region, surrounding various organs. This includes perigonadal VAT which surrounds the ovaries in females and testes in males, which is what the researchers studied. Controlling immune response The perigonadal VAT taken from male mice had many more regulatory T cells (Treg) than that of female mice. These cells play a role in controlling immune response to the self and external cells, thereby protecting the body from autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis or lupus. The Treg cells in the male VAT also showed a distinct phenotype, functional parameters and gene expression pattern compared to Treg cells in female VAT. “We found elevated expression of inflammatory genes in male VAT. A special population of stromal cells that made the cytokine IL-33 was exclusive to male VAT,” says Ajith Vasanthakumar, from Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Peter Doherty Institute for Infection and Immunity, University of Melbourne, Australia. He is the first author of the paper published in Nature. “Historically, visceral adipose tissue was simply regarded as an energy storage [organ]. Many studies, however, have highlighted its endocrine function. Visceral adipose tissue has an endocrine function, meaning it secretes adipokines and hormones that play key roles in energy balance and metabolism,” says Dr. Vasanthakumar. It is known that men (in a similar manner to male mice) are more susceptible to metabolic diseases such as type 2 diabetes. “This is linked to higher adipose tissue inflammation in men compared to women, again similar to mice,” says Dr Vasanthakumar. “Finally, we have previously shown that human adipose tissue (omental) harbours Treg cells of a phenotype similar to the one found in mice.” Thus, it is likely that the difference in Treg cell distribution seen in the visceral adipose tissue of male and female mice would hold true in humans. The study has implications for the way trials are conducted with animal models when carrying out research on diseases. For instance when studying metabolic disease, mostly male mice are used. This study implies that findings of such a test will not hold equally good for males and females. “Until the recent past, for clinical trials mostly men were recruited although it is clear that disease susceptibility and response to drugs are different,” he says. “In this context tailoring drugs to gender is a possibility in the future. We will continue to explore the role of sex hormones in metabolism and other inflammatory and autoimmune diseases.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/study-indicates-sex-specific-differences-in-immune-system/article31320840.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||To ease lockdown, what are the options?||The story so far: From March 24, the country went into a 21-day lockdown period as an emergency measure to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. Several States now want it extended; some have gone ahead. With the available evidence, it was believed that physical distancing was the best weapon to combat this little-known virus, transmitted through respiratory droplets. The government announced a shutdown believing that it would stagger the progress of the epidemic, allowing health systems to manage the crisis that would inevitably unfold. An extension is perhaps the best way to go but some basic public health parameters must be put in place to guide the eventual lifting of the lockdown. How may we safely emerge from the lockdown? Being an unprecedented situation, there is a stark absence of too many examples from the past of a lockdown of this scale. But there are a number of recommendations as to the period of withdrawal, and pretty much everyone is in agreement over what should be done from a public health standpoint, within that period. As America’s face of epidemic control, Anthony S. Fauci, who heads the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said in a podcast with The Wall Street Journal : “It’s not a light switch, on and off. It’s going to be gradual, not all or none.” He went on to say that getting back to normal must be preceded by a “really clear indication that those areas with big outbreaks, with peaks, have not only stabilised and are starting to turn the corner, and the number of cases are coming down. I don’t think you need to get down to zero, though before you contemplate pulling back”. While he was speaking in an American context, the medical science indubitably strikes a chord with nations seeking to safely emerge out of the lockdown. “If you are going to consider a relaxation you have to have the capability for rapid identification, isolation and testing. People are also going to have to continue to be careful. We should never shake hands again.” Consider Wuhan, which just reopened its borders after a long 76-day shutdown: Reports from the Chinese city indicate that local health authorities remain vigilant to prevent fresh imports and resurgence of local transmission. Healthy residents and visitors are allowed to move out, but eternal vigil is clearly the price a connected world, where epidemics loom large, has to pay. Not surprisingly, the hints from what happened over a 100 years ago are strikingly similar. The Spanish flu of 1918 spread across the globe causing similar havoc, though the world was a vastly different place then. Retrospective studies that are being recirculated today indicate that putting distance between people did help retard the spread of the 1918 flu and reduce the mortality rate overall. As German Lopez wrote in vox.com, one of the key lessons was that it was important not to give up early. In American cities that gave up on physical distancing measures early consistently caused a recurrence of flu cases and deaths, in 1918. Even States in India have recommended a minimum of two months’ extension, in order they may be sure that they can progress to the next phase. What are the phases to follow? The American Enterprise Initiative (AEI), in its document, “National Coronavirus Response: A road map to reopening” (https://bit.ly/3a2qZ6b), has outlined four phases in the epidemic. While recording slowing the spread of the epidemic is taken as phase 1, state-by-state (America) reopening is outlined as phase 2. Individual states can move to phase 2 when they are able to safely diagnose, treat, and isolate COVID-19 cases and their contacts. Caitlin Rivers, one of the authors of the report, explained during a conference with the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, that progress towards phase 2 should be capability-based, rather than time line-based. Schools and businesses can reopen, and much of normal life can begin to resume in a phased approach. However, some physical distancing measures and limitations on gatherings will still need to be in place. For vulnerable populations, continuing to limit time in the community will be important. Public hygiene has to be improved, and deep cleaning of shared spaces should become more routine. People may initially be asked to wear face masks while in the community to reduce their risk of asymptomatic spread. Those who are sick will be asked to stay home and seek testing for COVID-19. Testing should become more widespread and routine, the report suggests. Multiple experts, in India and abroad, are urging a consultation with local communities on both the hotspot zones and areas that have not had too many cases, before deciding anything further on the lockdown. As per the AEI report during phase 3, physical distancing restrictions may be lifted, after establishing immune protection. This means safe and effective tools for mitigating the risk of COVID-19 are available, including broad surveillance, therapeutics that can rescue patients with significant disease or prevent serious illness in those most at risk, or a safe and effective vaccine. This, along with sufficient data, improvement in health-care system capabilities (both in the private and public sectors), will help ensure that reliance by nations on physical distance as a primary tool to control the epidemic is reduced. Phase 4 — rebuild readiness for the next pandemic — might seem too far in the future, but the AEI report cautions that it is an important part of the plan. Nations will need to be prepared to face any new infectious diseases threat, and governments will have to invest in research and development, expansion of public and private health-care infrastructure and workforce. What is the future? The world post-COVID-19 might well turn out to be a vastly different place to what it was before the SARS-CoV-2 virus swept across the globe, leaving mass casualties in its path. But the lessons from this epidemic — hand and surface hygiene, physical distancing — must never be forgotten. They are valuable in ensuring that if the next virulent pathogen were to strike, the world would be able to tackle it head on.  Experts say ‘if you are going to consider a relaxation you have to have the capability for rapid identification, isolation and testing. People are also going to have to continue to be careful.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/to-ease-lockdown-what-are-the-options/article31320767.ece
12 April 2020||New Delhi,||City reports 5 deaths, 166 fresh virus cases||Five more deaths and 166 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Saturday, taking the total number of deaths to 19 and cases to 1,069, according to a daily bulletin released by the Delhi government. Of the total cases, 26 people have been discharged and 1,023 are still in different hospitals. The victims The deceased have been identified as a 79-year-old woman from Karol Bagh, 60-year-old woman from Sadar Bazar, 65-year-old man from Azad Market, 44-year-old woman from Malka Ganj, and 68-year-old man from Tamil Nadu. A total of 2,569 people are lodged in different quarantine facilities and around 17,000 people are in home quarantine, according to the government. Meanwhile, the government added three more areas to its list of containment zones taking the total number to 33. Hospital shut The Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI) was shut on Saturday for sanitation after 22 staff and three patients tested positive for COVID-19. “We are very concerned and the entire building is being sanitised. On Monday, I will talk with authorities and take a decision on when the hospital will open,” said B.L. Sherwal, director of DSCI. While the three positive patients and the 22 staff have been shifted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, other patients at the hospital have been moved to a different hospital. Though the hospital is not a COVID-19 treatment facility, on April 1, the DSCI was first shut after a doctor working at the institute tested positive for COVID-19. The doctor’s brother had a travel history to the U.K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-reports-5-deaths-166-fresh-virus-cases/article31321026.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||What are the dos and don’ts on wearing masks?||The story so far: From the start of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), recommendations on use of masks have kept varying, country by country, depending on the virus’s trajectories. With SARS-CoV-2 growing exponentially in many parts of the world, countries such as India have begun to include newer recommendations on use of masks, including home-made face covers. The one point that remains unchanged is that medical masks should be reserved for health-care providers, persons with symptoms of COVID-19 or confirmed COVID-19, and their caregivers. Wearing a mask alone is never enough, but it is very important to wear one, all the same. Whether a mask gives complete protection from COVID-19 is still debatable. But top health authorities have always maintained that a mask alone does not suffice. Rather, it complements hand hygiene and physical distancing, both critical to prevent transmission of human-to-human COVID-19. What is the stand of the World Health Organization (WHO)? WHO, in its April 6-interim guidance on “Advice on the use of masks in the context of COVID-19” (https://bit.ly/2RunmQ5), notes that wide use of masks by healthy people in the community setting is not supported by current evidence and carries uncertainties and critical risks. It says: “In some countries, masks are worn in accordance with local customs or in accordance with advice by national authorities in the context of COVID-19. In these situations, best practices should be followed about how to wear, remove and dispose of them, and for hand hygiene after removal.” WHO goes a step further and outlines factors for decision makers. They should consider the rationale and reason for mask use, vulnerability of person/population to develop severe disease, the setting in which the population lives in terms of population density, feasibility and type of mask. Who should wear medical masks? Almost all health authorities agree that medical masks — surgical masks and N95 respirators — should be reserved for health-care workers. WHO notes that the use of medical masks in the community may create a false sense of security, with a neglect of other essential measures (hand hygiene practices and physical distancing). The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) has been maintaining that apart from health-care providers, persons with symptoms of cough, fever and difficulty in breathing and caregivers of persons with suspected symptoms of COVID-19 or confirmed COVID-19 should wear masks. While patients should wear a medical mask as much as possible, changing it at least once a day, caregivers should wear the mask when in the same room as the affected person is. Is it fine to wear homemade masks? Do-it-yourself face covers is the latest buzz. Interestingly, the Office of the Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India has come out with a manual on homemade protective covers for face and mouth (https://bit.ly/3b4njlM). The do-it-yourself face cover is recommended for people living in densely populated areas across India. The Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has put out a recommendation too on the use of cloth face coverings (https://bit.ly/2Xw0eUX) especially in areas of significant community-based transmission. Citing recent studies that a significant portion of individuals with coronavirus lack symptoms and that even those who eventually develop symptoms can transmit the virus to others before showing symptoms, the CDC noted that this meant the virus can spread between people interacting in close proximity — speaking, coughing or sneezing. It has recommended cloth face coverings in public settings where other physical distancing measures are difficult to maintain. The CDC, while emphasising the point that maintaining six-feet social distancing is critical to slow the spread of the virus, has additionally advised the use of simple cloth face coverings fashioned from household items or made at home from common materials at low cost. Experts say staying at home is the best thing to do now. But if you have to step out, there is nothing wrong in wearing masks. The reason: one can never know if a person has symptoms. All that is needed in this situation is a cloth mask that could be made at home. Specialists including V. Ramasubramanian, senior consultant, Infectious Diseases, Apollo Hospitals, are of the view that though there is no scientific rationale, it may probably help in both stopping transmission from infected people who are coughing as well as to protect ourselves to a certain extent. While these are not scientific recommendations, because of the evolution of the epidemic, we are looking at anything which may help and masks seem to be one of the visible factors which may help. How should a mask be worn? There are dos and don’ts for wearing masks too. Always wash your hands before wearing a mask. Do not touch the outer surface of the mask as much as possible. Once you wear a mask, do not adjust. If you do so, wash your hands. If the mask is soiled or wet, or its integrity is broken, do not reuse it. Generally, you can wear a mask for up to three to four hours on an average. The MoHFW has clear-cut dos and don’ts: Unfold the pleats of the masks and ensure that they are facing down. Place the mask over your nose, mouth and chin, and ensure there are no gaps on either side of the mask. Cloth covers should be washed after every use. Never reuse disposable masks, and used masks should be disposed of into closed bins after disinfecting them. Avoid touching the mask while using it. Remove it only with strings, always untie the string below and then the string above. After removing the mask, clean your hands with soap and water or use alcohol-based hand rub. Every member in a family should have a separate mask.  WHO notes that use of medical masks in the community may create a false sense of security, with neglect of other essential measures such as hand hygiene practices and physical distancing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/what-are-the-dos-and-donts-on-wearing-masks/article31320771.ece
12 April 2020||Greater Noida,||Gautam Buddha Nagar complexes become part of COVID-19 war zone||As Noida and Greater Noida in Delhi’s neighbourhood turn into major COVID-19 hotspots, life has changed for the residents of the high-rise multi-storey apartment complexes. With the district administration of Gautam Buddha Nagar (official name for the district where the twin cities are located) sealing yet another upscale residential complex late on Thursday evening, after a resident tested positive for COVID-19, the number of hotspots went up to 23. For the residents of the twin cities and those societies that have been sealed in particular, any such announcement has often been accompanied by panic, if not chaos. The sight of fire brigade personnel wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) and spraying disinfectant on tall buildings multiple times conveyed a sense that the housing complex was now part of the India’s COVID-19 war zone. A message from the head of the Resident Welfare Association (RWA) of an affected complex tells the story. “ Dear Residents, the Society has been sealed by the district administration. No resident, pets allowed outside house. Police is already inside society. No one would be allowed to move inside/outside without authorization from police (sic),” wrote the RWA president in the WhatsApp group meant for the residents late on Thursday. “Next details would be shared once received. Details for essential services would be provided. Please don’t panic. This is for our safety,” the RWA president added. On Friday morning, the state of confusion even among RWA office-bearers was evident from contradictory messages. First, the RWA informed the residents that they were allowed to buy groceries, fruits, vegetables and milk from the shops located within the complex by following protocols. “Dear residents, fresh vegetables and fruits are available at vegetable shop. Fresh breads are available. Please maintain social distancing, be in queue and stay in the circles marked. Don’t rush and go to the shops one by one,” the RWA told residents on Friday morning. However, within minutes, it informed that the administration had closed the shop. As residents ordered essentials from outside, the RWA appealed to young residents to assist senior citizens. Not just essential commodities, even the stigma of being identified as a hotspot is also affecting essential services such as housekeeping and sanitation. “Dear residents, we have been informed that our housekeeping staff are unable to come as they are not being allowed by the villagers and their landlords. So everyone is hereby requested to dump their garbage once a day in the dustbins on ground floors. Please cooperate. Any garbage on floor is health hazard for all,” the residents were also told.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gautam-buddha-nagar-complexes-become-part-of-covid-19-war-zone/article31321063.ece
12 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘We demand safety, not plate-beating’||After an eight-hour shift in the burns ward of a designated COVID-19 hospital in the Capital, *Ram says he broke down in his car while driving back home on Thursday night. “The enormity of the risk I take every day just overwhelmed me,” he said. “Today, I am better,” he assured over the phone before lapsing into another long silence. Mr. Ram is father to two school-going daughters. He lost his wife in February. His asthmatic mother lives with him to look after his children. Chances of contraction “I wonder if I was to get infected and die, who will look after my children? What will happen to my aged mother? The Rs. 50 lakh life insurance that is being offered to medical staff seems like a joke! PPEs are trickling in, they are being rationed, the spread of the infection is growing as are our chances of contracting it,” he said. Mr. Ram feels he is still lucky because he does not have to deal directly with COVID-19 patients and suspects. Some of his friends in the hospital are staying in a gurdwara in Green Park, near the hospital, unable to go home. “After the name of our hospital was published stating that we are treating COVID-19 patients, several of my neighbours asked me if I could park my car elsewhere in an isolated spot and not bring it into the common parking lot. My children were isolated and we were even told that throwing our garbage into the common garbage area may not be a good idea.,” says *Gita. The medical staff treating COVID-19 patients have been directed not to interact with the media.  “Why are we being asked to take a salary cut when we are the worst hit. We don’t want plate beating and candle lighting….the least that the Central government can do is to pay us extra for the risk we are taking. Why aren’t politicians visiting hospitals now?” “The isolation breaks you mentally. Away from the family, with other staff under the same strain, living in below average living conditions takes a toll. Many nursing associations have complained and a few hospitals like Lok Nayak and Ram Manohar Lohia have taken immediate remedial action,” she said. The United Nurses’ Association, professional organisation of nurses, has maintained that physical security of nurses is now proving to be a major concern even in the Capital. Senior resident at All India Institute of Medical Science, *Pratham starts by stating that getting in and out of a PPEs is not an easy business. “The strain of being covered head to toe where even a tea break comes at a premium isn’t fun. The long duty hours and the absence of family support is a problem, of course, but this is a war we cannot give up.” *(name changed)  The strain of being covered head to toe where even a tea break comes at a premium isn’t fun. The long duty hours and the absence of family support is a problem, of course, but this is a war we cannot give up Senior resident at AIIMS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/we-demand-safety-not-plate-beating/article31321035.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Don’t let the ‘social recession’ ruin your mental and physical health||Just after a few weeks of social distancing and self-isolation because of COVID-19, we have noticed the decline in our social interactions and might have felt the change in our mental and physical health. It is being called the ‘social recession’ — a collapse in our social contacts, matching the economic recession that is looming beyond COVID-19. We thrive on our social engagements and are wired to stay connected; when these connections are threatened or unavailable, our nervous system goes haywire and many negative effects on the body follow. So much so that both loneliness (the feeling of being alone) and social isolation (physical state of being alone) can trigger a cascade of stress hormones that produce well-orchestrated physiological changes like increased heart rate, increased muscle tension and thickening of blood. Together these physiological changes are called the fight-or-flight response, because it has evolved as a survival mechanism enabling us to cope with physical and psychological threats. The health risks The uncertainty, fear of infection and lack of social interactions all can be perceived by our brains as a threat and can inadvertently switch our bodies to fight-or-flight mode. A recent meta-analysis published in Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews revealed that people who are more socially isolated have higher levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) and fibrinogen (a soluble protein that helps blood to clot), both of which are associated with chronic inflammation and poor physical and mental health. Another oft-cited study in Perspectives on Psychological Science indicated that lack of social connection and living alone can be detrimental to a person’s health, respectively increasing mortality risk by 29% and 32%. They also pointed out that social isolation can lead to several chronic conditions like hypertension, increased heart rate, increased levels of stress hormones and even accelerated ageing. Feelings are so idiosyncratic that it is often hard to gauge how one is feeling at a particular time. We don’t have to be physically alone to feel lonely, sometimes just lack of diversity in our social interactions can also make us feel alone. Chronic loneliness can manifest at any age and in many forms, from a simple feeling of exhaustion and fogginess, to interrupted sleep patterns, decreased appetite, body ache and pains; to feelings of anxiousness. Good news is, these signs disappear as soon as the quality and diversity of our social interaction improve. Coping with isolation Usually when things get tough, we tend to lean towards our personal relationships to seek their advice and support. Ironically, that is the very thing we cannot do in the current crisis. While there are no quick fix solutions to deal with increasing anxiety due to social isolation, there are ways we can smarten our approach to deal with it. Begin by acknowledging that these are unprecedented times, unlike what we have seen before, hence, it is quite normal to feel anxious and lonely. It is important to know that the whole world is in the same state as us, and we are all in this together. Use this time to establish forgotten connections via technology and catch up with friends and family whom you may have been putting on the back burner because of your busy schedule. Most importantly, put the focus back on your self-care, eat well, exercise regularly, find ways to calm and focus yourself.  (Saher Mehdi is co-founder and chief scientist at wellOwise, India’s first precision health startup focusing on chronic diseases)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dont-let-the-social-recession-ruin-your-mental-and-physical-health/article31321037.ece
12 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘No accommodation, not enough protection for us’||After 10 days, 24-year-old Vinod*, a sanitation worker, finished his night shift at a COVID-19 treatment ward at Lok Nayak Hospital and returned home to his 12-member family — the youngest member being his elder brother’s two-year-old son, Harshu. “I was scared that I would infect my family with the virus. So, I went straight to the terrace and bathed in hot water and washed my clothes and then only I met anyone in the house,” the sanitation worker said. The government did not provide him with any accommodation, he said. The Delhi government has provided accommodation for doctors and nurses who are on COVID-19 duty, but he said that there were no such facilities for sanitation workers. “About 15 people who were working with me left the job after we were given duty in COVID-19 wards. Sabko apni jaan pyaari hai na?” said Vinod. “In between, I was unwell and took medicines. I got really scared and spoke to my parents. They advised me not to work for a while,” he said, who earns Rs. 13,000 a month. The sanitation worker said he was given PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) to clean the wards, rooms, toilets used by COVID-19 patients, but not while washing bedsheets used by patients. He said that the PPE given to them was very thin and sometimes would tear or the zip won’t work. “We should also be given better facilities,” Vinod, hailing from Uttar Pradesh, said. On March 30, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that the government had arranged 100 individual rooms in The Lalit, a five-star hotel, for the doctors who are treating in COVID-19 wards. Following multiple complaints by nurses, the government announced better accommodation for nurses on Thursday. The worker, said, “We do not get any facilities and no one complains, because if we complain, the company will sack us.”  No response When reached out for a comment, J.C. Passey , medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital, said, “I am at a meeting”. He did not respond to multiple calls and messages following it. The Delhi government spokesperson also did not offer a response on the issue. “Our union is for government workers and not contractual workers, but currently we are looking into contract workers also. Now giving stay for sanitation workers also, but they are not very educated and many of them are not aware about it. We are trying to reach out to contract workers too,” said, Balwant Singh, general secretary of Lok Nayak Hospital Svasthy Karamchari Union.  (* name has been changed to protect identity)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-accommodation-not-enough-protection-for-us/article31321031.ece
12 April 2020||NOIDA,||Smokers’ woes: some cut down on cigarettes, others turn to bidis||Some have been forced to cut back on their smoking, others have had to switch to bidis, the poor Indian’s smoke. And, it’s not easy to lay hands on what is an “essential commodity” for some. Some are willing to pay a premium to lay their hands on a packet of cigarettes. “It’s good in a way; we are smoking less. But the way it has been done is just promoting black marketing. I started asking my roommate for help after I finished my own pack which I bought for Rs. 50 extra,” his roommate Ojas Khari (name changed) said. Omkar Nagar, a resident of Beta I, complained he had no problems reacquainting himself with bidis but his decision has brought with it its own issues. “I started with bidis when growing up in my village nearby. Then I switched to e-cigarettes but these were recently banned. I was smoking those light, narrow kinds before the lockdown. I’ve tried everywhere but can’t find them so it is back to bidis for me.” Promila Sarkar (name changed), who lives in one of the prominent sectors in Noida that has been sealed, said she had to recently undertake what would normally seem like a “dubious transaction.” “My husband hurriedly called and asked me to go to the local market to shop for essentials as a packet for both of us was being arranged. I bought a few odds and ends and found a person waiting for me outside the store. He slipped the packet in my grocery bag; my husband later paid him via an mobile app. It was odd. Why should it come to this?” she asked. Whether or not he chose to smoke, Kishore Gupta (name changed), a resident of a prominent housing society in Noida said, was personal one and he was exercising it around half a cigarette at a time. “This is not a decision that the government will make for me. I can’t understand why cigarettes have been left in the grey area. I’m smoking half a cigarette every time I smoke. A store, which is part of a major chain, used to sell cigarettes in my society before the lockdown. The other day, policemen came and threatened to shut the store if they retailed cigarettes. They didn’t have any order or anything. All this is just bizarre,” he complained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/smokers-woes-some-cut-down-on-cigarettes-others-turn-to-bidis/article31321057.ece
12 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Social distancing is slowly becoming the new normal||Almost three weeks into the lockdown, grocery shop owners and others who sell essential commodities said people have been following norms of social distancing, while their customers complained that the MRPs of commodities have gone up. In south Delhi, customers lining up outside grocery stores said that social distancing had now become a “part of life” and was being followed by all. South Delhi resident Kanishk Sharma said, “By now people are well aware of the fact that social distancing needs to be maintained. In the first few days the shopkeepers were having to ask customers to maintain distance. But now its become a part of life and a matter of habit.” Grocery store owners said that panic buying which the city witnessed when the lockdown was announced last month had reduced. “Initially, people were buying essentials in large quantities fearing that the stock would run out. However, now they are buying items in limited quantities, enough to last them a couple of days, so that they are not required to visit the market every day,” said Subir Pramanik, who works at a south Delhi grocery store. In west Delhi, the owner of a bakery selling bread and other essential edibles, identified as Niranjan Kumar, said that people maintain distance irrespective of whether circles are marked or not. Residents of Rajouri Garden said that they don’t face any problem while buying essentials items, but complained of increase in price. “On local items, if not branded, the MRP is increasing every few days. Bread from the bakery, which cost us Rs. 40 a loaf, now costs Rs. 55,” said Ujjwal Bhatia, a resident. “One or the other thing keeps going out of stock and is available at only one or two stores at a certain point of time which leads to queues,” said Prerna Singh, another resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/social-distancing-is-slowly-becoming-the-new-normal/article31321060.ece
12 April 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. to give financial assistance to drivers||The Delhi government will provide one-time financial assistance of Rs. 5,000 to drivers of passenger-carrying vehicles engaged in providing transportation services that have been stopped from plying on roads to prevent the spread of COVID-19.  “In order to mitigate the sufferings of these people, the government of Delhi has decided to grant one-time financial help of Rs. 5,000 to the individuals holding public service badge [drivers] and driving licence of para-transit passenger vehicles, that is autorickshaws, taxis, gramin sewa, phatphat sewa, maxicab, eco-friendly sewa , e-rickshaws and school cabs,” a government statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-to-give-financial-assistance-to-drivers/article31321059.ece
12 April 2020||New Delhi,||HC rejects bail plea of man involved in riots||The Delhi High Court has rejected the bail application of a man, who was arrested for his alleged involvement in rioting in northeast Delhi. Jutsice Mukta Gupta remarked that the investigation with regard to one Shadab Alam’s involvement in vandalising during the riots is “at crucial stage as the SHO states that the video footages have been preserved and are yet to be examined”. “...even if found that the petitioner [Alam] is part of the unlawful assembly even though he may not have individually torched any vehicle or the shops, he would be liable for the offences,” the court said, rejecting his bail application. Alam along with eight other accused were arrested when a source information was received that people involved in rioting on the intervening night of 23-24 February, 2020, were present at Sherpur Chowk, Karawal Nagar Road and were planning to execute another riot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-man-involved-in-riots/article31321022.ece
12 April 2020||New Delhi,||Lady Hardinge doctors reject donation to fund||The Resident Doctors’ Association of Lady Hardinge Medical College and associated hospitals on Saturday expressed their disapproval to an appeal by the administration to deduct their one day’s salary towards PM CARES Fund. “Members of RDA, LHMC express complete disapproval of deduction of salary of the residents as we are dealing first-hand with COVID-19 cases. Instead, we should be provided with risk and hazard allowance in the time of global emergency. Since RDA, LHMC represents all the resident doctors of the hospital, kindly consider this letter as objection to salary deduction of all the resident doctors,” a statement by the RDA read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lady-hardinge-doctors-reject-donation-to-fund/article31321033.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Lockdown: where do they draw their Lakshman Rekha?||Shortly after retiring, I volunteered to teach little children at a Corporation school in east Delhi. It was just for a few hours every week, but it was enough to understand just how closely their lives were bound up with their villages. Nearly all of them were the first in their families to be receiving an education. Attending school was clearly an important part of their lives. There would, however, be long periods of absence when they would suddenly disappear. We understood, as their teachers, that most of them would not and could not be regular. That they would come back after month-long absences, because of a death in the family, or a marriage, or a harvest to help out with. School was never allowed to come in the way of their obligations to their larger families back home in their villages. It was clear that they were here, in the big city, only because their fathers were plying a rickshaw or a pushcart, and their mothers cooking or sweeping in other people’s households. The government-funded mid-day meal was often their first meal of the day. It was a precarious existence, a fragile toehold. And yet it was their parents who were critical in making our megapolis function, just as the daily wagers were, in construction and other service sectors. No anticipatory planning The question that troubles me, is how and why they went so completely under the radar of the Establishment when the lockdown was announced. Were they so invisible that their migration in thousands could not have been foreseen? Did we take them so much for granted that the thought never even crossed our minds? Why was there no anticipatory planning or any steps taken and communicated before the lockdown was announced, to reassure them that yes, the state would feed them, house them and provide support and medical services? Not till several days after those gut-wrenching images flashed onto our screens of pregnant mothers, and little children riding piggyback on their fathers’ shoulders, all heading home on empty highways and deserted streets. Walking back, with no social distancing and no soap and water to wash their hands. We always knew that ours was a world of haves and have-nots. But did we ever realise how closely our lives were intertwined? Each one of us who lives in privilege in this country is dependent, to some degree or the other, on someone who doesn’t. On someone who goes home to a cramped space that he or she shares with several family members. I often wonder how Ujer, or Kanhaiya, or Kanishka, or any of my little students, is faring under the lockdown. How will they manage social distancing, they who cannot comprehend the concept of privacy or afford the luxury of space? Were they also there, amongst those unforeseen tens of thousands, out of a job, out of food and out of money, who swarmed the bus terminal at Anand Vihar or left on foot for their homes? Will some of those who returned to their villages have carried the novel coronavirus with them? Will they receive adequate medical attention if they have? Will the cases among them be tracked as assiduously as the cases at the Tablighi Jamaat centre in Nizamuddin were? An all-India battle Data for our migrant population indicates a figure between 13 to 120 million. The informal sector, that absorbs a significant proportion of them, accounts for about 80% of the total employed in India. These are not insignificant figures. I wonder, is there any State in India that has a Protector for Migrants within our own country? We have several voices speaking up for immigrants into India. How about our own internal migrants? Who speaks for them? Apart from the possible human toll and the socio-economic consequences of what might follow, the battle against COVID-19 has to be fought both in the cities and in the villages. We cannot leave anyone out. Indeed, we cannot afford to. If this is to be a battle, then it has to include all of India, and within India, urban as well as rural populations. There can be no accentuation of fault lines, of affluent over poor, of urban over rural, if only for the reason that this is mercifully a virus that neither respects such differences nor differentiates. Disregarding boundaries, it can, and will travel from our cities to our villages and then back again. Life in the urban bubble But as of now, here in an affluent part of the city, in the middle of the lockdown, life continues in the urban bubble. We have roofs over our heads, and doors to draw a Lakshman Rekha in front of, even if far too many of us step across it, as Sita once did. We share, on social media, poems and music that we love, and images of gardens that we tend. New WhatsApp groups spring up, where we discover long-lost friends and promise to meet after the lockdown lifts, for a game of tennis, or a drink at the club. We exchange hilarious forwards and display a quirky sense of dark humour. Those of us who otherwise follow important developments barely noticed when the Shaheen Bagh sit-in against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act ended after 101 days. The virus has overtaken us all. Yes, I have my fears. That irrespective of how often I wash my hands for 20 seconds in something bordering WHO-prescribed OCD, irrespective of how many surfaces I disinfect, there are still too many undisinfected surfaces and too many novel coronaviruses out there for me to keep my 86-year-old mother safe. Deep down, there is a primeval fear that it is purely an act of God, or a roll of the dice, if you like, that will determine who gets the virus and who doesn’t. And who lives or who dies. We sit and wait in our cocooned and socially distanced homes. And we know the waiting will be long.  Sujatha Singh is a former Foreign Secretary,   Government of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lockdown-where-do-they-draw-their-lakshman-rekha/article31321065.ece
12 April 2020||April 12 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 and immunity||The story so far: COVID-19, which has affected over 1.5 million globally and killed more than 100,000 people, is not different from how influenza viruses, or even the coronaviruses responsible for the common cold, attack the body. Therefore, the immune system has a predictable response. It is the degree to which this response is tolerated by the body that determines mortality rates. How does the immune system respond to a coronavirus attack? A cascade of viral particles enters the body through the nose, eyes or mouth. Breathing carries some of these particles to the lower respiratory tract where the spike proteins of the coronavirus, acting like a key, lock into epithelial cells that line the respiratory tract as well as those in the the air sacs in the lungs. SARS-CoV-2 is able to stay undetected longer than many flu or coronaviruses and its spike proteins are able to gain entry by unlocking the ACE2 protein on the lung cells. Once in, they hijack the cell’s machinery, replicate and multiply and infect adjoining cells. Like the defining ACE2 proteins on the epithelial cells, viruses too have a tell-tale signature on their surface called antigens and spotting these is what kicks the immune system into action by producing antibodies. The signals they generate trigger another class of chemicals — cytokines and chemokines — and they alert the immune system to send an array of different kinds of cells that specialise in destroying viral particles. However, these cytokines and chemokines trigger inflammation in the cells. In the nose and upper regions of the respiratory system, this inflammation produces mucus and a runny nose to trap viral particles and prevent their ingress. This also triggers sneezes to expel them. When the sinuses are inflamed we get a headache and the general stuffiness that we associate with a cold. When a gland called the hypothalamus is inflamed, it results in a fever. However, in the case of SARS-CoV-2, the virus seems better at penetrating deeper. The inflammation triggers a fluid build-up in the lungs. The fluids also contain the residue of a host of specialised cells — including T cells — that carpet bomb and damage many of the body’s own cells as well as the viral particles. It is in expelling this fluid that a dry cough, characteristic of the coronavirus infection, begins. As more air sacs are infected, the lungs find it harder to perform their core job of extracting oxygen from the air, and eventually, this aggravates breathlessness. Why are some infections mild and others life-threatening? Depending on the degree of infection in the lungs, the inflammation and the fluid build-up can lead to pneumonia. A patient will require hospitalisation to treat the breathlessness and ventilator support to artificially provide oxygen if the condition worsens. However, massive levels of cytokines can cause extensive lung damage and a condition called Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome. The unsustainable cytokine storm can cause organ damage far beyond the lungs and spread to the kidneys as well as the heart. If the infection is acute, it can also lead to a depletion of the frontline white blood corpuscles tasked with fighting the infection and making the body vulnerable to other secondary infections, which may lead to death. How have the elderly reacted to the virus? The elderly, especially those with existing conditions such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease, already have an inherent malfunctioning in the immune system. In many ways, it is the reaction of the body in trying to combat the virus that ends up being suicidal. The different kinds of drugs, whether it is hydroxycholoroquine or anti-HIV drugs, deployed to treat serious COVID-19 infection, also work in some way to moderate the immune-system’s aggressive defence. Mortality statistics globally suggest that men are twice more likely than women to succumb to a COVID-19 infection. This follows from studies that show women, on average, have a better-regulated immune response than men in pathogenic infections. Estrogen is said to be an immune-system modulator and the ability to deal with a pregnancy — which also begins as a foreign body growing within — primes women to better deal with infections, say experts. What about children? The response of the immune system is in many ways a mystery. For instance, so far, there have been few deaths reported in children from COVID-19. Given that children’s immunity systems are still maturing and learning to adapt to a galaxy of infectious agents, why they seem to be relatively better protected from severe COVID-19 disease is not known. Will a vaccine help? There are several vaccine candidates but it will be months before we know if any of them will be viable. The bulk are aimed at developing a molecular construct, in some cases a weakened version of the coronavirus, that mimics the antigens of the virus and triggers an appropriate antibody response. There are complications — such as an antibody-dependent enhancement — in which insufficient levels of antibodies can actually end up aggravating an infection as in the case of dengue. However, in the case of COVID-19, that’s a problem for another day.  Mortality statistics show men are twice more likely than women to succumb to a COVID-19 infection. Studies show women, on an average, have a better-regulated immune response than men in pathogenic infections||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-19-and-immunity/article31320769.ece
12 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Govt. doctor tests positive in Ghaziabad||Two more persons, including a government hospital doctor, tested positive for COVID-19 in Ghaziabad on Friday night, taking the tally of infected people to 27. An official said the doctor is a medical superintendent at a hospital in Dasna. “He has been isolated,” the official added. The other infected person has been found to be linked to a religious gathering in Delhi. Meanwhile, people quarantined in a facility in Greater Noida were shifted after Chief Medical Officer of Gautam Buddha Nagar A.P. Chaurvedi found the establishment to be not conforming to cleanliness standards.  The doctor has been isolated and persons who have come in contact with him are being traced District information department official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-doctor-tests-positive-in-ghaziabad/article31321023.ece
12 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jamia student held in Delhi riots case||A Jamia Millia Islamia University student has been arrested in connection with riots that broke out in northeast Delhi in February. The student was one of the media coordinators of the Jamia Coordination Committee. Police sources said that the student identified, identified as Safoora Zargar, is pursuing her masters from the university. Sources said that the woman had attended the march in Jaffrabad on March 20 and had asked people to join the protest. Zargar has been arrested by district police a few days after PhD student Meeran Haider was arrested by Special Cell.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jamia-student-held-in-delhi-riots-case/article31321029.ece
12 April 2020||Greater Noida,||Two more disinfection tunnels installed||With the intention to ensure the protection of on-duty police personnel from the COVID-19 pandemic, Noida Police Commissioner Alok Singh has inaugurated a disinfection tunnel at the Greater Noida police lines. Another disinfection tunnel was installed at the Noida Authority office in Noida and inaugurated by Noida authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari. Both the said tunnels have been sponsored by the ACE group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-more-disinfection-tunnels-installed/article31321058.ece
12 April 2020||New Delhi,||BJP initiative feeds needy in city||Under its #feedtheneedy programme, the BJP provided food and essential items to as many as 8,90,007 people in the city on Saturday, it said. On April 10, the party claimed, food packets were distributed to 1,88,846 needy people and ration was provided to 20,084 people along with other essential goods, benefiting 2,08,930 people in total under the programme so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-initiative-feeds-needy-in-city/article31321028.ece
