14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Actions giving results; no new cases in 25 districts, says govt.||India registered the largest spike in deaths due to COVID-19 on Monday, with 51 being reported in the past 24 hours, the highest since the first case was reported in January. India’s tally with 905 additional cases has gone up to 9,352 and 324 deaths so far. Over 857 patients have recovered. The 51 deaths reported since Sunday evening include 22 from Maharashtra, seven each from Madhya Pradesh and Telangana, five from Delhi and four from Gujarat. The Union Health Ministry, however, on Monday said that implementation of its action plan had started yielding results in 25 districts across 15 States, which had reported cases earlier. “These districts have no case reported since the last 14 days and constant vigil is being maintained to ensure that no new cases may occur in future,” Joint Secretary ïn the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said at the daily press briefing. The districts include Gondia in Maharashtra, Rajnandgaon, Durg and Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh, and Davangere, Kodagu, Tumakuru and Udupi in Karnataka. COVID-19 cases have been reported from 364 of the 736 districts across the country. Figures from the State Health Departments put the total number of cases at 10,439, with 9,015 active ones. The death toll stood at 358. With 1,957 active cases and 160 deaths, Maharashtra continues to top the list. Delhi and Tamil Nadu reported 1,455 and 1,104 active cases respectively. The Ministry added that Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had reviewed the research efforts for COVID-19 by the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) along with the DG, CSIR and 38 CSIR Lab Directors who are working in close partnership with the private sector, PSUs, MSMEs, departments and Ministries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/actions-giving-results-no-new-cases-in-25-districts-says-govt/article31335323.ece
14 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cases down, but not yet time to lower guard: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has made it clear that the steady decline in new COVID-19 positive cases should not be taken as a licence to violate the current restrictions on free movement of people or public gatherings. Even though there has been no evidence of community transmission yet, the disease might flare up once the safeguards are relaxed. That is not a danger that the State can afford to have, after having done disease containment extremely well so far, he said, briefing the media here on Monday. Only three positive cases were reported in the State on Monday while the number of patients who tested negative following treatment was 19. Two of the new cases were from Kannur and contacts of imported cases. The other case was that of a person who had returned home to Palakkad from abroad. Of the 378 positive COVID-19 cases reported so far in the State, 178 were at present undergoing treatment. The number of people under surveillance further dwindled to 1,12,183, of which 715 were in isolation wards in hospitals and the rest in home quarantine. Mr. Vijayan said testing had improved much in the State and that up to 1,000 samples were being sent for testing daily now. However, there were still issues of shortage in supply of test kits provided by the Centre. Warning against dengue Mr. Vijayan said the State had to take immediate and extreme measures to ensure that annual outbreaks of dengue and leptospirosis in Kerala did not get out of hand, while the State health machinery was involved in fighting COVID-19. He said it was a matter of concern that a spike in both dengue and leptospirosis cases had been reported at the Medical College Hospital, Kottayam. Garbage disposal and activities such as source reduction and vector control drives should be intensified, he said. The Chief Minister said the private medical sector was an integral part of the State’s health sector and that the government wanted to go hand-in-hand with private hospitals in fighting COVID-19. Mr. Vijayan said with many government hospitals engaged in COVID-19 care, private hospitals should ensure that those who needed medical treatment for other diseases were not left in the lurch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cases-down-but-not-yet-time-to-lower-guard-cm/article31335657.ece
14 April 2020||New Delhi,||Grocery store owner ‘insults’ mother-daughter over religion||A 50-year-old woman lodged a complaint alleging discrimination on the basis of religion against a shopkeeper and owner of a grocery store at Gautam Nagar in south Delhi. Alya (name changed), in her complaint at the Hauz Khas police station, stated that she and her daughter Zainab, 23, (name changed) were “shouted at, insulted and blocked by the shopkeeper with his hand” and referred to as “Big M” when they went there to buy some supplies on Saturday. An FIR is yet to be registered in the case, said the family. Zainab said they wanted to buy only a few things from the store and her mother went alone as she waited in the car. She said Alya could be identified as a practising Muslim from her attire. ‘Abused and cursed’ The shopkeeper allegedly misbehaved with Alya and she returned to the car crying and told her daughter about it. Zainab said Alya was already disturbed as she had recently lost a relative to COVID-19 in Kerala. When Zainab attempted to confront the store owners and admonish them for their behaviour, arguing that such statements especially during the present crisis were disappointing, she was “cursed” and told that they would “stay unhappy for their entire life”, the complaint read. Zainab, whose brother is a pilot for Air India and father runs an NGO, said, “Our family is doing its part to serve the country, still such a thing happens to us... Even the people standing around [at the store] said nothing.” She said her family was initially hesitant to file a complaint, fearing a backlash, but eventually decided to pursue the matter. “If they behave like this with people like us with privilege, we can only imagine how they must be treating others,” she said.  If they behave like this with people like us with privilege, we can only imagine how they must be treating others Zainab (name changed) Victim’s daughter||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/grocery-store-owner-insults-mother-daughter-over-religion/article31335542.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Focus more on GHMC area, Chief Minister tells officials||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the officials concerned to give special attention to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area in the steps taken for containing the spread of coronavirus as the incidence of positive cases was more in the GHMC limits. The Chief Minister held a review meeting on the prevailing situation with senior officials on Monday. The State registered 61 new COVID positive cases and one death during the day. The officials informed the Chief Minister that in the backdrop of increasing number of positive cases, steps had been initiated to ensure that laboratories and hospitals were prepared to handle the patients. He wanted special strategy to be chalked out as far as GHMC area was concerned as there was scope for spread of the virus in view of the increasing number of positive cases. Each of the 17 circles spread across the GHMC should be considered as individual units and medical officers drawn from the Health, Municipal Administration, Revenue, Home and other departments should be exclusively appointed to look into their affairs. The containment efforts should be enforced with more vigour in the areas where positive cases have been reported. Facilities had been put in place to conduct tests to 1,000 to 1,100 patients daily and infrastructure had been created to tackle the increasing number of patients coming to hospitals. Mr. Rao reviewed the steps that were being taken to check the spread of the virus in Hyderabad as well as in the districts besides enquiring about the progress of paddy procurement at different places. “There is one DM&HO currently looking after the entire city affairs at present. Steps should be taken to appoint officials to each of the 17 circles. The Municipal staff should be focused on the steps to check the spread of the virus,” he said. The government had set up 246 containment zones across the State including 126 in Hyderabad alone and steps should be taken to effectively implement the lockdown measures in these areas. Officials should sensitise people not to come out of their homes during the lockdown period and at the same time, not allow outsiders to enter these containment zones. Nodal officers should be appointed to each of these containment zones and there should be stringent enforcement of lockdown in these areas. Steps should be taken to supply essential commodities to the residents of these containment zones. Mr. Rao wanted the officials to take a serious view of the areas where the crowds were more as these were the places contributing to positive cases. The Municipal Administration department should organise review meetings circle-wise on a daily basis in Pragati Bhavan and take necessary steps to prevent the spread of the virus, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/focus-more-on-ghmc-area-chief-minister-tells-officials/article31335611.ece
14 April 2020||CHENNAI/PUDUCHERRY,||Lockdown extended till month-end in T.N., Puducherry||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced the extension of the lockdown in the State till April 30 on a day the total number of COVID-19 cases increased to 1,173, with 98 persons testing positive for the novel coronavirus. In Chennai, the total number of COVID-19 patients crossed the 200-mark, and stood at 205 on Monday. Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayansamy also announced an extension of the lockdown till the month-end. The lockdown was originally scheduled to end on April 14. “All the restrictions presently being implemented under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) will continue, in the effort to contain COVID-19,” Mr. Palaniswami said in a statement. On Saturday, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam said that the Cabinet had decided to go by what the Centre decided on the extension of the lockdown. The Chief Minister, however, said the latest decision followed his earlier consultation with the Prime Minister via video-conferencing, the advisory from the World Health Organization, recommendations made by a team of experts, and the decision taken at the Cabinet meeting. Besides, COVID-19 could spread if the lockdown was relaxed, he added. A top official told The Hindu   the Chief Minister had only decided on Monday afternoon to extend the lockdown as the Centre’s announcement was delayed. “The PM, in his scheduled address on Tuesday morning, might perhaps cover [extension of lockdown in] only certain States across the country. So, we have opted to take our decision,” he said. Mr. Palaniswami announced that ration entitlements of rice cardholders - 1 kg of sugar, 1 kg of tur dal, 1 kg of cooking oil, besides the usual allotment of rice, would be issued for free in May. The cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 would be extended for the second time to all workers in the unorganised sector who were members of various labour welfare boards. Migrant workers would get a relief kit with 15 kg of rice, 1 kg of tur dal and 1 kg of cooking oil for May. Bakeries could offer takeaway service between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m. Besides, people could get their doubts on the pandemic clarified through a helpline manned by doctors registered with the Telemedicine Society of India. Later, the State government notified the extension of the lockdown till midnight of April 30.   (With inputs from Rajesh B. Nair)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-extended-till-month-end-in-tn-puducherry/article31335420.ece
14 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||SEC ordinance: HC asks govt. to file counter by Thursday||Andhra Pradesh High Court has directed the State government to file a counter by April 16 in response to the petition filed by former State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar pertaining to the reduction of his tenure to three years through an ordinance, which resulted in the termination of his services.The court also adjourned the hearing of a batch of petitions pertaining to the case to April 20. Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and Justice M. Satyanarayana Murthy directed Advocate General S. Sriram to file a counter stating the government’s position in response to Mr. Ramesh Kumar’s contention that neither was there an urgency nor a justifiable ground to promulgate the ordinance (No.5 of 2020), through which his term was cut short from five to three years.  In his petition, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said the “impugned ordinance” sought to circumvent the Constitutional prescription that the SEC could be removed only through certain established procedures, by merely reducing the tenure and a condonation of that approach would affect the independence of the Constitutional body. As the Advocate General defended the merits of the ordinance, Justice Maheswari interdicted him, ordering that he needed to reply to the petitioner’s argument that there were no circumstances which warranted its issuance in a hasty manner.  Mr. Ramesh Kumar argued that the promulgation of the ordinance during a medical emergency, which formed the very basis of his decision to postpone the local body elections, seemed to be actuated with an “oblique motive on extraneous grounds”. He prayed for the suspension of all further proceedings pursuant to the ordinance and Government Orders through which Madras High Court retired judge V. Kanagaraj (one of the respondents) was appointed as the SEC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sec-ordinance-hc-asks-ap-to-file-counter/article31335291.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||MGNREGA job crashes to 1% of normal due to lockdown||Employment under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) has collapsed to just over 1% of the usual rate this month due to the COVID-19 lockdown. 1.9 lakh families Activists petitioned the Supreme Court demanding that the government pay full wages to all active job card holders during this time, following its own instructions issued to other employers. Data from the MGNREGA website show that less than 1.9 lakh families have been provided work under the scheme so far in April 2020, in comparison to almost 1.6 crore households which were provided work in March, and the 1.8 crore households employed under the scheme in February before the lockdown began. Highest job generator Chhattisgarh was the highest employment generator under the scheme in April, providing work to more than 70,000 families, followed by Andhra Pradesh with more than 53,000 households given work. However, these figures are a fraction of the usual employment provided in these States, and also raise concerns about COVID-19 infection being spread at worksites. Key source The scheme, which guarantees 100 days of work per year at an average daily wage of Rs. 209, is key to providing livelihoods to poor villagers and is a backbone of the rural economy in difficult times. Overall, 7.6 crore families hold active job cards under the scheme, and almost 5.5 crore families found work under the scheme last year. The crash in employment rates under the scheme is despite the fact that migrant workers returning to villages should have increased demand in rural areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mgnrega-job-crashes-to-1-of-normal-due-to-lockdown/article31335326.ece
14 April 2020||GUNTUR,||2 more COVID deaths in Guntur||Two persons, aged 65 and 45 years, both from Anandapet in Old Guntur, died late on Sunday at COVID Hospital in Vijayawada. According to sources, the 65-year-old man, who had comorbid conditions, came in contact with the 45-year-old man, who had returned from Delhi after attending Tablighi Jamaat meeting. Of the two, one is a religious elder and is respected in the community and known to be affable and had been performing his duties at a madrasa in Old Guntur. The district authorities tightened curbs around Anandapet, now emerging as a hot spot with many cases being reported from the area. All essential commodities were being sent to the houses directly and the Guntur Municipal Corporation opened control rooms. MLA creates ruckus The day started off on a tense note after Guntur East MLA Md. Mustafa tried to force his way out of his home in his car. He contended that he would take breakfast to his sister and brother-in-law who are now in an isolation centre at Palakaluru. Mr. Mustafa allegedly entered into a verbal duel with the constable posted outside his home, drove his car out and reached Palakaluru. But he was stopped by the police and asked to return to his home at Mangaldas Nagar, which has been declared a red zone.  Meanwhile, the number of positive cases touched 90 in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-more-covid-deaths-in-guntur/article31335317.ece
14 April 2020||Hyderabad,||Police focus on attendees of ‘other congregations’||In an attempt to prevent further spread of coronavirus, Telangana police are planning to gather information of people who attended jamaat outside the State, since beginning of March. After zeroing in on Tablighi Jamaat returnees, their primary and secondary contacts, and tracking those who visited Deoband, the police are gathering information about other religious congregation that could have taken place in other parts of the country and attended by people from Telangana. Top police officers maintained that a large number of people, especially from north Telangana attended religious meetings in UP, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, apart from neighbouring Maharashtra and Karnataka. “We are trying to explore all possibility and collect data of those who attended jamaats outside the State, as they could be potential carriers of coronavirus,” an officer said on condition of anonymity. He said Nizamuddin Markaz was the largest jamaat held in the recent past and the rest were small gatherings. “Though the number is not high, we don't want to take any chance,” the officer said, adding that they will get in touch with the religious heads to get information about people who attended any small or big jamaats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-focus-on-attendees-of-other-congregations/article31335605.ece
14 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka records two more deaths||Two more COVID-19 deaths were reported on Monday, taking the total toll in Karnataka to eight. The victims have been identified as a 55-year-old man, who self reported at ESIC Hospital in Kalaburagi on April 7, and a 75-year-old woman, who had been admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Disease in Bengaluru. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), who confirmed the deaths, said the Kalaburagi patient was suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said that he had hypertension and other related ailments. “We are waiting for a detailed report from the district,” he said. This is the third death in Kalaburagi district. On March 10, a 76-year-old person, who returned from Saudi Arabia, died. The second victim was a 65-year-old, suffering from SARI and who had tested positive, who died on April 8. According to Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat, the 55-year-old patient was isolated at ESIC Medical Complex since April 7 and later tested positive for the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-records-two-more-deaths/article31335362.ece
14 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Locals bar cremation of doctor’s body||The body of a doctor, who succumbed to COVID-19 in a private hospital at Vanagaram in Chennai, was taken back to the mortuary on Monday evening after some residents protested against the cremation, fearing the spread of the virus. The 55-year-old orthopaedist, a native of Nellore in Andhra Pradesh, was admitted to the hospital about a week ago after he tested positive for COVID-19. He was declared dead at 3 a.m. on Monday. When health workers clad in personal protection equipment brought his body to the Chennai Corporation crematorium at Ambattur, some locals objected to the cremation, police sources said. Even after a police team reached the spot and explained to the protesters that the cremation would not trigger a spread of the novel coronavirus, they refused to budge. For hours, the body remained in the vehicle as health and police officials tried to persuade the locals to allow the cremation. “They (the local people) could not be convinced that there was no scientific evidence to prove that coronavirus would spread during or after the cremation of the body,” a senior police officer told The Hindu . Senior police, Corporation and health department officials are working out a strategy to cremate the body as early as possible. “In deaths caused due to coronavirus, the bodies will not be handed over to the family though they can be present at the crematorium. Some guidelines have been issued by the Chief Secretary in this regard and a decision on disposing of the body will be taken soon,” the official said. Senior police, Corporation and Health department officials are working out a strategy to cremate the body as early as possible. “In deaths caused due to coronavirus, the bodies will not be handed over to the family though they can be present at the crematorium. Some guidelines have been issued by the Chief Secretary in this regard and a decision on disposing of the body will be taken soon,” the official said. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh attributed the confusion to a “communication gap” and said that detailed guidelines on the disposal of bodies had been circulated to all hospitals. Steps would be taken to ensure that such incidents did not recur, she said, adding that since the doctor had tested positive for COVID-19 in Andhra Pradesh, the death would be added to the number of fatalities in that State. Health workers disinfected the Ambattur crematorium premises after the body was removed. No case was registered in connection with the incident, police sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/locals-bar-cremation-of-doctors-body/article31335418.ece
14 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Cases rise to 439||The number of positive COVID-19 cases in the State is steadily increasing with seven new cases confirmed since Monday morning. With this, the total number has gone up from 432 to 439. Seven persons died of the infection so far — four from Nellore and three from Guntur district, which is leading the tally with 93 cases. Kurnool district has 84 and Nellore 56 cases respectively. Prakasam has 41 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cases-rise-to-439/article31335316.ece
14 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Ease curbs gradually, Jagan urges PM||A few hours before the nationwide lockdown is due to come to an end, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, suggesting that a calibrated relaxation of the sweeping restrictions was essential to ensure the economy grew at a reasonable rate. Mr. Jagan stressed the need to strike a fine balance between the fallout of COVID containment measures and actions required to mitigate their impact on the economy. He suggested that the transportation and supply of agricultural produce and industrial products be restored to salvage the situation. The demand-supply chain took a severe beating due to the lockdown, whose impact on A.P. was more pronounced as the agriculture sector which accounts for 34% of its GSDP, bore the brunt of restrictions, he observed. Similarly, aquaculture came to a standstill. Industries were also badly hit by the lockdown. He urged the PM to extend necessary support to the saggingMSMEs which were crippled by the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ease-curbs-gradually-jagan-urges-pm/article31335315.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre may raise loan to pay GST dues to States||The Union government is exploring raising a loan to pay the shortfall of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation amount to the States as the latter have had to ramp up spending to combat the outbreak of COVID-19. According to senior officials in the Finance Ministry, the idea has been circulated and since the GST Act prohibits withdrawal of funds from the Consolidated Fund, raising loans is being seen as a way out. States to be consulted “We will either need to call a videoconference of the GST Council or ask the States in writing whether they are on board on this,” said a senior government source. According to Krishna Byre Gowda, former Minister for Agriculture in the Karnataka government and part of the GST Council when the Act was drafted under the aegis of then Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, this route can be explored quite legitimately by the government of India. “A discussion was held earlier on how to address if there was a revenue shortfall. There were concerns over what if cess accruals were not adequate to pay the shortfall. The government of India was adamant in resisting suggestions to pay the shortfall from the Consolidated Fund of India and at that point the option of raising a loan on the cess account was discussed and agreed as an option, and the loan accrued would be paid from cess accruals in the future,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-may-raise-loan-to-pay-gst-dues-to-states/article31335324.ece
14 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||Mother drowns five children in the Ganga||A woman in Bhadohi district of Uttar Pradesh drowned her five children in the Ganga in the early hours of Sunday. Four out of the five bodies were recovered by Monday afternoon, said locals. Talking to media on the banks of the Ganga, Manju Yadav, a resident of Jahangirabad village in Gopiganj, confessed that she pushed her five children, including three girls, into the water due to mental stress after a quarrel with her husband. She alleged that her husband would often beat her and that they were having a dispute. “ Dimaag ulta hogaya [I lost my mind],” she said. “Tension mein dimaag raha , [pani mein ] daal diya [My mind was under stress... I threw them into the water].” Social media users, including CPI(ML) leader Kavita Krishnan and lawyer Prashant Bhushan, however, alleged that the woman drowned her children as she was unable to feed them due to the lockdown. Ms. Krishnan, who posted a video message alleging that Ms. Yadav drowned her children due to food shortage, said the woman was forced to issue a contradictory statement in police custody. “People can understand what the truth is and what hunger is,” she tweeted. The police, the administration and the village pradhan refuted this claim, stating that the woman pushed her children, the youngest aged three, into the river due to a domestic dispute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mother-drowns-five-children-in-the-ganga/article31335325.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS reports one death, 61 new cases||A sharp spike in COVID-19 cases was recorded in Telangana as 61 new cases were confirmed on Monday, and one person died. The total number of coroanvirus cases in the State till date stands at 592. Of them 472 are active cases, 103 were discharged and 17 people suffering from the infectious disease have died. The State Director of Public Health and Family Welfare Dr G Srinivasa Rao said majority of the cases were in GHMC areas. Of the 592 cases, 267 are in the corporation limits. “Hyderabad district is high focus area. Robust containment is being initiated in GHMC,” Dr Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ts-reports-one-death-61-new-cases/article31335606.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Ministers back to work||As work from home ended for Ministers in the Union Council and senior bureaucrats on Monday, some activity slowly returned to the hitherto deserted corridors of power in New Delhi. Several Ministers were seen at work at their offices, donning masks and after going through the temperature checks at the entrance of the buildings.page 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ministers-back-to-work/article31335312.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||PM to address nation today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation at 10 a.m. on Tuesday, the last day of the 21-day lockdown, amid indications that the shutdown could be extended. At least seven States — Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, West Bengal, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Telangana — have already announced extension of the lockdown till April 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-to-address-nation-today/article31335311.ece
14 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,||Migrant workers attack police officials||Ninety migrant labourers hailing from Madhya Pradesh, who were lodged in a quarantine facility at the SKD College in Gooty in Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh, allegedly attacked police personnel on Monday asking them to allow them to go to their native places. The police personnel accompanied the contractor, who was serving food arranged by the district administration, but the migrant labourers tried to forcibly escape from the college premises. When Circle Inspector Rajasekhar and two constables from Gooty police station tried to block their way, they allegedly hit them with slippers, stones and fists injuring all three of them. The police personnel have been sent to the hospital for treatment. Deputy Superintendent of Police Khasim Saheb arrived at the scene and pacified the migrant labourers, who initially refused to have lunch and only wanted to be released immediately. The police officer told them that they had to serve the quarantine period till District Collector asked them to and they would be released after the lockdown was lifted. They were also told that they would be forced to stay put in the same place till further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/migrant-labourers-attack-ap-police-personnel/article31335294.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Work as usual||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/work-as-usual/article31335314.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Free tests only for the poor, clarifies SC||The Supreme Court on Monday modified its April 8 order to clarify that free testing for COVID-19 shall continue to be made available to the poor eligible under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana. Free testing would also be made available to any other category of economically weaker sections of society as notified by the government from time to time, the court said. Private labs would continue to charge the Indian Council of Medical Research rates of up to Rs. 4,500 for tests from people who can afford to pay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/free-tests-only-for-the-poor-clarifies-sc/article31335327.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi records 356 new COVID-19 cases, 4 deaths||The Capital recorded 356 new COVID-19-positive cases and four deaths on Monday, taking the toll to 28, said a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. This is the highest single-day increase in the number of COVID-positive cases. Of the new cases, 325 were classified as “under special operation”, whereas 10 were people with a foreign travel history and their contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-records-356-new-covid-19-cases-4-deaths/article31335541.ece
14 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Workers worried as April salary not yet guaranteed||The likelihood of an extension of the lockdown to combat COVID-19 will mean an entire month of no work for the working class and it has left a question mark on the salaries for April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/workers-worried-as-april-salary-not-yet-guaranteed/article31335364.ece
14 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Govt. turns to real estate to improve financial state||The State government, which is staring at a severe financial crunch, on Monday decided to turn to real estate sector and monetise government properties besides allowing real estate growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-turns-to-real-estate-to-improve-financial-state/article31335363.ece
14 April 2020||RAICHUR,||Ban order covers TLBC||Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar has passed prohibitory order under Section 144 of Cr.PC from Mile 47 to Mile 104 of the Tangabhadra Left Bank Canal to facilitate water release between April 14 and April 25, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ban-order-covers-tlbc/article31335566.ece
14 April 2020||UDUPI/MANGALURU,||Janaushadi Kendras to be open from 7 a.m.||The Pradhan Mantri Bharatiya Janaushadi Pariyojana (PMBJP) Kendras in Udupi district will start functioning at 7 a.m. from Tuesday as per the directions of the District Drug Controller. Meanwhile, Minister Kota Srinivasa Poojary has directed Janaushadi (generic medicine stores) kendras in Dakshina Kannada district to be open from 7 a.m. instead of 9 a.m. from Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/janaushadi-kendras-to-be-open-from-7-am/article31335567.ece
14 April 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Persistent hypoxia triggered deaths’||Persistent hypoxia (reduced oxygen in the cells) was the main trigger for the death of persons who tested positive for COVID-19 in the State, according to doctors. In some patients, it happened all of a sudden. In some, their condition did not improve even though they were provided oxygen supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/persistent-hypoxia-triggered-deaths/article31335416.ece
14 April 2020||New Delhi,||Shah’s intervention made ICMR increase testing||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) expanded the number of laboratories that could conduct COVID-19 tests on an intervention by the Union Home Minister, The Hindu has learnt. After the first COVID-19 positive case was detected on January 30, all samples were sent only to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. As cases surged and a need was felt to ramp up testing, the ICMR was asked to enable more laboratories to conduct the tests. Owing to multiple factors, including paucity of kits, the ICMR follows strict guidelines before samples are collected from a person showing symptoms. At a meeting in March, Home Minister Amit Shah asked ICMR Director-General Balram Bhargava to include more facilities that could carry out the tests, or else the responsibility would be given to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). On March 17, the ICMR activated 72 more laboratories to test for COVID-19 and revised the testing criteria for the same. On March 23, it fast-tracked approval for Indian COVID-19 testing kits for commercial use in the ICMR approved government and private laboratories. The ICMR is the apex body for “formulation, coordination and promotion of biomedical research” and is one of the oldest medical research bodies in the world. With India's confirmed cases approaching the five-digit mark and positives doubling every four or six days, there was criticism that the ICMR's strategy appeared to be focused on border control and applying a restrictive testing criteria. Until March 20, it had tested only around 1,000 samples of those hospitalised with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI). This was to check prevalence of the disease in the wider population. This was in addition to those who displayed symptoms and had a travel history or had contact with someone who had. It expanded testing to non-hospitalised SARI only after mid-March, and found several instances where patients did not have a travel history or history of contact. Low number of tests While the organisation now conducts nearly 11,000 to 13,000 tests a day, India still has a low number of tests, about 100 per million population. The low testing is also due to a reliance on imported kits, which is influenced by global supply chains, inadequate lab facilities to analyse a sufficient number of samples simultaneously and fewer trained personnel to conduct these tests. While it has roped in private labs, many say they are unable to conduct tests simply because the Supreme Court has ordered tests to be done for free and the government hasn't detailed a plan on how it would compensate companies for these tests. On January 17, flights from China and Hong Kong were placed on surveillance at three airports and screening of passengers arriving from all international flights began on March 4 when the first-time the number of positive case jumped from six to 24. The first case was reported on January 30. As on March, there was only one district in Maharashtra, where more than 10 cases were reported and by April 4, the number of such districts spiked to 70. Till Sunday, the number of affected districts stood at 354. On March 27, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba wrote to all the States to monitor 15 lakh passengers who arrived at the international airports from January 18-March 23 and stressed that despite details of all passengers shared with the States, there was a gap in effective monitoring.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shahs-intervention-made-icmr-increase-testing/article31335272.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Online child porn traffic rises by 95%‘||Online child pornography traffic after the lockdown in the country has gone up by 95% with online data monitoring websites showing an increase in demand for searches like “child porn”, “sexy child” and “teen sex videos.” “Traffic from India increased by 95% between March 24 and 26, as compared to average traffic before the lockdown,” the India Child Protection Fund (ICPF) said in a statement citing data from Pornhub, the world’s largest pornography website. The ICPF was set up in January 2020 and aims to support NGOs with funding resources for curbing exploitation of children. The fund is managed by Nobel Laureate Kailash Satyarthi’s son, Bhuwan Ribhu. The spike in consumption indicates “millions of paedophiles, child rapists and child pornography addicts have migrated online, making the Internet extremely unsafe for children. Without stringent action, this could result in a drastic rise in sexual crimes against children,” says Nivedita Ahuja, spokesperson for ICPF. Unseen threat As children spend more time online during the lockdown, international agencies like Europol, the United Nations and ECPAT (End Child Prostitution and Trafficking) have reported that paedophiles and child pornography addicts have increased activity to target children online to ‘groom’ them — befriending them on social media, building an emotional connection and luring them to perform sexual activities through photos and videos. In a survey conducted in December on demand for child pornography in 100 cities, the ICPF found that on an average there were 5 million downloads per month. It also pointed out there was an increase in demand for violent content involving children. It demands an urgent crackdown on child pornography through a pan-India tracker through the use of artificial intelligence which can monitor hosting, sharing, viewing and downloading of child sexual abuse material and provide the information to the government agencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/online-child-porn-traffic-rises-by-95/article31335282.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ministers, bureaucrats return to offices||As work from home ended for Ministers in the Union Council and senior bureaucrats on Monday, some activity slowly returned to hitherto deserted corridors of power in New Delhi. Ministers were seen at work at their Ministries donning masks and after going through temperature checks at the entrance of their office buildings. While the Ministry of Culture saw some heavy duty sanitisation and social distancing, standard protocols were applied at the Jal Shakti Ministry. “We have very little staff coming into work today, basically the Minister, personal secretary, the Secretary, two Additional Secretaries and Joint Secretaries came to office,” said a source. Only two of the six attendants were asked to report for work and sent vehicles as public transport was not available. “Sanitisers at the doors and appropriate distancing and donning of masks have been made compulsory,” added the source. The Ministry of Minority Affairs too had these SOPs in place but instead of providing vehicles to lower level staff, those who had their vehicles were encouraged to report for work. As for touching of files, an aide to the Minister said the Ministry had long shifted to an “e-office” set up. “Barely 30% of the staff made it to work today,” said the source. Meetings are being held as far as possible through video conferencing and the return to office for the government of India is being seen as part of Prime Minister Modi’s evolving response to COVID-19 , from “jaan hai toh jahan hai” (the world for he who lives) to “Jaan bhi, jahaan bhi” (Life yes, but the World too), pointing towards a staggered exit from the lockdown post April 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ministers-bureaucrats-return-to-offices/article31335240.ece
14 April 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha govt. modifies lockdown guidelines||Set to enter the second phase of the lockdown imposed to fight the COVID-19 outbreak from April 15 to 30, the Odisha government has made relaxations to kick-start activities relating to agriculture, horticulture, fisheries, forest, drinking water and e-commerce. One more COVID-19 positive case was detected in Bhubaneswar on Monday, taking the State’s total to 55. Active cases now stand at 41 as 13 have recovered and one has died. Announcing modifications in the lockdown guidelines on Monday, State Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) Pradeep Jena said social distancing norms would be strictly followed while facilitating activities that were related to livelihood of people. Home delivery E-commerce activities would function during the extended lockdown period when companies engaged in home delivery of goods and services would be allowed to operate without any hindrance. Restaurants could carry out home delivery but could not allow people to eat inside. The SRC said farmers could resume all agricultural activities, including harvesting, selling their rabi crops and activities relating to preparing their fields for the coming kharif season. The shops and establishments engaged in selling agricultural implements, cattle feed, fish feed and food proceeding and packaging would also be allowed to remain open. The procurement of rabi crop would be resumed and all cold storages and godowns would be allowed to carry out their activities by maintaining social distancing. Farmers could also purchase agricultural implements. The cooperative banks and other such institutions would disburse loans to farmers during the lockdown period, said Mr. Jena. Activities relating to MGNREGA, Swachh Bharat and rural housing schemes would go on and the Panchayati Raj Department would also facilitate construction and repair of drinking water facilities. People engaged in fishing, floriculture, tendu leaf plucking and collection of non-timber forest produce could carry out their work. The Forest Department would be allowed to carry out plantation and take up construction and repair of waterbodies for wild animals, said Mr. Jena.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-govt-modifies-lockdown-guidelines/article31335255.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||‘No proof yet on BCG benefits’||Madhukar Pai is Canada Research Chair in Epidemiology & Global Health and Director, McGill Global Health Programs and Professor at McGill University. In an e-mail interview, he explains the debate on BCG vaccine’s purported effectiveness against COVID-19 and how global approaches to communicable diseases might change.  You have advised against over-optimism with regards to the link between BCG and COVID-19 immunity. What are your reasons? As a TB researcher who was born in India, I would be thrilled if BCG worked against COVID-19. It is a cheap, readily available, safe vaccine. But we are not there yet. Currently, what we have are a few ecological studies (not peer-reviewed) which take country-level BCG and COVID-19 data, and report a correlation that countries that give BCG to children have a lower rates of COVID-19 cases and deaths. Based on this early signal and based on our prior knowledge that BCG does have non-specific immune-boosting properties, it is perfectly fine to conduct trials to confirm the hypothesis. But the current ecological evidence is far from sufficient for any immediate public health or clinical use during this crisis. Ecological studies offer a very weak level of evidence because correlations that are true at the country level might not hold true at the individual level. For example, we know not everyone who lives in a low-income country is poor — some individuals are very rich. Same logic applies to ecological comparisons. In addition, ecological studies have been done at a time when the epidemic is exploding in many low/middle income countries. Repeating the studies in a month might produce different results. We also know many low/middle income countries, including India, are seriously under-testing for COVID-19. Lastly, there is also bias due to confounding — countries that give BCG are mostly in Asia, Africa and Latin America, with much younger populations than Europe or North America. So, until trial results are out, countries like India must focus on interventions such as large-scale testing, isolation, contact-tracing, and physical distancing (where feasible). TB continues to kill thousands of people in India. How might coronavirus affect TB services in India and what can be done about that? This is my biggest worry — even without COVID-19, TB kills 1,000 Indians every day. No country has more TB patients than India. And now, with the lockdown, things are going to get much worse. Already, there are preliminary reports of a 80% decline in TB case notifications. People on TB treatment are struggling to get their medicines on time, and people with new TB symptoms are unable to access medical care. TB patients and survivors often have lung damage and if they got COVID-19, they could be at higher risk of complications. I worry about an increase in TB mortality in the coming months, and that will be so sad. There is also the risk of running out of anti-TB medicines, since India relies heavily on China for raw materials. What can be done to avert this disaster? Right now, all known TB patients could be supported via remote or tele-consultations using call centres, or other digital technologies. Drugs could be sent to their homes via couriers or through local pharmacies (that are still open). For any new TB patient, TB medicines could be given for a longer duration (e.g. 2 or 3 months) to ensure they have enough.  Has the TB programme lessons for the COVID-19 response? Or vice versa? Yes, TB programmes are known for public health interventions such as active case finding, contact investigations, respiratory isolation, and community-based patient support. These skills and expertise could be leveraged to tackle COVID-19. Also, some of the existing TB technologies could come in handy. For example, India has two molecular technologies in use (GeneXpert by Cepheid and TrueNat by Molbio) that are used for TB testing and both can now be used to test for COVID-19. India is already using digital adherence technologies such as 99DOTS and Everwell Hub and these could be repurposed to also work for COVID-19. India has shown great commitment to tackling COVID-19 in a short period of time. I wish some of that commitment will also be shown to tackling TB. How can a country prepare for a pandemic? I don’t think any country in the world was adequately prepared for COVID-19. Even the richest countries in the world are struggling right now. A big lesson for India and many other countries is that no country can prepare for a crisis within days or weeks. Being prepared means having a robust healthcare system, especially primary healthcare. In short, universal health coverage is a pre-requisite for real preparedness. We know India has failed to invest in health for decades, barely spending 1.5% of the GDP on health. Even the bare minimum recommended health spend of 2.5% of GDP has not been realised. This chronic under-investment has left the public health system weak, and has allowed the private and informal health sectors to thrive. This means, access to healthcare is not equitable – the rich and the middle class will manage, but what happens to the millions below the poverty line? If any good comes out of this crisis, then it will be India waking up to the reality that investing in health is paramount for economic growth and security. How do you think COVID-19 will/should change global policy approach towards communicable diseases? COVID-19 will change global health in many ways. The optimist in me hopes all countries will learn from the pandemic and invest in universal health coverage and re-affirm health as a human right. Global health must be more than just fighting one epidemic after another. I hope investments in public health and developmental assistance will no longer be viewed as a drain on resources. I hope countries will understand the need to build a social safety net for all.  I don’t think any country in the world was adequately prepared for COVID-19||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-proof-yet-on-bcg-benefits/article31335270.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||1.27 lakh volunteers offer services||More than 1.27 lakh individuals and 5,300 organisations have so far registered themselves as volunteers with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) for the fight against COVID-19. The NDMA has also received donation offers for more than 8.35 lakh items including digital infrared thermometers, digital thermal scanners (full body), masks, gloves, sanitisers and personal protective gear. The donated articles, besides the medical equipment and other goods being produced by the public and private sectors, are being supplied to the States as per requirement. The Authority, through its subordinate and State bodies, is monitoring all the operations associated with the measures being taken at the ground level. The NCC students have been helping the local administrations in extending help to the needy and spreading awareness about the preventive measures to be taken to arrest the spread. Over 30,000 Civil Defence volunteers have been carrying out relief works and maintaining order in the affected areas. About 11,500 NGOs have been organising food camps and 3,900 NGOs have set up temporary shelter homes for the stranded. Online courses The Department of Personnel and Training, in coordination with the Ministry of Human Resource Development, has already come up with online courses on the pandemic for the frontline workers. These courses are meant for doctors, nurses, paramedics, hygiene workers, technicians, auxiliary nursing midwives, State government and civil defence officials. The Health Ministry has also been issuing specific guidelines on healthcare facilities and treatment. The Integrated Government Online Training (iGOT) courses are available on the Diksha platform, both for the laptop/desktop and mobile phone users. The launch of iGOT platform was fast-forwarded as requested by the respective Empowered Group of Officers to prevent the spread of infection among, and through, the frontline workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/127-lakh-volunteers-offer-services/article31335290.ece
14 April 2020||CHENNAI,||‘In U.K., we are offering supportive treatment’||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s fulsome praise for the U.K.’s National Health Service (NHS) for his treatment for COVID-19 has raised the profile of the public-funded healthcare service. A senior member of the NHS and alumnus of the Madras Medical College Pala B. Rajesh details the protocols to combat the pandemic:     How helpful is a lockdown in containing the spread of the infection? Any decision that has been made thus far, regarding this unprecedented epidemic has been binary. Public safety and economic backlash have been the two considerations. In the United Kingdom, we took a decision in late March that the lockdown would be total and we would have a review it in three weeks. Public health experts have recommended the three week lockdown based on the experience of China, Italy, Spain and Singapore. What we follow here is quite simple. Step 1: If you have fever, cough, muscle pain, stay at home. A high viral load usually lasts five days, but you may get a second peak- which is why we recommend the two-week isolation period. You may feel well in a week but please do not go out. If any one was in quarantine with you, your family, this applies to them as well. Step 2: If you are still ill, go to a hospital. In the NHS, you will be tested for COVID-19. What about non-COVID treatments/surgeries? Hospitals in the U.K. have a primary triage in place — COVID-19 and Non-COVID-19 sections. I know there is opinion in India that elective surgeries must be stopped. I both agree, and disagree. In the U.K., since the outbreak, we have prioritised surgeries as per the level. Priority level 1 is divided into emergency (Surgery must be done within 24 hours), and urgent (surgery in 72 hours); in Level 2, patients can wait for up to four weeks; in Level 3, the surgery can be delayed for three months, and Level 4 comprises of people whose surgery can be delayed for over three months. Every speciality has been given guidelines as to what constitutes an emergency. Every hospital in the U.K. has ensured a few operation theatres remain reserved for non-COVID-19 surgeries. The rest of the theatres have become extensions of intensive care units. COVID-19 theatres have intensive care specialists, anaethetists and general medicine practitioners. But at the moment, we have not been overwhelmed in our hospitals, possibly because 90% of the population has been following the lockdown. India has done very well with the lockdown as well. There is infrastructure in place — both Central and State government health systems. Perhaps, the government may think of farming out non-COVID-19 patients to the private sector, as has been done in Assam, according to experts there. What about treatment options for COVID-19? We are collecting a lot of pre-publication material. At the moment, whatever we are doing is speculative measures taken by each group in their circumstances. In the U.K., we have begun to use hydroxychloroquine with antibiotics on a trial basis, of course, because frankly, we don’t know yet what exactly will work. Meanwhile, BCG seems to offer some kind of protection mechanism. But in the U.K., we are mainly offering supportive treatments. One thing that is appreciable during this pandemic is that everyone is freely exchanging information, so that other nations do not make the same mistakes In U.K., we seem to be on the upward crest of the curve; and experts are saying we should remain there for a couple of weeks. We will know the effect of the lockdown in a week’s time. So far, we have been recording only the COVID-19 deaths, but there may be others who do not come into hospital. The assumption now is that everyone is COVID-19 positive unless he or she tests negative. We have reports from America of the particular vulnerability of African American people. Are you seeing some thing similar in the U.K.? What we are noticing, however, is a certain predilection among doctors from overseas working here. There have been 39 deaths among NHS doctors and nurses so far in the epidemic. These include people from India, Pakistan, Sudan and Egypt, for instance. COVID-19, I’m sure, will remain in the community, like perhaps dengue or chikungunya. It will raise its head during winters in this country. Once a vaccine is ready, recommendations may be made for vulnerable populations, including senior citizens.  COVID-19, I’m sure, will remain in the community, like perhaps dengue or chikungunya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-uk-we-are-offering-supportive-treatment/article31335257.ece
14 April 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra virus cases cross 2,000||The COVID-19 outbreak continued to wreak havoc in Maharashtra as a staggering 352 persons — the highest single-day surge yet — tested positive on Monday. The State’s cumulative tally exceeded well past the 2000 mark, surging to 2334, while its death toll rose to 160 with 11 deaths occurring during the day. The State recorded a jump of nearly 50% in the number of positive cases since Sunday, with Mumbai alone reporting 242 new cases as its tally alarmingly soared to 1,540 cases. Of the 11 deaths, nine occurred in Mumbai city, taking the city’s death toll to 101 – more than 60% of the State’s death toll. One death was reported from Pune, taking the district death toll to 30, while Mira Bhayander, which saw a rise with seven new cases, reported its second death. Till date, 229 patients in the State have been discharged following full recovery. Fresh cases were also reported from Thane (9) and Vasai Virar (5). In Pune, the number of positive cases continued to surge with as many as 55 new cases being reported from the district, taking the total tally to 337 with Pune city reporting 295 of these cases. Thus far, Pune division - which comprises of Pune, Satara, Kolhapur, Sangli and Solapur districts – has reported a total 35 deaths. Nagpur, where the virus had hitherto remained in check, saw a sudden surge with 11 new cases. Malegaon in Nashik district, which is rapidly emerging as a virus hotspot in north Maharashtra, reported 14 more cases, taking its tally to 29. The State has the highest death toll as well as the highest number of positive cases in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-virus-cases-cross-2000/article31335259.ece
14 April 2020||Bhopal,||Bhopal police check into hotels||In an attempt to contain the coronavirus spread within its ranks, the Bhopal police have moved 2,100 personnel — the entire city police — to hotels near their place of work. The department has also rejigged its deployment strategy, with a focus on dealing with curfew violations and quelling apprehensions about quarantine, as the incidence of normally reported crimes has come down. “Policemen were getting infected at the workplace, and taking the illness to their families, who were then spreading it in the neighbourhood. This way, other places could get infected, too. So, it became important to break the chain of contact between workplace and home,” said Upendra Jain, Bhopal Additional Director General of Police. Declared hotspots As cases spiral in Bhopal, 12 policemen and their seven family members have been infected too. The police believe the personnel contracted the illness while on duty within the Jahangirabad and the Aishbagh Police Station limits, where most of the 20 infected members of the Tablighi Jamaat, who had returned from the meeting at the Nizamuddin centre, were found. Their contact is yet to be conclusively established, but the stations have been declared hotspots. Enforcing the lockdown, supplying food to the poor and dispelling rumours, as the threat of infection looms large on each personnel on duty, has sprung a novel challenge for the police. This has prompted an overhaul in the approach, to ensure safety of citizens, while ensuring they don’t get infected themselves. Averting risk To avert the risk of contracting the illness, personnel can directly reach their beat from hotels instead of reporting at stations first and must observe strict social distancing at police stations, which are sanitised regularly. During patrolling, only one official can ride a two-wheeler and at most two can drive a vehicle. Officials above 55 years, who are more vulnerable, have been deployed at back-up jobs, and not on the frontline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhopal-police-check-into-hotels/article31335264.ece
14 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Extend rations to those unlisted’||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking the government to offer increased rations to people who are identified as beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) as well as vulnerable sections who may not enlisted under it. The Congress president said that in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic, “we must ensure that no one faces hunger”. “I welcome your decision to provide free of cost 5 kg grain/person in addition to the entitlements under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) from April-June, 2020,” Ms Gandhi said in her letter. “However, given the adverse impact of the lockdown and its prolonged impact of people’s livelihoods, I write to you to consider a few suggestions. Firstly, the provision of 10 kg grains/person to NFSA beneficiaries must be extended for an additional period of 3 months i.e. till September, 2020. Given the chronic economic distress faced by these beneficiaries, the food entitlements may be provided free of cost,” she added. The Congress chief also suggested providing 10 kg grains/person free of cost for a period of 6 months to all those who may be facing food insecurity but don’t have ration cards. Use buffer stock “Lakhs of vulnerable people across the country face chronic food insecurity due to the lockdown. This is tragic given that India has large buffer stock of food grains precisely for exigencies like the current pandemic,”Ms. Gandhi said, adding that migrant labourers and many others facing distress may have been excluded from the NFSA lists. The Congress leader also said that releasing additional food grains to the States will help create storage space with Food Corporation of India (FCI) to scale up the rabi procurement of wheat and rice. “The current crisis has pushed many relatively food secure families into food insecurity and poverty. Population increases since 2011 have not been considered for determining each State’s entitlement under NFSA. The above measures are critical to safeguard people against food inflation, at a juncture where supply chain disruptions are causing price rise,” Ms. Gandhi noted. Groups excluded Separately, in a series of tweets, former Finance Minister P. Chidamabaram, too, pointed out that direct benefit transfers under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Scheme, that was tweeted by the Ministry of Finance, has left out several segments. Listing these sections, Mr Chidambarama said: “Examples:Tenant farmers, Landless agri labour, Non-agri daily wagers, MGNREGA workers without work, Migrant workers, Self-employed workers,Taxi, auto drivers,Delivery agents,Male Jan Dhan account holders, Petty shop keepers, Street vendors etc.” He added, “The above do not fall under @nsitharaman’s plan and are without any money for the last 21 days”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/extend-rations-to-those-unlisted/article31335242.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Floor test is Governor’s discretion’||A Governor can call for a floor test any time he objectively feels a government in power has lost the confidence of the House and is on shaky ground, the Supreme Court held on Monday. In a judgment, a Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Hemant Gupta concluded that a Governor can call for a trust vote if he has arrived at a prima facie opinion, based on objective material, that the incumbent State government has lost its majority in the Assembly. “The idea underlying the trust vote is to uphold the political accountability of the elected government to the State legislature... In directing a trust vote, the Governor does not favour a particular political party. It is inevitable that the specific timing of a trust vote may tilt the balance towards the party possessing a majority at the time the trust vote is directed. All political parties are equally at risk of losing the support of their elected legislators, just as the legislators are at risk of losing the vote of the electorate. This is how the system of parliamentary governance operates,” Justice Chandrachud observed. The intention behind a trust vote was to enable the elected representatives to determine if the Council of Ministers commanded the confidence of the House. It was the MLAs, and not the Governor, who made the ultimate call whether a government should stay in power or not, the court said. It said that a Governor’s power to call for a floor test is not restricted only before the inception of a State government immediately after elections, but continues throughout its term. The court clarified that the Governor’s requirement to have a trust vote does not “short-circuit” any disqualification proceedings pending before the Speaker. It said a Governor need not wait for the Speaker’s decision on the resignation of rebel MLAs before calling for a trust vote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/floor-test-is-governors-discretion/article31335232.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||19 Indians stuck in Dubai hope for leniency||As the government prepares to announce plans for the next phase of the lockdown on Tuesday, 19 Indians stuck inside Dubai airport for three weeks have renewed their pleas to be allowed to return to India as a special case. The 19 Indians, some of whom were in transit from Europe, and others who had checked in for flights from Dubai, had been turned away at the boarding gates on March 20 and March 21 by airlines officials after India put a series of travel bans in place. After spending several days sleeping inside the departure terminal, the group was taken for COVID-19 tests, and once they were cleared, allowed to check into the airport hotel, said officials. “We have been in constant touch with some of them and with local authorities and Emirates airlines, who have put them in the airport hotel. We had also given some financial assistance when they initially got stranded. If there is any requirement of medicine, etc., we will provide that help as well,” India’s Consul General in Dubai Vipul said. However, members of the group stuck inside the Dubai airport say the only thing that will bring comfort is knowing when they can return. “For 25 days, I haven’t been out in the sun or felt fresh air. The airport is mostly shut down, and except for short trips to one restaurant for food, we are confined to our rooms,” said Deepak Gupta, a professional with a multinational corporation in Gurgaon, who worries most for his wife back home as she is pregnant. On April 9, the UAE government sent a note verbale to all Embassies in Abu Dhabi, asking them to repatriate their citizens who needed to return, offering to help with flight arrangements, ensuring COVID-19 tests for them all, and hospital treatment for those found to be positive. “This includes travellers, naturally, but also any nationals who seek to go back to their homes and families,” UAE Ambassador Mohammad Al Banna told The Hindu on Saturday. India’s Ambassador to the UAE Pavan Kapoor said that no Indian could be repatriated until after the lockdown had ended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/19-indians-stuck-in-dubai-hope-for-leniency/article31335275.ece
14 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||Stopped from selling vegetables: Muslim vendors||A group of Muslim vendors in Uttar Pradesh’s Mahoba district complained to the administration on Monday that they were not being allowed so sell vegetables in the villages because of their religious identity. Five vendors alleged they were abused with communal slurs by a group of locals and stopped from selling vegetables. Out of fear, the vendors have not stepped out of their homes since April 11.  Chased away On that day, they were allegedly stopped, abused and chased away when they had gone to a village to sell vegetables. Mohammad Shamim, one of the vendors, said they had gone to the village and about 100-150 people gathered to buy their stock. However, soon some people entered and asked the locals not to buy from them as they were Muslims, said Mr. Shamim. The vegetables sold to about 10-20 people were returned to them, alleged Mr. Shamim while narrating the ordeal to journalists. “Those people said we are Muslims and have chand-sitara (the Islamic symbol of star and crescent) on our vehicles, and that we are [Tablighi] Jamaat people, spreading corona[virus],” said Mr. Shamim. The vendors also alleged that while being chased away, they were told never to return.  Action assured Mahoba Additional District Magistrate Ram Suresh Verma received the complaint of the vendors and assured them that they would not face any problems. “We are holding a probe into the matter. Necessary action will be taken. We will not let anybody face any problem,” the ADM said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stopped-from-selling-vegetables-muslim-vendors/article31335548.ece
14 April 2020||Mumbai,||Law enforcers worried as Deep Nude makes a return||A controversial website that was in the news for all the wrong reasons last year before being shut down has now gone operational once again. Not only that, this time it seems to have caught the attention of Indian cybercriminals, who are using it to prey on women. Cybercrime agencies in Maharashtra and the country are currently tracking Deep Nude, a website that uses a simple Artificial Intelligence algorithm to generate nude pictures of clothed people. The website requires a user to upload any picture and within seconds generates a nude version of the subject of the picture, which are typically of women. What is more worrying, officials said, is that there are several versions of Deep Nude on the Internet, including an app and a Twitter Handle; one page even seeks donations from users. “This is a serious crime and we have a team to monitor this and take stringent action,” Superintendent of Police, Maharashtra Cyber department, Balsing Rajput, said. Blackmailing victims Experts said that once a nude of any woman was generated, the possibilities for misuse were endless. Already, information about some women being targeted had started trickling in. “We have received information about pictures of women being morphed using Deep Nude and being used for nefarious purposes like blackmail, pornography and creating catfish accounts on dating apps. Information is being shared with the relevant police agencies and we are tracking this trend further,” civilian cyber expert Shubham Singh said. Catfish accounts are accounts made and managed by criminal elements using alluring pictures of women to ensnare men into committing acts that set them up for blackmail later. Typically, elements who use such websites thrive on the fact that the victims are reluctant to register complaints for fear of the stigma attached to it. Officers stress on the importance of reporting such cases. “Recent trends like the Saree Challenge, where women upload their pictures on their social media accounts and tag their friends, creating a chain, present endless opportunities to criminal elements to prey on them using websites like Deep Nude,” an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/law-enforcers-worried-as-deep-nude-makes-a-return/article31335280.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Don’t free prisoners who test positive: SC||Prisoners who test positive for COVID-19 should not be released on interim bail or parole, the Supreme Court ordered on Monday. A Bench led by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde said appropriate tests for COVID-19 should be conducted on prisoners scheduled for release. However, the court agreed to a plea that prisoners or detenus who have been under detention for two years in the foreigners’ detention centres in Assam should be released on account of the pandemic. Despite objections by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that their release would see them mix with the local population again, the court modified its May 2019 order to allow these detenus to furnish a bond of Rs. 5,000 instead of Rs. 1 lakh. They need to also furnish two Indian citizens as sureties. Decongesting prisons The Bench passed these orders during a suo motu hearing on measures taken to decongest prisons, correction homes and detention centres. On March 23, the Bench had ordered the States and the Union Territories to set up special committees to examine the cases of prisoners and shortlist those who could be granted bail or parole. On Monday, however, Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal, for the Centre, raised the spectre of released prisoners transmitting the virus to the outside population. Tests mandatory Taking this into consideration, the Bench directed that “no prisoner shall be released if he/she has suffered from coronavirus disease in communicable form hereafter. For this purpose, appropriate tests will be carried out”. “If it is found that a prisoner who has been released is suffering from coronavirus after the release, necessary steps will be taken by the authority concerned by placing him/her in appropriate quarantine facility.” The court directed that transportation of prisoners would be done in full compliance of the rules and norms of social distancing.  The court said the order would also be applicable to correctional homes, detention centres and protection homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-free-prisoners-who-test-positive-sc/article31335286.ece
14 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Muslims conduct Hindu man’s funeral rites||In a display of communal harmony, Muslim neighbours of a 37-year-old Hindu man, who died of throat cancer, carried his bier and performed the funeral rites here on Monday when his relatives could not come to the city because of the nationwide lockdown enforced to control the COVID-19 pandemic. The area where the man resided is under an indefinite curfew. Rajendra Bagri, who died on Sunday night after suffering from cancer for a long time, is survived by his younger brother and an aunt, who ekes out a living by collecting scrap. While the family did not have enough money for funeral, there were no other relatives or family members living nearby who could come to help them. The locality, Bajrang Nagar in Bhatta Basti, where the family resides, is dominated by Muslims, most of whom are drivers, factory workers and daily wage earners. Rajendra Bagri’s Muslim neighbours collected contributions and made arrangements for taking the body to the crematorium on Monday. The Muslim neighbours chanted ‘Ram Naam Satya Hai’ and carried the bier on their shoulders from Bagri’s house to the main road of Bhatta Basti from where a pickup truck took them to the Chandpole cremation ground. Only eight persons were allowed to go for the funeral because of the curfew. Bagri’s brother lit the pyre and the cremation was done as per the Hindu rituals. Those who attended the funeral included Hamid Kayamkhani, Fahim Qureshi, Hanif Shah, Irfan Qureshi and Abdul Waheed. They also bought food and grocery items for the bereaved family. Pappu Qureshi, a neighbour who helped organise the funeral, told The Hindu that Muslims in the locality had come forward to help the Hindu family as a humanitarian gesture. “It was our duty as neighbours, as they had no relatives here... We have got immense satisfaction by helping them out.” Rajasthan Nagrik Manch general secretary Basant Hariyana said the gesture of Muslim neighbours was a befitting reply to those who were targeting the community after the spread of novel coronavirus among some Tablighi Jamaat members. “This is a perfect example of our composite culture, in which the bonds uniting us are so strong despite the attempts to create divisions and hatred.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/muslims-conduct-hindu-mans-funeral-rites/article31335288.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. urged to revoke patent on cancer drug||The Cancer Patients Aid Association (CPAA) has written to the Health Ministry to revoke the Indian patent on Remdesivir, a potential anti-viral drug under testing for COVID-19 patients. Remdesivir is produced by Gilead Life Sciences. The efficacy of the drug in curing extremely sick COVID-19 patients, particularly those requiring ventilator assistance, is still being investigated. The CPAA said the patent on the drug would make it unaffordable and this would include cancer patients who are at heightened risk of complications from the viral infection. The CPAA provides for the treatment and rehabilitation of cancer patients. The Indian patent on Remdesivir was granted as recently as February 18. The Association said the patent ought to be revoked not only on the grounds that it could incentivise other manufacturers to make the drug and offer it cheaply but also on the grounds that the drug wasn’t “novel.” “We urge you to revoke the patent No. 332280 granted in A.No.’821 under Section 66 of the Patents Act, 1970, in public interest, immediately. In any event, we have cogent grounds to state that the said application ought not to have been granted a patent as it lacks novelty and inventive step, and that the learned Controller erred in not taking cognizance of the prior art available in the public domain,” the CPAA letter noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-urged-to-revoke-patent-on-cancer-drug/article31335252.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC agrees to hear pleas on Tablighi incident||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to hear petitions filed by the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind and other minority organisations for a direction to the Centre to stop the media from communalising the Tablighi Jamaat incident. A Bench led by Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde directed the Press Council of India to be impleaded and posted the case for hearing after two weeks. The petitions said certain sections of the print and electronic media are spreading bigotry and communal hatred in relation to the Tablighi Jamaat conference held in the Nizamuddin Markaz area. The Jamiat writ, filed through advocate Ejaz Maqbool, sought a direction to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to identify and take strict action against sections of the media which are communalising the Nizamuddin Markaz issue. The petition said the “unfortunate incident of the Tablighi Jamaat was used to demonise and blame the entire Muslim community.” Certain sections of the media, instead of exercising restraint, reported the incident with communal flavour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-agrees-to-hear-pleas-on-tablighi-incident/article31335273.ece
14 April 2020||Mumbai,||Worli makes up for 20% of Mumbai’s cases||Dharavi reported two new cases on Monday evening, bringing the total to 49. One is a 51-year-old resident of Murugan chawl while another is a 21-year-old man residing in Kalyanwadi. The latter is a wardboy at the Breach Candy hospital. The G South ward consisting of Worli saw another surge in numbers, going from 246 to 280. Bandra East and Andheri East also saw a hike. Ten wards have more than 50 cases in the city. Figures up to Sunday show that Worli (G South) continued to leap ahead of all city wards in terms of the cases. It saw a sharp rise, going from 246 cases to 280 cases, making up for 20% of Mumbai’s 1,399 cases. BMC officials have attributed the rise to aggressive testing in Worli Koliwada, BDD chawl and Jijamata Nagar areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/worli-makes-up-for-20-of-mumbais-cases/article31335261.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plans to construct new Parliament on track||The Centre’s plan to construct a new Parliament building by August 2022 is on track and the tender for the project would be floated after the lockdown is lifted, according to the architects of the project. The design, which is proposed to be triangular and located near the Parliament House, as of now is sufficient for issuing tenders, while the process for the detailed design would run concurrent with the selection of a contractor, HCP Design, Planning and Management said in a written response to a query by The Hindu . The Ahmedabad-based firm had been selected by the Union Housing and Urban Affair Ministry’s construction agency, the Central Public Works Department, in October 2019 to be its consultant for the revamp of the Central Vista and construction of the new Parliament and the Central Secretariat. Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said the building would be ready before the Independence Day, 2022. Asked if the project had been delayed due to the lockdown aimed to curb the pandemic, the HCP said the CPWD, the MoHUA and the consultants were able to work digitally and that there were no major disruptions. The initial deadline for completing the building would be met. The tendering process was underway, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plans-to-construct-new-parliament-on-track/article31335229.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||No new cases from 25 districts, says govt.||“We have identified five verticals under which we will be working including digital and molecular surveillance, rapid and economical diagnostic, hospital assistive devices and PPEs; and supply chain and logistics support systems,” Mr. Agarwal said. The Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) head of the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases-I, R. Gangakhedkar added that over 2,06,212 tests had been conducted so far. “Of these 14,855 tests took place at 156 government labs and 1,913 tests happened at 69 private labs on Sunday. There is no need to worry…we have enough stocks to conduct tests for six weeks,” he said. Replying to a question of Remdesivir being used as a treatment, Dr. Gangakhedkar said as per some observational studies, the drug seems to have some effect on the reproduction of SARS-CoV-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-new-cases-from-25-districts-says-govt/article31335228.ece
14 April 2020||Jammu,||Two assailants kill, injure policemen in Kishtwar||Two assailants, including an undertrial recently freed on parole in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, killed a policeman and injured another in the Chenab Valley’s Kishtwar district on Monday. Weapons were also stolen, officials said. A spokesperson said the two assailants attacked the two Special Police Officers (SPOs), Basit Iqbal and Vishal, near the post set up at Tander Dachin, around 60 km away from Kishtwar town, with axes and injured them seriously at around 1.30 p.m on Monday. “SPO Iqbal succumbed to his injuries. The other officer is seriously injured. Both the assailants have been identified and a search is on under the supervision of the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Kishtwar. The suspected terrorists also took away two weapons from the SPOs,” the spokesperson said. Officials said the duo was on patrol duty at the time of the attack. According to police sources, one of the attackers has a FIR filed against him and was granted bail a few weeks ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-assailants-kill-injure-policemen-in-kishtwar/article31335233.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Centre may raise loan to pay GST dues to States||“Given the extraordinary situation we are in, the government can invoke the provision made in law and raise a loan. They can either have a videoconference of the Council or get the opinion of the States in writing,” he said. In the last GST Council meeting, in fact, Deputy Chief Minister of Gujarat Nitin Patel had floated the idea of the Council itself raising loans but the Council as an entity cannot do that. “The option that was raised by States was to extend the compensation period from 2022 to five more years,” said a source. Much mulling over this has led the government to the third option of raising loans. For December 2019 and January 2020, the Central government owes around Rs. 30,000-35,000 crore as compensation and around Rs. 30,000 crore for February and March. The government had last week released Rs. 14,103 crore to States as the second tranche of compensation for October and November 2019. It paid Rs. 19,950 crore in February for these two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-may-raise-loan-to-pay-gst-dues-to-states/article31335235.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||MGNREGA jobs crash to 1% of normal||No exceptions from restrictions were provided for the MGNREGA under the lockdown, although States were asked to continue implementing the scheme while following social distancing guidelines. While announcing the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana relief package last month, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said MGNREGA daily wages would be increased by Rs. 20, and would support the 13.6 crore families who hold job cards. As The Hindu had reported then, this relief is meaningless at a time when most States have closed down MGNREGA worksites to curb the spread of COVID-19. “This is a collapse of the employment guarantee given to rural Indians at a time when it is most needed,” said Nikhil Dey, an activist with the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan, who has filed a Public Interest Litigation petition in the Supreme Court on the issue along with Magasaysay award winner and RTI activist Aruna Roy. In an interim order after a hearing on April 8, the apex court directed that the matter be listed after two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mgnrega-jobs-crash-to-1-of-normal/article31335234.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Free tests only for the poor, clarifies SC||A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan recorded in its 10-page order that the court’s intention was never to make testing free for all. “We make it clear that the benefit of free testing by a person can be availed only when he or she is covered under any scheme like the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana. We are also of the view that looking into the plight of persons belonging to economically weaker sections of the society, the government may consider as to whether any other categories of persons belonging to economically weaker sections of society can be extended the benefit of free testing of COVID-19. We are conscious that framing of the scheme and its implementation are in the government domain, who are the best experts in such matter,” the court said in its order. The court further directed the Health Ministry to identify beneficiaries among the weaker sections of society, including workers belonging to low income groups in the informal sectors and beneficiaries of Direct Benefit Transfer who can be made eligible for free testing. It directed the Ministry to issue appropriate guidelines in this regard within a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/free-tests-only-for-the-poor-clarifies-sc/article31335238.ece
14 April 2020||New Delhi,||Re-think pro-U.S. stance, CPI(M) urges govt.||Embracing the U.S. as the top-most priority cannot provide any help or relief to the Indian people in strengthening the struggle against the pandemic, the CPI (M) said in a statement here after it was reported that a consignment of rapid testing kits from China, bound for Tamil Nadu, was diverted to the U.S. International media has widely reported how several countries have been hauling up the U.S. for its attempt to block PPE and testing kits from reaching their designated destinations and diverting it for dealing with its domestic health emergency. Sharpest among countries who have flagged the U.S.’ rogue behaviour are Germany, France, Canada, Brazil and even Barbados, the CPI (M) pointed out. The party’s Polit Bureau strongly condemned what it called the U.S.’s unilateral strong arm methods to subvert the sovereign rights of independent countries. “This U.S. intransigence is clearly against the repeated pleading of the WHO for international cooperation in battling the global pandemic,” the statement said. It urged the Modi government to draw proper lessons from this “obnoxious behaviour of U.S. imperialism,” the statement said. The statement once again flagged the capitulation by the Indian government in lifting the ban on export of hydroxychloroquine on humanitarian grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/re-think-pro-us-stance-cpim-urges-govt/article31335244.ece
14 April 2020||Bhopal,||Remove fear from mind, says recovered nurse||After trumping the coronavirus, Rajesh Aswara is eager to return to the isolation ward of the M.Y. Hospital. He has defeated with grit the fear evoked by the disease. And going back to duty as a male nurse now, he can tell others how he became the first in Indore to do it. “Now that I have overcome corona, I am more confident and want to help others combat it,” said Mr. Aswara, 48. To all nurses across the world, he says: “First of all, remove fear from your mind. Second, treat a patient only with a personal protective equipment (PPE) kit on. Don’t work without it.” Not wearing a kit, while treating a COVID-19 patient, proved him dear. “I wore just a mask and gloves,” he said. The patient was among the first cases to be reported from Indore on March 22. Until March 25 each day, when the patient died, he helped her put on a face mask, checked vitals and fed her. On March 26, his worst fear came true. After being told he had tested positive for the illness, his limbs trembled for a good 15 minutes. Passing the first day at the ward was the toughest, as his cough turned a sombre blackish. And with two-three patients dying of the coronavirus at the hospital every day, he feared: Kahi agla number mera toh nahi? (Am I going to be the next?) When he began losing hope, doctors motivated him to not give up, nurses prayed for him, he prayed for himself, ate heartily and on time and “just followed properly every instruction of doctors.” Doctors told him: “ Ghabrana nahi [don’t jitter]. Just follow our instructions.” Being admitted to the sister hospital of another where he had worked for 12 years, he knew almost every nurse. “Brother, you have to go out only after getting fine,” they told him. When he got better by March 4, he could lend the kind of support to patients, who began filling the ward, that he is used to giving as a nurse: the will to fight it out, and survive; better at it now having done it himself. On April 6 at 5.30 p.m, Mr. Aswara became the first patient in Indore to overcome the illness.His mantra to do it? “I just didn’t let my confidence lose.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/remove-fear-from-mind-says-recovered-nurse/article31335250.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Woman drowns all 5 of her children in the Ganga||Bhadohi Superintendent of Police Ram Badan Singh said that during questioning Ms. Yadav said she committed the act due to mental stress and a quarrel with her husband. “There was nothing to state that she had scarcity of food. We went to her house. There was food prepared as well and there was no scarcity of any item.” The police said Ms. Yadav had been booked for murder, arrested and produced in a court. The police posted photographs purportedly of Ms. Yadav’s house showing food prepared there. The portion of the Jahangirabad ghat where the alleged incident occurred is deep and has a strong flow, the police said.  Village pradhan Shreechandra Yadav told The Hindu that they were still trying to understand what triggered the woman’s actions as her family had no financial crisis or scarcity of grains. “ Aisi koi samasya nahi hai. Jagah zameen bhi hai. Haal theek hai  [They had no such problem. They even own land. Their financial situation is sound],” he said. The woman had a ration card and just a week ago received several kg of grains , said Mr. Yadav, who claimed to be in regular touch with the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/woman-drowns-all-5-of-her-children-in-the-ganga/article31335236.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Light of consciousness||Vedanta texts explain that the self in each jiva is pure consciousness and always exists as a witness. It has the power to reveal and illumine whatever is manifest as the entire universe, said Swami Anubhavananda in a discourse. Consciousness as the witness in each jiva integrates all the experiences both within and outside. But it remains distant from all these while revealing simultaneously the agent, the action and the external objects. This truth is illustrated with the analogy of the light in the theatre hall during a stage performance, say a dance or a stage play. The light illumines all the various objects, persons, etc, on stage and outside it as well. The light itself is not affected by all the things that happen during the performance. So too consciousness manifests all things, the ego, the intellect, the objects, etc, and continues to shine even when none of these are present. The mind is the instrument of action and is known as the antakarana. The actions of the mind have two types of modifications, internal and external. The internal modification makes one the agent as for instance, when a jiva thinks “I am,” he becomes the agent. Likewise the external modifications are owing to the mind’s interactions with the world through the senses. The ‘I sense’ is present in the antakarana or mind. When the mind interacts with the world, it tends to believe in the experiences thus derived as real. But it is the same antakarana that can reject these if it understands that the self is blissful in nature but owing to bondage to samsara is not able to realise this truth. If and when the self is able to abide in its true nature, it is said to be liberated. This process involves long and arduous practice of devotion and repeated reflection and enquiry when the powerful Maya and its effects are overcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/light-of-consciousness/article31335279.ece
14 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Festive spirit’ brings cheer to Assam||Assam on Monday began celebrating its first-ever Bohag or Rongali Bihu without rong , meaning merriment, because of the COVID-19 lockdown, but the reopening of liquor outlets lifted the “festive spirits” for some across the State. The Excise Department on Sunday, the eve of the essentially most boisterous of three Bihus in Assam, approved the opening of all IMFL (Indian Made Foreign Liquor) shops, bonded warehouses, bottling plants, distilleries and breweries across the State for limited hours from Monday. The letter by Additional Excise Commissioner S.K. Medhi to the Deputy Commissioners of all 33 districts said the wine shops would be allowed to open subject to compliance of the 10-point guidelines, including ensuring social distancing, providing hand sanitisers and limiting the purchase to one bottle per person. “I took my position at 8 a.m. but had to wait three hours for my turn after the liquor shop opened at 10 a.m,” said a middle-aged man in Guwahati’s Panbazar area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/festive-spirit-brings-cheer-to-assam/article31335549.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre issues advisory for senior citizens||The Union Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry on Monday issued an advisory to senior citizens about how to remain safe. Ministry secretary R. Subrahmanyam wrote to chief secretaries of all States, asking them to publicise the advisory. The advisory said senior citizens should stay at home, avoid visitors, but maintain one metre distance if necessary and remain active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-issues-advisory-for-senior-citizens/article31335266.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Envoys told to adhere to lockdown||The limited number of curfew passes issued to foreign diplomats has created difficulties in carrying out the consular work during the lockdown. The issue came up in the capital’s diplomatic circle repeatedly in recent weeks as India reminded foreign missions to adhere to the lockdown rules. “We have issued a very limited number of curfew passes for essential work. We will continue to advise the diplomatic community to adhere to the lockdown guidelines as it is in their interest and well being of each and everyone,” said an official source. The statement came a day after a diplomat from Uruguay was found to be flouting the rules. Valentina Obispo, a senior official of the Embassy of Uruguay, was intercepted by the police when she was found cycling in her neighbourhood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/envoys-told-to-adhere-to-lockdown/article31335268.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Universalise PDS, say activists||With the COVID-19 lockdown leading to lakhs of poor and working people losing jobs and livelihoods, the Right to Food campaign has written to Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan appealing for a universalisation of the Public Distribution System for the next six months to avoid widespread hunger and starvation. The activists said the measures announced in the Centre’s relief package were “hugely inadequate”, as free foodgrains are being provided only to those who already have ration cards under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), thus excluding a large number of people, including migrant communities, homeless and elderly, nomadic tribes and other vulnerable communities. The free ration announced on March 26 has also not reached beneficiaries in most States and starvation deaths have been reported in Bihar, Hyderabad, Jharkhand, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, said the letter. Equal quota The activists demanded that the PDS be expanded to cover every individual, irrespective of whether they have a ration card, providing 10 kg grain, 1.5 kg pulses and 800 gm cooking oil per month per person for at least six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/universalise-pds-say-activists/article31335289.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army to help out stranded personnel||In view of the 21-day nationwide lockdown to contain COVID-19 ending on April 14 midnight and the possibility of it being lifted partially, the Army has issued instructions on the movement of personnel who were on leave or sick leave and retirees held back at regimental centres due to the lockdown. “Personnel whose sanctioned leave expired during the lockdown period will report to the nearest station headquarters, ad hoc station headquarters or units on April 15. They will be housed in quarantine hubs created under arrangements of Command headquarters. Thereafter, they would be despatched under arrangements to OL directorate to their respective formations or units,” the Army said in a letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-to-help-out-stranded-personnel/article31335267.ece
14 April 2020||Bhopal,||One death, 22 new cases in Indore||A 42-year-old man died of COVID-19 in Indore on Monday even as 22 new cases were detected in the city, said Pravin Jadia, Indore Chief Medical and Health Officer. “The overall count in the city has climbed to 328. And with the man’s death, 33 persons have succumbed to the disease in the city so far,” said Dr. Jadia. In a bid to detect more cases, Dr. Jadia said the government was conducting surveys in containment areas of the city. Madhya Pradesh has so far reported 584 cases and 45 deaths owing to the illness. As of April 13, Indore has reported a case fatality rate of 10%, the highest for any city in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-death-22-new-cases-in-indore/article31335260.ece
14 April 2020||New Delhi,||Journalists condemn FIR against editor||A group of over 200 journalists has condemned the FIR filed against Siddharth Varadarajan, founding editor of the news portal The Wire, by the Uttar Pradesh police, which accused the outlet of “spreading panic”. The group, consisting of journalists from both print and electronic media, termed it a brazen attempt to muzzle the media. The State has an extra responsibility to exercise restraint on use of its powers when citizens are restricted in exercising many of their usual democratic rights, a statement said. “We demand that such politically motivated harassment of media persons should stop immediately,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/journalists-condemn-fir-against-editor/article31335227.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||CEC, ECs to take 30% basic salary cut||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Monday said that Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora and Election Commissioners Ashok Lavasa and Sushil Chandra had volunteered to take a 30% reduction in their basic salaries for one year in order to contribute to the efforts against COVID-19. The announcement follows the government’s recent decision to cut the MPs’ salaries by 30% through an ordinance. “The country is grappling with the pandemic and the efforts require huge resources. Reducing the burden on the state exchequer would help, the ECI said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cec-ecs-to-take-30-basic-salary-cut/article31335230.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||India protests ceasefire violations||India on Monday lodged a strong protest through diplomatic channels after ceasefire violations from the Pakistani side killed three Indian citizens. The diplomatic protest or demarche came after days of ceasefire violation on the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir. Pakistan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MOFA) also summoned India’s Charge d’Affaires Gaurav Ahluwalia over alleged firing by the Indian side. The MOFA spokesperson claimed an infant, Muhammad Haseeb, had died, and civilians were injured in the Indian firing in Dhudnial Sector. The firing at the LoC continues even as both the countries are battling the pandemic. On the Indian side, Kashmir, Ladakh and the Kargil region were the first to be affected by the virus outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-protests-ceasefire-violations/article31335237.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Partially open the economy, says Congress||On the eve of the completion of the nationwide lockdown, the Congress on Monday sought a partial opening of the economy and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be bold in declaring a financial package of at least five to six percent of the GDP. Addressing the media through video conferencing, former Commerce Minister Anand Sharma said ‘Indian economy cannot sustain a prolonged lockdown,’ and therefore, Mr. Modi should announce a calibrated plan to open up specific sectors. In a tweet, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi asked for a “smart upgrade” of the lockdown, and said the one-size-fits-all lockdown brought misery to the poor Mr. Sharma cited an ILO report to say that 40 crore workers would be pushed to below poverty line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/partially-open-the-economy-says-congress/article31335243.ece
14 April 2020||New Delhi,||Free extension of foreign visas till April 30||The visas of foreigners that expired during the lockdown period would be extended till April 30 on gratis (free) basis after they apply online, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said on Monday . The regular visa, e-visa or stay stipulation of foreigners who had been stranded because of COVID-19 and consequent travel restrictions and whose visas had expired from February 1-March 30, “would be extended till April 30” on gratis basis after they apply online, the MHA said. India had suspended operation of all flights on March 23 and came under a 21-day lockdown on March 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/free-extension-of-foreign-visas-till-april-30/article31335245.ece
14 April 2020||New Delhi,||Water from Ganga, Yamuna being tested||Has the lockdown had a measurable impact on the water quality of the Ganga and Yamuna, rivers that have a history of battling pollution? The National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) — the arm of the Water Ministry tasked with directing the Rs. 20,000 crore clean-up of the Ganga — and the Central Pollution Control Board are expected to find out in 10 days, officials told The Hindu . Water samples have been collected from Delhi (Yamuna) and all Ganga basin States, and are in the process of being analysed. While this was also part of the routine water quality monitoring in the river, there was a “special focus” on the impact of lockdown, said D.P. Mathuria, senior NMCG official in charge of water quality management. Lockdown impact Measuring the degree of chemical oxygen demand (COD) and ammonium nitrate would point to whether the lockdown has had an impact. Effluents from industries as well as sewage discharge would impact COD levels, Mr. Mathuria added. “There are some preliminary indications that the water looks cleaner but a proper analysis is awaited,” he added. The stoppage of industrial pollutants has definitely had a positive effect on water quality in the Yamun, Delhi Jal Board vice-chairman Raghav Chadha had said last week. An official said tests were under way and results were likely later this week. ( Inputs from   Nikhil Babu )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/water-from-ganga-yamuna-being-tested/article31335283.ece
14 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Three persons held for provocative social media messages in Punjab: DGP||The Punjab police arrested three persons for provocative social media messages instigating religious hatred, in the wake of the attack on a police officer in Patiala on Sunday by a group of Nihangs. Dinkar Gupta, DGP, said those arrested include Bhupinder Singh of Hoshiarpur, Davinder Singh of Batala and Kuljeet Singh Bhullar of Muktsar Sahib districts. These men, said the DGP, had been indulging in hate propaganda through social media posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-persons-held-for-provocative-social-media-messages-in-punjab-dgp/article31335265.ece
14 April 2020||New Delhi,||Naqvi appeals to Muslims to adhere to lockdown, social distancing guidelines during Ramzan||Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Monday appealed to Muslims to strictly follow social distancing and the lockdown guidelines during the holy month of Ramzan, in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. The Minister urged members of the community to offer prayers and perform other religious rituals like the ‘iftar’ (breaking of the fast) inside their homes during the month of Ramzan, which will begin from April 24 or April 25.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/naqvi-appeals-to-muslims-to-adhere-to-lockdown-social-distancing-guidelines-during-ramzan/article31335247.ece
14 April 2020||IMPHAL,||Coronavirus: First case surfaces in Nagaland||The first case of COVID-19 in Nagaland came to light around midnight on Sunday. An emergency meeting of top officials was held at 12.30 a.m. on April 13. Health and Family Welfare Minister S. Pangu Phom presided over the meeting and senior officials, who are the members of the special committee for the pandemic, were present. Assam Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma confirmed that one person had been found with symptoms of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coronavirus-first-case-surfaces-in-nagaland/article31335251.ece
14 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Five Europeans raise alarm in Assam||Angry neighbours virtually laid siege to a guest house in Guwahati’s Beltola area on Monday after five Europeans checked in. The police were forced to intervene for the people to leave the five — three French, an Italian and a Spanish — alone. “The foreign nationals reached Guwahati from Manipur. They completed their quarantine in Manipur and have the approval of the Ministry of External Affairs to travel to Delhi via Siliguri,” Assam’s Additional Director-General of Police (Law and Order) G.P. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-europeans-raise-alarm-in-assam/article31335253.ece
14 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CBSE schools seek nod to collect fees||The CBSE Schools Management Association (CSMA) has appealed to the State and Central governments to let them collect fees from parents to pay staff salaries and ensure the smooth functioning of schools. In a memorandum, the association president C.S. Manoharan has stated that all schools had to shut down by March 21 owing to the sudden lockdown due to the spread of COVID-19. “We request the parents and government to understand that lakhs of teachers and other staff members will be drastically affected without their salaries. If the government extends the time for paying fees for the parents, we request the government to give interest-free loans through banks to help schools cover expenses during the lockdown period,” the memorandum stated. The CSMA has also asked for reimbursements for RTE (Right to Education) admissions, which have been kept on hold, to be released soon and to grant schools awaiting new or an extension of their affiliation, an extension of one year. P. Ashok Shankar, secretary of the association, said that most schools had immediately started online classes and ensured that students were effectively engaged. “We are following the directives of the CBSE and Ministry of Human Resource Development to ensure that learning continues and are taking efforts in facilitating live classrooms and other such activities,” he said. The Tamil Nadu Nursery Primary and Matriculation Higher Secondary and CBSE Schools Association too had appealed for financial exemptions from the government. The CBSE schools finish their final term exams in March and generally conduct classes for the next academic year for a few days in April before they close down for summer holidays. Most private State board schools too finish the fee collection for the new academic year in advance. But the lockdown, they say, has disrupted this. “While we understand that it is a tough time for everyone, we want institutions to be allowed to collect fees from parents. We do not wish to compromise on the salaries of our teaching and non-teaching staff,” a school principal said. Chennai Chief Educational Officer and other district-level officials have warned schools in their jurisdictions against pressuring parents to pay the fees immediately. When a question was recently raised about schools collecting fees, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said action would be taken if specific complaints were received about schools pressurising parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbse-schools-seek-nod-to-collect-fees/article31335435.ece
14 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||98 more persons test positive, taking Tamil Nadu’s tally to 1,173||Tamil Nadu reported 98 more cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) on Monday. With this, the total number of patients who have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State has reached 1,173. Of the fresh cases, 91 were from a single source, four were contacts of a person who had tested positive for COVID-19 earlier, and three were doctors, according to Health Secretary Beela Rajesh. She said that till Sunday, a total of eight doctors had tested positive, while three more — two government doctors and one private doctor — had tested positive since then. With this, a total of 11 doctors and five staff nurses/hospital staff have tested positive in the State. Eleven persons have died of COVID-19 in T.N. so far. As many as 58 patients had been discharged after treatment from various hospitals in the State, Dr. Rajesh said. Among the 1,173 COVID-19-positive patients, 31 were below the age of 10, she added. Among the 98 fresh cases, most of the patients were contacts of earlier patients. Tiruppur reported the highest number of cases — 18. This apart, two persons from Chengalpattu, 9 from Chennai, seven (including two primary) from Coimbatore, 15 from Karur, 14 (seven primary) from Madurai, five from Nagapattinam, three from Ramanathapuram, four from Sivaganga, one from Tirupattur, four from Tiruvallur, one from Tiruvannamalai, three from Tiruvarur, two from Thoothukudi, four from Vellore and six from Virudhunagar had reported positive. The total number of patients in Chennai rose to 205, followed by Coimbatore, with 126. Samples were lifted from 62 persons who had been hospitalised for severe acute respiratory infection, and none of them had tested positive for COVID-19, she said. “As far as Tamil Nadu is concerned, we have been successful in identifying the source of infection of patients. Based on this, we are taking up aggressive containment measures. Our aim is to keep the number of deaths down,” she said. When asked about the death of an employee of a private airline, she said all the contacts of the patient had been traced. While testing was being done for high-risk contacts, low-risk contacts were being put under home quarantine, she said. The State has a total of 25 testing facilities in the government sector and 9 in the private sector. Two new laboratories had been approved — at the Government Vellore Medical College Hospital and the State Public Health Laboratory in Chennai, she said. Monday recorded the highest number of samples lifted for testing — 2,091. Rapid test kits Dr. Rajesh said rapid test kits were expected to arrive in a day or two. “Rapid test kits are only a surveillance tool. We are not waiting for it. We already have the confirmatory tests (RT-PCR). We are taking up massive and aggressive testing of all persons with influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory infection, and high-risk and low-risk contacts in containment areas,” she said. She said the State had received 10,000 PCR testing kits from the Centre. “In addition, we have procured 14,000 kits. We have placed orders for 1.3 lakh more PCR testing kits. The shipment has already reached Mumbai and is likely to reach us in a day or two,” she said. “The State is well-prepared and has adequate stock [of protective equipment]. Now, we have 65 lakh triple-layer masks, three lakh N95 masks and two lakh [pieces of] PPE (personal protective equipment). We have a total of 3,371 ventilators,” she added. A total of 1,984 persons were in isolation facilities at hospitals across T.N. A total of 43,278 persons were under home quarantine and 162 in government quarantine facilities, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/98-more-persons-test-positive-taking-tamil-nadus-tally-to-1173/article31335461.ece
14 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mask a must when stepping out of home||Residents will have to compulsorily wear masks when they step out of their homes. Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash on Monday announced that under the relevant provisions of the Epidemics Control Act and the Public Health Act, all persons were required to wear masks when they stepped out of their houses. "As long as people are moving outside, they have to wear them. If found without masks, their movement passes will be cancelled and vehicles impounded for three months," he warned. The order came into effect on Monday night. Extraordinary resilience Earlier in the day, the Commissioner said that people of the city had shown remarkable resilience and cooperated with the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown. Though the State was known for demonstrations and hartals, there wasn't a single instance of people coming on the roads to protest. “We understand the difficulties of daily wage labourers, artisans, carpenters, autorickshaw drivers and others in the lower strata of society who eke out a living on a daily basis. There is no doubt that they are hit hard by the lockdown. The Chief Minister has already rolled out financial assistance to these people and dry rations. People are struggling but cooperating well…” he said. Mr. Prakash said people were welcome to contribute food, dry rations and survival kits to poor people. The Chief Minister had urged the public not to engage themselves in distributing these items directly. People wishing to render such assistance could drop the food packets, dry ration bags, survival kits etc. at the three designated spots – Amma Arangam, Shenoy Nagar; JJ Indoor Stadium, Kilpuak; and TNHB Marriage Hall, Besant Nagar. “We will issue a receipt and make sure that the items are distributed to the needy,” he said. Those who distribute food and relief materials should get permission from the Corporation. They will will permit only the driver of the permitted vehicle and one person to distribute the relief materials in the presence of one officer from the Corporation. "Political parties will not be allowed to carry party flags, banners or other material during the distribution of relief materials, " said Mr.Prakash, in a statement. Groceries distribution Civic agencies would strengthen door-to-door delivery of groceries in Chennai and other areas of the State, Local Administration Minister S.P. Velumani said. Speaking to reporters, he said that groceries were being sold door-to-door on many streets of the city using 3,955 tricycles and 937 vehicles. Over 1,416 mobile units in other cities and 1,189 units in smaller urban areas were selling groceries. "All residents will get groceries at an affordable price at their doorstep," he assured. At a review meeting, civic officials were directed to help residents get groceries at their doorstep. Stressing on the need for supply of food to all residents, the Minister said 407 Amma Canteens in Chennai and 247 canteens in other parts of the State were providing food for 6.25 lakh residents every day. “Chennai Corporation has covered 95% of residents in the door-to-door survey of COVID-19 symptoms. Over 19 lakh households in the city have been covered. We have also received complaints from residents about private hospitals refusing treatment for patients with symptoms. Teams of civic officials have been formed to help such persons,” said Mr. Velumani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mask-a-must-when-stepping-out-of-home/article31335431.ece
14 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||193 tonnes of veggies distributed in 5 days||A total of 193.5 tonnes of vegetables were distributed to residents of Chennai in the last five days ever since the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) inaugurated the service of mobile vegetable shops. On April 8, the CMDA announced that vegetables would be sold through mobile units. For delivering them to those who make individual orders the CMDA entered into an arrangement with Swiggy, Zomato and Dunzo, online food ordering and delivery platforms. For bulk booking, the CMDA uses its own vehicles. Also, it tied up with the Cooperation Department. Of the overall figure, 31 tonnes were provided through online platforms. The authority, on its own, provided 108.29 tonnes to those who placed bulk booking. On Monday, it ran 90 trips of vehicles to deliver 18 tonnes of vegetables, officials said. Besides, in collaboration with the Cooperation Department, the authority distributed 53.5 tonnes to city residents, according to an official of the Housing and Urban Development department. The rationale behind the service is to make vegetables available to residents at “affordable rates” because of the lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19. A few days ago, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, who holds the portfolio of Housing and Urban Development, reviewed the status of different arrangements being made by different arms of the department in connection with COVID-19 relief measures. Slum tenements On Sunday, 1,472 tenements of the Slum Clearance Board in Chennai, including 864 tenements in Vyasarpadi’s K.P.Park area, were handed over to the Corporation for conversion into temporary isolation wards for COVID-19 patients. The remaining tenements are in Tiruvottiyur. Also, 1,176 tenements, spread across Ariyalur, Perambalur and Thanjavur districts, have been given to the respective district authorities for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/193-tonnes-of-veggies-distributed-in-5-days/article31335445.ece
14 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three petitions filed against curbs on relief efforts||Three public interest litigation (PIL) petitions have been filed in the Madras High Court, challenging the restrictions imposed by the State government on the distribution of relief material by volunteers, and its insistence that they coordinate with government officials before distributing the goods. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), represented by its organising secretary R.S. Bharathi, Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) leader Vaiko and advocate A.P. Suryaprakasam filed individual cases questioning the government’s interference in relief work by volunteers. In its affidavit, filed through senior counsel P. Wilson, the DMK stated that it had been distributing food, grains, vegetables, groceries, medical kits and so on to the poor, who did not have the wherewithal to order food through home delivery services during the lockdown. The party claimed that its cadre had been following all necessary protocols, by wearing masks and gloves. Nevertheless, the government had intentionally ordered that volunteers should not distribute relief material unilaterally without roping in government officials, it alleged. “Such action of the government directly infringes on the fundamental right to life and existence and the right to food, guaranteed under Articles 21 of the Constitution of India. It is also highly irrational, arbitrary, unreasonable and discriminatory,” the DMK’s affidavit read. In his petition, Mr. Suryaprakasam insisted that the government should also be directed to ensure home delivery of the Rs. 500 grocery kit that it had planned to sell through ration shops. He feared non-adherence to social distancing norms at ration shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-petitions-filed-against-curbs-on-relief-efforts/article31335455.ece
14 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. clarifies on distribution of relief aid||A day after it warned of legal action against individuals, NGOs and political parties distributing food packets and other relief material directly to the people in need during the COVID-19 lockdown, the AIADMK government on Monday clarified that it had only called for “coordination with the district administration” to ensure that the relief material reached the beneficiaries in a safe manner. However, the government did not say whether political parties could extend such material assistance to the needy. In an official press release on Monday, the government claimed that the contents of Sunday’s press release had been misunderstood. “The government had only instructed them (the benefactors) to follow norms in accordance with the prevailing situation, and had not stopped anyone [from helping those in need]. Volunteers and organisations could coordinate with the district administration on the distribution of relief material when required,” Monday’s press release said. Calling upon the people to contribute relief material to the authorities concerned, the release said, “Arrangements would be made to distribute relief material, cooked food and dry rations offered by NGOs in the areas or to the people specified by them.” Flays Oppn. leaders The government alleged that DMK president and Leader of the Opposition M.K. Stalin, MDMK founder Vaiko and Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri “have been campaigning against the truth”, and acting as if the government had stopped volunteers from extending assistance to the poor. “The government is not playing politics,” the release said. Around 2,500 organisations and over 58,000 volunteers had registered themselves with the State government and had been extending assistance “along with the district administration” by following social distancing and public health norms, it said. “The government’s intention is not to stop aid. The government’s position is that relief should be extended appropriately and through safe means, considering the prevailing situation,” the release said. While it hailed the “commendable work” done by volunteers and NGOs during natural disasters in the past, it pointed out that there were no prohibitory orders in place back then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-clarifies-on-distribution-of-relief-aid/article31335448.ece
14 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||LPG consumers flock to gas agencies seeking free refills||LPG consumers have been flocking to gas agencies asking if they were eligible for the free cylinders as announced by the Central government. Oil companies had announced that consumers under the Ujjwala Scheme (Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana) will get three free refills for the months of April, May and June. “For the past few days we have been getting at least 5-6 customers daily asking if they were eligible for the scheme. And they come in with the gas book, which clearly shows they are not under the Ujjwala Scheme,” said a distributor. Already, distributors said they have been finding it difficult to function due to police restrictions on the roads. “Since agencies are kept open as we come under essential services, customers prefer to come straight to our offices rather than calling us. One person came and said if we are giving free cylinders he was ready to join the Ujjwala Scheme,” said a distributor in West Chennai. There have also been instances of cooking gas consumers not accepting refills during delivery since they don’t have cash to pay for it and the bookings had to be cancelled. “The government announcement seems to have only created confusion among the people. Text messages could be sent to non-Ujjwala customers saying they need not reach out to their agency as they will not be eligible for the free cylinders. Or better, they could provide free cylinders or refills on loan since many don’t have cash on hand to pay for cylinders,” said a distributor of South Chennai, hoping that oil companies would step in to bring in clarity to customers. Around 30 lakh consumers in the State get supplies under the Ujjwala Scheme.  Text messages can be sent to non-Ujjwala customers saying they need not reach out to their agency as they will not be eligible||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lpg-consumers-flock-to-gas-agencies-seeking-free-refills/article31335424.ece
14 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Persistent hypoxia’ triggered deaths of patients||Persistent hypoxia (reduced oxygen in the cells) was the main trigger for the deaths of persons who had tested positive for COVID-19 in the State, according to senior doctors. Tamil Nadu, which reported the first death of a COVID-19 patient on March 25, has recorded a total of 11 deaths of persons aged between 45 and 75 years so far. At least five of them are women. Some of them had comorbidities, including diabetes and hypertension. Officials of the Health Department said each of these deaths was being audited, and treatment and monitoring protocols were being tweaked for better management of patients, and to prevent further deaths. “All these patients had persistent hypoxia. This was the trigger. In some patients, it happened all of a sudden. In some, their condition did not improve even with us providing oxygen supply. So, we are taking measures to detect hypoxia early. It is important to pick up the signs early. We have modified the protocols, making it practical for better management of patients,” a senior doctor said. Constant monitoring Pulmonologists explained that hypoxia basically means reduced oxygen in the cells, and in COVID-19 cases, typical for critical cases. When the lungs are damaged, adequate oxygen does not reach the cells. This leads to resistance to treatment. Doctors said that they were monitoring the oxygen saturation levels in patients using pulse oximeters. “Some patients, who have tested positive for COVID-19, have no symptoms. They were identified during contact tracing and isolated. We see that they are doing fine during rounds. On the second or third day, they develop breathlessness when they walk. So, for patients who are ambulant, we are using finger pulse oximeters once in two to three hours. This way, we are able to find the oxygen saturation in the blood. We can pick up early signs before their condition deteriorates,” a doctor involved in the treatment of COVID-19 patients said. He explained that in patients with COVID-19, the fluid in the lungs interferes with the oxygen transfer to the blood. As a result, there is a decrease of oxygen levels. He added that patients undergo chest X-ray on admission. “We see if there are findings suggestive of involvement of the lungs. Even if it is mild, we bring these patients under our radar and they are monitored frequently. Supplementary oxygen is also provided, and there are instances where patients have recovered well,” he said. If the patients have a saturation level of above 96% or 97% in the room air environment, they are taken off the radar, while others with 93% or 94% are monitored, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/persistent-hypoxia-triggered-deaths-of-patients/article31335446.ece
14 April 2020||chennai,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco extends bill payment deadline||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has extended the deadline for the payment of electricity bills till May 6 for low-tension consumers. The move follows Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s decision to extend the COVID-19 lockdown till April 30. In a press release, Tangedco said that since assessments could not be carried out in view of the lockdown, consumers could pay the last-billed amount of January or February for the current period. “Once the lockdown is lifted, the assessed electricity bill would be adjusted based on the next reading cycle,” it added. The State power utility has advised low-tension consumers to pay their electricity bills online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-extends-bill-payment-deadline/article31335463.ece
14 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eight Ethiopian nationals arrested for violations||The city police have arrested eight Ethiopian nationals for violating the provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946, and for being involved in religious activities. Police said the foreign nationals were staying at a mosque in Mannady, within the Muthialpet police station limits. They were rounded up by the police and subjected to COVID-19 test. As they tested negative, they were produced before a judicial magistrate and lodged in Central Prison, Puzhal. “They came on medical visas and indulged in religious activities contrary to the provisions of the Foreigners Act,” a senior police officer said. The foreigners were booked under Sections 188 (Disobedience to an order lawfully promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligently doing any act known to be likely to spread infection), 271 (Knowingly disobeying any quarantine rule) of IPC and provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, T.N. Public Health Act, National Disaster Management Act and Foreigners Act.  129 held in past week In the past week, 129 foreign nationals, staying in various mosques in the State, have been held for violation of visa norms and involvement in religious activities. These preachers hailed from Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and Congo. The police said they had arrived in India on tourist visas and violated the guidelines by travelling to different parts of the country and preaching. They also attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi last month. The foreign nationals were picked up in Kancheepuram, Salem, Erode, Madurai and Dindigul districts, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-ethiopian-nationals-arrested-for-violations/article31335427.ece
14 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rush at Koyambedu flower market ahead of Tamil New Year Day||Shops in Koyambedu wholesale market witnessed heavy rush on Monday, ahead of the Tamil New Year day. People made last-minute purchases but did not observe the physical distancing norm. The prices of flowers, which were very low till Sunday due to the lockdown, doubled on Monday. Wholesale traders said there was more crowd than usual in both vegetable and flower shops since the lockdown period started last month. Many visitors wore hand kerchiefs as masks and people jostled for space to make the purchase. The flower market received 4,000 visitors on Monday, which was more than double the number compared to last week. A total of 17 truckloads, mainly rose and marigold, arrived in the market on Monday. This was double the quantity received till Sunday, they said. N.Shiva Peter, a flower merchant, said there was demand for marigold and jasmine and most of the produce was sold out. As the market was operated for limited hours, people rushed in to buy vegetables and flowers. While roses and marigold were priced up to Rs. 100 a kg, jasmine was sold for Rs. 40-Rs. 80 a kg in the wholesale market.  There was demand for marigold and jasmine and most of the produce was sold out Shiva Peter Flower merchant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rush-at-koyambedu-flower-market-ahead-of-tamil-new-year-day/article31335426.ece
14 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Departing passengers too may be screened once airport operations begin||When the operations resume, passengers flying out of Chennai airport too may be screened at the departure hall of the domestic terminal. So far, only passengers arriving in the city were screened before the lockdown was imposed. Airports Authority of India (AAI) officials said that screening of departing passengers also as a precautionary measure was under consideration. “We had discussions on how it can be implemented. We are framing a standard operating procedure for every airport to carry out operations in a safe way,” said an official. “The reason for screening passengers leaving the city is now being considered because they should not come in contact with other passengers in the aircraft and spread the infection. If a passenger has fever or any other symptoms, then he/she may be sent to a quarantine facility. We are still finalising the plan and working out how to implement it,” an official said. The airport will make arrangements to ensure passengers stand at one metre distance from each other at all points inside the terminal. “Right now, we are only making arrangements for domestic operations. We think international operations will take more time,” he added. Though there has not been any official announcement on whether domestic flight operations will begin, some of the airlines have already sent their flight schedules for Wednesday to the AAI on Monday, sources said. Initially, only a reduced number of flights will be operational from the city. For instance, one of the leading airlines has given a schedule to operate about 19 flights a day as against 110 a day they used to operate, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/departing-passengers-too-may-be-screened-once-airport-operations-begin/article31335429.ece
14 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Selective medicines to be delivered at homes||In view of the extension of lockdown, the Health department is facilitating door delivery of selective medicines based on doctors’ prescriptions. The service is supported by the Tamil Nadu Chemists and Druggists Association and nearly 4,000 pharmacies have been networked. People can call the toll free number — 18001212172 — and place their orders for medicines. The association has facilitated door delivery of the medicines through the nearest medical shop. Service launched The service has been launched in Chennai and 37 districts in the State. Officials said that this would cover drugs that are permitted for door delivery. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar launched the service on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/selective-medicines-to-be-delivered-at-homes/article31335444.ece
14 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Lockdown extension a bitter pill’||Minister for Fisheries and senior AIADMK leader D. Jayakumar on Monday said that the extension of the lockdown till the end of the month was “like a bitter pill”. “We don’t like it but it is essential. The State government did not take the decision suo motu . It was a collective responsibility. We had considered the recommendations of medical experts,” he told The Hindu.  When asked why the State government did not wait for the Centre’s decision on the lockdown, despite having stated earlier that it will, he said, “Ultimately, people’s welfare comes first, and a decision has been taken accordingly.” A senior official said, “We had decided to wait for the PM’s decision, hoping that he would address the nation sooner. But as it turned out, they (the Centre) were waiting till the penultimate day of the lockdown. So, we decided to go ahead.” CPI(M)’s warning However, CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan was of the view that the government could not have decided against the Centre. He felt the announcement was perhaps made after “very much [receiving] concurrence” from the Centre. Mr. Balakrishnan, however, cautioned that the next 14 days would not be easy, since the general public was running out of money. Senior DMK leader Duraimurugan said the CM should have explained the reason behind his decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-extension-a-bitter-pill/article31335449.ece
14 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Number of travel passes to be reduced||With lockdown extended till month-end, Tamil Nadu police plans to reduce the number of travel passes to bring down instances of violation as the number of violations reached 1,63,477 across the State. Additional Director General Police, Law and Order, K. Jayanth Murali said, “We are going to reduce the passes. Excessive passes were issued in some places. We are taking steps to reduce it.” Over 1,75,636 were arrested for violation of prohibitory orders and 1,39,008 vehicles were seized. As many as 1.63 lakh First Information Reports were opened and Rs. 68.57 lakh as fine has been collected. City Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan said people have widely cooperated to effectively implement prohibitory orders in the city. But there were violations in some places. The city police registered over 48,000 cases so far for violation of prohibitory orders and traffic rules and seized 23,000 vehicles including two-wheelers and four wheelers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-travel-passes-to-be-reduced/article31335422.ece
14 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Don’t grant exemptions to specific sectors: PMK||PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss on Monday said the Central government should not exempt 16 types of industries from the COVID-19 lockdown, as had been recommended by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade. Mr. Ramadoss said the lockdown should be extended by two weeks, and then by another week in May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-grant-exemptions-to-specific-sectors-pmk/article31335462.ece
14 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Police begin painting bar mark on vehicles||The police on Monday began making paint marks on vehicles that were on the roads of Coimbatore during the lockdown. A bar-like mark is made on vehicles driven by people who step out to buy essential commodities. The police, however, said that vehicles that were out on the roads for non-essential purposes would be seized. A senior police official explained that a bar would be marked on the vehicle at a checkpoint. Another bar would be marked if it crossed the checkpoint a second time. This would help the police know how many times a particular vehicle was on the road during the lockdown. The police have suggested that vehicles be seized after four such markings. 604 persons arrested The police arrested 604 persons in the city and rural limits of Coimbatore for violating prohibitory orders on Sunday and seized 533 vehicles from them. They were allowed to go after the arrest was recorded. On Monday the police continued random stopping of vehicles at several locations wherein motorists were made to wait on roads for about 30 minutes. The measure that started on Sunday was to discourage people from venturing out without having any emergency requirement. Ambulances, vehicles transporting patients, Government officials on duty, medical professionals and mediapersons are exempted from this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-begin-painting-bar-mark-on-vehicles/article31335509.ece
14 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore gets two more labs for COVID-19 test||From Tuesday, Coimbatore district will have two more laboratories testing samples lifted from people suspected to have COVID-19. A private laboratory cleared by the State Government and an additional laboratory at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital will join two earlier ones in the testing. While the ESI Hospital already has one laboratory testing the samples, the other one is carrying out the task at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. An equipment from Bharathiar University will be transferred to the ESI Hospital to run the new laboratory, sources said. With four labs up and running, the district administration would be able to test more than 500 samples a day. With more labs, the administration would start testing the second sources – those who had come in contact with positive cases or their family – to ensure that maximum number of vulnerable people was identified and tested for further action. 100 samples On Monday, after a family in R.S. Puram tested positive for COVID-19, the administration had collected 100 samples from the area alone, the sources pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-gets-two-more-labs-for-covid-19-test/article31335483.ece
14 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Seven, including two medical students, test positive in Coimbatore||Seven persons, including two postgraduate medical students of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore on Monday. Of the seven cases, six are from city limits and one from Kinathukadavu, which has been included in containment zone. As per Health Department release, the total number of persons tested positive in Coimbatore stood at 126 on Monday. The two PG students of CMCH are believed to have contracted the disease while they were on duty at the COVID-19 ward at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, recently. They were moved to the COVID-19 ward at ESI Hospital after the test results came. Mess staff vacate hostel It is learnt that the two PG students had returned to the men’s hostel on CMCH campus after their duty period at ESI Hospital without going for the quarantine period stipulated for medical professionals after working in COVID-19 ward. They returned to the hostel, allegedly due to lack of facilities for quarantine on the ESI Hospital campus, said sources with the medical students at CMCH. With the news of test results of the two PG students leaked on Monday, the staff working in the mess of the men’s hostel, which is common dining area for male and female students, vacated the place. Dinner not available “Dinner was not available at the mess on Monday as the staff left the place afraid of contracting COVID-19. We were told to find our food when we took the issue to the attention of the hospital administration. Though two PGs from the men’s hostel tested positive, others were staying at the hostel as they do not have any other option. PGs and those doing Compulsory Rotatory Residential Internship (CRRI) also lack adequate safety gears including mask while working in wards at CMCH,” said a CRRI on conditions of anonymity. Though the training period of last batch of CRRIs was over and new batch started training, the training period of the last batch was extended due to the emergency situation arose out of COVID-19 spread in the State. Six discharged Meanwhile, six persons, residents of Podanur and nearby areas, recovered from COVID-19 and got discharged from ESI Hospital on Monday. They will continue to remain in home quarantine for 28 days. Held for breaking home qurantine period A 38-year-old man from Muslim Colony near Madukkarai, who had visited Delhi in March, was arrested on Monday after he came out from the residential area which the police had sealed as part of containment strategy. The man, who was supposed to remain in home quarantine, was taken to Government Medical College and ESI Hospital where his swab sample was lifted for test. As the man did not have symptoms of the disease, he was advised to continue home quarantine. The police granted him bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-including-two-medical-students-test-positive-in-coimbatore/article31335498.ece
14 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Preventive action to stop community transmission’||The district administration, as per the State Government’s direction, was taking all steps to prevent COVID-19 infection from entering the community transmission phase, said a release quoting Kumar Jayant, the senior IAS officer the government had designated to oversee COVID-19 containment measures in the Nilgiris, Coimbatore and Tiruppur. At the end of his meeting with Collector K. Rajamani and senior district administration and Corporation officials, Mr. Jayant said the government had evolved a protocol for treating COVID-19 affected persons. Sample collection The important objective of the protocol was quick collection of samples from the affected persons and those who had been in touch with them. The government also focussed on creating containment zones to ensure restriction of movement therein. The release quoting Mr. Jayant said he wanted healthcare workers to ensure that they had adequate stock of masks, hand wash chemicals and other personal protection equipment. Likewise, he wanted local bodies to ensure that their conservancy workers were working with safety gear. Availability The release also said that the senior officer wanted the administration to ensure easy availability of essential commodities, the Agriculture and Horticulture officials to procure vegetables and fruits at farm gates and distribute them to people at fair price. He appealed to the Coimbatore City and Rural police personnel to ensure effective lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/preventive-action-to-stop-community-transmission/article31335501.ece
14 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Mask made compulsory in Coimbatore||The Coimbatore district administration has warned of action if people on streets were found without masks and if those having fever did not alert authorities. In a release issued here on Monday, Collector K. Rajamani said the district had made wearing masks compulsory for all, including government officials on duty and police personnel. It would initiate action against those who were found without masks in public places. Likewise, the administration would initiate action against those persons who had developed fever and COVID-19 symptoms after returning from abroad, other states or having come into contact with such persons, but had not reported those to the authorities concerned. The administration would invoke the provisions of the Epidemic Act, 1939 if they had developed symptoms, but not reported those. Mr. Rajamani said the administration had classified places in the district into two categories – places with COVID-19 infection and those where people were likely to get infected. Along with Revenue and Public Health staff, the local body workers were taking all steps possible to contain the spread of COVID-19. Thus far, the administration had contained Anamalai, Pollachi South, Pollachi North, Madukkarai, Annur and Mettpalayam as containment zones in rural areas. In the Coimbatore Corporation limits, the administration had declared Sundarapuram, Kuniamuthur, Ukkadam, Flower Market, R.S. Puram, K.K. Pudur, Kavundampalayam and Cheran Managar as containment zones. People from the containment zones should not go out. And, people from outside the containment zones should not enter the place, either, the Collector said and added that the administration had taken steps to ensure supply of essential commodities to people within the containment zones. Food distribution Likewise, individuals or organisations interested in distributing food or groceries should get in touch with the respective tahsildars to coordinate the distribution. Their direct distribution of food had led to difficulties in implementing the lockdown, he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mask-made-compulsory-in-coimbatore/article31335500.ece
14 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||More samples to be lifted from R.S. Puram||Following a family of four testing positive for COVID-19 in R.S. Puram, the Coimbatore Corporation has intensified disinfection drive in the area. It has also begun collecting swab samples from as many people as possible in the affected family’s neighbourhood. According to sources, the Corporation had on Sunday completed lifting swab samples from person who lived in the apartment that housed the affected family’s flat in R.S. Puram. On Monday, the Corporation had expanded the swab sample collection exercise to the street housing the apartment and also a couple of streets to assess the extent of community transmission, if any. Simultaneously, the Corporation was also engaged in large scale swab sample collection from across the city. The objective was to collect 500 such samples a day from people who reported symptoms of influenza like infection or severe acute respiratory infection. The Corporation was engaged in the sample collection exercise with support from the Directorate of Public Health. The analysis of the samples would be either at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital or the private lab authorised by the State Government. On Monday, the Corporation officials took action against a few shop owners in Flower Market by seizing goods as they found them running shops on the roadside. The owners had placed curtains in front to conceal their selling flowers, the officials said and added that they seized the flowers and other goods before asking them to shut shop. On Monday, the number of cases in Corporation limits went up by five as new cases were reported in Kovaipudur, Coimbatore Medical College’s PG Hostel and Kothari Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-samples-to-be-lifted-from-rs-puram/article31335502.ece
14 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||District administration distributes food||Coimbatore district administration started distribution of food to migrant workers and the needy in the district on Monday. Following the government decision to regulate food distribution during lockdown period, the distribution was done through respective tahsildars and their staff in the district. If there was a need for additional personnel, the tahsildars involved the local people, said Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani. There were no major hassles and even in a few places where the distribution has to be streamlined, it will be done tomorrow, he added. The total number of people, who were served food on Sunday by the Revenue Department, Coimbatore Corporation and Non Governmental Organisations was 43,136. On Monday, the district administration served food to 38,927 people. The number is expected to go up slightly on Tuesday. The Collector clarified that cooked food will be served mainly to migrant workers in the district and not to the local people. A few individuals and voluntary organisations did continue to serve food in some places on Monday. However, this will be monitored and controlled, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-administration-distributes-food/article31335487.ece
14 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Unfazed by lockdown extension, a family lives in tent||A businessman, who has been living with his family in a tent away from the city amid the COVID-19 lockdown, said that his family was prepared to stay that way till April 30. A resident of Sullivan Street near Gandhi Park, S. Pradeep Shri Ayyappan (31) was running a two-wheeler consulting service business and also owned a fuel station in Podanur. On March 23, before the lockdown, he along with his parents, wife and younger brother decided to move from the city to live in their own land, 25 km away, at Alandurai. “We have groceries that will last for a month,” Mr. Ayyappan told The Hindu over the phone. The family utilises the vegetables grown in the land. “We will think about our next course if the lockdown is extended beyond April 30,” Mr. Ayyappan said. The businessman said that it was his father, N. Sampath (62), who proposed the idea of moving away from the city. “The houses are too cramped on Sullivan Street,” he said, claiming that it would be “impossible” to practice physical distancing in their residence. They have put up tarpaulin tent on the land and have tied up neem leaves at its entrance. They burn the dried neem leaves to ward off mosquitoes in the night. “At first, it was quite difficult [to live here]. Eventually, we got used to this,” Mr. Ayyappan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unfazed-by-lockdown-extension-a-family-lives-in-tent/article31335490.ece
14 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Disinfection tunnels deactivated||On instructions from the Director of Public Health regarding installation of disinfection tunnels, the Coimbatore Corporation has deactivated all the tunnels it had installed in the last few days. Sources said the civic body deactivated the tunnels at make-shift vegetable markets, farmers’ markets, its head office in Town Hall and a few other places. The Corporation had installed two such tunnels at the Gandhipuram Town Bus Stand, where it had helped establish vegetable market, two more at the Ukkadam Bus Stand, and near the pathway leading to its workers’ colony in Ukkadam and V.H. Road. The Corporation had also erected the tunnels at the farmers’ market in R.S. Puram, Vadavalli, Sundarapuram and a few other places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disinfection-tunnels-deactivated/article31335482.ece
14 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Seven arrested for sexual assault on minor girl||The Singanallur police here have arrested seven persons, including four minor boys, on charges of sexually assaulting a 15-year-old girl. The police were on the hunt for three more persons. According to police, 10 persons allegedly assaulted the minor girl sexually on various occasions since 2016. The class IX girl was first assaulted by her friend, a minor boy from her school, in 2016. Three others boys from the school befriended the girl later and allegedly assaulted her. According to the police, six neighbours of the girl also assaulted her sexually on various occasions and she did not disclose it to her parents, both construction workers. The sexual assaults came to light three days ago when the parents found that the girl was pregnant. They took her to a private hospital, allegedly with a request to terminate the pregnancy. The hospital refused to do the procedure and asked the parents to take the girl to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). Though the girl was admitted to CMCH, she went missing from the ward on Saturday. The police traced the girl the same night and she told the police that 10 persons, including the minors, sexually assaulted her on various occasions from 2016. Police registered a case based on here statement and arrested seven persons, including four minors, under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. While three persons were remanded in judicial custody at Avinashi sub-jail, the four minors were produced before the juvenile justice board which sent them to the juvenile observation home in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-arrested-for-sexual-assault-on-minor-girl/article31335491.ece
14 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Court proceedings affected||The lockdown to combat COVID-19 has affected proceedings of courts at the Combined Court Complex in Coimbatore and those at places like Mettupalayam, Pollachi and Sulur. Sources with the court administration said that trials of cases that were going on at various courts were halted and these could be continued only when the lockdown was lifted. According to them, the courts were receiving bail applications through e-mail. Public prosecutors file counter petitions to bail pleas through e-mail after getting reply from the police. A senior public prosecutor said that the Coimbatore District Principal and Sessions Judge had called for a meeting on Wednesday to take decisions on the use of video conferencing for the proceedings of various cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-proceedings-affected/article31335510.ece
14 April 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Over 300 textile merchants stranded in Sri Lanka||Over 300 textile merchants from various parts of Tamil Nadu, who had gone to Sri Lanka on a business trip, are stranded in the island nation due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Every year, small and marginal merchants from Chinnalapatti, Nilakottai, Kundalapatti, Anaipatti and other small towns visit Sri Lanka during the Katchatheevu festival in March to sell sarees. The silk and kandangi sarees from Chinnalapatti are much sought-after in the neighbouring country. The merchants travel to different parts of Sri Lanka, including Colombo, Jaffna, Trincomalee, Kandy and a few other cities. “We stay there for around two months and then return home,” said Rajendran, who is among the merchants stranded in the neighbouring country. Speaking to The Hindu , he said, “The sudden cancellation of flights had forced us to stay here. We have already spent all the money we had earned through the sale of our goods. We are in dire need of help. Many have fallen sick. There are no health facilities, and assistance has not been forthcoming from the government here. We are looking for help from the Indian government. Please save us by arranging a special flight immediately so that we could reunite with our families.” A few other merchants, stranded in Colombo, said a curfew had forced them to stay indoors. “Through our local contacts, we have been managing to get cooked food. Many NGOs gave us hope and tried to connect us with the officials of the High Commission. We have been hearing that the Indian government has been taking steps [to help people like us], but we have not seen any tangible efforts so far,” they said. The relatives of some of the affected merchants from Dindigul submitted a memorandum to the District Collector on Monday, urging him to take up the issue with the State government. According to officials at the Indian High Commission in Sri Lanka, a group of visiting businessmen from Virudhunagar, who had sought help, were provided support. “The Indian mission has set up helplines to assist visiting Indians. Those seeking help are being provided assistance,” a spokesperson told The Hindu.  It is unclear how many Indian tourists or businesspeople are currently in Sri Lanka and are unable to return to India. India is among Sri Lanka's top tourism source markets. In February 2020, the country accounted for the highest number of international tourists to Sri Lanka. As many as 35,309 Indian tourists arrived in the island nation during the month, according to Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority.  (With inputs from Meera Srinivasan in Colombo).   We have already spent all the money we had earned through the sale of goods||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-300-textile-merchants-stranded-in-sri-lanka/article31335464.ece
14 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Zonal special task team conducts inspections||The zonal special task team for the district comprising T.N. Venkatesh, Managing Director of Co-optex and S. Lakshmi, Superintendent of Police, Commercial Crime Investigation Wing (CCIW), Chennai, held discussions with Collector C. Kathiravan and other officials to ensure the implementation of guidelines and monitor COVID-19 prevention measures in the district. Mr. Kathiravan explained them the steps taken by the district administration in monitoring quarantine areas, ensuring essential supplies in those areas, monitoring fever cases in the district and ensuring proper treatment for the COVID-19 positive patients in the hospitals. Also, the disinfection measures carried out across the district were also explained to the team on Sunday. On Monday, Mr. Venkatesh inspected the vegetable market at the Corporation’s Central Bus Stand and the Uzhavar Sandhai that functions at Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Panneerselvam Park. Officials explained the steps taken to ensure personal distancing among people at the markets. Later, Mr. Venkatesh visited the containment zone at B.P. Agraharam and inspected the disinfection works and relief assistance provided to people. He visited the Corporation Higher Secondary School where 74 homeless people were lodged and provided food. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan and Corporation Executive Engineer Vijayakumar were present.  Salem/Namakkal The special task team appointed for the region visited the containment zones and held discussions with officials here on Monday. In Salem, R.Krilosh Kumar, Managing Director, TASMAC, and M.N.Manjunatha, ADGP, Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Police Housing Corporation, held discussions with Collector S.A.Raman and other district officials. They inspected the containment zones set up within the Corporation limits and in rural areas. In Namakkal, C.Munianathan, Commissioner, Adi Dravidar Welfare and Abhay Kumar Singh, ADGP, IW CID, held discussions with Collector K.Megraj and other senior officials on the containment measures in the district. Mr.Megraj said that the officers visited the containment zones and inquired about amenities available for the residents there. He added that those released from COVID-19 treatment would be kept at the step down ward for 14 days. Mr.Megraj said that efforts were on to identify from where a 29-year-old female patient contracted COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/zonal-special-task-team-conducts-inspections/article31335505.ece
14 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||1.27 lakh people in home quarantine in Erode district||With the 28-day home quarantine of foreign-returned people and their family members ending, the number of home quarantined people has dropped from 1.66 lakh to 1.27 lakh in the district. Addressing media persons on Monday, Collector C. Kathiravan said that the 60 persons, who tested positive for COVID-19 in the district, were in the isolation ward of the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. Foreign returned As many as 1,067 persons returned from various foreign nations to the district last month and a total of 39,509 persons, including their family members, relatives and neighbours were under home quarantine for 28 days. Since no symptoms were found in 700 foreign returned persons, they and their family members were released from home quarantine, he added. “Another 367 families continue to be in home quarantine,” he said. After the death of elderly man of COVID-19, a total of 1,144 families comprising 3,500 persons were home quarantined at Perundurai, he said. He said that 15,740 officials and workers from various departments were involved in taking precautionary measures and added that people should ensure personal distancing while purchasing vegetables and commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/127-lakh-people-in-home-quarantine-in-erode-district/article31335503.ece
14 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Bakeries allowed to function in Erode||The district administration has allowed bakeries to function from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m., but restrains them from selling tea, coffee or other beverages. In a press release, Collector C. Kathiravan said that bakeries can sell bread, biscuits and other snack items, but should not sell tea, coffee, milk or other beverages to the customers. “If violations found, shops would be sealed”, he said and asked the shopkeepers to ensure personal distancing is maintained by customers. Mr. Kathiravan said that role of NGOs and volunteers during medical emergency is incredible and they can coordinate with the district administration, corporation, municipalities, town panchayats, block development officers for distributing food and essentials to the needy.  Mr. Kathiravan said that birth anniversary of Dheeran Chinnamalai is being observed as government function every year on April 17 at the memorial Odanilai. Since lockdown is in place, people were asked not to visit the memorial and the administration will garland the statue and pay respect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bakeries-allowed-to-function-in-erode/article31335484.ece
14 April 2020||Hosur,TAMIL NADU||Injured elephant dies||A 15-year-old elephant that was found injured and later moved to Ayyur forests died here on Saturday. However, the death of the elephant was revealed only on Monday. The animal had taken shelter in a mango farm in Thimmarayanahalli near KRP Dam here a fortnight ago, with an injured hind leg. The Forest Department injected the elephant with painkiller darts and later moved it to Ayyur forest, where it was kept under observation and fed. The elephant’s condition, however, deteriorated over the next few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/injured-elephant-dies/article31335485.ece
14 April 2020||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Inspector transferred after clip goes viral||An inspector of police attached to the Chinna Salem police station in Kallakurichi district has been transferred to the Armed Reserve after a video showing him allegedly assaulting a PMK cadre went viral on Saturday. The police said Sakthivel, a PMK cadre of Moongilpadi village, posted a message on a social networking site criticising inspector Sudhakar of Chinna Salem police station. In the video, the inspector is seen assaulting Sakthivel for the post on social media even as the latter’s parents are pleading with Mr. Sudhakar to leave their son alone. After initial investigation, Superintendent of Police T. Jayachandran ordered an inquiry and transferred Mr. Sudhakar to the Armed Reserve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspector-transferred-after-clip-goes-viral/article31335437.ece
14 April 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Nine COVID-19 patients discharged||Nine COVID-19 positive patients were given a rousing send-off after being discharged from the Karur Government Medical College Hospital here on Monday. They were among a group of 23 patients, who were admitted to the hospital upon returning from New Delhi, where they went to attend a religious conference. They subsequently tested positive for COVID-19 virus and quarantined in separate rooms. They were treated as per the protocol issued by the State Health Department. When the patients emerged from the quarantined wards one after another after collecting their discharge summary, the highly relieved doctors and paramedical staff members led by Rosy Vennila, Dean, lined up to give them a warm send-off. Collector T. Anbalagan too joined them and gave a rousing send-off when they left for their natives in a fleet of ambulances and cars. Nineteen others, who had come into contact with positive patients and were kept under observation for 28 days in the isolation ward, were also discharged on Monday. All 19 had tested negative for COVID 19. The Collector, who applauded the doctors and paramedical staff members for their service, said that it was collective efforts, which deserved to be appreciated. The patients too expressed their gratitude to the medical staff for taking care of them well. “It is really a tough time in our career, but we feel ecstatic to note the complete recovery of a group of nine positive patients. We extended best possible treatment to them for over three weeks,” said Dr. Vennila. All the patients have been advised to be in self-quarantine in their respective houses for 15 more days. Their health would continue to be monitored on a daily basis, she added. The hospital still has 137 more patients, who had tested positive for COVID-19 virus from Dindigul, Namakkal and Karur districts. They are in the isolation wards. Of them 19 were admitted over the past two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-patients-discharged/article31335724.ece
14 April 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Dean, 12 doctors from districts deputed to Karur GMCH||As the number of COVID 19 patients increases, the Health Department has deputed a Dean and 12 doctors to Karur Government Medical College Hospital from neighbouring districts. It is seen as a stopgap arrangement to offset the shortage of doctors at the newly started medical college hospital. Just a few weeks ago, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami inaugurated the 700-bedded hospital at Sanapiratti. It has now emerged as a major centre for treating COVID 19 patients. The State government recently declared the Karur Government Medical College Hospital as a notified centre for treating COVID 19 positive patients from Karur, Dindigul and Namakkal. Up to Sunday, 133 patients, mostly from Dindigul, were admitted to the isolation ward in the hospital. Besides them, a number of suspected patients too admitted to the hospital for 28 days observation and treatment. However, concerns were raised that shortage of doctors and paramedical staff members had burdened the workload of the existing doctors. To ease the pressure to an extent, the Health Department has deputed the Dean of Perambalur Medical College and 12 doctors to the hospital. In addition to them, 2 Joint Directors were also deputed to the district to expedite contact tracing, sample lifting and monitoring. Rosy Vennila, Dean, told The Hindu that most of them had reported for duty. Works had been scheduled to all of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dean-12-doctors-from-districts-deputed-to-karur-gmch/article31335783.ece
14 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Straight from the farm to doorstep of city residents||In the wake of the lockdown due to the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, the farmer producer groups (FPG) in Madurai district procure vegetables and fruits from farmers, and sell them to the residents across villages at their doorstep. Using mobile vending outlets, the members of FPGs sell other essential commodities, including cooking oil and groceries, to villagers between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m. T. Vivekanandan, Joint Director of Agriculture, said that around 35 out of the 58 FPGs in the district are selling essential commodities to the villagers during the lockdown, following the directive from the district administration. “Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the role of the FPGs has expanded, as they help farmers by selling their produce. Also, the vegetables that are not sold through the mobile vending outlets are separately sold across local markets,” he said. Not only vegetables K.M. Gopalan, coordinator of farmer producer group in Melavalavu, said that since the lockdown, the members sell ‘vegetable bags’ to the residents. “Each bag, priced Rs. 140, contains 12 vegetables. We also sell groundnut oil, gingelly oil and coconut oil through these mobile vending outlets. In addition, face masks stitched by members of self-help groups using saris and dhotis are sold,” he said. The 100 members in the group work on a rotation basis. “Every day only seven members are deployed to pack the vegetable bags and sell them to the residents. All members of the FPGs wear face masks and we ensure that personal distancing is followed by the customers,” he said. This initiative of the FPGs has definitely helped farmers, who were struggling to transport their produce to the markets amidst the lockdown, said R. Rajadurai, Block Technology Officer (Kottampatti). G.K. Rengasamy, vice-chairman of Azhagarmalayan Millets and Other Crops Production Organisation ( a farmer producer organisation), said that the FPGs had tremendously helped in facilitating sales of oil. “We sell oil through 10 FPGs in Kottampatti block. If this initiative is not undertaken by the FPGs, then it would have been difficult to sell oil to the customers during the lockdown,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/straight-from-the-farm-to-doorstep-of-city-residents/article31335744.ece
14 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||College uploads course material||N.M.S.S. Vellaichamy Nadar College here has uploaded study material and videos on their website to promote learning during the lockdown. Principal A. Jawahar, who held a meeting with heads of departments on Monday, encouraged them to use Google Classroom and Zoom to conduct classes. “We made efforts to mobilise students for the online classes. We have been uploading the study material from March 26. Although there was reluctance among students to join the classes, we managed to reach out to the parents so that they could mark their attendance,” he said. “Though the academic year is slated to end on April 21, teachers will be conducting classes and tests until the college reopens as we do not want the minds of students to get rusty,” he said. Mr. Jawahar said that teachers were also adapting to the change in new methods of teaching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-uploads-course-material/article31335734.ece
14 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to streamline operation of wholesale grocery shops||Revenue Minister B. Udayakumar and members of Zonal Task Force headed by IAS officer C. Kamaraj held a meeting with representatives of trade bodies at World Tamil Sangam here on Monday to discuss smooth movement of essential commodities during the lockdown caused by COVID-19 pandemic. Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry senior president S. Rethinavelu said that grocers across Madurai used to buy everything from the wholesale shops on East Masi Street. They were initially allowed to function between 1 a.m. and 6 a.m. But more than the retailers, general public started thronging these shops because of the low prices. Since they crowded in front of the shops with total disregard for physical distancing, the district administration asked them to shut down a week back. “As neighbourhood grocery stores cannot store much, they have no choice but to come to these mini wholesale shops. So these shops could be divided and do business on alternate days and sell only to shopkeepers,” Mr. Rethinavelu said. The trade representatives also called for opening bakeries. “Moreover, flour mills are not functioning fully because of low demand for maida. Maida is a byproduct of rava, which is widely used in households. Unless maida is optimally used, rava too cannot be produced in bulk," Mr. Rethinavelu said. The Minister, who assured to look into these matters, said bakeries would be allowed to function from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m. Only takeaways would be permitted. MLAs V. V. Rajan Chellappa, K. Manickam, S. S. Saravanan and P. Periyapullan, Collector T. G. Vinay, Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan, Commissioner of Police S. Davidson Devasirvatham and Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-streamline-operation-of-wholesale-grocery-shops/article31335740.ece
14 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Suspension of job scheme leaves many high and dry||With the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) under suspension because of the COVID-19 lockdown, many villagers have no means for sustenance. While many still await their share of Rs. 1,000 and essential commodities at fair price shops, the others who have received them do not know how long the supplies will last. Indu Priyadarshini of Thanichiyam in Alanganallur block says that she and her three children could eke their living only by availing loan with high interest from a money lender. She used to plant saplings and water them under the job scheme. However, since the lockdown, there is no income and her husband is also without work. Facing the next several months is scary, she says. Her neighbour L. Velammal, who is over 65 years and with poor vision on one eye, says her household’s only source of income was the meagre amount that she received through the MGNREGS. Her husband has Elephantiasis and cannot do any physical labour and nor is he educated. “I do not have any children, but lack of income hurts,” she says. K. Kananarajan, 63, of Kambur in Kottampatti block, says he and his wife would get work about once or twice a month for Rs. 229 a day. “In the past one month I did not work. I wonder if I will get any relief from the government. I do not have any support as I do not have children. I hope I will not have to beg,” he says. District president of All India Agricultural Workers Union V. Uma Maheshwaran says that though the State government had stated that two-day salary would be credited to those who worked in March, every card holder must be given Rs. 500 to ensure their survival as most are frail and old,” he says. Additional Collector of Development B. Priyanka said 1.07 lakh people would receive the two-day salary in Madurai district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suspension-of-job-scheme-leaves-many-high-and-dry/article31335746.ece
14 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Painting the road to spread message||Madurai city police have drawn a huge painting of coronavirus on Palam Station Road to create awareness among road users against venturing out during the lockdown. The New Kalpalam Bridge-Palam Station Road junction is a major intersection for people from various parts of the city coming to Goripalayam junction. A sub-inspector says the police are not stopping anyone from moving around to buy essential commodities such as groceries, vegetables and medicines, or those going to hospitals. “We are only advising them to keep indoors to the maximum extent possible as the coronavirus is deadly and anyone can easily contract it if they do not maintain social distancing.” People are made to halt for a moment near the painting for some advice. “The painting of the virus will create some necessary fear among the people,” he added. Some of the youth do not listen to police advice and casually say they have come out to have a cup of tea. Police explain to them how even those so called superpowers of the world have been devastated by the fast spreading infection of COVID-19. “We seize their vehicles and book them for violating Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure under which the curfew has been ordered,” the official said. The seized vehicles will not be given back to them till the end of the lockdown. Police are also worried about people travelling long distance only to buy vegetables. “Some men come with their wives. Some pick up their neighbours too in their bike to buy vegetables at Simmakkal all the way from Koodal Nagar and Anaiyur,” a policeman said. Such people are advised to buy vegetables in their neighbourhood shops. They can also make use of mobile vegetable vendors of the Corporation and avoid coming out, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/painting-the-road-to-spread-message/article31335726.ece
14 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Advise children against flying kites: Tangedco||Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has urged parents to advise their children against flying kites. A disruption is caused to the continuous power supply when kites come in contact with the power lines, said a statement issued by the Tangedco on Monday. In the course of the national lockdown in order tackle the spread of COVID-19, Tangedco was working to ensure a continuous power supply to households. According to the statement, when kites came in direct contact with the power lines, it would disrupt power supply. Not only does it take time to restore power supply, but it is also dangerous and could lead to accidents. Therefore, parents should advice their children against flying kites and create an awareness in them on the present situation, so that the Tangedco could ensure continuous power supply, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/advise-children-against-flying-kites-tangedco/article31335735.ece
14 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Police distribute grocery, vegetables||Madurai district police on Monday distributed bags of grocery and vegetables to 350 supportless people from various villages under Karuppayoorani police station limits. Deputy Inspector General of Police (Madurai Range) Z. Annie Vijaya distributed the bags containing 10 kg of rice, pulses, chenna, cooking oil and eight varieties of vegetables and masks to people below poverty line, destitutes and aged persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-distribute-grocery-vegetables/article31335727.ece
14 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man dies after home quarantine||A 42-year-old man from South Gate, who had completed home quarantine a few days back, died following vomiting and breathlessness here on Sunday night. Police said that the man was under home quarantine till April 7 as a COVID-19 precautionary measure after he had returned home following a tour to Malaysia. The man had gone to the apartment where he was living with a woman. Suddenly, he had started throwing up and complained of trouble in breathing. Medical staff who attended on him declared him dead. His body has been taken to Government Rajaji Hospital. Subramaniapuram police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-after-home-quarantine/article31335745.ece
14 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen, farmers can go about their business, says Narayanasamy||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Monday announced an extension of the lockdown till April 30 to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) in the Union Territory. In an audio message, the Chief Minister said the territorial administration had decided to extend the prohibitory orders till the end of the month, as had been done in Tamil Nadu. Fishermen and farmers could engage in their vocation and sell their produce in the market. Fish vendors should adhere to social distancing norms while selling their catch, the Chief Minister said. Vegetable and grocery shops would continue to function as they had been during the past 20 days, he added. Any relaxation of rules for other sectors would be made based on the announcement to be made by the Prime Minister regarding the lockdown, the Chief Minister said.  Any relaxation of rules for other sectors would be done based on the announcement to be made by the Prime Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-farmers-can-go-about-their-business-says-narayanasamy/article31335453.ece
14 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Not blocking free rice distribution’||Distribution of free rice for ‘above poverty line’ cardholders, as demanded by political parties, was under the consideration of the government, Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said on Monday. In a Whatsapp message to reporters, the Lt. Governor said that the distribution of free rice and grains to ‘below poverty line’ cardholders was being carried out based on a standard operating system. Disputing reports that appeared in a section of media that she was blocking the distribution of free rice, the Lt. Governor said, “The truth of the matter is that free rice and grains are already being organised for distribution to BPL families through a fair method.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/not-blocking-free-rice-distribution/article31335436.ece
14 April 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Mobile App to monitor quarantined persons||The Salem Corporation on Monday launched ‘Vee Trace’, a mobile application designed to monitor quarantined persons and identify contacts of COVID-19 positive cases here. The application was developed by students of Sona College of Technology and Vee technologies. Salem Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh launched the application at alternative market set up at new bus stand. Mr. Sadheesh also flagged off awareness vehicles regarding the application here on Monday. Mr. Sadheesh said, “the application could be downloaded from android playstore and awareness vehicles with QR code have also been provided for scanning and downloading the application. Once downloaded, the application would ask for some details and once the application starts functioning, it would give alerts to users on how far away are they from a COVID-19 patients.” He said that 70 places have been cordoned off within the Corporation limits where positive cases and their contacts have been identified and 14 trucks have been arranged to deliver essentials to theses areas. Corporation health officials said that the application would also help them monitor persons in quarantine in its limits. According to officials, details regarding persons in quarantine would be loaded on to the application and they would receive alerts if an quarantined person moves out of their premises. Currently, containment zones are set up in 14 wards in Salem Corporation and 18 persons are undergoing treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. According to officials, the application would also help to identify whether a person has come in contact with a positive case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-app-to-monitor-quarantined-persons/article31335494.ece
14 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Relief materials donated||The Sona Group of Institutions handed over 2,000 kg rice, 300 kg dhal and sanitisers to District Collector S.A. Raman recently. The group also contributed 100 grocery kits to sanitary workers of Salem Corporation. According to a release, 400 N95 masks, 5000 three layered masks, sanitisers and rubber gloves were also contributed by them to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-materials-donated/article31335495.ece
14 April 2020||SALEM/COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||1,400 persons charged with violation of prohibitory orders in Salem||Salem City Police Commissioner T. Senthil Kumar said on Monday that about 1,400 cases had been registered since the beginning of lockdown here for violating prohibitory orders. “We have also seized 730 vehicles for violating the orders”, he said. Mr. Senthil Kumar and Deputy Commissioners P. Thangadurai (Law and Order) and S. Senthil (Crime and Traffic) distributed grocery kits worth Rs. 3.5 lakh to about 300 Home Guards personnel. Home Guards Commander Balasubramanian and West Zone Home Guards Deputy Commander Rajendran were also present. The Commissioner also released a short film on COVID-19 awareness, made by the Friends of Police. Regarding cases registered against 18 persons, including 11 Indonesian nationals, for violating visa norms and other charges, the Commissioner said five local contacts of the Indonesians were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here. They were ordered to be remanded. Further action would be taken once they were discharged. Deputy Commissioner Senthil said that vehicle movement had reduced after colour coding was introduced. Police seized 63 vehicles, particularly for tampering with the paint mark and venturing out on non-designated days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1400-persons-charged-with-violation-of-prohibitory-orders-in-salem/article31335512.ece
14 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Consumers seek change in mobile vegetable vending||Sales through the mobile vegetable vending, an initiative conceived and implemented to avoid congregation of the public in large numbers at vegetable markets, seem to have hit a plateau in three major urban pockets in Thanjavur district. The idea to sell vegetables at the doorsteps of consumers in urban and as well as rural pockets were envisioned by the officials as their efforts to ensure social distancing in the wake of COVID-19 virus scare at the temporary vegetable markets too failed to yield desired results. Thus, door to door sale of vegetables was taken up in Pattukottai and Kumbakonam Municipalities from April 3 and in Thanjavur Corporation domain from April 4 onwards. While assorted vegetable pack at a fixed price of Rs. 100 per bag was offered to the consumers at Pattukottai and Thanjavur, the Kumbakonam consumers were the privileged lot as they were able to purchase the vegetables of their choice from the mobile vending vehicles as almost all the vegetables were carried to their doorsteps. While five mini-vans were being pressed into this service at Pattukottai and Kumbakonam daily, the officials have not put any cap on the number of vehicles used for this service at Thanjavur. Despite the fact that more number of vehicles were allowed in Thanjavur to offer this service, the total number of vegetable pack units sold per day dipped by 100 bags per day on April 10 and April 11 compared to 1450 bags on April 5, the second day of mobile vegetable vending service in the town. Similarly, at Pattukottai the number of vegetable pack units sold on April 10 and April 11 were 537 and 539 respectively, compared to the third day sales of 656 units on April 5. On the other hand, despite the advantage enjoyed by the consumers at Kumbakonam the sale proceeds did cross Rs. 50,000 mark only on two days – on April 6 and April 11. The reason, according to some of the consumers at Thanjavur and Pattukottai was that half the set of 10 vegetables in the pack gets repeated every day resulting in piling up of such vegetables in the households. “The officials or the traders involved in this exercise should come forward to offer a different combination of vegetables every day or at least on alternate days by displaying the variety of vegetables available in the packs”, said Balasubramanian of Balaji Nagar, Thanjavur. Further, the quality of vegetables should also be given importance as dried or rotten vegetable in the pack would definitely wean off consumers' interest, said Sundar of Pattukottai.As far as the Kumbakonam consumers, though they are ready to shell out a bit extra per kg provided quality vegetables were supplied to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consumers-seek-change-in-mobile-vegetable-vending/article31335787.ece
14 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Isolation coaches ready for movement to needy places||Seven rakes of quarantine / isolation rail coaches have been kept ready at Tiruchi for immediate movement to the needy places in view of the COVID-19 pandemic spread. Every rake comprises of 20 quarantine / isolation coaches, a couple of SLR coaches and a pantry car. Every isolation coach would accommodate 16 persons for quarantine purpose. There is a separate cabin in every coach meant for para-medical team with supporting medical facilities. These coaches are likely to be moved to those stations with watering and coach battery charging facilities to facilitate quarantine purpose. Presently, watering and coach battery charging facilities are available in Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Mannargudi, Karaikal, Velankanni, Mayiladuthurai, Vriddhachalam, Villupuram and Puducherry in Tiruchi Railway Division’s limits. The Railway Board, New Delhi, had entrusted the work of converting passenger coaches into quarantine / isolation coaches to various railway divisions and workshops across the country in the wake of COVID-19 spread. Accordingly, the Golden Rock Railway Workshop in Tiruchi had converted over 100 passenger compartments into quarantine / isolation coaches, while the Tiruchi Railway Division had modified 44 coaches by engaging minimum staff and as per the specifications spelt out by the Railway Board. A senior railway official told The Hindu on Monday that seven rakes of isolation coaches had been stabled at Tiruchi for immediate movement at short notice to the needy areas. The official said they were awaiting further instruction from the higher authorities for movement of the rakes to the needy places in view of the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Three-tier sleeper class and general coaches which are over 15 years old were taken up for conversion to serve as quarantine or isolation coaches as a standby in case the hospitals are unable to accommodate the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isolation-coaches-ready-for-movement-to-needy-places/article31335791.ece
14 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||23 more patients test positive for coronavirus in central districts||Twenty-three more patients were tested positive for COVID-19 in central districts of the State on Monday. Of them 15 were from Karur district, and 3 from Tiruvarur district. Nagapatinam recorded five positive cases. There were no fresh cases recorded from Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Pudukottai and Ariyalur districts on Monday. Thirty persons have tested positive for COVID 19 virus in Nagapattinam district so far. In all, 151 samples were sent for testing from the district. The results of 47 samples are awaited, Collector Praveen P. Nair said. There are now eight containment zones in the district. Fifty doctors, 40 nurses, 133 health department workers, 600 anganwadi workers, and 122 police personnel were together carrying out door-to-door survey to determine the health conditions of the residents in the eight containment zones. The 28-day home quarantine procedure has been completed for 2,344 out of 3,383 persons detected with symptoms of COVID 19 virus. The district administration has distributed 74,958 food packets for 1,467 displaced people in the district, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/23-more-patients-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-central-districts/article31335789.ece
14 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Stress on effective containment||Contact tracing and effective containment would be the key to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, said R. Anandakumar, Special Secretary, Finance, and Monitoring Officer for Tiruchi. Presiding over a COVID 19 review meeting here on Monday, he said that the State government was taking all possible steps to contain the spread of the virus and treat affected patients. The immediate priority was to identify the contacts and family members of the positive patients. Swab samples should be collected from all of them and sent for laboratory test immediately. Officials should aim for 100% coverage. Similarly, efforts should be taken to get the results as early as possible so as to start the treatment protocol. Mr. Anandakumar said that it was important for the officials to make the residents of the containment areas to stay put in their homes. At the same time, there must be a standard system to ensure supply of the essential commodities to them. The officials should monitor the status of the health of those living in the containment areas on a daily basis. Shailesh kumar Yadav, Additional Director General of Police, said the there was no ban on transport of essential commodities during the curfew period. Trucks carrying vegetables, rice and paddy should not be stopped at check posts. They should be allowed unrestricted passage on return direction too. Mr. Yadav said that police should be posted in different places to monitor the curfew enforcement and violators should be booked. Collector S. Sivarasu, Commissioner of Police V. Varadharaju, Deputy Inspector General of Police V. Balakrishnan, Superintendent of Police Ziaul Haq, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stress-on-effective-containment/article31335776.ece
14 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Nation-wide lockdown affects work on new terminal building at Tiruchi airport||The nation-wide lockdown clamped to check the spread of COVID-19 pandemic has impacted the construction work of the new integrated passenger terminal building at Tiruchi international airport. Civil works, which had been proceeding on a brisk pace until the lockdown was announced late last month, were suspended following the enforcement of the prohibitory orders. Airports Authority of India officials here said the construction works had been suspended at the project site adjoining the existing terminal building barring some skeletal ones. About 600 labourers from north-Indian States such as Bihar and Jharkhand were deployed for the construction of the new two-level modular integrated passenger terminal building. The workers were housed close to the project site. The Airports Authority of India had allocated Rs. 950 crore for the mega project that also included construction of an apron and a technical block-cum-air traffic control tower. The officials said the works had to be suspended as a precautionary measure in the wake of the lockdown announced to check the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The mega project which commenced in late 2018 following sanction of funds and upon obtaining all clearances was being carried out under the supervision of the Airports Authority of India. The new terminal building is coming up on over 60,000 square metres near the existing terminal building. Officials exude hope that the suspension of the works in view of the current lockdown could be made up once it was lifted. The project was scheduled for completion in October 2021. However, they feel that if the lockdown was extended, it could impact the completion time. Meanwhile, essential items such as rice, dhal and edible oil were given free to the north Indian labourers who were deployed for the project on the airport premises on Monday. Airport Director K. Gunasekaran while handing over the essentials sought to drive home the importance of personal distancing in the current situation to the labourers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nation-wide-lockdown-affects-work-on-new-terminal-building-at-tiruchi-airport/article31335780.ece
14 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Agri inputs on wheels’ launched||Farmers who have standing cash crops and those have taken up navarai paddy cultivation in Tiruchi district can now hope to purchase fertilizers and other agricultural inputs right at their door step or fields. Reaching out to the farmers during the lockdown, the Agriculture Department has launched mobile outlets to take the inputs to the villages. The initiative comes in the wake of prohibitory orders enforced in view the COVID 19 pandemic. While various government departments were taking steps to delivery people’s requirements at their door step, in an attempt to prevent overcrowding at shops and markets, the Agriculture Department has also launched a similar facility. The initiative was flagged off at Navalpattu in Tiruverumbur block on Monday by S. Shanthi, Deputy Director of Agriculture, in the presence of other Agriculture Department officials. According to officials, farmers in Tiruverumbur block have taken up navarai paddy cultivation on 350 hectares. In some places, farmers had aired complaints of problems in commuting to shops to purchase fertilizers and other agricultural inputs. The ‘agriculture inputs on wheels’ would address the issue, officials said. Fertilizers such as urea, super phosphate, muriate of potash and complex fertilizers were sold to farmers at their door step. The transactions were done through POS (point of sale) machines as required under the fertilizer DBT (direct benefit transfer) regime. Other agricultural inputs such as seeds, micro nutrient mixtures and bio-fertilizers are also available for sale at the outlet, officials said. P. Asokan, Joint Director of Agriculture, said steps had been taken to launch similar outlets in all blocks of the district so that agricultural inputs were available to farmers without any hassles. “The initiative would ensure that there was no loss of yield due to non availability of inputs during critical stages of crop growth,” Mr.Asokan said. Moreover, when inputs are made available directly to farmers directly, they are convinced that fertilizers would be available when required. This would prevent hoarding of fertilizers by retailers as well as farmers, Mr.Asokan observed and advised farmers to purchase inputs according to their immediate need so that artificial scarcity was not created. Since the concerned block officials were accompanying the input distribution vehicles, the fertilizers are distributed based on the area cultivated by the farmers, he said. Farmers, who eagerly received the inputs in their respective areas, were also educated on the need for following social distancing and hand sanitation, Agriculture department officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agri-inputs-on-wheels-launched/article31335785.ece
14 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Health check-up for police personnel||The Chief Cardiologist, Rana Hospital, Tiruchi, Senthilkumar Nallusamy, on Friday conducted free health checks on police personnel deployed at various places here to enforce prohibitory orders in the wake of COVID-19 spread. He gave them multi-vitamin tablets to boost their immunity. He explained the importance of maintaining hydration status by drinking a plenty of water and taking healthy diet, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-check-up-for-police-personnel/article31335792.ece
14 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 takes a toll on hotel industry||April has indeed become ‘the cruellest month’, as the lockdown to stem the spread of COVID-19 takes a toll on the once bustling hotel industry in the city, with zero occupancy and worries about recovery gaining credence. “We are stuck in unfortunate circumstances and all are equally affected; money is short supply as nobody is in business. It seems our time is not right,” Guru Ranganathan, president, Tiruchi District Hotel Owners Association (TDHOA), told The Hindu . With around 150 TDHOA members, and another 200 hotels and restaurants outside the body affected by the lockdown that took effect on March 25, Mr. Ranganathan estimated that around 20,000 jobs are at stake in the industry due to the pandemic alert. Paying salaries to employees in a no-revenue month would be difficult, said Mr. Ranganathan. “We will have to borrow heavily from banks to manage payments. Besides this, we also have to take care of hotel maintenance. I don’t think anyone has that kind of liquidity to tide over the crisis,” he said. The lockdown has muted the beginning of what used to be the school vacation and domestic tourism season in the delta region. “Everyone in the hospitality sector works for the entertainment of holidayers. The nationwide closure and the fear over the pandemic’s spread have put a stop to this,” said M. Pon Ilango, of Jenneys Academy of Hotel Management. “The placement of our latest batch in local hotels is over, but we still don’t know if they will get their jobs back when the lockdown is lifted,” he added. Migrant workers from north-east India and Nepal who are employed as chefs and service staff in Tiruchi’s eateries and hotels, are struggling to stay on in the city, said industry sources. But even as most hoteliers said they needed anywhere between six months to a year to recover from the loss of business in the present lockdown, many were stoic about its possible extension. “We have to observe the rules for our own safety, so if the lockdown is extended, we are mentally prepared for it,” said Sriee Ariya Kamban V.S, general manager, Grand Gardenia Hotel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-takes-a-toll-on-hotel-industry/article31335778.ece
14 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Police gesture||Police attached to Samayapuram station on Monday distributed rice, biscuit packets and milk to 67 gypsy families at Bikshandarkoil on the city's outskirts. Every family was given five kg of rice, milk packet and biscuits by personnel led by Inspector Madhan at the place of stay of the gypsies following prohibitory orders clamped to check spread of COVID-19 pandemic, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-gesture/article31335781.ece
14 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Extend time for EB bill payment’||BHEL Small Industries Association and Tamil Nadu Boilers’ Association (BHELSIA) have urged the State Government to extend the time limit for paying electricity bills beyond April 15 in view of the difficulties faced by industries during the lockdown for containment of COVID 19 virus. In a letter to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, the president of BHELSIA Rajappa Rajkumar said industries were unable to deliver the manufactured products to customers. Also, the job in process had been put on hold, and the industries were unable to raise any bills. “In consideration of the difficulty faced by MSME units to achieve break even for the past two years, the government should consider scrapping the minimum demand charges and average charges since there was no industrial activity and hence no power consumption. The industries were prepared to pay for the actual units consumed, which were used for lighting purpose, Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar said. Due to the lockdown, the financial crisis of MSME units would continue for a minimum period of three to six months. Despite the direction given by the Reserve Bank of India and the Central government for mitigatory steps to tide over the criss caused by COVID 19 virus, banks were reluctant to sanction ad hoc and special limits, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extend-time-for-eb-bill-payment/article31335782.ece
14 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||School students contribute for COVID 19 relief fund||Three school students on Monday made personal cash contributions to the district administration for relief measures being undertaken for downtrodden people affected by nationwide lockdown for containment of COVID-19 virus. Vijeshram, an eighth standard student of Montfort School, Kattur, handed over Rs. 10,000 to the Collector S. Sivarasu. The amount was given to Vijeshram by his grandfather for purchase of a bicycle as a birthday gift. Aradhana, first standard student of Mannar Memorial School, and Sadhana, of the same school, handed over their small savings of Rs. 575 and Rs. 677, respectively, to the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-students-contribute-for-covid-19-relief-fund/article31335786.ece
14 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Blood analyzer donated||The Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) donated a fully automated blood analyzer to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial General Hospital (MGMGH), Tiruchi, on Monday. The equipment, which costs Rs. 27 lakh, has the capacity to test 4,500 blood samples per day. This machine was formally commissioned by the Dean K.Vanitha in presence Ashiya Begum, Vice-Principal, KAPV Government Medical College, and others. HPCL had donated a digital X-Ray machine at a cost of Rs. 9 lakh to Viralimalai Govt Hospital in Pudukottai district in February this year. The hospital has carried out many complicated surgeries of road accident patients in the recent past, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/blood-analyzer-donated/article31335795.ece
14 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘State govt. ready to release more funds’||The State government is prepared to release sufficient funds for anti-COVID-19 operations in Tirunelveli, according to M. Karunakaran, Special Officer for monitoring anti-pandemic operations in the district. Chairing a review meeting here on Monday, Dr. Karunakaran, who is Secretary, Department of Handlooms and Textiles, interacted with the heads of various departments to ascertain the work carried out in the wake of admission of 55 positive patients in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TMCH). He expressed satisfaction over the steps taken by the district administration in containing the virus and said the State government was ready to provide sufficient and additional funds, if need be. TMCH Dean M. Ravichandran said the hospital had 63 ventilators and 19 were to be added in the near future. Dr. Karunakaran, former Collector of the district, wanted to know how many of them were in use to which Dr. Ravichandran replied that all ventilators were ready to be used. Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish said a ventilator each had been reserved to treat a pregnant, positive patient and those undergoing dialysis if they too tested positive. To Dr. Karunakaran’s query about the steps taken by the district administration to screen the physically challenged, orphans and senior citizens living in homes, Ms. Shilpa said the vulnerable sections were screened in a special door-to-door exercise organised by the Department of Social Welfare and the District Differently abled Welfare Officer with the help of the primary health centre concerned. “We have identified and screened 852 physically challenged living homes or in below poverty line families through primary health centres,” the Collector added. Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan said the civic body deployed hand-held, vehicle-mounted and gun sprayers as part of the disinfectant operation, besides using a drone. It was about to commission BHEL-fabricated ‘mist sprayer’ to make the exercise more effective. The Corporation was disinfecting ‘containment zones’ thrice a day and vegetable markets and grocery stores twice a day — in the morning before start of business and after 1 p.m. following the end of sale for the day. Ms. Shilpa added that the 17,672 houses within the eight ‘containment zones’ comprising Tirunelveli Town, Melapalayam, Kodeeswaran Nagar, Pettai, Kalakkad, Pattamadai and Valliyoor were being disinfected everyday. Superintendent of Police, Tirunelveli, Om Prakash Meena, and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Tirunelveli City, S. Saravanan gave details about the number of cases filed against violators of the lockdown and vehicles seized. “We are using social media effectively to serve the public with the help of volunteers,” they said. The Collector said the rice mills in the district had been allowed to resume operations to avert shortage of supply. “For other essential commodities, for which we are relying upon suppliers from other districts and other States, the State-level monitoring committee is being alerted regularly so that there will no shortage for any essential commodity here.” Dr. Karunakaran told the meeting that the State government, which had armed local bodies, public health department and Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital with adequate equipment, was prepared to release additional funds for the district, if the situation demanded. On the delay in the arrival of ‘rapid test kits’, he said the State government was taking all-out efforts to get the equipment early. Additional Director General of Police and another Special Officer, Mahesh Kumar Agarwal, Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli City, Deepak M. Damor and Deputy Inspector General of Police, Praveen Kumar Abinapu, were present. Dr. Karunakaran and Mr. Mahesh Kumar Agarwal have decided to camp here over the next two weeks to accelerate anti-COVID-19 operations in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari and Virudhunagar districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-govt-ready-to-release-more-funds/article31335729.ece
14 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Overthinking Ulaganathan’ an instant hit||Though several videos on COVID – 19 and consequent lockdown is going viral on social media, an awareness video produced by students of Department of Mass Communication of Manonmaniam Sundaranar University (MSU) conveys a powerful message against hoarding during the pandemic. The video has been produced for Tirunelveli City police to create awareness among the public against stockpiling essential commodities during the lockdown. The main character of the video, ‘Overthinking Ulaganathan,’ buys essential commodities, medicines, vegetables etc. over and above his genuine requirements to stock for two months even though grocers, pharmacists, vegetable vendors and others allay fears that there would be no dearth for any essential commodity. “If you become panicky during this lockdown and start buying whatever comes your way, it will result in skyrocketing of prices of essential commodities and wastage as you will buy anything though it has no place in your daily life. Since supply of essential commodities, vegetables and medicines are so smooth and uninterrupted, be smart in buying and remain indoors peacefully. It will save you a lot of your savings,” the traders advise in the 4.55-minute-long video. But ‘Overthinking Ulaganathan’ buys whatever he considers as essential with his savings. Assistant Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli E. Sathish Kumar and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Tirunelveli City, S. Saravanan urge the public not to go in for buying spree. “Since we have ensured regular supply of all essential commodities, buy whatever you need as you come out of your house once in three or four days. As we are guarding you by staying on the streets round the clock, you just stay peacefully safe in your house with your family, which alone can defeat COVID–19,” the police officials appeal to the public in the video. When the video was posted on YouTube, it enjoyed 700 views on the first day and crossed 1,200 on the second day. And the numbers swelled when it was shared on social media. “Seven students of our department worked on this project on request from City Police... After a three-hour-long discussion on the first day, the script got the final shape on the second day. We chose six locations and completed the work within a few hours so that our students should also not get exposed to any viral infection. And, the work on giving final shape to the final product started at different areas – from Thisaiyanvilai to Krishnapuram on Palayamkottai outskirts - where these students are located. Having hit the bull’s eye in this venture, our students are raring to go for the second one, which will be 30-second-long awareness material,” says Hans, Assistant Professor, Department of Communication, MSU. Now, the students have planned to release an awareness material on various topics during this lockdown every week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/overthinking-ulaganathan-an-instant-hit/article31335733.ece
14 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur City Police introduce drone surveillance||The police in Tiruppur began using a drone on Monday to monitor the COVID-19 containment zones better. Tiruppur North Police Inspector V. Ganesan said the drone cost Rs. 2.5 lakh and was sponsored by a private organisation. The drone would be used to surveil three containment zones in his jurisdiction. Drone surveillance would also be done on the streets to check for violations of the prohibitory orders, he said. A senior police officer with the Tiruppur City Police said that all police stations in the city had been asked to equip themselves with drones, particularly to monitor the containment zones. Police stations in the North Range would be covered first, he said. However, there was shortage of drones and related equipment owing to demand, the officer added. The drones can be operated from a distance of three kilometres and two experts will act as drone operators. These will be used in monitoring specific locations prone to gathering of large crowds, such as the old and new bus stands that now house the vegetable markets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-city-police-introduce-drone-surveillance/article31335488.ece
14 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Protective equipment donated||Tiruppur-based Ini Oru Vidhi Seivom Trust said that the organisation donated 75 personal protective equipment. In a statement, the Trust’s founder Kavitha Jenarthanan said that 50 PPE kits were given to Tiruppur Corporation and 25 to Tiruppur Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protective-equipment-donated/article31335496.ece
14 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur becomes third district with most COVID-19 cases||In a consecutive spike, Tiruppur district saw the confirmation of 18 positive COVID-19 cases on Monday, bringing the total number of active cases to 78. The district also saw a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases on Sunday, with 35 cases confirmed in a single day. With 78 cases, Tiruppur district stands third in the State with the most number of COVID-19 positive cases behind Chennai (208 cases) and Coimbatore (126 cases). According to sources from the Health Department, all 18 cases were contacts of previous cases who tested positive for COVID-19. The 18 cases comprise three from Tiruppur Corporation limits, seven from Tiruppur Block (outside Corporation limits), three from Avinashi Block, one from Dharapuram, two from Palladam and two from Udumalpet Block. Fifteen patients were women and three were men, the sources added. The COVID-19 positive patients are currently undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. The district has seen only one recovery so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-becomes-third-district-with-most-covid-19-cases/article31335507.ece
14 April 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Call to waive agriculture loans||The Central and State governments have been urged to waive all the agriculture loans in view of the financial stress suffered by the farmers due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In a statement the president, Tamil Nadu All Farmers Organisations Committee P.R.Pandian said the farmers were either not able to dispose of their produce or forced to sell their produce at a throwaway price. Though the efforts taken by the State government to ensure the sale of vegetables and other horticulture produce, 80% of such products could get sold during temple festivals or through private functions. As both these events have been banned in view of the COVID-19 virus scare, several horticulture farmers have let their produce rot in the fields.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-to-waive-agriculture-loans/article31335775.ece
14 April 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Man jumps to death from temple tower||Jayabal, 40, of Mudaliyar Street, Tiruvarur, ended his life by jumping from Sri Thyagarajaswamy temple tower on Monday. According to police, the deceased climbed up the north tower of the temple and while he jumped from the tower, he fell over the overhead power line passing along the temple compound wall. He died on the spot. The Tiruvarur Town police have registered a case and are investigating. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-jumps-to-death-from-temple-tower/article31335788.ece
14 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Meat shops closed in Ooty due to overcrowding||Meat stalls in Udhagamandalam have been closed for the last two days following orders by the district administration, who took the step due to overcrowding at the meat stalls set up near the Ooty Race Course. Local residents said that the meat stalls were reopened in Udhagamandalam on Saturday, with the shops being allowed to function at the Ooty Race Course. Hundreds of people began queuing at the stalls due to the Easter weekend. However, noticing the long queues at the Race Course, the Udhagamandalam Municipality and the district administration ordered that the stalls be closed on Saturday. Similarly long queues on Sunday led to the premature closure of the meat stalls, which continued till Monday. Visitors to the market hoping to purchase meat and poultry were turned away empty-handed. C. Rajan, a resident of Fern Hill in Udhagamandalam, said that he had been coming to the market for the last three days to purchase meat. “I have spoken to friends and family in other districts who said that meat shops in their cities are functioning, so I am not really sure as to the reasons why the shops here are closed,” he said. Merchants from the municipal market and meat stall owners said that problems arose on Saturday due to the unexpected demand for beef. “As mutton is very expensive, and people were wary of purchasing chicken due to reports of bird flu in neighbouring districts, there was a surge in demand for beef at the few stalls which were opened on Saturday. This led to the municipality deciding that the meat stalls in general were leading to large groups of people congregating at a particular place,” said a merchant from the Udhagamandalam market. The Ooty Municipal Market Merchants’ Association is in discussions with the administration to allow for fish, poultry and mutton stalls to begin operating once again from Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meat-shops-closed-in-ooty-due-to-overcrowding/article31335492.ece
14 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tea estate workers stage protest||More than a hundred workers employed by a private tea estate in Coonoor staged a protest near the estate’s entrance on Monday, alleging that they had not been paid their salaries for over two months. The workers said that the estate officials were asking them to work, but had not paid them their salaries for the last two months. They refused to resume work unless their demands were met. Officials from the Revenue Department in Coonoor reached the spot and held talks with the estate management and the workers. They said that the estate agreed to pay the workers their overdue salaries. Essential supplies were also given to the workers by the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tea-estate-workers-stage-protest/article31335511.ece
14 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Rajapalayam town is now a containment zone||Six new positive cases were recorded in Virudhunagar district on Monday. However, with the first positive patient of the district discharged after treatment on Sunday, the number of total positive cases from the district has risen to 16. Among the new cases are three men and three women. Four of the positive cases are secondary contacts of a Rajapalayam patient. While one is a friend, the rest are from a private hospital in Rajapalayam where he underwent treatment for fever before testing positive. A young doctor, a lab technician and an office assistant have tested positive. The other two positive cases are the mother and wife of a primary case from Aruppukottai. All six patients who have tested positive did not have any symptoms of COVID-19, an official source said. “With the number of positive cases in Rajapalayam going up to eight, we are going to lockdown the entire town. Strict restrictions will be implemented on public movement. Similarly, even those coming out to buy essential goods will require to compulsorily wear masks,” Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan said. A massive disinfection exercise will be taken up on Tuesday along with door-to-door survey in around 42,000 houses for symptoms of COVID-19 such as fever, cold and cough. Contact tracking of all six positive cases have started. “We appeal to the people of Rajapalayam, who underwent treatment between March 22 and 26 at the private hospital where the doctor is employed, to volunteer for medical examination,” Mr. Kannan said. The hospital was closed down on March 27. Among 81 contacts of 11 primary cases for whom swab tests were conducted, 75 tested negative, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajapalayam-town-is-now-a-containment-zone/article31335731.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Post COVID-19, life will never be the same again||In my career as a clinician for over six decades, I have witnessed doctors battling disease, every single day, alongside their patients. There have been crises, situations that caused great panic, emergencies and alongside, enormous joy, every time a medical miracle was achieved and precious lives saved. I was 12 years of age then, so I remember World War II quite well. It was a war, we knew who the enemy was and there was preparedness for combat. But the COVID-19 pandemic is proving to be a furtive adversary, threatening people in more than 200 countries and challenging even the most advanced healthcare systems in the world. If this is World War III, then it would go down in the annals of history and medicine as one, which in just 100 days, overwhelmed humanity and infected more than 1.5 million people and snatched 88,000 lives. I have never seen what we are seeing today and believe that the world that I’ve known will never be what it was! SARS-CoV-2, a 120 nm virus has brought the world to virtually a standstill. It has made us pause, stop and think. It has made us realise that the world we live in today has no borders. It has made us think that what we thought indispensable can actually be done away with. It has made us aware that we as a human race can break the barriers that we have erected and as a united force, can take on any challenge. It has made us recognise the amazing ability we have to find solutions in record time. It has made us appreciate the beauty of stillness. It has made us rekindle the power of finding solace in the arms of family members. As I write, I am reminded of the period before India became independent from colonial rule in 1947. I was a teenager and was living with my parents in Aragonda, a small village in Andhra Pradesh. Then, the father of our nation Mahatma Gandhi was leading our freedom struggle through a movement of non-violence, and like every Indian, in spirit, I too joined the revolution. Today, once again, I am seeing the same spirit of patriotism across our glorious nation, and I commend the Government of India and all the State governments for their relentless efforts in containing the pandemic. India is bracing well to the challenge of COVID-19. The Government of India started preparing early (in January when there were no cases in India) and prepared well. The evacuation of our citizens from China and other countries, establishment of quarantine facilities, contact tracing, airport screening and travel advisories helped in preventing the spread of COVID-19 to a significant measure. Extensive advertisements, messages on cell phones and various social media platforms were employed like never before to reach all our citizens. Be it augmenting capacity in testing, procurement and development of diagnostic kits, enhancing infrastructure, standardising protocols for quarantine, containment and treatment, augmenting access to personal protective equipment (PPE) and availability of ventilators, there was a strong intent with decisive action. Doctors and researchers came together across the globe and unravelled the genome of SARS-CoV-2 in days. Diagnostic kits were developed rapidly, clinical and vaccine trials were initiated in record time. Our understanding has improved considerably in managing patients with COVID-19, we now have efficacious medication and we are at the cusp of using newer therapy. The public and private sector came together to take on SARS-CoV-2. The Prime Minister of India has personally led the fight against COVID-19 addressing the nation three times in a fortnight. Global leaders and WHO have applauded the Government of India for its proactive approach. A countrywide lockdown when there were less than 600 cases for a country of 1.35 billion is unprecedented in history and without parallel. This decision has met with huge support across the country and till date, 310 districts of India’s 735 remain free of the COVID-19 infection. People, even though inconvenienced, have realised that this action needed to be taken in the larger interest of the nation. There will be huge economic consequences but the decision was imperative in the larger interest of citizens. If there is health, only then can there be wealth. The lockdown is estimated to have prevented several thousand individuals from getting infected and saved numerous precious lives. The lockdown will help flatten the curve and not allow the health infrastructure to be overwhelmed. The 1.4 million physicians of Indian origin working across the globe have been at the forefront of the fight against COVID-19, as they have done on many occasions in the past. The world is looking up to them for solutions and they will never let people down. On 22nd March, we saw an outpouring of emotions from 135 crore Indians that would have uplifted the spirit of every healthcare professional. For doctors, patients come before all else because, at the age of 22, on graduating, they took an oath to care for humanity. Together, we can, we must and we will be victorious over COVID-19. We are at an inflection point in our war and with a well thought-out strategy with meticulous execution, we will be victorious. As advised by the WHO, in the days ahead, we need to test, test and test, as ramping up testing is pivotal to break the chain. On Tuesday, the 21-day lockdown period will be completed, a few States have already announced an extension till the end of the month. With the Prime Minister to address the nation, we will know the Centre’s decision on the road ahead. It is an arduous decision as they would have to weigh innumerable aspects regarding safeguarding the health of every Indian and secure the health of our economy. As responsible citizens, each of us have to abide by, respect the decisions of our administrative leaders, and do our part in staying well and safe. Hopefully, the lessons we would have learnt about living within the parameters defined by the lockdown without dependence on what was once unimaginable, will stay with us. Who would have thought that virtual meetings can be as meaningful as they have turned out to be? Who would have thought that social distancing as a term would not only find its place in our vocabulary but also our day to day lives? Who would have thought we can demonstrate such discipline collectively? We will now have a new definition of what is normal, a new normal has taken shape in 2020. Life will never be the same again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/post-covid-19-life-will-never-be-the-same-again/article31335443.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown lap||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-lap/article31335738.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Locals bar cremation of doctor’s body||Senior police, Corporation and Health department officials are working out a strategy to cremate the body as early as possible. "In deaths caused due to coronavirus, the bodies will not be handed over to the family though they can be present at the crematorium. Some guidelines have been issued by the Chief Secretary in this regard and a decision on disposing of the body will be taken soon," the official said. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh attributed the confusion to a "communication gap" and said that detailed guidelines on the disposal of bodies had been circulated to all hospitals. Steps would be taken to ensure that such incidents did not recur, she said, adding that since the doctor had tested positive for COVID-19 in Andhra Pradesh, the death would be added to the number of fatalities in that State. Health workers disinfected the Ambattur crematorium premises after the body was removed. No case was registered in connection with the incident, police sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/locals-bar-cremation-of-doctors-body/article31335456.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID update||As on April 13  Tiruppur  House quarantine cases: 882 Persons released after 28 days of house quarantine: 206 Samples lifted: 310 Results declared: 224 Positive cases: 79 (18 new cases on April 13, admitted to ESI Hospital, Coimbatore) Negative: 145 Discharged from ESI Hospital: 1 Results awaited: 86  Coimbatore  Persons in hospitals: 274 (male -176, male child – 6, female – 79, female child – 13) Govt. hospitals – 239 Private hospitals – 35 Positive cases – 126||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-update/article31335506.ece
14 April 2020||BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Freedom fighter Mohan Desai passes away||Freedom fighter, Khadi promoter and senior journalist Mohan B. Yamakanamaradi Desai passed away here on Monday. He was 99. Known as M.B. Desai, he joined the freedom movement at the age of 16. He also participated in the Hyderabad Karnataka Liberation movement in the 1940s. He started Lok Darshan, a Kannada weekly, in Belagavi in 1956. He turned it into a daily by 1963. His final rites were conducted at Hudali village in the evening on Monday. Only a few of his family members were present, as others were unable to travel due to the lockdown. Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has expressed condolences on the passing away of the freedom fighter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/freedom-fighter-mohan-desai-passes-away/article31335570.ece
14 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Woman dead, sample sent for test||A 80-year-old woman who had come in contact with a COVID-19 positive patient died in Hire Bagewadi village on Monday. Officials have collected her throat swab samples and sent them for test. The woman had come in contact with patient number 224. She was one of the 21 primary contacts of that person and was kept in institutional quarantine. Doctors in the district hospital have certified that the old woman died of a heart attack. However, the question whether she was COVID-19 positive and whether the viral infection killed her, will be known only after the test, Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli said. If she were found to be positive, then the process of tracing her primary and secondary contacts would start and they would be quarantined. Authorities would conduct the final rites of the deceased person as per COVID-19 protocols, in public interest, Mr. Bommanahalli said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-dead-sample-sent-for-test/article31335572.ece
14 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Six booked filed for not giving information||Belagavi Police have registered cases against six persons for allegedly withholding information about the participation of a youth in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi. The youth, his four relatives and the local Tablighi Jamaat secretary have been booked under IPC 201 and 203 (hiding information from government officer and giving wrong information to government officer). This was because the accused had failed to report the visit and come forward for having a test done, Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-booked-filed-for-not-giving-information/article31335569.ece
14 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Three more positive cases in Belagavi||Three more persons tested positive for COVID-19 from Belagavi district on Monday. This takes the total number of such cases in the district to 17. All the three persons who tested positive are family members of patient number 149 who hails from Kudchi village near Raibag. They have all been shifted to the designated hospital. The 17 patients are in different stages of treatment and their condition is stable, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-more-positive-cases-in-belagavi/article31335571.ece
14 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Time is right to revive farm sector by wooing village returnees, say experts||The present situation, marked by the return of thousands of migrant labourers and those doing menial jobs in urban areas to their native villages, has brought to focus their uncertain future. But agriculture experts feel this is the appropriate time to revive the rural economy through the rejuvenation of agriculture and allied sectors by attracting a sizeable number of such persons. “A section of labourers and those doing menial jobs will be willing to stay back as the tough situation is likely to have made them understand the uncertainties and problems involved in city life. But they stay in villages only if they get the confidence that agriculture and allied sectors can get them remunerative incomes,” said C. Aswath, principal scientist and head of the Floriculture and Medicinal Plants division of the Indian Institute of Horticultural Research. But it is definitely possible to ensure that they get similar or greater incomes from agriculture and allied sectors, he said. Dr. Aswath has helped several small and marginal farmers earn remunerative incomes through floriculture. According to him, the need of the hour is to turn farming into a remunerative occupation and a profitable business venture through organised efforts, including convergence of technology, collection of accurate data, and linking of farmers with scientists as well as markets. Need for system “We must begin with proper data collection and analysis with respect to agriculture and allied sectors. Also, there should be a system of crop regulation, at least for major cash crops such as tomato, onion, potato and chilli, under which farmers have to register with the authorities concerned and provide exact information on the extent of cultivation. After registering, the government should compensate if there is a crash in price by declaring minimum support prices,” he said. Under such a system, as the government will know the exact quantum of crops sown, it will be easy to plan in advance for their marketing, he added. “We must have a centralised server dedicated to data with respect to agriculture and allied sectors,” he said, pointing out that mere analysis of data can help experts recognise trends of crop production and market behaviour. In addition to this, efforts should be made to set up processing units for value addition to crops, and care should be taken to increase cold storage potential, Mr. Aswath said. He also stressed the need for convergence of farmers, scientists, industry persons and consumers to bail out farmers in times of crisis. Pointing out that some farmers have removed rose plants from their fields on being unable to find markets for them, he said it was possible to supply dried petals to food industries in such cases. T.N. Prakash Kammaradi, agri economist and former chairman of Karnataka Agriculture Prices Commission, said there are two kinds of labourers/peoplewho have returned to villages. “One category is those who have farm land. The other is landless persons. We must think of ways to provide gainful and dignified employment to the landless in rural areas. We must promote the use of machinery and reduce drudgery. Also, use the services of skilled persons in repairing the machines,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/time-is-right-to-revive-farm-sector-by-wooing-village-returnees-say-experts/article31335398.ece
14 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State’s recovery rate higher than national average||It is not just Karnataka’s low fatality rate with respect to COVID-19 that is worth mentioning. With as many as 60 patients of the total 247 discharged till date, the patient recovery rate here, which is 23.8%, is higher than the national average of 10.4%. Meanwhile, Kerala where 179 of the 375 cases have been discharged, has a remarkably high recovery rate of 47.7%. At 2.8%, Karnataka’s COVID-19 fatality rate is lesser than the national average of 3.5%. Similarly, Karnataka’s positivity rate (the number of persons who tested positive out of the total tested) at 2.5% is even lesser than Kerala that has a positivity rate of 2.63%, said Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar, who is the COVID-19 spokesperson in Karnataka. According to data from the State Health Department, the highest among the 60 discharged are from Bengaluru. While 27 of the 77 positive cases in Bengaluru have been discharged, 10 of the 48 in Mysuru and seven of the12 in Dakshina Kannada have been discharged. As many as 39 of the 60 discharged are those who had a foreign travel history. The districts of Davangere and Kodagu that had reported three and one cases, respectively, have now come out of the list of COVID-19 affected districts after the discharge of all patients there. The elderly have been severely hit and all the seven COVID-19 deaths in the State are those aged above 55. However, on a positive note, nine persons aged above 60 have recovered and gone home. The 46-year-old person, who was the first positive case in the State reported on March 9, is also the first person to have recovered and discharged. Almost all the 60 persons discharged have recovered within a span of 13 to 14 days. Those who have recovered and won the COVID-19 battle in the State include a 10-month-old baby in Dakshina Kannada, six persons aged between 50 and 60, 44 persons aged between 10 and 50. The first positive person from the pharma company in Nanjangud, Mysuru — that has now become a cluster hotspot with 37 confirmed cases — has also been discharged. Subsequently, six others have also been discharged. Health officials are still scrambling to find out the source of infection here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/states-recovery-rate-higher-than-national-average/article31335390.ece
14 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panel to analyse epidemiology of cases||To analyse and study the epidemiology of COVID-19 cases reported in the State, the Health Department has set up a six-member committee headed by public health expert M.K. Sudarshan. It will study the Centre’s guidelines on hotspots and come out with a data-driven action plan and suggest interventions. According to a notification issued by Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education), the committee has been asked to ascertain how different patients got infected and to suggest administrative measures to break the chain and maintain social distancing. The committee, comprising public health experts and epidemiologists — Giridhar Babu from Public Health Foundation, V. Ravi/Anita from National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Pradeep/Gururaj from NIMHANS, K. Ravi/Shashi Bhushan from Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, and B.G. Prakash, State Joint Director (Communicable Diseases) — will also analyse the treatment given to patients and suggest changes required. Dr. V. Ravi told The Hindu that there was a need for each State to have its own committee as the spread of the disease and trends varied. “As of now, our hotspots have been identified based on the Centre’s analysis. But there is a need to analyse the trends and be prepared to handle any outbreak-like situation in districts that remain free of the infection so far,” he said. “We will study the clinical manifestation of every case and, using data, predict future trends. Based on this, further interventions on treatment and management strategies can be planned.” Six discharged Meanwhile, 15 new positive cases, including four children, were detected on Monday, taking the State total to 247. These include the eight who died and the 60 persons discharged. Six were discharged on Monday. The new cases include three each from Mandya and Belagavi, four from Hubballi- Dharwad, including three children, two from Bidar, and one each from Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, and Bagalkot. Except for one case of a 62-year-old from Bengaluru Urban, 13 persons have contact history with people who had travelled to Delhi. One has a history of travel to Delhi. The Bengaluru Urban person has been suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). Addressing persspersons, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday launched ‘CORONA Helpdesk’, in partnership with WhatsApp, for the latest updates and facts on COVID-19. People can use it by sending the text message “Hi” to 87509 71717. Facebook users can go to @KarnatakaVarthe.Official. For more information, visit www.co- vid19.karnataka.gov.in. Quarantine extended With some patients developing symptoms after the 14-day incubation period, the department has now increased the number of days that patients need to be quarantined to 28. After the first 14 days, the patients will be home quarantined for the next 14, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panel-to-analyse-epidemiology-of-cases/article31335404.ece
14 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Employees in essential services find new ways to commute||Commuting within the city after the lockdown, even for employees of essential services, has not been hassle-free with route restrictions and strict vigil by the police. With public transport severely constrained, people working in essential services are now shifting to ride-pooling or carpooling. B.M. Manjunath, PRO, BWSSB, said that he picks up his colleagues on the way to office and drops them back home every day. “It is also efficient asset utilisation amidst the lockdown. It is our informal arrangement. Most of who have been given official vehicles in our offices are doing it,” he said. Prasad Babu, a resident of J.P. Nagar, who works in a bank in Bidadi said that three of his colleagues used to go by bus on normal days. “However, now we go together in one of our vehicles. As many roads are blocked within the city, we are made to take new routes. We are stopped by the police for checking at least twice a day,” he said. Another official who travels to the city from Nelamangala for work said that he hitches a ride with his colleague. “We share the ride. It saves us money and energy and is safe,” he said. A few offices and institutions, such as Victoria Hospital, have provided transportation facilities to their employees. “Apart from our hospital staff, we also pick up staff of the neighbouring Minto Eye Hospital and Vani Vilas Women and Children’s Hospital,” said Somashekar C., a driver at Victoria Hospital. He added that many, who otherwise used their private vehicles, are making use of the service now. The Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC) has also been providing its vehicles to some departments. Kumar Pushkar, MD, KSTDC, said, “Our vans are being used to pick up and drop staff of essential services, mainly health department officials, from even Mandya and Tumakuru. Apart from that, BBMP has borrowed ten vehicles to pick-up homeless people and destitute persons off the streets.” He also said that KSTDC was ready to provide its vans and even their buses to any department that needs their services. Officials of KSRTC also say that they were ready to provide their services if approached by any departments.  54 KSRTC buses to ferry pourakarmikas The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has borrowed 54 buses from the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) to ferry pourakarmikas from their home to workplaces and back. Earlier, owing to the lockdown, hundreds of pourakarmikas were forced to walk to places of work with many not able to go to work as well. Sarfaraz Khan, joint commissioner (solid waste management), BBMP, said the civic body had taken all the measures to maintain social distancing even inside buses. “This will also ensure that those pourakarmikas who could to report to duty due to lack of transport can now get back to work as free transport is made available,” he said. Penchalamma, a pourakarmika and resident of C.V. Raman Nagar, said that she worked near Halasuru lake and often used to walk the distance to get there. “I have walked for more than 8 km per day just to get to work. Now that they have provided transportation, it saves our time, energy and money. They should have done it long ago,” she said. Babu, president, BBMP Pourakarmika Sanghagala Okkuta, said that they had been demanding that BBMP provide transportation for pourakarmikas since the first day of the lockdown. “Better late than never. Without any pass or ID cards, pourakarmiaks struggled to get to the places of work,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/employees-in-essential-services-find-new-ways-to-commute/article31335373.ece
14 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Activists call for easing restrictions, corrective measures during extension||On the eve of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation, when he is expected to announce an extension of the lockdown over the COVID-19 pandemic, activists from ‘Naavu Bharateeyaru’ have called for “corrective measures” to help the needy. In a statement released on Monday, they drew the attention of the State government on several issues at hand and posed a series of questions to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on how the government was managing the public health and humanitarian crises. They have demanded a task force with representatives from civil society and various vulnerable groups along with public health experts to be constituted to take decisions on the modalities of the lockdown and to plan a seamless exit from it. They have advocated for easing of certain norms of the lockdown following strict hygiene and social distancing norms. “Activities under NREGA and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) should be allowed with safety protocols. Total employees at any worksite or private organisation can be allowed to function with restriction to 20 persons or 25% of staff strength, whichever is higher,” the statement said, also arguing for restarting essential public transport. The activists have highlighted how the government’s measures have been found wanting in ensuring food security. Subsidised rates “The government is only providing rice and wheat through PDS despite the Union Government asking for distribution of dal as well. It calls for the distribution of dal, salt, oil, spices through PDS and vegetable, fruits, eggs and meat through HOPCOMS at subsidised rates. The poor are just making ganji as they can’t afford anything else. Considering the serious anaemia, vitamin A deficiency, stunting and undernutrition in Karnataka, the government should immediately take corrective measures to prevent an even bigger crisis,” the statement said, also demanding for free food at Indira Canteens. They have also demanded a cash transfer of Rs. 5,000 to all BPL card holding families. The activists have also argued that government hospitals have to be used to only treat critically ill COVID-19 patients and not for other symptomatic or asymptomatic patients. They have called for private hospitals to be taken over for these purposes to ensure healthcare for other complications to the poor is not compromised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/activists-call-for-easing-restrictions-corrective-measures-during-extension/article31335386.ece
14 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools ask Education Dept. to reduce portions for next year||With the coming academic year (2020-21) likely to be delayed, resulting in fewer academic days, school managements have urged the State government to reduce the portions for schools affiliated to the State board. The managements are anticipating a delay of one and a half months and expect that schools will start by the end of June or in July. Every year, the academic year for State syllabus schools begins by the end of May. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said the syllabus for all subjects should be reduced by 10% to 15%. “This needs to be done in a very methodical way, as the chapters of many grades are in a sequence. If certain chapters are cut from one grade, they need to be included in the next grade,” he said. Limitations The principal of a city-basedschool in Rajajinagar said, “Primary school students are not college students who can be taught classes online. We also cannot cram all the portions on them in a short duration. The department needs to consider our advice seriously.” Officials of the Department of Primary and Secondary Education said they would chalk out a plan by mid-May and ensure that the school managements complete all the portions. Meanwhile, many schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) have planned online classes for the first few months. “We have been asked to make PowerPoint presentations and use other visual aids to make the online classes interactive. We have been told that the classes should be designed in a manner that the attention of students remains,” said a mathematics teacher working with a school affiliated to CBSE in Indiranagar. However, parents are not for cutting of portions. Sujata S., a parent who has two children in primary school, said, “It is in the initial primary school years that students get a foundation of the basic concepts. We want the government to retain all the lessons,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-ask-education-dept-to-reduce-portions-for-next-year/article31335402.ece
14 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Wine merchants urge govt. not to discriminate among licensees||As the State is looking at various ways to augment its revenue, the Federation of Karnataka Wine Merchants’ Association has urged the government not to discriminate among licence holders “if it allows sale of liquor in the coming days.” Their appeal comes in the light of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday stating that they were looking at allowing State government-owned MSIL outlets to sell liquor post April 14. “Discussions are on (to open liquor outlets). We will decide after April 14 and based on the Union government guidelines that is yet to come,” Mr. Yediyurappa told reporters to a question on whether MSIL outlets will be allowed to open. However, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi in Belagavi has opposed sale of liquor by any agency in the State. “I will speak to the Chief Minister and convince him about it,” he said. It is learnt that the Excise Department has suggested partial opening of liquor vending units in the State between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. daily till the lockdown is lifted by adhering to strict social distancing. While MSIL operates 789 outlets in the State, there are about 10,200 liquor licensees in various categories such as bars, clubs and wine stores, among others. The State on an average is losing Rs. 65 crore and Rs. 70 crore daily towards excise duty collection on sale of liquor due to shutting down of liquor vending outlets. In a detailed memorandum submitted to the Chief Minister, the federation has highlighted the problems of wine merchants and an urgent need to bail them out of trouble. It has said that not only wine stores and MSIL outlets, but bars and clubs should be allowed to sell liquor, which requires change in rule. “It will be discriminatory if only one set of liquor vending outlets are allowed to open. Not only will that create an artificial rush, but also affects bar owners, who employ more number of people,” a senior functionary of the federation said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wine-merchants-urge-govt-not-to-discriminate-among-licensees/article31335387.ece
14 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Channel for students||The Department of Public Instruction plans to start a YouTube channel for students during their summer vacation. The channel will have an hour-long programme that will include songs, stories, quiz, paintings, dance, and games. There will be both educational and fun activities, said Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar. He said that people could send in their activities for the channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/channel-for-students/article31335406.ece
14 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Case booked against man for using casteist slur||A man and his friends were allegedly abused over caste and assaulted by a local businessman for distributing essentials to people in Seegehalli in K.R. Puram on Sunday. Based on the complaint filed by Anil Kumar, 38, the police booked Radhakrishna Reddy and his family charging them under the SC/ST Act. In his complaint, Mr. Kumar said that he and his friends were helping the poor in the area by distributing milk and other essentials. The group had parked their vehicle close to Reddy's house. While the distribution was on, Reddy came out and abused Anil and others for creating a ruckus, he alleged, adding that when he tried to reason with him and offered the supplies to him too, Reddy abused him saying he would not take goods from people of his caste. Reddy then assaulted him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-booked-against-man-for-using-casteist-slur/article31335381.ece
14 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Oranges for police||Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao instructed the police to stay hydrated and eat oranges while on lockdown duties. He also told them to drink at least three litres of water as well. The police are being lauded by the CM and other agencies for working relentlessly. This should continue and police should not use force or humiliate people on roads, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oranges-for-police/article31335382.ece
14 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sudhakar in the soup over swimming pool photo||Minister for Medical Education K. Sudhakar on Monday drew flak from the Opposition that sought his resignation after he posted a photo of himself in a swimming pool with his children on Twitter. “After a long time joined my children for swimming, hope maintaining social distance here also...haha,” he tweeted with a photograph. He, however, did not mention where and when the photograph was taken. He deleted the tweet after facing flak. The tweet was criticised by KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, who responsed: “When the whole world is going through a health crisis, the Corona in charge Minister Dr. Sudhakar is behaving irresponsibly by spending time in a swimming pool. It’s a matter of moral and ethical standards. He must resign out of his own accord and chief minister should sack him from the cabinet.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sudhakar-in-the-soup-over-swimming-pool-photo/article31335393.ece
14 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Role of agri startups||Agri startups have a crucial role to play if a sizeable chunk of the workforce that has returned to villages has to remain back to revive the rural economy, said T.N. Prakash Kammaradi, former chairman of Karnataka Agriculture Prices Commission. Stressing the need for using innovative concepts, he said, “For example, we can think of having an aggrega-tor service for tractors, just like the Ola and Uber taxis. The aim is to not only best use the already available tractors in a cluster of village, but also provide employment to drivers who have returned from cities.” Similarly, the startups can help in linking a group of farmers in a village or cluster of villages with an apartment complex in Bengaluru or localities in nearby towns for direct purchase of produce. “In fact, the apartments can give space for farmers to keep their fresh produce,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/role-of-agri-startups/article31335405.ece
14 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Injured policeman dies||Head Constable K.V. Nagesh, who sustained critical injuries in an accident on Sunday, succumbed to his injuries on Monday. Nagesh, attached to the Peenya police station, was on duty when he seized an autorickshaw which was plying on the road violating the lockdown. While he was driving the seized autorickshaw, he lost control and the vehicle toppled. Passers by shifted him to a private hospital where he succumbed on Monday evening. The body has been sent to his home town near Koratagere in Tumakuru district. Nagesh is survived by wife and two minor sons. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai condoled the death and assured help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/injured-policeman-dies/article31335379.ece
14 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Test kits delayed||Although Karnataka was hoping to start testing all secondary contacts and all SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Illness) cases in the State from this week, things are going to take a while longer as the arrival of one lakh rapid test strips has been delayed by a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/test-kits-delayed/article31335407.ece
14 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP budget to be presented via videoconference||The BBMP has got the green signal from the government to present the 2020-21 budget via videoconference. “We have got permission from the government to go ahead with presenting the budget. We will finalise the date soon. I have called a meeting of all senior officials on Wednesday,” Mayor M. Goutham Kumar said. He also said that videoconference facilities would be made at all zonal offices. This comes after Mr. Kumar had written to the Chief Secretary and other departments seeking guidelines on how to present the budget at this time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-budget-to-be-presented-via-videoconference/article31335371.ece
14 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||NITTE Group donates Rs. 1.25 crore||Nitte Group Mangaluru, comprising Nitte (Deemed to be University) and Nitte Education Trust Institutions, has contributed Rs. 1.25 crore to support the efforts towards fighting COVID-19 in India. In a release, trust president N. Vinaya Hegde said Rs. 75 lakh was contributed to the PM CARES Fund and Rs. 50 lakh to the Karnataka Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Mr. Hegde also said that the medical and paramedical staff of the 1,000-bed Justice K.S. Hegde Charitable Hospital at Deralakatte, Mangaluru are dedicated to serve COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nitte-group-donates-rs-125-crore/article31335368.ece
14 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Appeal by colleges||The Karnataka State Private Unaided College Management Association has appealed to the Chief Minister to grant a financial allocation to help them pay salaries to their lecturers. The colleges have been instructed not to collect fees due to COVID-19, which is causing them financial hardship. They have stated that the amount will be repaid in the next academic year and want the amount so that at least 50% of salaries can be paid to their lecturers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appeal-by-colleges/article31335380.ece
14 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Pharmacies told to keep records of buyers||Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa has directed pharmacies to maintain records of people coming to their shops to purchase paracetamol-based medicine. Pharmacists have to record name, mobile number and residence address of those availing themselves of paracetamol-based drugs, both prescriptive and over-the-counter. The details of patients should be submitted everyday to the Drug Controller office. Those violating this order and selling paracetamol-based drug without recording the identity of the person will face legal action , she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pharmacies-told-to-keep-records-of-buyers/article31335579.ece
14 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Hubballi reports four more positive cases||As many as four new COVID-19 positive cases, including three children, were reported in Hubballi on Monday. A release from Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa stated that all four patients are residents of Mulla Oni in Hubballi and the primary contacts of P194. The four fresh cases include P236 (37-year-old man), P233 ( five-year-old male), P234 (3-year-old male) and P235 (seven-year-old female). They are relatives of P194. The patients are being treated at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Hubballi. The Mulla Oni and surrounding areas have already been declared containment zone, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hubballi-reports-four-more-positive-cases/article31335578.ece
14 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Help farming community, Deve Gowda appeals to Modi||Former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealing to take measures to help the farming community that has been in distress since the lockdown. In his letter, which was released to the media on Monday, Mr. Gowda appreciated Mr. Modi for his efforts to counter the spread of COVID-19 and said the government should take measures to safeguard the farmers, whom he referred to as the soul of India. When the lockdown was announced, none rushed to purchase gold, land, car, expensive phones, or clothes. “But all of us rushed to buy fruits, vegetables, rice, milk, ragi, and wheat. Farmers are the soul of the nation,” he said in his letter. Listing his suggestions, Mr. Gowda said because of lockdown, procurement, transportation and marketing of perishable items should not have been stopped. People involved in the supply of inputs and agricultural extension activities should be permitted to travel to the farmers’ field. A national grid was necessary to market fruits and vegetables. The government should allow MNREGA to be utilised in agricultural and food processing industries so that jobs could be created in rural areas. During an interaction with presspersons, Mr. Gowda said a large number of farmers, construction workers and garment workers were in difficulty due to the lockdown. The Centre and State governments should come to their rescue. “I have written to the Prime Minister and also the Chief Minister. Mr. Modi had called me over phone to seek some suggestions. I have given some. I am also keeping myself updated about COVID-19 through the media,” he said. Mr. Gowda said he had supported all the measures taken by the Prime Minister and the Chief Minister in countering the infection. “But the days to come would be horrible for farmers and workers. The government cannot solve their problems by providing them with a bag of rice,” he remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/help-farming-community-deve-gowda-appeals-to-modi/article31335589.ece
14 April 2020||Hassan/Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Tribals hit hard by lockdown||The tribals, who are on the move selling plant extracts of medicinal value, are among the worst hit due to the lockdown. The Hakki Pikki tribe settled in both the districts have appealed to the respective district administrations to provide food items as they are running out of the stock. They are finding it difficult to procure foodgrains from the fair price shops as they do not have ration cards or the cards have lapsed as the beneficiaries have not verified their fingerprints to update the cards. Hooraja, a leader of Hakki Pikki community settled at Angadihalli in Belur taluk, told The Hindu that 74 families in the village did not have ration cards and the cards of about 50 families had become invalid. “Our people keep moving and they visit their native place during festivals. It is difficult for them to get a ration card. I have been struggling for the last six months to get a card for my daughter’s family. The government cancels cards of those who have not verified fingerprints. Now, they are suffering,” he said. With the lockdown in place, they cannot move out. These people sell plant extracts and offer massage for physical ailments. Many of them have travelled abroad to offer their services. However, a majority of them depend on daily earnings for their livelihood. Hooraja and wife Chandasi were guests of the Union government for the Republic Day programme this year. Following their appeal, the officers of the Revenue Department recently visited the village and collected information about the families with no ration card. The families have been assured of foodgrains within a week. Similarly, people of the community settled at Mallenahalli in Chikkamagaluru taluk, are also appealing to the officers to provide food. When a team of journalists reached the village recently, the tribal people requested them to convey their appeal to the officers concerned. An elderly man of the village said the families had been facing shortage of food items and children were not getting sufficient food. If the lockdown period was extended, everybody in the village would have to spend days without food. “We don’t want money, silver or even gold. Give us some rice,” the old man said.  74 families in the village did not have ration cards and the cards of about 50 families had become invalid.HoorajaA leader of Hakki Pikki community||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tribals-hit-hard-by-lockdown/article31335590.ece
14 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Work to remove silt from main storm-water drain begins||Amid the lockdown restrictions, the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation has decided to take up work to remove silt from the main storm-water drain with earthmovers provided by a private company. Speaking to presspersons after initiating the work near Ayyappa Temple at Shirur Park in Hubballi on Monday, Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar said that before the arrival of the monsoon, the main storm-water drain that passes through the city would be cleaned. Mr. Shettar said that the work had been taken up with the earthmovers provided by Tata Hitachi and it would be completed in a month’s time. “Already, a comprehensive plan has been chalked out for the development of the main storm-water drain and the work would be taken up soon,” he said. To a query, the Minister said that as there was a lockdown in the city, the municipal administration wanted to make good use of the lockdown period and remove silt from the storm-water drain. The silt would be shifted to the designated area, he said. On a request from industrialists and businessmen to allow industries and businesses to function with conditions during the lockdown period, Mr. Shettar said that their plea had already been brought to the notice of the senior officials of the Union Ministries of Urban Development, Industries and Labour and there was a likelihood of the Union government considering it. Mr. Shettar said that industrialists had in their plea said that the extension of lockdown would severely affect the economy of the State and the country apart from causing hardships to the lakhs of workers engaged by these industries and the same had been communicated to the authorities concerned. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Deepa Cholan, Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal, Govindrao Kulkarni of Tata Hitachi, former councillor Mahesh Burli and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-to-remove-silt-from-main-storm-water-drain-begins/article31335581.ece
14 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Case filed against MLA||Based on a complaint filed by Congress leader M.T. Subhashchandra, the Davangere police have filed a case against the Chief Minister’s Parliamentary Secretary and MLA M.P. Renukacharya for his recent remark on “shooting” participants of the Tablighi Jamaat programmes in New Delhi. On April 7, Mr. Renukacharya said there would be nothing wrong if those who returned from the programme but escaped from getting tested were shot dead. He said that those who had participated in the congregation were not coming out on their own to get tested and get treatment. “From one such person, the virus will infect the whole nation,” he said. However, he also clarified that “not all minorities” were anti-nationals or terrorists. Taking exception to his remarks, Mr. Subhashchandra filed a complaint with the KTJ Nagar police in Davangere, and the police subsequently registered an FIR. ‘Not weakened’ However, Mr. Renukacharya maintained that these “complaints by Congressmen” would not weaken his mind. He said that he had become a legislator after participating in people’s movements. “During [the rule of the] Congress government, I was arrested on corruption charges and was lodged in Belagavi prison for 15 days. Just 15 days before the election, I was sent to Ballari jail for my speech at a Vishwa Hindu Parishad programme in Honnali. The Congress leaders have a lot of love for me. If they want, let them send me to jail,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-filed-against-mla/article31335400.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,KARNATAKA||Sindhu joins efforts of TS sports body||Badminton champion P.V. Sindhu joined the officials of Sports Authority of Telangana State (SATS) in distributing groceries to the needy at L.B. Stadium here on Monday with an appeal to all citizens to wear masks and maintain social distancing to prevent the spread of COVID-19. For the 24-year-old ace shuttler, it is a first-time public appearance since returning from last month’s All England championship after which she was in self-isolation for two weeks and now confined to home because of the lockdown. Sporting a mask, Sindhu distributed rice and other commodities along with some vegetables to some media personnel as part of the programme organised under the supervision of Minister for Sports V. Srinivas Goud. “The virus is fast spreading and it is very important for all of us to follow the guidelines of the government and back the efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in this regard. This is not the time to take things for granted. We should be responsible and stay indoors,” Ms. Sindhu said. For his part, the Minister said they would soon launch a fitness app which should help the citizens stay fit at home during this lockdown. “The government is capable of fighting off this huge challenge but needs the support of citizens. If there are violations and the virus continues to spread, there will no option but to extend the lockdown,” he said. SATS chairman A. Venkateshwar Reddy, who is coordinating efforts to distribute groceries worth Rs. 1.5 lakhs daily for the past eight days by involving champion athletes, thanked Ms. Sindhu for joining hands with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sindhu-joins-efforts-of-ts-sports-body/article31335384.ece
14 April 2020||K.V. Aditya Bharadwaj,KARNATAKA||Workers worried as April salary not yet guaranteed||The likelihood of an extension of the lockdown to check the spread of COVID-19 till the month-end has left the working class deeply worried. The extension of the lockdown, which began on March 25, would mean an entire month of no work, which in turn has left a question mark on salaries for April. Relaxations expected to be announced by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, such as resuming work on factory floors with a limited workforce, may not be of much help, unless other allied sectors - imports, transport, delivery and exports - are also relaxed, industry bodies argue. The Labour Department of Karnataka has issued an order mandating all establishments to pay salaries for March, which most of them have complied with. However, the department has remained silent on the salary for April. “We will discuss with all stakeholders and take a call,” said P. Manivannan, Secretary, Labour Department, GoK. With the government yet to take a decisive call, most of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) have orally communicated to their employees that they were unlikely to get their April salary. Srinivas Asranna, president, Peenya Industries Association (PIA), which has over nine lakh workers, said the industries were severely pressed for resources and were unable to pay salaries for April. This has created panic among workers. “To go a month without salaries would be very stressful as we have to pay rent and other bills despite not having a salary. There are also medical costs of the elderly at home, which we have to bear. This will only push us into more debt. Workers further down the chain doing menial labour may even stare at food running out,” said Shashikanth R., a factory worker at Rajajinagar Industrial Estate in the city. A rough estimate by the Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FKCCI) pegs the number of workers in the State's industries at a minimum of 65 lakh. The industry bodies seem to be contemplating pay cuts to tide over the crisis. “We propose pay cuts. FKCCI has proposed a formula for industries to pay salaries - pay full salaries to those up to salaries of Rs. 15,000, 50% of salaries for those with a salary in the range of Rs. 15,000-Rs. 50,000 and no salary for those with a salary above Rs. 50,000,” C.R. Janardhana, president, FKCCI. However, not all industries seem to agree with this formula. “The government is responsible for the lockdown and they should give us a helping hand to cover salaries. As this is a public health crisis, Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) must bear the salaries of those covered under their schemes - with salaries less than Rs. 15,000. Others we will pay in the range of 40%-50% of their salaries,” said Mr. Asranna. However, the unions are not ready to accept pay cuts. “We understand the financial stress MSMEs are in. If the lockdown continues for a longer time, many may even be forced to shut shop. But the workers cannot be penalised. Presently, there is a supply shock in the market, but if the workers are not paid wages it will soon turn into a demand shock sending the economy into a further downward spiral. Let the industries seek help from the government, which we will also support. Either from the employers or the government, the workers need to be paid full wages,” said Satyanand Mukund, Secretary, All India Trade Union Congress, Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/workers-worried-as-april-salary-not-yet-guaranteed/article31335376.ece
14 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Auto driver returns lost cardiac medicine to Moodbidri patient||Amid lockdown, an autorickshaw driver promptly returned costly cardiac medicine and a medical file left behind in the vehicle by a cardiac patient in Moodbidri by tracing the patient after contacting a doctor in Mangaluru on Monday. The driver, Yousuf M.K., had dropped a 51-year-old cardiac patient from Moodbidri town to the patient’s village which was about 10 km away from Moodbidri at about 10.30 a.m. Later, when he returned to the town more passengers hired his autorickshaw. After returning home in the afternoon, Mr. Yousuf noticed a file and a packet of medicine left behind in the rear seat. Unable to judge whose they could be, he found a medical prescription slip inside the file which had the mobile number of Padmanabha Kamath, interventional cardiologist and professor and head of the department of cardiology at the KMC Hospital in Mangaluru. Dr. Kamath had treated the patient last month. The driver telephoned Dr. Kamath and based on the hospital records the whereabouts of the patient were traced. Later, the driver drove back to the village and returned the medicine and the file to the patient. “Unable to recall where he had lost them, the patient was under tension and felt very happy and thanked me,” Mr. Yousuf told The Hindu . Dr. Kamath said that unable to come to Mangaluru due to the lockdown, the patient had visited a local doctor in Moodbidri with the file for consultation and to purchase medicine. “The patient had painstakingly purchased the medicine. This case exemplifies the presence of Good Samaritans in all walks of life and we salute these real life heroes in uniform,” Dr. Kamath said. The lockdown restrictions posed a big challenge to all patients living in villages, especially heart patients, the doctor said. Incidentally, Mr. Yousuf had, seven months ago, returned Rs. 1.05 lakh cash found in a purse left behind by a person from West Bengal in his autorickshaw.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/auto-driver-returns-lost-cardiac-medicine-to-moodbidri-patient/article31335583.ece
14 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mangalore University for extending college holidays till May 31||Pending approval of its decision-making bodies and the government, Mangalore University has prepared a tentative draft action plan to conduct its undergraduate and post-graduate examinations and complete the delayed 2019-20 academic year, according to Vice-Chancellor of the university P. S. Yadapadithaya. He told The Hindu that students need not be apprehensive of whether they will complete the academic year before facing the examinations. The university will take appropriate decisions in the best interest of students without burdening them. He said that the university is of the view that holidays for its educational institutions should be extended till May 31. Even the expert committee constituted by the government on the phased exit strategy after the 21-day lockdown has also recommended this to the government. Mr. Yadapadithaya said that as per the tentative draft plan, the educational institutions under the university could be opened from June 1 to June 15 to complete the pending lessons and help students prepare for the examinations. As the colleges under the university have completed 95 % of the undergraduate syllabi, and post-graduate departments have covered up to 90 % portions, it will not be an issue. Adding to it, some colleges and post-graduate departments are now using IT tools to complete the lessons. He said that both the undergraduate and post-graduate examinations could be conducted between June 16 and June 30. The evaluation of answer scripts could be completed by July 15 and the results of final semesters could be announced by July 20. The academic year 2020-21 could start in August. “We have asked Association of Mangalore University College Teachers, principals of 210 colleges and chairpersons of post-graduate departments to give their inputs on completing the examination process and the academic year,” he said. “We will ask colleges and departments to prepare banks of questions and send them to students for their focused study to face the examinations,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mangalore-university-for-extending-college-holidays-till-may-31/article31335568.ece
14 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Keep DK out of red zone category: KCCI||The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has urged the State government to exclude Dakshina Kannada district from the hotspot/red zone list of COVID-19 since positive cases were under control. In a letter to the Health and Family Welfare Department’s Additional Chief Secretary, KCCI president Issac Vas said no fresh positive cases were reported from the district for the last eight days because of the sustained efforts by the district administration to contain the spread. He said the district had reported 12 positive cases in all, of which four were from Kasargod district, one each from Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts and the rest were from Dakshina Kannada. While five have been discharged, the remaining are under the path of recovery, Mr. Vas stated. No one was admitted to ICU or was put on ventilator among positive cases, he said. While the lockdown has effectively controlled the spread of COVID-19, people in the district are facing hardships especially with lack of gainful employment. Mr. Vas has urged the State government that in the background of all these developments, the district should be kept out of the hotspot/ red zone category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/keep-dk-out-of-red-zone-category-kcci/article31335587.ece
14 April 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Excise Deputy Commissioner to be held responsible for illegal liquor sales||Coming down heavily on officials, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi on Monday said that the Excise Deputy Commissioner will be held responsible for illegal liquor sales or transportation of hooch and toddy in Raichur district. Mr. Savadi, who was recently made district in-charge replacing Health and Family Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu, said that as part of preventive steps to curb the spread of COVID-19, the State government had banned liquor sales. However, there have been many complaints about illegal liquor sales, including hooch and toddy, with the alleged help of Excise Department officials. “The State government will hold the Deputy Commissioner of the Excise Department responsible and take suitable action if such activities were not prevented immediately,” he warned. He pointed out the possibility of the virus spreading during paddy purchase by people from Andhra Pradesh and Telanagana in Raichur, which has seen no positive cases so far. Therefore, the Superintendent of Police should take strict preventive steps on the inter-State borders and not allow any one entry into the district for purchasing paddy till the end of the lockdown period. Additional police forces, if needed, should be deployed, he said. Mr. Savadi directed the Agriculture and Revenue officials to conduct a joint survey to assess crop losses due to the recent rain accompanied by hailstones and submit a detailed report to the State government enabling it to release compensation, after a discussion with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. He discussed with Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar about the preventive measures that the district administration has initiated. Mr. Venkatesh Kumar told him that 174 persons had returned from abroad and 774 of their contacts have been kept under home quarantine. Out of 65 samples, 64 tested negative and one result is awaited. As many as 100 people are in quarantine in government facilities, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/excise-deputy-commissioner-to-be-held-responsible-for-illegal-liquor-sales/article31335574.ece
14 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Ambulance driver, three passengers booked||The police have booked a case against an ambulance driver for ferrying people from Bengaluru to Sorab town in Shivamogga district, in violation of the lockdown rules. As public transportation was withdrawn following the enforcement of the lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19, three persons working in Bengaluru had requested K.B. Mohan, the ambulance driver, to drop them at their native place of Sorab. The driver accepted their request and dropped them on April 12. Acting on a tip-off, the police seized the vehicle and booked cases against the driver as well as the three passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ambulance-driver-three-passengers-booked/article31335395.ece
14 April 2020||Tumakuru,KARNATAKA||Minister warns traders against overpricing||Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar on Monday warned traders of stringent action if they sold vegetables, fruits and other essential commodities that have been bought from farmers at double the price. After visiting the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) yard in Antharasanahalli on the outskirts of Tumakuru on Monday, Mr. Somashekar said that farmers should not face any problems at check-posts during lockdown while transporting their produce. He said he was getting complaints from farmers that the personnel at check-posts were causing problems. He said he has directed the officials concerned in the APMC to gather information on the prices of vegetables, fruits sold in the market and take action against traders who sell the essential commodities at double the price. When asked about the problems faced by farmers of Pavagada who are not able to come to the APMC yard as they have to cross Andhra Pradesh, Mr. Somashekar said that passes will be issued to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-warns-traders-against-overpricing/article31335394.ece
14 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Whisky bottles stolen||A gang of persons stole 54 whisky bottles from a bar at Kemmannu village near Malpe here. According to the police, the gang decamped with 21 bottles containing 750 ml whisky each and 33 bottles containing 180 ml of whisky each between April 2 and April 10. The value of these 54 whisky bottles taken together has been estimated at Rs. 15,457. A case has been registered at the Malpe Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/whisky-bottles-stolen/article31335585.ece
14 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Man throws fake currency on road, flees||An unidentified man aged between 25 and 30 threw fake currency notes on Vadiraja Road here and fled the spot on Monday. Madhukar Mudrady, social activist, said that that the man with a mask threw about 100 fake currency notes of Rs. 2,000, Rs. 500 and Rs. 200 denominations at around 11 a.m. and then ran away from the spot. As many as seven persons scrambled to collect these notes. This violated the social distancing norm which had to be maintained on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. Mr. Mudrady said that he collected about 20 such notes and submitted them to the Udupi Town Police Station, he said. A case had been registered based on his complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-throws-fake-currency-on-road-flees/article31335584.ece
14 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Eight with COVID-19 symptoms admitted||Eight persons with symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to the isolation wards in Udupi district on Monday. According to a press release issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare here, of the eight persons, five were suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection. Of the eight persons, five were women while three men, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eight-with-covid-19-symptoms-admitted/article31335586.ece
14 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Contact tracing under way in Vijayapura, says Jolle||District in-charge Minister Shashikala Jolle has said that contact tracing of six COVID-19 infected persons is under way in the Containment Zone of Vijayapura city where the affected persons were residing. Briefing media persons after holding a review meeting with officials here on Monday, she said that most of the primary contacts of the infected persons have been traced and swab samples are being collected for tests. On the question of how these persons got affected when there was no single case in the district till April 12, Ms. Jolle said that the police and officials are conducting investigation in the matter. Later, Deputy Commissioner Y.S. Patil said that according to preliminary investigation, the elderly woman and her husband had visited Ichalkaranji in Maharashtra, while five members of a family had visited Pune. “We are conducting full investigation to find out more details,” he said and added that there is no relationship between the two families that have the infection. About the death of the husband of the elderly woman who is undergoing treatment in the isolation ward here, he said that the man died on Sunday night even before his infection could be confirmed. “We are still waiting for the report as he was showing symptoms of infection. After his death, his last rites were performed as per the protocol of the government issued for Corona-infected patients,” he said. Ms. Jolle, meanwhile, appealed to the people not to panic and not to lose hope. The State government is with them and doing everything to control the spread of the pandemic, she said. Stating that the city corporation is making arrangements to supply daily needs of families that are in the Containment Zone, she urged the people to cooperate with the authorities to defeat the deadly virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/contact-tracing-under-way-in-vijayapura-says-jolle/article31335576.ece
14 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Maalakaraddi mourns M.V. Rajasekharan||The former Minister and BJP leader A.B. Maalakaraddi has expressed condolences over the demise of the former Union Minister and veteran Congress leader M.V. Rajasekharan. Dr. Maalakaraddi, who recalled his association with Rajasekharan, said that the latter’s concern for the development of rural areas was laudable. “He was my good friend, adviser and had also given me guidance during my 40-year political career,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/maalakaraddi-mourns-mv-rajasekharan/article31335577.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Government steps in to guide BBMP||After the Karnataka High Court raised doubts over Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike’s claims on providing relief to migrants and homeless living on the streets during COVID-19 lockdown, the State government has stepped in and issued specific directions to the civic commissioner to immediately locate migrants and homeless, and give shelter to them in the 100 hostels identified for use as relief camps. The Additional Chief Secretary (Urban Development Department), in a circular issued on April 11, directed the BBMP to utilise these hostels, belonging to the Social Welfare Department in and around Bengaluru, which are ready for occupation with the total capacity of 9,000 beds along with basic amenities. The circular was submitted before a special division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna on Monday during the hearing, through video conferencing, on the PIL petitions related to the issues cropped up due to COVID-19 lockdown. The bench, on finding many discrepancies in BBMP’s report, on April 9 had asked the ACS (UDD) to take appropriate action to ensure BBMP enforces the Central government’s guidelines to protect the interests of migrants and homeless during the lockdown.  The ACS has directed the BBMP to compulsorily keep open public toilets during the lockdown and ensure their periodic cleaning for use of those who have no toilet facility. The BBMP has also been told to take assistance of other government departments, including the police, and NGOs to provide shelter and food for migrants, homeless and destitutes. Also, the ACS has asked the BBMP to identify migrant labourers in on-going public projects and large private constructions, and provide shelter to them if they do not have shelter, or provide food/ration kits for those living in rented accommodation. BBMP admits mistake Meanwhile, the BBMP on Monday admitted that its claim that 13 shelters were set up for migrants during the lockdown was not correct, and that they were existing shelters set up for urban homeless, as was pointed out by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA), which had inspected these shelters and submitted a report to the court. The BBMP also said that it has located around 100 migrants and homeless persons since April 12 and provided shelter in three hostels identified by the government. However, the bench termed as “not satisfactory” the BBMP’s actions initiated based on the ACS’s directions while adjourning further hearing till April 16 asking the BBMP to file its action taken report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/government-steps-in-to-guide-bbmp/article31335378.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Long wait||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/long-wait/article31335370.ece
14 April 2020||Chennai,KERALA||Amid lockdown, huge rush in Koyambedu||Shops in the Koyambedu wholesale market witnessed heavy crowd on Monday as people made last-minute purchases, ignoring the lockdown and the physical distancing norm ahead of the Tamil New Year. Many visitors used hand kerchiefs as masks and jostled for space to make the purchase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/amid-lockdown-huge-rush-in-koyambedu/article31335415.ece
14 April 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Flouting curbs, people swarm banks||The banks in the rural areas of the district witnessed unusual crowd when they opened for business after three days of holidays on Monday. An official at a scheduled bank in Kattappana said many branches did not have enough police officers to control the crowd. The branches of the lead bank in the plantation and and farm areas witnessed heavy rush. The timing of the bank was limited to 2 p.m. and entry inside the bank offices was allowed only after tokens were issued and queues formed. However, almost all the customers reached there prior to the opening time. Most of them were plantation workers in the cardamom and tea sector who had come to avail themselves of the benefits under various schemes and pension dues. According to trade union leaders, the benefits are a solace to the workers in times such as these when there was no work in the plantations. But the staff at the banks had a tough time as people flocked in large numbers, defying all lockdown guidelines and flouting instructions to keep physical distance and wear masks. A system could have been worked out by the police and the banks to better manage the crowd, said a local leader of a major political party at Mattukatta. After lockdown Ever since the lockdown was announced, the number of people visiting the banks especially in the rural areas was less. But the crowd on Monday was due to the banks remaining closed during the extended Easter weekend and with Tuesday being a holiday to mark the Vishu festival. There was also more traffic on the roads. The crowd in banks in rural and remote areas showed the farm and estate workers were not using the ATM cards much, said regional manager of a scheduled bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flouting-curbs-people-swarm-banks/article31335706.ece
14 April 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Couple attack police officers during raid at their home||Upputhara police have arrested a man and his wife for attacking police officers who seized arrack from the couple’s house at Nirappelkada in Ayyappancoil village on Sunday. The arrested were Pezhathummoottil James, 46, and his wife Bincy, 42. Arrack seized The police said that Bincy hacked three police officers while they searched the house and seized a litre of arrack. The police said that they poured away nearly 18 litres of arrack in the bathroom. The officers who were attacked were admitted to the hospital for minor injuries, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/couple-attack-police-officers-during-raid-at-their-home/article31335707.ece
14 April 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Kannur to have 4 red, 8 orange zones||Kannur district will have 12 main COVID-19 containment zones to prevent the community spread of the disease. Koothuparamba municipality, Patiyam, Kathirur and Malabar panchayats will be in the red zone. Thalassery and Panur municipalities, New Mahe, Mookeri, Panniyannur, Chittariparamba, Chokli and Naduvil panchayats will be in the orange zone. The other areas in the district will be in the yellow zone. Collector T.V. Subhash said on Monday that the district administration divided areas into zones as there was an increase in the number of COVID-19 positive patients in some parts of the district. The zones were divided based on the number of confirmed cases and the number of people in quarantine. There were at least five COVID-19 positive cases in areas in the red zone, and more than 2,000 people in home quarantine. In the orange zone areas, there were two to five positive cases and 500 to 2,000 people in home quarantine. No shops, except medical stores, will be open in the red zone. All essentials will be delivered to homes through the call centres of local bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-to-have-4-red-8-orange-zones/article31335673.ece
14 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Islanders look to resumption of waterway connectivity||With the ferry services between islands in Lakshadweep that were halted following the lockdown set to resume in a day or two, islanders who were stranded in Kerala following halting of ship services from the mainland to the Union Territory and those who were stranded in the isles are banking hopes of early resumption of waterway connectivity with Kochi and Kozhikode. No COVID-19 cases were reported from the isles that are home to around 70,000 people. P.P. Mohammed Faisal, Lakshadweep MP, said that the Lakshadweep administration had compiled a list of people from isles, including teachers who are stranded in other isles, who need to be transported to their homes. Numerous people from Kerala, especially government officials and those who arrived in the isles for examination duty, are stuck following calling off of passenger ship services. “I took up the matter with the administration and they are willing to send them to the mainland. Ships can be arranged only if the Government of Kerala demands restoration of their service,” he said. Islanders who are stranded in Kerala will be taken to the isles after they undergo tests to ensure that they are not affected by COVID-19. Simultaneously, steps have been taken to ensure availability of essential supplies and medicines in the isles, Mr. Faisal said. In the meantime, official sources said that islanders who were in dire need of medical aid from hospitals in Kerala too might be shipped to the mainland, along with people from Kerala who were stranded in the isles. A decision would be taken in a day or two, they said. Kavaratti-based social activist Komalam Koya demanded that the administration exercise caution while enabling transit of people between Kerala and the isles, since Lakshadweep had minimal health facilities, while the biggest of hospitals there had just four specialist doctors. “On the contrary, Kerala has a robust health sector and has managed to contain the spread of the virus. Even if islanders stranded in Kerala return to Lakshadweep, they must be quarantined in islands like Bangaram and Thinnakara, which are uninhabited but have adequate number of tourist huts. A ship or two can perhaps be arranged to ferry essential supplies and, if need be, medicines to them.” “This isolation for 14 or 21 days in uninhabited isles is crucial since the isles have so far steered clear of COVID-19 and a single patient can wreak havoc in the region which relies entirely on Kerala for even basic treatment options. Else, they must be accommodated at guest houses of Lakshadweep administration in Kochi and Kozhikode,” Mr. Koya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/islanders-look-to-resumption-of-waterway-connectivity/article31335662.ece
14 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Navy develops air evacuation pod at 1% of import rate||The Naval Aircraft Yard (Kochi) under the Southern Naval Command has indigenously designed and fabricated an An Air Evacuation Pod (AEP) for safe evacuation of COVID-19 patients from ships and islands in a fully sealed patient transfer capsule so as to avoid the risk of infection to pilots and evacuation team. The pod weighs 32 kg and costs Rs. 50,000, which is hardly 1% of the cost of its imported equivalent (which costs about Rs. 59 lakh apiece). The pod was designed under the guidance of the principal medical officer of Naval Air Station Garuda in consultation with specialists from naval hospital Sanjivani and the command headquarters. It is made of aluminium, rubber and perspex. Trials were undertaken on April 8 on board an Advanced Light Helicopter and Dornier aircraft. A total of 12 AEPs will be distributed across Southern, Western, Eastern and Andaman and Nicobar Commands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navy-develops-air-evacuation-pod-at-1-of-import-rate/article31335664.ece
14 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Lockdown spells misery for workers from Kalahandi||The abject lack of awareness about the symptoms of COVID-19 and preventive measures may have triggered fear of death among migrant communities stranded at their workplace, making them anxious to return home to be with their dear ones. This was one of the findings of a rapid assessment of the initial impact of the lockdown on migrant labourers from Kalahandi in Odisha. The study was jointly conducted by Kochi-based Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development (CMID) and Gram Vikas, a rural development organisation operating in Odisha and Jharkhand. According to the assessment, of the 35.80% of migrants from Thuamul Rampur, one of the most backward community development blocks in Kalahandi, stranded at their workplace, only 9.40% know about the pandemic symptoms and only 12.50% of preventive measures. The household migration rate in Thuamul Rampur between December 2019 and January 2020 was pegged at nearly 20%, with one in every three households reporting a history of migration in the last decade. Of the bouseholds, Kerala accounted for over 70% and Tamil Nadu 12%. All the workers stranded in Kerala have access to shelters, and over 90% have access to two meals a day thanks to the State government’s efforts. However, migrants and their families are anxious. “The Kerala government should encourage these migrant workers to stay back as their role will be inevitable in reviving our economy post-lockdown, while their income props up the economies of their villages. Besides, it will check the spread of infection between States, while migrant workers will be assured of the best treatment here like nowhere else,” said Benoy Peter, executive director, CMID. The study concluded that the lockdown had a catastrophic impact on the village economies of Kalahandi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-spells-misery-for-workers-from-kalahandi/article31335669.ece
14 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Supplyco to move supplies by rail wagons||Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco), entrusted with the task of making market interventions and ensuring sustained supply of essentials, has decided to use rail wagons for transport of supplies even as the apex cooperative promised that there was no shortage of essentials in the State. The corporation moved a consignment of pulses from Andhra Pradesh using rail wagons recently. The consignment was brought to the Vallarpadam hub, from where it was moved to the Supplyco depots with the help of the Container Corporation of India, said Supplyco managing director Ali Asgar Pasha. In normal times, supplies used to be transported through roads. Lorries moved these consignments to the Supplyco depots. However, with the lockdown in force and fear of the spread of the pandemic, there was a shortage of lorries and drivers, forcing Supplyco to think of alternative transport modes. Mr. Pasha said that there was no shortage of supplies and no cause for worries on this front. The Corporation was in the middle of distributing food kits envisaged by the State government to ration card-holders across the spectrum. The Corporation is also distributing food and water to lorry drivers who reach the State from long- distance destinations. Food kits He said that initially there appeared to be some confusion over the cost of the food kit, which contained 17 items. The government planned to distribute these kits to 87 lakh card-holders with an outlay of Rs. 756 crore. The government had also made an advance of Rs. 350 crore for the purpose. The distribution of the food kits began with supplies being given to holders of yellow colour cards, which number 5.92 lakh. The next category to which the kits were given was those in the BPL category other than yellow colour card-holders. They number 31 lakh. The remaining card holders fall into the APL category and distribution of the kits to the group will be completed soon. In the meanwhile, around 20,000 card-holders have come forward to donate their kits. Those wishing to donate their kits can reach out to Supplyco using SMS also. The Corporation had also opened two kiosks, one at Kalpetta in Wayanad and another at Edappally to provide food and water to lorry drivers. Outlets open Supplyco’s 1,500 outlets were also open, even on holidays, to ensure that there was no shortage of supplies, Mr. Pasha said. The Corporation was taking online orders and door delivery in Ernakulam district. This activity would acquire steam only after the completion of food kits distribution, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/supplyco-to-move-supplies-by-rail-wagons/article31335677.ece
14 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Door delivery of cut vegetables launched in Ernakulam||The Ernakulam Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), functioning under the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI), has launched door delivery of ready-to-cook, cut vegetables. The supply of the cut vegetables, launched on Monday, will continue even after the lockdown, says a press release here. Associations The pre-ordered vegetables will be delivered to the respective residents’ or apartment associations, according to Shinoj Subramanian, head of Krishi Vigyan Kendra. Registration Interested residents’ associations need to register by sending a message indicating location to the WhatsApp number 8943625625. The orders placed before 10 a.m. every day will be delivered the next day before 9 a.m. There will be no deliveries on Vishu day (April 14). Initially, 400-g packets of sambar , avial and erissery mixes; 300-g packets of nendran banana, cowpea, yam mezhukkupuratti , ivy gourd thoran; and 500-g packets of nendran , njalipoovan , poovan banana and cut pineapple will be available. Subsequently, bitter gourd, okra, snake gourd, banana stem and flower, amaranthus, a variety of leafy vegetables, papaya, Chinese potato ( koorkka ), ridge gourd, tapioca, colocasia and fruits such as guava, water apple and passion fruit will be made available, according to the release. Farmers in the district have come forward to support the mission, the press release adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/door-delivery-of-cut-vegetables-launched-in-ernakulam/article31335659.ece
14 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||A unique naming event during lockdown||When Niya grows up, her parents will have a beautiful story to tell her. Of how during a time of unprecedented pandemic, they bucked the challenge of lockdown to bring together their dear ones while complying with social distancing to name her in a unique function. Last Thursday, Nidhin Lakshman and Shruthy, a couple working in Infopark and live at Kangarapady near here, chose to hold the naming ceremony of their child through videoconferencing rather than postpone it as countless functions have had since the lockdown was enforced. “The lockdown put paid to our dream of holding a big function attended by all our dear ones to name our daughter. We chose to go ahead with the function over videoconferencing since it wasn’t possible to postpone it as an auspicious time was fixed much earlier,” said Nidhin. And it worked just fine with over 50 of their relatives, including Nidhin’s parents, joining from Thalasserry, and their cousins and relatives joining from as diverse places as Thrissur, Coimbatore, Bengaluru and even New Zealand. Held on a videoconferencing app from Shruthy’s house at Chalakudy, the function lasted around 40 minutes with Niya’s parents and grandparents turning up in brand new dresses, which they had fortunately bought before the lockdown. “The function was held in the Malabar tradition though with a small change as Nidhin’s parents were not with us. So, he gave our daughter milk before whispering her name in her ears and revealing to others who then called her that name,” said Shruthy. Nidhin said that though their parents were from a different generation not used to digital communications, they were happy to be part of the function and see the relatives many of whom they hadn’t seen for a while. What more, the function turned out to be a hit among the relatives with many of them posting its videos and pictures on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-unique-naming-event-during-lockdown/article31335660.ece
14 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Police, artistes join hands to create awareness||The Hill Palace Janamaithri Police in Thripunithura have come up with a novel COVID-19 awareness campaign by enlisting artistes performing traditional art forms. Kathakali, Ottanthullal, Thiruvathira and folk songs form part of the short video shot over two days and which is available on social media platforms. The concept was developed by Station House Officer P. Rajkumar. Lyricist and writer Santhosh Varma has written and composed lyrics for all four performances while artistes Rajini Suresh and Vechoor Ramadevi have performed Kathakali and Ottanthullal respectively. Members of Suvarna Nagar Residents’ Association have performed Thiruvathira while musician Mini and group have performed the folk song. The Hill Palace police are also creating a song conveying the message of Vishu festival, which will be released on Monday midnight. The song has been penned and composed by Mr. Varma. Th Hill Palace police have also arranged vegetable kits for 150 families besides supplying groceries and vegetables to over 100 senior citizens living alone. “We made over 4,000 face masks at the stitching unit at the station even before the lockdown and could distribute them to other police stations. Long before sanitisers started appearing in public spaces, we arranged them at nearly 30 autorickshaw stands and made using them mandatory for both drivers and passengers,” said Mr. Rajkumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-artistes-join-hands-to-create-awareness/article31335671.ece
14 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Mysterious figures: HC directive to police||The Kerala High Court has asked the police to consider and take appropriate action on a complaint of sighting of mysterious figures by people at night in various parts of Thrissur since the lockdown. The court issued the order while disposing of a petition filed by Rajesh A. Nair of Chavakkad. At night He sought a directive to the District Police Chief, Thrissur, to consider his complaint. The petitioner said that some unidentified miscreants had been prowling around in the dark to frighten people at night within the limits of the Vadakkekkad, Guruvayur and Kunnamkulam police stations since March 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mysterious-figures-hc-directive-to-police/article31335680.ece
14 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Five injured in accident||Five persons were injured, one of them seriously, when a mini-van carrying drinking water cans ran into a group of people near the Town Hall here on Monday noon. The people had assembled there to collect food packets being distributed near the North Overbridge. The accident occurred reportedly when the driver of the mini- van, coming down the overbridge, tried to avoid hitting a motorcyclist. The vehicle came to a halt after ramming a nearby tree. One person who got trapped between the vehicle and the tree sustained serious injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-injured-in-accident/article31335678.ece
14 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Registration of birth, death mandatory: HC||The Kerala High Court has observed that as the registration of birth and death is mandatory under the Registration of Birth and Death Act, 1969, all citizens are bound to follow the Act. The court made the observation while disposing of a petition filed by the Centre against the Central Administration Tribunal’s (CAT) directive to Railways to include the name of a Railway employee’s second wife as a family pension beneficiary and legal heir of his post-retirement benefits. Railways had rejected his request on the ground that he had failed to produce the death certificate of the ex-husband of his second wife. Penalty provision The court observed that the Act provided that death should be registered at any time. The Act also stipulated that penalty could be imposed if the death was not registered. In fact, the Centre needed accurate countrywide registration data for its various programmes. Population was one of the most dynamic factors in the country and hence the registration of birth and death was mandatory. Citizens were bound to follow the Act. Erred When there were provisions for registration of death and when the Act imposed penalty for violation of the same, the tribunal had erred in directing that the application of the petitioner, without a death certificate issued by a competent authority, be processed. When the Act prescribed certain things to be done in a certain manner, the tribunal could not direct Railways to overlook the statutory provisions, the High Court noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/registration-of-birth-death-mandatory-hc/article31335679.ece
14 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Police station turns a mask-making unit||A sewing machine is an unlikely gear in the police’s list of items to ensure social distancing among the public to check the COVID-19 spread. But as the fast-spreading virus brings about a shortage in face masks, a police station in the hilly outskirts of Kottayam has now taken the first step towards establishing a sewing unit. In a matter of days, it has employed a team of tailors and opened a production line, which will roll out face-masks to be given free to the public. 40 tailors As many as 40 tailors, assisted by a handful of others, are spending hours at the Mundakkayam police station here to quick-stitch one lakh face masks. Workers at the sewing unit, operating in the conference hall of the station here, were called into voluntary service through social media and word of mouth. “Prior to launching the unit, the tailors were subjected to a medical screening and the stitching tables were arranged in compliance with the social distancing guidelines. Besides the local people, police officers on duty at the station too are assisting the workers here,” said Shibu Kumar V., Station House Officer. According to a police officer, media reports on the shortage of face masks and those on black-marketing by a few vendors are what prompted the station to take up mask-making. “As officers in the front line of the battle against COVID-19, we were concerned when we saw people moving out in the open without wearing face masks,” he added. The cost of producing one lakh face masks is estimated to be just over one lakh rupees, a part of which will be met through sponsorship. The unit operates every day from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and has a capacity to produce over 1,000 units daily. Sanitise end product Commenting on the initiative, G. Jaidev, District Police Chief, Kottayam, congratulated the Mundakkayam police for the novel initiative. “All resources including the workers were mobilised locally and my role was limited to giving nod to the project,” he said. According to him, the unit has been directed to follow the medical guidelines with regard to sanitising the finished products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-station-turns-a-mask-making-unit/article31335710.ece
14 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||GMC to open COVID-19 sample testing unit||In a major boost to the COVID-19 prevention activities in the district, the authorities are set to open a blood and swab sample testing facility at the Government Medical College (GMC) in Kottayam. Equipment, including testing kits, RNI Extraction kits, and Polymarised Chain Reaction Machine, required for the unit have already been brought to the hospital. The training for the staff too has been completed. The unit, which would most likely open by the end of next week, would have the capacity to test 50 samples at a time, said T.K. Jayakumar, Superintendent of the GMC. The district Health department on Monday opened a special kiosk for sample collection at the Kottayam general hospital. The kiosk enables collection of samples without using Personal Protective Equipments within just two minutes. The kiosk, made of aluminium, MICA and glass, is designed as a cabin that is closed from four sides with an opening on one side. The person being tested is seated outside a glass wall through which two rubber gloves are attached outside. The health worker has to insert a hand in the rubber gloves and collect samples from the patients. The rubber gloves and cabin is disinfected after each sample collection. The authorities are also exploring possibilities of establishing similar walk-in kiosks at the General Hospitals in Pala, Changanassery and Kanjirappally, besides the Taluk Hospital at Vaikom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gmc-to-open-covid-19-sample-testing-unit/article31335708.ece
14 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Priority to health-care staff in antibody tests||Doctors, nurses, paramedics, and health-care staff in direct contact with confirmed or potential COVID-19 patients will be given priority while conducting rapid antibody tests to identify community transmission of the disease and herd immunity in the population in the State. A senior health official told The Hindu on Monday that training for the staff was expected to begin soon. Blood samples Right now, reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests are being carried out to detect COVID-19 infection. Nasal or throat swabs of suspected patients are taken and results take around five hours. In rapid antibody testing, blood samples of suspected patients are used. One has to clean fingers with an alcohol swab and use the lancet provided for finger-pricks. It takes around 15-30 minutes to get the result. According to sources, one lakh antibody detection kits will be used for the purpose. The first priority group is further divided into health-care personnel who have directly handled patients confirmed positive for the infection using RT-PCR-based confirmatory tests and those who do not deal with such patients. The second category is government or associated functionaries with maximum public contact, such as policemen on enforcement duty, field-level health workers, personnel deployed by the Local Self Government Department, and anganwadi workers. This category also includes persons working in ration shops, those involved in delivering food and grocery, and people running community kitchens. The third category includes people in home quarantine and the fourth category is those aged above 60. Sero-surveillance teams will be prepared for each district whose members will visit each of these persons at their homes and collect samples for testing. District Collectors shall be in charge of the implementation with regard to logistics and sample collection and the Additional Director of Health Services (Public Health) and district surveillance officers will take care of the technical aspects related to sample collection, testing, and record keeping. The process of validation of the rapid antibody tests involves using these kits in patients who have already been confirmed to have the infection using the RT-PCR and are at various stages of the illness as well as on persons who can be considered to be at high risk of contracting or having contracted the infection from the confirmed patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/priority-to-health-care-staff-in-antibody-tests/article31335690.ece
14 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Home guards to ensure welfare of migrants||The full-time service of over 100 home guards has been made available in the district to closely monitor welfare issues of migrant labourers in various camps and address their concerns. In Kozhikode city alone, 60 home guards have been deputed for migrant camps that house approximately 19,000 labourers. Home guards will visit the camps and conduct awareness programmes. As the majority of them are ex-service men, the police hope that they will be able to handle the situation better in this crisis period. According to Labour Department officials, the total strength of non-Kerala workers in Kozhikode district is around 32,000. There are about 1,500 migrant labourers’ camps in the district, of which the highest number of camps are within the city limits. For the revenue officers who supervise the overall welfare activities, the support of a police officer too will be offered. Service of policemen under the Community Policing Scheme too will be made available for welfare activities. With the district administration and the police taking special initiatives, migrant labourers are getting good attention everywhere, officials working with the 10-member migrant labourers’ welfare committee say. Officials of Rural police stations say the ‘Apna Bhai’ drive initiated by District Police Chief A. Sreenivas for the collection of essential commodities from super markets for migrant labourers are getting good response. Customers who visit supermarkets are benevolently contributing to the project, they add.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/home-guards-to-ensure-welfare-of-migrants/article31335672.ece
14 April 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Keralites finally reach home||A 44-member team of Keralites, who completed a four-week quarantine in Delhi after having returned from Italy, reached here on Monday. The team arrived by road from Delhi and was received at the State’s border at Walayar by their families and the Health authorities. The authorities examined each one and ensured that they were healthy before sending them to their homes in different parts of the State. 263-member team They have been advised home quarantine for two more weeks. They were part of a 263-member Indian group that arrived in Delhi from Italy on March 15. Several of them were students. They were kept in quarantine for 28 days in Delhi, after which they were brought to Kerala in a bus and two vans. The team had begun their journey from Delhi on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keralites-finally-reach-home/article31335701.ece
14 April 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||Qatar returnee from Palakkad infected||One more person tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad district on Monday. The 32-year-old man from Chathanur in Pattambi taluk had returned from Qatar on March 22. He had given his samples for testing at Government Taluk Hospital, Ottapalam, two days ago and was under observation at home. Health officials said that he was shifted to District Hospital here. His route map is being prepared. There are now four COVID-19 cases in the district. As many as 14,787 people continue to be under observation. While 14,754 of them are in home quarantine, 26 are in isolation wards at District Hospital, Palakkad, four at Taluk Hospital, Ottapalam, and three at Taluk Hospital, Mannarkkad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/qatar-returnee-from-palakkad-infected/article31335670.ece
14 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Sabarimala temple opens||The Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala opened on Monday afternoon for the five-day monthly rituals in the Malayalam month of Medom that begins on Tuesday. However, pilgrims will not be allowed in the temple in view of the COVID-19 lockdown. Melsanthi A.K. Sudheer Namboodiri, assisted by Tantri Kandararu Maheswararu Mohanararu, opened the sanctum sanctorum at 5 p.m. Only limited staff have been deployed at Sabarimala and Pampa. TDB Executive Officer Rajendraprasad said only routine rituals would be performed. The Tantri said Ganapati homom, Ushapuja, Deeparadhana and Athazhapuja would be performed on all five days. The customary Vishukkani darshan would be arranged at the Ayyappa temple on the Vishu day on Tuesday. The temple will be closed on April 18 evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sabarimala-temple-opens/article31335683.ece
14 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Three more test negative, discharged in Pathanamthitta||No new COVID-19 case has been reported from any part of Pathanamthitta on Monday, according to a medical bulletin released by District Collector P.B. Noohu here on Monday. Mr. Noohu said three more persons were cured of the disease and got discharged from the isolation wards, reducing the total number of patients at the isolation wards to just 12 persons, on Monday. District Medical Officer (DMO) A.L. Sheeja said so far, a total of 142 persons, including 10 persons cured of the disease, had got discharged from the isolation wards at various hospitals in the district. As of now, six persons were admitted to the isolation ward at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, four at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, and two others at the General Hospital at Adoor. Meanwhile, all the 20 home-quarantined persons who attended the controversial Tablighi Jamaat meet at Nizamuddin in Delhi had tested negative for COVID-19, the Collector said.  6,071 home-quarantined As many as 6,071 persons were home quarantined in different parts of the district as on Monday evening. Of them, 1,230 persons were those who came from abroad, 4,583 people who came from various other Indian States, and 238 were primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons, the Collector said. 17 tested positive A total of 2,450 throat and nasal swab samples were sent from the district for clinical examination and only 17 of them had tested positive for the virus infection so far, the DMO said. The department awaited the test results of 337 throat swab samples, she said. The DMO said the clinical examination results of all 300 throat swab samples received from the Virology Laboratory at Alappuzha on Monday were COVID-19 negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-more-test-negative-discharged-in-pathanamthitta/article31335712.ece
14 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Kadammanitta Padayani festival deferred||The Kadammanitta Bhagavathy Temple Devaswom Committee has decided to defer this year’s annual Padayani festival at the famous Bhagavathy temple at Kadammanitta near here in view of the restrictions imposed on people’s movement and assembly as part of the ongoing COVID-19 prevention drive. Unanimous decision In a statement issued here on Monday, committee president K. Haridas said the decision had been unanimously taken by the temple authorities, Padayani exponents and the temple Tantri (chief priest). According to Mr. Haridas, the annual Padayani festival is being deferred first time in its three-century-old history. Every year, the Padayani festival at Kadammanitta begins on the first day of the Malayalam month of Medom to end on the 10th day, which is celebrated as Pathamudayam festival as per the Malayalam calendar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kadammanitta-padayani-festival-deferred/article31335711.ece
14 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||People throng markets in city||In open violation of the lockdown guidelines, people crowded market places and supermarkets in various parts of the district on Monday to prepare for the Vishu festivities. In what is feared as a sign of things to come with lockdown restrictions likely to be relaxed in the days to come, shoppers thronged business centres with scant regard for the need to maintain social distancing and wear masks, even as a handful of police officers were unable to control the crowds during the initial hours. On deaf ears The city witnessed an increased vehicular flow with many heading for the market centres in Chala, Palayam and Peroorkada. While the government and the police had earlier advised the public against flooding such areas and to ensure discipline, they evidently fell on deaf ears as the public jostled each other with many leaving their masks in their vehicles. Long queues were also seen outside some banks as many turned up to collect their welfare pensions. Alarmed by the unfolding scenes, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city) Balram Kumar Upadhyay toured parts of the city including Peroorkada and ordered the closure of many shops that failed to adhere to the lockdown guidelines. The City police registered cases against 128 people, of which 110 were booked under provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020. They also seized 92 vehicles. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police registered 293 cases and arrested 302 people and confiscated 184 vehicles. Meanwhile, the police have began to return vehicles that were seized since the launch of the lockdown. With many police stations having taken into custody over 200 vehicles each with a majority being two-wheelers, the paucity of space on their premises prompted the authorities to return them to their owners conditionally. The police collected affidavits from the vehicle owners and warned them against repeating the offence that could lead to the cancellation of their vehicle registrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/people-throng-markets-in-city/article31335717.ece
14 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State all ears to Modi’s address||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said the government would make adjustments to the COVID-19 lockdown only after hearing what the Centre had to state. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to address the nation at 10 a.m. on Tuesday. The government strategy to modify the lockdown to allow life and commercial activity in some small measure would hinge on what Mr. Modi has to declare. Mr. Vijayan said he was dismayed by the turnout of people in sizeable numbers in northern Kerala. Kerala had not reached a stage where it could afford to drop its guard. Social distancing and taking sanctuary in homes were the lynchpin of the State’s strategy to pre-empt a community-level spread or resurgence of the scourge. The government would not allow anybody to upset it. On Vishu-eve shopping The Chief Minister said many had ventured out for Vishu-eve shopping. They formed tight lines in commercial localities. The State could not allow such an influx of people into public spaces at the current juncture. Mr. Vijayan said Vishu and Ramzan signified hope. Vishu marked the time in the solar calendar when days equalled nights. The season symbolised equality. It also signalled the 130 birth anniversary of renaissance leader B.R. Ambedkar. Mr. Vijayan hoped children would contribute the pocket money they get on Vishu from elders to the CMDRF. He said Ramzan was the season of charity and hoped its spirit would reflect in contributions to the State’s COVID-19 relief fund. The Chief Minister petitioned Mr. Modi to operate select flights to bring back non-resident Keralites stranded in the Gulf. They included pregnant women who required to come home and also those on a visit and temporary visas. Inter-State borders Mr. Vijayan urged the police to seal inter-State borders. He said reports of people using byroads and pathways to flit across the border from Kerala to Tamil Nadu and back posed a threat to public health. He ordered the police to book a set of headload workers who had demanded “protection money” to “look after” a load of sunflower oil that had arrived from across the border in Pathanamthitta.  School students till higher secondary level could download their textbooks from the NCERT website. Teachers could go online and access their handbooks. The State had finished the printing of 75% of school textbooks. Exemption for lawyers The government exempted lawyer’s offices from the lockdown. However, the chambers have to operate with minimal staff working on shifts and ensure social distancing norms. Mr. Vijayan requested the Centre to list the CMDRF in the list of heads of accounts eligible for corporate social responsibility funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-all-ears-to-modis-address/article31335685.ece
14 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||63 put under surveillance||The district administration placed 63 more people under COVID-19 surveillance on Monday, taking the number of those currently under observation in the district to 3,547. These included 3,382 people who are quarantined in their houses. With 395 people being released from quarantine after completing the mandated 28-day period, the district has removed as many as 16,685 persons from the quarantine list since the imposition of the lockdown. Sixteen people were admitted to hospitals with various symptoms on the day, while seven were shifted to the Corona Care Centres. These have taken the numbers of people admitted in various hospitals and Corona Care Centres to 104 and 61 respectively. Twenty-two people were discharged from the hospitals. The test samples collected from 102 people returned negative. The administration awaited the results of 193 throat swab tests. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan conducted surprise inspections at the district borders places including Thattathumala, Kadampattukonam and Kaliyikkavila late Monday. During his visits, he flagged the prevalence of people travelling in violation of the lockdown guidelines. Gifted The Forest Department gifted 1,000 face masks to the Thiruvanathapuram city police as part of the COVID-19 safety measures. DCP R. Karuppasami accepted the masks from Chief of Forest Force P. K. Kesavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/63-put-under-surveillance/article31335718.ece
14 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||River basin authority to be constituted||The government has decided in principle to set up a State-level authority for the conservation and management of riverbanks. The State Cabinet which met here on Monday entrusted the Water Resources Department with holding discussions with other stakeholder departments on the constitution of the Kerala river basin conservation and management authority. It was after the devastating floods in 2018 that the government started thinking of a holistic method of river basin management. An approach paper prepared by the Irrigation Department last year envisaged a decentralised system of basin planning with the State-level authority coordinating the efforts of all the stakeholder departments, agencies, and institutions, including local self-governments, within a river basin. Various levels The proposed authority will have a governing council chaired by the Chief Minister and an executive committee headed by the Chief Secretary, both at the State level. Cluster-level river basin boards for each region constitute the second tier and basin management committees for individual river basins form the third tier. For very large basins such as Periyar, Bharathapuzha, Chalakkudipuzha, Pampa, and Chaliyar management committees have been recommended at the sub-basin level. The approach paper mooted statutory powers for each tier as an overarching mechanism for effective coordination and regulation of the projects and programmes undertaken by the various departments and agencies as part of the strategic basin plans. Monitoring of these projects and programmes would also be the responsibility of the authority. The governing council would submit recommendations to the government on the inter-basin and intra-basin water transfer and allocations and oversee the inter-State agreements. Restructuring The executive committee was tasked with ensuring real time integrated operation of reservoirs in the basin, resolution of water disputes and conflicts through conciliation, and effective measures to prevent water pollution, recommend measures on the basis of “polluter pays principle” and adopt measures to mitigate and manage water-related disasters. The document also proposed restructuring of the Irrigation Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/river-basin-authority-to-be-constituted/article31335686.ece
14 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Engineering students develop portable mini-ventilators||Chipping in with their technical expertise to boost the efforts to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, engineering students in the State have developed mini-ventilator models that could serve as portable breathing assistants to support patients with respiratory problems. Evolving solutions for challenges thrown by APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University to mitigate the prevailing crisis, the affiliating colleges have designed the prototypes at their fab labs in line with the respiratory process criteria recommended by experts at the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST). Teams from 34 colleges participated in a competition organised by the University COVID-19 Cell to design low-cost and easy-to-use ventilators that could serve COVID-19 patients in during exigencies. Vimal Jyothi Engineering College, Kannur; Saint Joseph Engineering College, Pala; TKM Engineering College, Kollam; Model Engineering College, Trikkakara; and Mangalam Engineering College, Kottayam, have conceived the best prototypes. According to Vrinda V. Nair, Dean (Research), these colleges will be awarded Rs. 20,000 each from the Centre for Engineering Research and Development of the university. Incentive The institutions have been directed to install the respiratory support models in the COVID-19 hospitals in the respective districts after obtaining permission from the District Medical Officers. Besides, Rs. 5,000 will be given as an incentive to colleges that presented the best designs. An expert panel led by SCTIMST scientist C V Muraleedharan and Balasubramaniam O.A., managing director of Tamil Nadu-based Roots Cast Pvt Ltd., adjudged the best working models through video conferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/engineering-students-develop-portable-mini-ventilators/article31335714.ece
14 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||More help desks set up for NoRKs||With the Supreme Court indicating that stranded Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) in the Gulf countries will have to wait to return to the country, the State government will strengthen help desks and the video and tele-consultation services launched for COVID-19-related issues. The apex court will take up petitions in this regard only after four weeks. On Monday, NoRKA-Roots set up help desks in Riyadh, Dammam and Khobar and Qatif and Saihath. Ras Tanurah, Jubail, Abqaiq, Al Hassa, Khafji, Nariya, Jizan, Aba-Khanrus Mushai, and Najrah in Saudi also got help desks. This is in addition to the help desks in Abu Dhabi, Al Ain, Dubai, Sharjah, Fujairah and Ras Al Khaimah. In Oman, Qatar, Bahrain and Kuwait, voluntary organisations are managed by NoRKs. Doctors’ services Online and telephone call services are available for NoRKs who register through www.norkaroots.org . Appointments could be made with doctors through the website. The 24-hour ‘Doctor Online’ will have doctors answering queries. Twenty-five doctors across Kerala are available under ‘Hello Doctor’. The IMA and QuikDr.com have joined hands to make the services free.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-help-desks-set-up-for-norks/article31335691.ece
14 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Redistribution of funds mooted to revive economy||A thorough re-prioritisation of Plan and non-Plan expenditure with focus on health, public distribution, production of essentials, and social welfare has been mooted to bail out the State economy crippled by COVID-19. Re-orientation of research and strengthening of health-care infrastructure are imperative and this calls for assiduous planning in expending the spartan resources, says Planning Board member K.N. Harilal. ‘Boost production’ The alarming dip in the State’s revenue and remote chances of reviving it in the near future are hard truths. Austerity should be the buzzword for institutions and individuals, he says. Due thrust should be laid on the supply side. Production of vegetables, grain, and other essentials should be boosted without upsetting the social distancing norms. Institutions as well as universities will have to rework their research plans. More focus needs to be placed on epidemic research and that can be done only at the cost of some of the ongoing projects. Focal areas The government will have to spend more on health-care, police, and welfare schemes. The public distribution system will have to be augmented to ensure that irrespective of income and other classifications, all citizens are get due rations. “Kerala has one of the most efficient public distribution systems in the country. Still a substantial share of resources will have to be apportioned for sustaining its present strengths and also equipping it to meet a future surge in demand. This is quite important since the State accounts for only 20% production to meet its food requirements,” he says. Civil works involving major capital expenditure will have to be deferred. The administrative cost will have to be reduced to the bare minimum in all strata of governance from panchayats to the highest level of governance. Attempts to push through such proposals may draw flak. Instead of leaving the choices to bureaucrats, a consensus should be evolved through participatory planning and discussions, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/redistribution-of-funds-mooted-to-revive-economy/article31335694.ece
14 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM non-committal about Sprinklr deal||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday refused to defend or denounce the decision of the Information Technology (IT) Department to use a mobile phone application developed by Sprinklr, a U.S.-based firm, to enable field health workers to record the details of nearly 1.75 lakh citizens under surveillance for COVID-19 symptoms in Kerala. At a press meet, he fended off questions whether there was any truth in the allegation that Sprinklr had compromised the personal medical information of citizens stored in its servers based in the U.S. for profit. ‘No time’ “The IT department will explain. You ask the IT Secretary. I am not going into the details. I have no time to go after these things. The Opposition is raking up the issue. It is their prerogative,” Mr. Vijayan said. Mr. Vijayan refused to elaborate whether the government had belatedly ordered Sprinklr to store field health data in servers run by the State Data Centre. Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, said the IT department’s ‘nexus’ with Sprinklr had turned murkier with Mr. Vijayan evading question. He said the government decision to disown the company was a moral victory for the Opposition. ‘Bypassing procedure’ The government had by-passed tender procedure to contract the “American public relations firm that spearheaded the social media push of the Donald Trump Campaign in 2016”. Sprinklr had scarce experience in monitoring epidemics or collating health data. The company was now sitting on a treasure trove of electronic medical records of many Keralites, he said. Sprinklr had made the IT Secretary act in a film to promote its brand. It had a chequered history. The firm could palm off the data to private players in the health care, pharmaceutical and medical research sectors for huge money, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-non-committal-about-sprinklr-deal/article31335692.ece
14 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation plans pre-monsoon clean-up||The city Corporation is preparing an action plan for pre-monsoon clean up activities, with a view to control vector diseases. With most of its employees now focussing on the running of community kitchens and in keeping track of and meeting the requirements of those under home quarantine due to COVID-19, the civic body has been a little late in planning the activities this year. According to Mayor K.Sreekumar, the officials will be preparing the action plan by next week. “Last month, we had cleared about 68 tonnes of waste from various dumping sites across the city. But, the pre-monsoon cleaning is the key activity in controlling flooding and spread of diseases. Now, almost all the health staff are busy with the operation of community kitchens and all the other COVID-19 related activities. But, we expect the numbers of those depending on these kitchens to come down in the next few weeks. With the opening of the Janakeeya hotels, the numbers have already begun reducing. So, once the plan is prepared, we can focus on the pre-monsoon cleaning activities,” said Mr.Sreekumar. The focus, like in previous years will be in clearing up the clogged regions of the Amayizhanjan canal and Parvathy Puthanar, as well as raising awareness among the public on vector control measures. The activities usually begin with ward-level meetings to chalk out the plans for the ward, including identification of the areas with waste dumps and canals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-plans-pre-monsoon-clean-up/article31335719.ece
14 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vegetable market inaugurated||City Corporation Mayor K.Sreekumar inaugurated the Agriculture Department’s ‘Jeevani Sanjeevani’ vegetable market at the SMRV School in Karamana on Monday. The markets are being opened in different parts of the city to provide solace for farmers who have been reeling under the lockdown, with no market for their products. The vegetables have been procured from farmers in Idukki, Vattavada, Kanthalloor, Alappuzha and other places. The markets, which will follow all social distancing norms in its functioning, are being operated by the city Corporation, Swasthi Foundation, IMA, Chamber of Commerce, Narmada complex, Police Officers’ Association and B-Hub.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vegetable-market-inaugurated/article31335720.ece
14 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Lockdown has not hit demand for liquor: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said the lockdown had not doused the demand or appetite for liquor. The State was concerned that bootleggers had stepped into the void caused by the closure of bars and liquor shops. Bootleggers operated well beyond the pale of the police and the Excise Department. The State had upped its vigilance. He said the State would provide food and accommodation to Lakshadweep islanders stranded on the mainland due to the cancellation of ships. For betel farmers The government would give betel farmers a day’s exemption to tend to their crops. Mr. Vijayan said community kitchen and voluntary services were not venues for political competition or one-upmanship. The State had to stand as one in the time of the national adversity. Law enforcers booked 96 traders for short-selling provisions and overcharging buyers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-has-not-hit-demand-for-liquor-cm/article31335693.ece
14 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||School textbooks uploaded||The SCERT has uploaded textbooks for Malayalam, English, Tamil and Kannada medium from Classes 1 to 10 and Plus One and Plus Two on its website. Students can download the contents and make use of the resources during the vacation. Reading material Handbooks for teachers, reference books for managing differently abled children, additional reading material and various research papers are also available on the website scert.kerala.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/school-textbooks-uploaded/article31335698.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Two more test positive for COVID-19 in Kannur||Two more persons were tested positive for COVID-19 in Kannur on Monday. District Collector T.V. Subhash said a 74-year-old man from Perimunderi in New Mahe and a 36-year-old man from Madayi were diagnosed with the illness. Both got infected after they came into contact with a COVID-19 patient, the Collector added. Of the 75 patients in the district, 38 were discharged from hospitals. Meanwhile, the number of those under observation has reached 7,797. Of them, 7,687 are in home quarantine, while 110 are in various hospitals. In Kasaragod No positive case was reported in Kasaragod district on Monday. As many as 12 patients were discharged from hospitals. According to the Health Department, while 10 patients were discharged from the District Hospital, two were discharged from the Kasaragod General Hospital. With this, a total of 73 persons have been discharged in the district so far, while 93 are undergoing treatment. As many as 10,056 persons are under observation, of whom 9,840 are in home quarantine and 216 in hospitals. In Thrissur With one more COVID-19 patient testing negative for two consecutive samples, Thrissur district has only one positive case now. There are now 9,743 people in home quarantine and 11 in hospitals. Nine sent home Nine persons, who came from foreign countries and completed quarantine in Delhi, were sent back to their houses in special buses. Results of nine samples are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kannur/article31335666.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Season’s splendour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seasons-splendour/article31335675.ece
14 April 2020||Alappuzha,ANDHRA PRADESH||Books at the doorstep to beat lockdown blues||When the Kerala and Union governments imposed the lockdown three weeks ago to tackle the spread of COVID-19, one of the things that struck 64-year-old S. Jatheendran from Mankombu in Kuttanad was the challenge of keeping normally active children engaged. As a bibliophile, he thought of the age-old system of delivering books at the doorstep as an option. Mr. Jatheendran, a member of the Kerala State Library Council, wasted no time in implementing the idea at Pulinkunnu and nearby areas. Ever since the restrictions came into force, he has been busy home-delivering books, including children’s fiction, short stories, novels and so on, to more than 100 readers, mostly children and women, from his own collection. His efforts introduced several children to the world of reading and revived the habit for older people. Good response Mr. Jatheendran says the response is immense. “I have a personal library with a good collection, including children’s books. When I got the idea, I approached the police and they granted permission. Apart from children, women, including retired officials and mothers, are asking for books. I deliver books every other day and have asked children to review the books they read,” he says. Princy Joseph, an undergraduate student, says home-delivery of books helps her use the lockdown productively. “There is nothing much to do during the lockdown. The books are turning out to be a big solace, helping beat boredom too,” she says. Apart from Pulinkunnu, the ‘librarian at the doorstep’ gets calls from other parts of Kuttanad for books now. “I get calls from Ramankary, Kavalam, Nedumudy and other parts. As I cannot travel to these places due to the lockdown, I have contacted local libraries there and initiated steps to provide books,” Mr. Jatheendran says. A retired official of the Department of Post, Mr. Jatheendran is a Kudumbashree Balasabha State faculty. He takes classes for students across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/books-at-the-doorstep-to-beat-lockdown-blues/article31335293.ece
14 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||18 mobile sample collection centres set up in Anantapur||For ramping up the capacity of proper collection of samples, the Ananatpur district administration has launched 18 mobile collection centres going round various mandals in the red zones and potential danger zones, according to District Collector Gandham Chandrudu. Each vehicle has a trained paramedic along with two other staff, who get leads from Primary Health Surveillance Team with an ASHA worker and Volunteer recording the health condition of people in all households. Wherever needed, a doctor from the PHC visits the house and summons the van for sample collection, Mr. Chandrudu said. Special officer Almost all the house surgeons, who had been kept out of their duties and quarantined after they came in contact with a COVID-19 positive colleague, tested negative and have been allowed to join back duties.  ‘No scarcity of PPEs’ Assistant Collector M. Jahnavi has been appointed Special Officer for the COVID-19 operations at the district headquarters hospital. Mr. Chandrudu said there was no scarcity of PPEs with 7,073 available now and sufficient for the next 15 days. More supplies were coming everyday from Bengaluru and 17,000 N-95 masks were also available, he added. The KIMS Saveera, YSR Hospital and RDT Bathalapalli had been designated as COVID19 Hospitals with no other type of case entertained there. Testing capacity Meanwhile, the district is all set to take a quantum leap in testing COVID-19 samples with the ICMR-approved modified TrueNAT molecular test that is usually used for diagnosis of drug-resistant TB (rifampicin). This test has been going on on a trial basis at the Rural Development Trust’s Bathalapalli Bio-Safety Chambers for the past couple of days, and from Monday these ‘presumptive tests’ will decrease the load on the Venereal Disease Research Laboratory (VDRL) at the Government Medical College’s Microbiology Laboratory. The laboratory had 523 samples to be tested by Sunday evening and it has a capacity to test 90 samples a day, Mr. Chandrudu said. While all positive cases in the presumptive test in the TrueNAT machines would be referred to the VDRL laboratory, the negative ones would be left out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/18-mobile-sample-collection-centres-set-up-in-anantapur/article31335801.ece
14 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Worker dies in accident||A sanitation worker of Anantapur Municipal Corporation, M. Ravindra, 35, died on the spot when the two-wheeler he was riding was knocked down by an autorcikshaw on the Gooty Road in the city early on Monday. The contract worker was to work when the accident occurred, as per police. The police have registered a case and are on the lookout for the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/worker-dies-in-accident/article31335804.ece
14 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka to turn to real estate for funds||The State government, which is staring at a severe financial crunch due to the lockdown in the wake of COVID-19, on Monday decided to turn to real estate sector and monetise government properties besides allowing real estate growth that would bring in additional financial resources to the treasury. The major decisions taken by the government include auctioning of more than 12,000 corner sites in Bengaluru to improve the financial position of the State. Similarly, the State government has given its nod to auction corner and stray sites in the jurisdiction of various urban development authorities across the State. “We are expecting generation of about Rs. 15,000 crore from auctioning sites. We will sell sites only if we get the market value and we are hoping to get a good response for it,” Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa told reporters here on Monday. Meeting held The decision was arrived at a high-level meeting chaired by the Chief Minister where various proposals to augment financial resources were discussed with Ministers and officials. “COVID-19 situation has thrown our State into deep financial trouble and there is a need to find ways to overcome the present crisis,” the Chief Minister said. “These measures will help the government in mobilising resources for fund starved development works. I have also directed the officials to find ways to improve financial condition in the State,” he added. The monetisation of real estate will also come in the form of amending the law governing permission to allow sites in private and cooperative housing societies, which will help hundreds of housing societies that are waiting for government approval for releasing the sites. “It was also decided to speed up the disposal of cases related to regularisation of unauthorised constructions that are pending before the High Court and Supreme Court. If the courts decide on the matter, thousands of people owning unauthorised houses will be relieved,” the statement said. Other decisions While the State government decided to continue supply of milk for free to slums and poor for one more week, Rs. 1,000 crore available with the Rajiv Gandhi Health University will be used to upgrade medical college hospitals. The Chief Minister also directed sugar factory managements to clear the pending payment amounting to Rs. 2,834 crore towards farmers in 11 districts. “We will have to take action, if direction is not heeded. Farmers are in distress,” he added. The high-powered meeting also cleared release of Rs. 45 crore as compensation to paddy farmers in Raichur and Koppal districts where the crop was damaged by hailstorm. The Deputy Commissioners of the districts had submitted a report based on which the decision was arrived at.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-to-turn-to-real-estate-for-funds/article31335295.ece
14 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Swimming pool photo lands Karnataka Minister in trouble||Karnataka Minister for Medical Education K. Sudhakar on Monday drew flak from the Opposition that sought his resignation after he posted a photo of himself in a swimming pool with his children on Twitter. “After a long time joined my children for swimming hope maintaining social distance here also...haha,” he tweeted with a photograph. He, however, did not mention where and when the photograph was taken. He deleted the tweet after facing flak. Dr. Sudhakar represents Chikkaballapur constituency, and was taken into the Cabinet recently after he won the bypolls on the BJP ticket following his resignation from the Congress. He, along with 16 others, who had resigned from the Congress and the JD(S), was responsible for the fall of the coalition government last year. After the COVID-19 crisis erupted, he was often accused of not having coordination with Health Minister B. Sriramulu as both differed on the floor of the House as well as outside. The tweet was criticised by KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, who tweeted: “When the whole world is going through a health crisis, the Corona in charge Minister Dr. Sudhakar is behaving irresponsibly by spending time in a swimming pool. It’s a matter of moral and ethical standards. He must resign out of his own accord and chief minister should sack him from the cabinet.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/swimming-pool-photo-lands-karnataka-minister-in-trouble/article31335301.ece
14 April 2020||Chennai/Thiruvananthapuram/Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 more die of virus in Karnataka||Karnataka reported two more COVID-19 deaths on Monday, taking the total toll in Karnataka to eight. The deceased were a 55-year-old man, who had self-reported at ESIC Hospital in Kalaburagi on April 7, and a 75-year-old woman, who was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Disease in Bengaluru. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced the extension of the lockdown in the State till April 30. The announcement was made on a day when the total number of COVID-19 cases increased to 1,173, and 98 persons tested positive. In Chennai, the COVID-19 tally stood at 205 on Monday. In the other southern States, Karnataka had 15 new cases, and Kerala three. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the steady decline in new positive cases should not be taken as a licence to violate the current restrictions. Even though there was no evidence of community transmission, the disease might flare up once the safeguards are relaxed, he said, briefing the media on Monday. The State also recorded 19 patients who tested negative following treatment. Two of the new cases, from Kannur, were contacts of imported cases. The other was a person who had returned home to Palakkad from abroad. Of the 378 COVID-19 cases reported so far in the State, 178 were under treatment. The number of people under surveillance dropped to 1,12,183, of which 715 were in isolation wards in hospitals and the rest in home quarantine. Mr. Vijayan said testing had improved and up to 1,000 samples were being sent for testing daily now. However, there was shortage in supply of test kits from the Centre. The government was also trying to procure kits directly from the market but it was not easy. Karnataka tally Karnataka reported 15 new positives including four children, taking the total to 247. These include seven deaths and 60 persons discharged. Six were discharged on Monday morning. The new cases are: Mandya and Belagavi (3 each), Hubballi- Dharwad (4, including three children), Bidar (2), Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural and Bagalkote (one each). Except for a 62-year-old man from Bengaluru Urban, 13 persons had contact history with those who travelled to Delhi and one travelled to Delhi.Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar told the media that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday launched a Corona Helpdesk along with WhatsApp. People could use the facility by texting Hi to 8750971717.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-more-die-of-virus-in-karnataka/article31335308.ece
14 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tension grips Srikalahasti as two new positive cases emerge||Uneasy calm gripped the temple town of Srikalahasti on Monday after the COVID-19 task force officials shifted two persons, a woman and her daughter, to isolation at a Tirupati facility, as they tested positive. The fresh cases were the family members of a local trader, who tested positive after he returned from the Tablighi Jamaat meet last month. With this, the total positive cases in Chittoor district touched 23, including a youth, a London-returnee in Srikalahasti. With four positive cases being reported in Srikalahasti municipality, a thickly populated temple town, tension gripped the residents in various wards coming under the red zone. The current cases, which fall under the bus-stand locality, have only contributed to the uneasy atmosphere in the town. District Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta, accompanied by senior officials, rushed to the town in the morning. The medical and paramedical personnel of Srikalahasti area hospital attended an emergency meeting at the MPDO meeting. On instructions from the Collector, the entire ward No. 15 was sanitised. Fresh samples from the neighbourhood close to the affected house were collected for testing. Fresh samples collected Speaking to the media, Mr. Gupta said that in view of the red zones at vital junctions of Srikalahasti municipality, the lockdown would be extended till April 30. Later, the Collector inspected the quarantine and isolation facilities for people suspected to have contracted COVID-19 and patients, at SVRR Government Hospital at Tirupati and its outskirts. He urged the duty personnel to take all care in providing nutritious food to the patients at the facilities. Homam performed Mr. Gupta said masks, PPEs and sanitisers in bulk stocks had reached the district Collectorate, and they would be despatched to the medical and paramedical staff, police and health workers at the field level. Meanwhile, Sri Venkateswara Vedic University and Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SIMVS), both administered by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), jointly performed the “Sarva Vipannivaraka Rudra Homam” on the premises of Vedic University, attended by the Veda pundits and Ritwiks, as gesture of spiritual remedy to prevent the spread of teh virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tension-grips-srikalahasti-as-two-new-positive-cases-emerge/article31335807.ece
14 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. launches chatbot to dispense COVID-19 info||Are you confused with the torrent of social media posts on COVID-19? The Government of Andhra Pradesh has launched a chatbot on the precautionary measures to be taken and the steps taken by government to eradicate the virus, said Commissioner, Information & Public Relations Department, and Member, State Level Task Force Committee (Media Management), Thumma Vijaya Kumar Reddy. The State government has brought in a user-friendly app to dispense accurate information. Through this app one could get complete information about COVID-19 through the helpdesk, Facebook and Whatsapp, he said. “All one has to do is to add the Whatsapp number 8297104104 of the Medical and Health department in one’s contacts’ list,” he added. Multiple uses Mr. Reddy said that in order to curtail rumours about COVID-19 and to provide accurate information through ‘Aarogya Andhra Messenger’ in Facebook, the government had set up this social media platform. Besides giving feedback one could access information pertaining to the present status of coronavirus in Andhra Pradesh, health centres/ isolation centres established, authentic information on coronavirus from the government and lockdown information of various places. Assistance from the government could be sought, donations made to the Chief Ministers’ Relief Fund and access official press releases from government and government orders, the Commissioner informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-launches-chatbot-to-dispense-covid-19-info/article31335328.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases of six-year-old, senior citizen puzzle authorities||Faced with some baffling instances of individuals contracting COVID-19 on the outskirts of Hyderabad, police and health officials are struggling to ascertain how the transmission took place. Two such cases, that of a six-year-old boy of Sai Krupa Colony in Beeramguda and a sexagenarian from Mayurinagar of Ramachandrapuram, are compelling the authorities to do everything possible to find out how they contracted the novel coronavirus. Though a precise answer is eluding them, officials are not leaving anything to chance and getting all close and casual contacts of the boy and the senior citizen quarantined. Boy’s father travelled The boy’s father is a techie, who flew to Hyderabad from Switzerland on March 18, after an official assignment. “Apparently concerned over the possibility of contracting the virus, he drove to a hotel and stayed there for 14 days,” a police officer explained. After completing the self-quarantining at the hotel, he went to a private hospital for medical check-ups and arrived at home only after confirming that there was nothing to worry. Three to four days after his return, the techie’s six-year-old son started complaining of breathing problems and ran a temperature. He had the boy checked at a nearby hospital and later went to a corporate hospital. To his shock, the boy tested positive for COVID-19. “How did the boy contract the virus is not yet clear. Even in the latest test, the boy’s father tested negative for the virus. So a lot of questions remain,” police and medical officials said. Equally mysterious is the case of the senior citizen from Hafeezpet. A businessman, he reportedly has a history of asthma and felt breathless a few days ago. After initial check-up at a local hospital, he went to a corporate hospital in Gachibowli only to be declared coronavirus-positive. Immediately, authorities got his young son, and wife tested. “Initial reports said they did not contract the virus. But during subsequent tests, his son tested positive,” the police said. The authorities checked if the senior citizen and the boy had travelled anywhere recently. Nowhere but home With holidays declared for the schools, the boy was at home. Except for a single night’s stay recently at Ravirala, the elderly man did not go anywhere. With no clarity over how they contracted the virus, the authorities are tracing every possible contact of the old man, his son and the six-year-old boy. “From manager and boys of the hotel where the techie stayed to the driver of the cab in which he travelled from airport to hotel and home, everyone has been traced and home quarantined,” an official of Cyberabad police said. Even the doctor of a hospital where the boy went for a check-up is being quarantined. Six friends of the senior citizen whom he regularly used to meet are also home quarantined. In his case, officials believe his young son contracted the virus first and did not show any symptoms because of stronger immunity power. Mobile phone call data record of his son for past two months was analysed to ascertain whom he had met recently. The data did not throw up any leads. Efforts are still on to learn how they got the virus. “Unless that is clearly established, stopping further spread of the virus is difficult,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cases-of-six-year-old-senior-citizen-puzzle-authorities/article31335618.ece
14 April 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Small-time employees at YVU get breather||Yogi Vemana University’s Vice-Chancellor Surya Kalavathi formally gave away essential commodities to the small-time workers and low wage earners of the varsity at the campus in Kadapa on Monday, helping them tide over the crisis triggered by the lockdown. Accompanied by the Rector M.R.K. Reddy and Registrar D. Vijayaraghava Prasad Prof. Kalavathi handed over packets of grocery items at an event organised by the varsity’s National Service Scheme bureau. Though tackling economic hassles arising out of the lockdown are not in our hands, curbing the spread of the virus is very much in our control, she said, suggesting staying home and maintaining social distancing. NSS coordinator Madhusudhan Reddy said the attempt was meant to bail out the small time wage earners from the crisis situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/small-time-employees-at-yvu-get-breather/article31335812.ece
14 April 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||No new positive cases in Anantapur, Kurnool districts||There were no new positive COVID-19 cases in Kurnool and Anantapur districts with the number of positive cases remaining at 84 in Kurnool and 15 in Anantapur at 7 p.m. on Monday. According to a release from Anantapur District Collector Gandham Chandrudu, while 1,306 samples were collected from various places in the district till 4 p.m., 806 tested negative and 15 tested positive with results of 485 awaited. All the 38 results received on Monday were negative. Results awaited Meanwhile, the VDRL Laboratory at Government Medical College and RDT Bathalapalli Lab so far received 1,465 samples from all districts and of them results of 920 were declared, with 904 being negative, 15 positive. Another 81 samples were under process (69 at VDRL and 12 at RDT) with 460 yet to be processed. The RDT Laboratory received 235 samples and processed 117 with 116 of them being negative and one was referred to VDRL Laboratory. New approach Disinfection tunnels using sodium hypochlorite spray was first set up at Tiruppur in Tamil Nadu, but its efficacy and side effects on humans are making people dismantle them. Anantapur district on Monday set up the first-ever organic disinfection tunnel of the country at Hindupur, which uses extracts of citrus fruits and glycerin. Penukonda Sub-Collector T. Nishanthi, identifying the problems of using disinfectant sodium hypochlorite, they came up with the idea of setting up organic disinfection tunnel in Hindupur, a town that witnessed eight COVID-19 positive cases. Red zones Many areas in the town have been declared red zones and movement of people and vehicles to the areas have been restricted. During her efforts to locate contacts of positive people across the border at Gauribidanur in Karnataka, she met Sugaradhana NGO’s promoter Kartick Narayanan, who had been making this organic solution as disinfectant and came forward to put the idea of Ms. Nishanthi into practice. The organic solution is called CitroBioShield and it has been tested by renowned laboratories and its efficacy has been established, which prompted the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD), Bengaluru, and Brains Hospital to use it as a medium for fumigation, the Sub-Collector told The Hindu.  “We have initially set up at there places, which are most visited even during this lockdown period -- MGM School Ground that has vegetable wholesale market for now, the Out Patient Block of District Hospital, Hindupur, and entrance of Sapthagiri College, which is the quarantine centre for a large number of COVID-19 suspects,” the Sub-Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-new-positive-cases-in-anantapur-kurnool-districts/article31335803.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Not feasible to evacuate all, says govt.||The government told the Supreme Court on Monday that it is not feasible to evacuate Indian citizens from abroad considering the present situation of the coronavirus outbreak in India. “Given the present situation of the coronavirus outbreak in India and the available limited resources, it is not feasible to selectively evacuate Indian citizens from abroad when a large number of them from a number of countries want to return back due to various reasons,” the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement before the Supreme Court. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde is hearing separate petitions seeking the evacuation of stranded Indian citizens — students, migrant labourers, fishermen, tourists, etc — from countries like the U.K., Unites States, Iran and the Gulf. The court, however, admitted the petitions, even asking the government to respond by April 20 to a petition filed by a Nagapattinam resident for the immediate evacuation of 860 fishermen from Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Gujarat who are stranded in Iran due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/not-feasible-to-evacuate-all-says-govt/article31335304.ece
14 April 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AKNU notices fake portal||Adikavi Nannaya University (AKNU-Rajamahendravaram) authorities have noticed a fake institution that is running an online distance education centre offering post-graduation courses in the name of the university. AKNU Vice-Chancellor M. Jagannadha Rao has told The Hindu: “ We have noticed the fake portal which is inviting applications from candidates offering admission to post-graduation courses in ‘distance mode’ through a website. The university does not have the distance mode education facility.” Prof. Rao has said the university will fight legally against the organisers of the portal. The fake one, which was found running the online distance education centre in the name of the university, previously run the same education centre in 2019, he said. “Our preliminary investigation has established that the organisers are also using the university name and emblem. We are lodging a complaint against it,” added Prof. Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aknu-notices-fake-portal/article31335808.ece
14 April 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suspense continues on operation of buses, trains||Lakhs of people, who were stranded in the State, were tense with regard to Centre's announcement with regard to lockdown which was imposed on March 22 to prevent the spread of COVID-19. While the Centre will be announcing its next move on lockdown on Tuesday, some thousands of people booked tickets for trains, RTC buses, and domestic flights. Students and employees, who were stranded in the State due to lockdown, have planned their journey on April 14 night to go to their native places. Some thousands of migrant labourers and students pursuing education in various educational institutions got struck in Andhra Pradesh due to the pandemic. Reservations in almost all trains and buses were full. However, officials did not give any clarity till Monday evening on operation of buses and trains from Tuesday night. APSRTC Executive Director (operations) K.S. Brahmananda Reddy said the management would give clarification on operating buses by Tuesday afternoon. Reservations were made subject to lockdown conditions, he said. SCR Vijayawada Divisional Railway Manager P. Srinivas said there was no message from the higher authorities on running of trains from April 14 night, and the railway officials would give clarity on resuming operations by Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suspense-continues-on-operation-of-buses-trains/article31335336.ece
14 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IRCS, NACL take up sanitisation drive||Indian Red Cross Society(IRCS) and Nagarjuna Agrichem Limited (NACL) have jointly taken up a sanitisation drive in Srikakulam to prevent the spread of COVID-19 here, according to IRCS Srikakuam chairman P.Jaganmohana Rao. NACL supplied sodium hypocholorite solution to disinfect the streets of the city. The initiative would continue for next 15 days. IRCS has also distributed masks and sanitisers to police personnel and staff of medical and health department. Mr. Jaganmohana Rao said that they continue to distribute food to all needy persons. Volunteers are giving away food packets to senior citizens, orphans, sick personsat their door-step, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ircs-nacl-take-up-sanitisation-drive/article31335810.ece
14 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APGVB extends services to customers’ doorstep||Andhra Pradesh Gramin Vikas Bank(APGVB) of Tekkali Branch in Srikakulam has started doorstep services in villages falling under its jurisdiction as customers were unable to come to the branch due to the lockdown, said Branch Manager J.Srinivasa Rao. The step was taken to protect the bank staff as well as customers, the manager added. Areas The bank staff have been visiting various villages including Kurmanathapuram, Lingalavalasa, Polavaram, among others in the district, to ensure deposits, withdrawals, updating of passbooks and other services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apgvb-extends-services-to-customers-doorstep/article31335809.ece
14 April 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD urges Karnataka to part with 1.8 acres land||The Tirumala Titupati Devasthanams (TTD), which is constrained with limited availability of land at Tirumala, has urged the Government of Karnataka to part with the 1.8 acres under its control to the temple management to enable it to meet its future needs. The matter had come up for discussion recently when the officials from Karnataka headed by their Endowments Commissioner Sindhuri met the TTD authorities with a request to give them permission for taking up construction activities on the land under their control. The Government of Karnataka had been given the sprawling 7.05 acres of vacant land on the western side of the hill temple long ago for the purpose of growing flowers required for the daily use inside the temple. The munificent contributions made by the then Mysore rulers to the temple were also taken into consideration while parting with the land. Though the legacy of contributing flowers continued till the late 70s, the rapid increase in the influx of pilgrims later forced the authorities to construct cottages and guest houses for the benefit of those arriving from their home State. Land acquisition But things took an abrupt turn since mid-80s with the TTD promulgating the Land Acquisition Act atop the temple town and started acquiring all the private properties. From then on, the sailing proved rough for the Karnataka authorities with the TTD turning down most of their requests relating to the construction works. After several rounds of deliberations during the past two to three decades, the TTD, of late, is learnt to have assured the Karnataka authorities to consider their request positively, subject to the condition that they agree to return 1.8 acres of land immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-urges-karnataka-to-part-with-18-acres-land/article31335799.ece
14 April 2020||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wild dogs hunt down a sambar deer near Tirumala||A pack of wild dogs reportedly hunted down a sambar deer at Parvetu mandapam, about two kilometres from the town. The half-eaten corpse of the deer was found in the vicinity of mandapamon the road leading to Papavinasanam waterfalls on Monday. In the aftermath of the announcement of the lockdown, movement of wild animals have reportedly been on an increase. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wild-dogs-hunt-down-a-sambar-deer-near-tirumala/article31335800.ece
14 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 hospital at SVIMS all set to face pandemic||Sri Padmavathi Medical College for Women (SPMC), designated as COVID-19 hospital on the Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) University campus, is fully prepared to face the pandemic. It was at the start of 2020 that SVIMS reviewed the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 or 'SARS CoV2’, which was later named as COVID-19. Dr. Alladi Mohan, professor and head of medicine, had presented the existing data on COVID-19 in the first week of January, espousing the importance of social distancing, hand hygiene and the use of face masks. SVIMS had also given a public awareness talk over AIR and Doordarshan, which is a pointer to its preparedness. Much before the ‘coughing’ voice message became a mobile caller tune, SVIMS started an SMS campaign by February end, giving COVID tips to patients on its database. Protective gear With the spread of coronavirus appearing imminent, the hospital initiated purchase of N95 masks, face shields, PPE kits, three-ply surgical masks, gloves, hand sanitisers and liquid soap for its personnel, apart from creating an exclusive ICU for COVID-19 patients. In fact, the Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at SVIMS became the State’s first designated facility. “We have expanded the RT-PCR equipment from two to four. At present, the VRDL is performing 300 tests a day,” says SVIMS Director and Vice-Chancellor Bhuma Vengamma. As the team of microbiologists and Ph.D scholars led by virology professor Usha Kalawat conducts tests 24x7, the VRDL is also recognised as quality control check lab for tests done across Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.  Early start “As on April 11, we have screened 465 outpatients and collected 153 swabs for testing. Fifty-eight patients were admitted out of which 13 turned positive, 42 negative,” Dr. Vengamma added. In fact, the hospital’s exclusive outpatient service for COVID-19 suspects began in the first week of March, with a chamber to obtain throat and nasopharyngeal swabs without spreading the contagion. As the numbers rose, another wing was opened at its clinic block. The State COVID-19 hospital has been created with 320 non-ICU beds and 130 ICU beds, further expandable by 72 and 18 respectively. Thirty-five of the 72 ventilators at SVIMS have been shifted for the purpose of COVID-19, admittedly a medical calamity not seen by the present generation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-hospital-at-svims-all-set-to-face-pandemic/article31335811.ece
14 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Discom suffers revenue loss||The Andhra Pradesh Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (APSPDCL) has suffered a revenue loss of Rs. 350 crore pertaining to March, receivable in the month of April, due to the lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus. Projecting the amount received for April at 80% of the actual receivable revenue, discom’s Chairman and Managing Director H. Haranatha Rao appealed to the HT and LT consumers to make their payments at the earliest, as the company had to pay at least 50% of its dues to power-generating companies. In spite of COVID-19 situation, electricity bills had been sent to the HT consumers and as such they would have to pay the amount by April 20 without fine, he said. Digital payment “There is no exemption for HT consumers,” he said, suggesting payment in the digital mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/discom-suffers-revenue-loss/article31335818.ece
14 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doctors a call away as telemedicine programme launched in State||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday launched a programme titled ‘Dr. YSR Telemedicine’ as part of the initiatives to prevent spread of coronavirus in the State. Toll-free number A toll free number ‘14410’ has been set up for the beneficiaries to avail of telemedicine facilities. As many as 286 doctors and 114 executives have registered their names to offer voluntary services, as on April 11. The healthcare services would be provided in three shifts from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. daily. The programme is aimed at identifying the COVID-19 cases, their isolation, conducting tests, and shifting patients to quarantine. The doctors would advise medicines over phone to the out-patients (OP). Internet facility and technical assistance technology team would assist the doctors. Three-step programme The programme would be implemented in three stages. In Step-I, if a person gives a missed call to toll-free number, the system would record the details of the caller. The executive would collect the details such as place of living, patient conditions and etc. An identification number would be issued to each patient. In Step-II, the patients’ details would be relayed to all doctors connected to the telemedicine programme. A team would attend the call and provide the OP services. Doctors would suggest the tests required. The COVID-19 patients would be identified and treatment details would be sent to the patient through SMSes. If required, a video consultancy services would be extended. The doctors would decide whether to send a patient to hospital. Distribution network In Step-III, medicines would be packed for the patients and despatched through ASHA workers, ANMs and volunteers. The programme covers non-COVID-19 patients too, a release said here on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doctors-a-call-away-as-telemedicine-programme-launched-in-state/article31335827.ece
14 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medical camps held for inmates of VMC shelter homes||Officials of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) and the staff of St. Ann’s Hospital on Monday conducted medical tests for migrant labourers and others staying in different homes arranged by the VMC. The municipal corporation in association with the Seva Bharathi Trust and Raj Purohit community members distributed dignity kits and clothes to the inmates. Municipal Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh distributed food to the inmates in a shelter home in One Town. Municipal veterinary assistant surgeon A. Ravi Chand, the nodal officer for the 14 shelter homes, said about 1,000 people underwent general health check-up in the medical camps. Medicines were given to the needy. “More than 1,500 are staying in the VMC shelter homes and medical camps were held in the homes at Autonagar, Bapanaiah High School, Kandukuri Function Hall, Gunadala BC Hostel, Sitara Centre and Swarangam Night Shelter. We provided beds, blankets and entertainment facilities,” he said. The Raj Purohit community headed by Suresh was providing breakfast, lunch and snacks for the inmates in a few homes in One Town while the Seva Brahathi Trust distributed soaps, tooth brushes, paste and other material in kits, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/medical-camps-held-for-inmates-of-vmc-shelter-homes/article31335338.ece
14 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ordinance reducing SEC term violation of Constitution’||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) polit bureau member and Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has said that Ordinance 5/2020 was a blatant violation of the Constitution. The State government cannot draw a parallel between Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh to defend its case, he remarked. In a press release on Monday, he said that the issue was being falsely represented drawing a parallel between Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. In U.P., the government reduced the SEC tenure from seven to five years reversing an earlier government’s action. That was relating to ‘service conditions’ but not the issue of reduction in the ‘tenure’ like in A.P. Also, in U.P. it was not done in the midst of the elections like in the present case of Andhra Pradesh, he said. The Governor should promulgate an ordinance only after he is satisfied that prevailing conditions warrant issuance of such an ordinance under Article 213. Given the present COVID-19 severity and its unchecked spread, the hasty amendment to cut short the SEC tenure to remove Ramesh Kumar was undemocratic and against the tenets of the Constitution. “As there is no urgency in this case. It is a fraud on the Constitution,” he alleged. ‘Can’t disadvantage him’ Article 243(k) says “it cannot be varied to his (SEC) disadvantage after his appointment”. Further, it is clear that as per settled law service means tenure or term. Again, the case, Lucknow HC judgement, was not applicable here. In Uttar Pradesh, one government increased the SEC’s tenure from five years to seven years. The successor government reduced it to five from seven. “To my knowledge, it was an extension of service but not reduction,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ordinance-reducing-sec-term-violation-of-constitution/article31335822.ece
14 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Donations pour in for COVID relief||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) employees donated their one-day salary to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to enable the government to take up measures to tackle COVID-19. TTD Trust Board Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy and representatives of the employees associations on Monday handed over a demand draft for Rs. 83,86,747at the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO). Hetero Group of companies MD Vamsi Krishna handed over a cheque for Rs. 5 crore to Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. The group said that it provided PPE kits, medicines, masks worth Rs. 1 crore to the State. Also, Rs. 2 crore worth essential commodities, medicines and sanitisers were handed over to the Visakhapatnam district Collector under CSR initiative. The Adani Foundation announced that it would donate Rs. 2 crore to Andhra Pradesh. Gautam Adani announced the contribution on his Twitter handle and mentioned the gratifying efforts undertaken to curb the vast spread of the virus across the country. Devi Sea Foods MD Brahmanandam handed over a cheque for Rs. 1 crore to the CMO towards the CM’s Relief Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/donations-pour-in-for-covid-relief/article31335819.ece
14 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 10.33-cr. NABARD boost for banks in A.P.||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has sanctioned a grant of Rs. 10.33 crore to commercial banks, regional rural banks and rural cooperative banks in respect of various financial inclusion initiatives in Andhra Pradesh. Of this, Rs. 6.42 crore was released during the year 2019-20, according to bank Chief General Manager S. Selvaraj. In a release on Monday, Mr. Selvaraj said NABARD disbursed Rs. 303.32 lakh for supporting financial and digital literacy camps conducted by commercial banks, RRBs and rural cooperative banks during the year 2019-20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-1033-cr-nabard-boost-for-banks-in-ap/article31335329.ece
14 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State to set up 22,000 YSR Janata Bazaars||The State government is contemplating setting up around 22,000 YSR Janata Bazaars in villages and towns. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, during a discussion with higher officials here on Monday, said that there were around 11,000 Rythu Bharosa centres and village secretariats in the State, which could be used to facilitate YSR Janata Bazaars. The proposed bazaars could be established beside ward secretariats and at mandal headquarters as well. Cold storage units should be established in every Assembly constituency, he said, and called for preparing plans to strengthen cold chain and processing networks in agriculture sector to support the bazaars. Mr. Jagan asked the officials to map the locations where the janata bazaars could be established. An IAS officer will be appointed to monitor the YSR Janata Bazaar project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-to-set-up-22000-ysr-janata-bazaars/article31335330.ece
14 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Conduct tests to people identified during survey’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the doctors at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to provide the best healthcare to the people who have contracted the coronavirus infection. “Focus on the best patient management practices being followed in other countries,” he said. At a review meeting on Monday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the officials to initiate measures to conduct tests to all people identified with with symptoms during the door-to-door survey. “At least 1,200 samples should be tested daily and ensure that there is no shortage of oxygen supply,” he said and asked the officials concerned to set up 400-bed hospitals in Anantapur, Prakasam, and Nellore districts for COVID-19 patients. Protective gear The officials informed the Chief Minister that 10,000 personal protection equipment (PPEs) were being manufactured in the State daily. In response, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the officials to see that N-95 masks were also manufactured in the State. “There should not be any issues pertaining to sanitation at quarantine and isolation facilities,” he said. The officials told the Chief Minister that there was no issue pertaining to crop price. Moreover, horticulture produces are being transported to other States. Aqua products’ export Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy instructed the officials to discuss with the Centre to open aquaculture markets in Assam, West Bengal, Bihar, and Uttar Pradesh so that the aqua products can be transported to these States. He asked the officials to work on exporting the products to the U.S.A. and Europe. “The officials must ensure that essentials are sold at the prices displayed at shops,” he said and asked the officials to provide ration and Rs. 1,000 to the needy, irrespective of them having ration cards, adding that ration cards should be issued the genuine beneficiaries who were yet to have them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/conduct-tests-for-people-identified-during-survey/article31335820.ece
14 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. awards Bhogapuram airport project to GMR||GMR Airports Limited (GAL), a subsidiary of GMR Infrastructure Limited, has stated that it has received the Letter of Award (LoA) from the State government for the development and operations of the greenfield international airport proposed at Bhogapuram in Vizianagaram district. The GMR, in a release on Monday, said the project involved design, build, finance, construction, development, upgrade, modernisation, operation and maintenance of the greenfield international airport at Bhogapuram for 40 years. It is extendable by additional 20 years through international competitive bidding process, with the GMR Airports Limited having RoFR of 10%.  Strategic location The proposed airport site lies on the border of Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram districts, and is approximately 45 km from Visakhapatnam city and 25 km from Vizianagaram. The site is strategically located on the east coast and it stands to benefit from the vast catchment area. Moreover, the beach corridor development is underway near the proposed airport which will provide impetus to retail and hospitality sectors. In February 2019, the GAL emerged as the highest bidder for the project on a PPP basis, a release issued by the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-awards-bhogapuram-airport-project-to-gmr/article31335823.ece
14 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police to issue emergency transport passes||The government has decided to issue emergency passes for transportation in the State. The decision has been taken to avoid trouble to those who need to travel, said Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang. Passes will be issued to persons and vehicles after verification of applications. Persons who want to travel on health emergency, government staff on COVID-19 duties and persons extending voluntary services and other emergency services can take passes, said Mr. Sawang. People are requested to avail the facility in emergency only, and action would be taken if false information is furnished, the DGP warned. Persons who were staying in districts and commissionerates are requested to apply by submitting details such as name, address, Aadhaar card number and the nature of emergency to police officials concerned through WhatsApp numbers or mail IDs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-to-issue-emergency-transport-passes/article31335335.ece
14 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State hiding facts on COVID, alleges BJP||BJP leader P. Nagabhushanam on Monday alleged that the government was hiding facts related to the prevalence of COVID-19 going by the big variation in the data being presented by it and the Central government. Addressing media persons along with party spokesman K. Sai Krishna here, Mr. Nagabhushanam said lifting of the blanket lockdown or partial relaxation would have disastrous consequences. He expressed apprehension that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s idea to relax it would lead to a major spurt in infections. He pointed out that BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana wrote a letter to the Centre requesting continuation of the lockdown till the month-end. Mr. Nagabhushanam said N. Ramesh Kumar’s removal as State Election Commissioner (SEC) was against the letter and spirit of the Constitution. ‘Act of vendetta’ He alleged that it was nothing but taking vengeance on Mr. Ramesh Kumar. It was unfortunate that the YSR Congress Party was trying to derive electoral mileage out of the assistance provided by the Central government, by taking credit for it, the BJP leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-hiding-facts-on-covid-alleges-bjp/article31335331.ece
14 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor pays tribute to Ambedkar||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has said that B.R. Ambedkar was a great social reformer, jurist and economist. In a message to the people on the eve of Ambedkar’s birth anniversary on Monday, Mr. Biswa Bhusan Harichandan said the chief architect of the Constitution was a great freedom fighter and waged a war for equal rights for weaker sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-pays-tribute-to-ambedkar/article31335332.ece
14 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 3,500 crore sanctioned for housing programme||The government sanctioned Rs. 3,500 crore for construction of houses under the ‘Navaratnalu: Pedalandariki Illu’ programme , according to G.O. 414 issued by Principal Secretary (Revenue) V. Usha Rani on Monday. Allocations East Godavari district has been allocated Rs. 1,750 crore, Guntur Rs. 550 crore, West Godavari and Krishna districts Rs. 225 crore each, YSR Kadapa Rs. 110 crore, Prakasam Rs. 56 crore, Vizianagaram Rs. 50 crore, Nellore Rs. 33 crore, Srikakulam Rs. 10 crore, Kurnool Rs. 7.50 crore and Visakhapatnam, Anantapur and Chittoor Rs. 5 crore each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-3500-crore-sanctioned-for-housing-programme/article31335815.ece
14 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP moves NHRC over mobilisation of crowd||TDP State president Kimidi Kala Venkat Rao wrote a letter to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) highlighting “the plight of people” in the State. “There are already over 400 corona positive cases in the State and seven lives have been lost till date. The mobilisation of groups for political purposes was a reason for the spread of COVID-19 in the State. It has become a direct cause of corona outbreaks due to the YSRCP leaders’ deliberate mobilisation of groups,” he said. Chandragiri MLA Chevireddy Bhaskara Reddy was moving around with hundreds of activists. Srikalahasti MLA B. Madhusudhan Reddy violated the rules and Palmaneru MLA Venkatesh Goud inaugurated a culvert in the presence of hundreds , he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-moves-nhrc-over-mobilisation-of-crowd/article31335824.ece
14 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Complete testing of samples on the same day, says Collector||District Collector V. Vinay Chand directed the medical officers to ensure completion of the testing process of COVID-19 samples on the same day. He inspected the COVID-19 testing centre at the King George Hospital (KGH), here on Monday. He asked the officials to computerise the district-wise data, pertaining to Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam. He said that one more COVID-19 testing equipment has been given to the district and asked the officials to install it at the same centre. Efforts were being made to procure one more testing machine for the district. The Collector advised the staff at the testing centre to use the safety gear and protect themselves from possible infection. He also inspected the new block being constructed at the hospital with CSR funds. He also inspected the dialysis unit at the Super Speciality Block. Supply of essentials Paderu Sub Collector S. Venkateswar, VMRDA Additional Commissioner Manjeer Jeelani Samoon, Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar, District Medical and Health Officer S. Tirupathi Rao and KGH Superintendent G. Arjuna were present.  Supply of essential commodities to white card holders at their doorstep through ward/village volunteers in the seven red zones has begun and will continue till April 15, according to Joint Collector L. Siva Sankar The areas are: Akkayyapalem-Allipuram, Tatichetlapalem, Rangireeju Street near Poorna Market, Kunchumamba Colony at Gajuwaka, Venkatapuram in Padmanabham mandal, Rajugari Beellu and Aratlakota at Payakaraopeta and Komati Street at Narsipatnam. The Joint Collector said all the 479 complaints received on Sunday and Monday on the toll-free No. 1800 4250 0002 and 98% of the 2,246 complaints received on 1902 relating to public distribution and high price of commodities were resolved. The complaints were about not receiving the Rs. 1,000 assistance, their names not figuring in the list of beneficiaries and it be extended to those not having ration cards. Mr. Siva Sankar said so far 10.65 lakh of the 12.45 lakh white ration card holders were given the Rs. 1,000 assistance totalling Rs. 106.53 crore. Essential commodities were distributed to 94.37% of the 12.45 lakh cardholders. On Monday, 4,342 quintals of vegetables were sold through 158 rythu bazaars and municipal markets, including 60 mobile rytu bazaars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-testing-of-samples-on-the-same-day-says-collector/article31335840.ece
14 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 isolation train parked on platform No. 7||A COVID-19 isolation train has been parked on platform No. 7 at the Visakhapatnam Railway Station on Monday. A single bay will accommodate one patient and nine wards (bays) have been created in each coach. One bay in each coach will be used by doctors and paramedical staff. The middle berths in all the coupes/bays in the coaches have been removed and one of the four toilets has been converted into a bathroom. All the wash basins, in the washrooms as well as those near the exit/entry to the coaches, have been provided with liquid soap dispensers. Each coupe has been equipped with four bottle holders and two three-peg coat hooks to facilitate the paramedical staff hang the intravenous fluids. There are three pedal-operated dustbins of three different colours with disposable garbage bags. Oxygen cylinders have been provided in all the coaches. Intensive cleaning along with disinfection and sanitisation of all the coaches is possible. Mosquito nets have been provided in all the coaches. Safety gadgets like masks, PPEs and sanitisers will be provided by the medical department as and when a patient is isolated. The conversion of the coaches has been done at the Coaching Depot, Visakhapatnam, a pioneer in the conversion of railway coaches into quarantine/isolation wards, for COVID-19 patients. Waltair Division has so far converted 60 coaches and 500 isolation beds are ready for use, says Senior Divisional Commercial Manager G. Suneel Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-isolation-train-parked-on-platform-no-7/article31335837.ece
14 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students stranded in New Delhi return home||As many as 33 students from Andhra Pradesh who were stranded in New Delhi after their return from Italy were brought back to the State in a bus on Monday. Among the 33 youth, two students hailing from Visakhapatnam district were dropped off in the city, while the rest left for their respective districts. According to officials, students who were pursuing various courses in Italy, arrived India in the third week of March, after the COVID-19 outbreak. As a precautionary measure, the officials of Ministry of Health placed them under quarantine at an Indo-Tibetan Border Camp (ITBC). Lockdown blues Sources said that the students had started their journey from Delhi on April 10, after their reports tested negative two times. They travelled via Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha, before entering Vizianagaram district in Andhra Pradesh. It was leant that the bus was intervened by the police at some parts due to lockdown, where the State government had to intervene and got it passed. Visakhapatnam Collector V. Vinay Chand said the samples of the two students from the district have been sent to Pradhama Hospital for testing as a precautionary measure. Depending on the reports, they will be kept under home quarantine, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-stranded-in-new-delhi-return-home/article31335831.ece
14 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brandix launches production of personal protective equipment||In a bid to contribute its might to the war against COVID-19, Brandix India Apparel City (BIAC) has launched production of personal protective equipment (PPE). As BIAC had closed all its units on March 21, ahead of nationwide lockdown due to the pandemic, now PPE production is made with about 100 executives, 90% of them Sri Lankan nationals who stay in quarters located on the campus of BIAC. BIAC, India’s largest apparel park employs about 22,000 strong workforce, of which 18,000 are women from villages in the vicinity. “Now we are making 2,000 to 2,500 per day. Once we get permission from the local authorities to bring some of the operators from nearby villages, we will scale up production to 10,000 to 20,000 per day in the next three to four days,” BIAC India Partner P. Doraswamy told The Hindu on Monday. Executives who have joined the task to overcome severe shortage of PPEs are working in turns to continue production 24x7. All the PPEs made at Brandix would be given to the State government at cost price, Mr. Doraswamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brandix-launches-production-of-personal-protective-equipment/article31335835.ece
14 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Soon, RTC to ferry sanitation staff to work||Officials from the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) are mulling to seek help of APSRTC for transportation of sanitation staff to work, due to lockdown orders. At present, there are nearly 7,500 staff working with the sanitation department in the GVMC. More 1,000 were hired due to more sanitation work. It was learnt that the sanitation staff have been facing problems to attend duty due to lockdown. Several employees are working at various red zones like Akkayyapalem, Gajuwaka, Poorna Market, ITI Junction and Thatichetlapalem. Though sanitation staff are allowed despite Section 144 imposed as part of lockdown orders, many workers complained that they are unable to attend duties due to lack of public transport. “We are planning to ask RTC officials to provide buses from some routes to pick up and drop sanitation staff. The number of buses and routes is yet to be decided,” said Chief Medical Officer of Health (CMOH), GVMC, K.S.L.G Sastry. It was learnt that the RTC officials are also positive towards the proposal.  Rythu bazaars At present, the APSRTC Visakhapatnam region is running six buses in various routes to ferry farmers from various areas to 13 rythu bazaars in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/soon-rtc-to-ferry-sanitation-staff-to-work/article31335842.ece
14 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Complete survey to identify symptomatic people’||The survey in GVMC limits to identify people with COVID-19 symptoms should be completed at the earliest uploading details on the app paving the way for screening tests, Municipal Commissioner G. Srijana said on Monday in a video-conference with officials. A detailed plan should also be in place to distribute essential commodities in the second phase that will begin soon.  ‘No private spraying’ The Commissioner said in a separate statement that no private organisations, associations or individuals should take up spraying of chemicals on their own as it needed technical expertise. Prior permission must be obtained from the Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-survey-to-identify-symptomatic-people/article31335846.ece
14 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Apply for vehicle pass in case of emergency’||District police said that people who need to travel to other places in the district or other States in emergency situations can avail permission from the police office. In a note on Monday, the rural police said that they would be giving a Emergency Vehicle Pass/Temporary Vehicle Pass to the citizens who need to travel to other places in situations like health emergency, death of close relations, service-oriented and others. Citizens can apply on WhatsApp number 9505200100 or e-mail id –commandcontrolvspr@ gmail.com. They can contact landline number 0891-2791186 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apply-for-vehicle-pass-in-case-of-emergency/article31335843.ece
14 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Japanese nationals leave Vizag||Six Japanese nationals, who were stranded in Visakhapatnam due to lockdown, left the city for their country on Monday. According to city airport Director M. Raja Kishore, a special eight-seater aircraft arrived from New Delhi on Monday morning by which the Japanese nationals left for Bengaluru, from where they would travel to Japan by a special flight. It is learnt that the Japanese nationals were staying in Hotel Novotel in the city. They were allowed to leave the city only after their samples were tested negative for COVID-19, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/japanese-nationals-leave-vizag/article31335832.ece
14 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Get ready for free rice distribution in Agency areas: ITDA PO||ITDA Project Officer D.K. Balaji has directed officials to get ready for the distribution of rice and other essential commodities in the second phase of the free rice distribution programme in the Agency areas of the district from April 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/get-ready-for-free-rice-distribution-in-agency-areas-itda-po/article31335841.ece
14 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Baisakhi celebrated indoors||Owing to the ongoing lockdown , Baisakhi was celebrated indoors. An online kirtan (rendition of holy hymns) group has been created and Shabad Gurbani is recited everyday from 6 p.m. to 6.30 p.m., according to president of Gurudawara Sadh Sangat, Seethamadhara, S.D.S Anand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/baisakhi-celebrated-indoors/article31335844.ece
14 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pay dues to MNREGS workers: CPI(M)||To help the workers under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) tide over the lockdown, dues should be paid to them and work taken up immediately, the CPI(M) has demanded. The government owed Rs. 46.12 crore to 4.09 lakh workers in the district, party district secretary K. Lokanadham said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pay-dues-to-mnregs-workers-cpim/article31335845.ece
14 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CBI personnel distribute food to migrant labourers||CBI Visakhapatnam Branch has been distributing food for both lunch and dinner to around 60 migrant labourers staying at the shelter camp in Sector 10, M.V.P. Colony, Visakhapatnam, for the last few days. Meanwhile, DIG L.K.V. Ranga Rao and Assistant General Manager of Canara Bank B. Rameshbabu on Monday gave away 65 packets of essential commodities, contributed by Canara Bank Employees' Union, to the needy at the Lawson's Bay Colony branch of Canara Bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cbi-personnel-distribute-food-to-migrant-labourers/article31335847.ece
14 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srikakulam, Vizianagaram hope for partial exemption||Expectations are running high among officials of Vizianagaram and Srikakulam that the districts will be granted a partial exemption from the lockdown as both come under the “green zone” category with zero positive cases of COVID-19. Apart from people, officials are eagerly waiting for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech scheduled for 10 a.m.on Tuesday. A senior official indicated that partial exemption would ensure restoration of normal life and put agriculture activity on the track. Social distancing  He said intra-district movement of people while following the social distancing norms would be a via media approach to handle the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srikakulam-vizianagaram-hope-for-partial-exemption/article31335817.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tickets booked, but doubts linger on operation of flights||Though IndiGo has announced the operation of its flights on the Hyderabad-Visakhapatnam-Hyderabad, Bengaluru-Visakhapatnam-Bengaluru and Chennai-Visakhapatnam-Chennai sectors with effect from April 15, their operation or otherwise will depend on the lifting/continuation of the lockdown being implemented in view of COVID-19. IndiGo launched bookings for its flights long ago. The airport is operational but operation of flights will be dependent on the decision of the Centre, airport director M. Raja Kishore said. The Prime Minister is scheduled to make an announcement on the lockdown on Tuesday (April 14). “The bookings for the flights from Vizag to Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai are full. The bookings for via flights to Delhi and Mumbai are also full. This is despite the fact that the passenger will have to suffer a heavy loss if the flights are cancelled due to the lockdown,” P. Muralikrishna, MD of Travel IQ told The Hindu .  Two options “The airline has given two options to passengers, if the flights are cancelled for any reason. “If the passengers wants to cancel his/her ticket, instead of postponing his journey, he/she will have to forego Rs. 3,500 per sector. That is, for a ticket for a via flight from Vizag to Mumbai or Delhi, the passenger will have to forego Rs. 7,000 per ticket,” he says. “The second is the ‘wallet’ option, the passenger will be allowed to retain the amount in the IndiGo wallet for one year. The booked passenger can travel on the same sector within one year. No change in the sector or transfer of ticket will be permissible.” “On a positive note for travel agents, prospective flyers are preferring us instead of online booking. The online portals are not clarifying the doubts of the passengers. We inform them of the cancellation rules and this gives them a sense of reassurance,” Mr. Muralikrishna said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tickets-booked-but-doubts-linger-on-operation-of-flights/article31335829.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Be prepared to conduct local body elections, SEC tells officials||State Election Commissioner (SEC) V. Kanagaraj exhorted officials to be prepared to conduct the elections to local bodies any time by coordinating with the Panchayat Raj and Rural Development and other departments concerned. At a review meeting at his office here on Monday, Mr. Kanagaraj said an unusual situation prevailed in the country and the State due to the health emergency triggered by coronavirus. The officials need to gear up to conduct the elections after normalcy was restored, he stated, pointing at the critical role played by Panchayat Raj (PR) institutions in achieving the ‘grama swarajya’ espoused by Mahatma Gandhi. Mr. Kanagaraj said the PR bodies should function in such a manner that the fruits of development reached each and every person at the grass-root level. Elections were crucial and no stone should be left unturned to ensure that the process was smooth, he asserted, emphasising on the importance of the strict implementation of Model Code of Conduct. SEC Secretary S. Ramasundara Reddy, Joint Secretary A.V. Satya Ramesh and Joint Director Sai Prasad were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/be-prepared-to-conduct-local-body-elections-sec-tells-officials/article31335816.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Timely business||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/timely-business/article31335340.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A novel message||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-novel-message/article31335814.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||No-go zone||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-go-zone/article31335850.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safety first||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safety-first/article31335310.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID-19 special officers designated||The GHMC has issued instructions on Monday, designating 17 special officers each for the 17 units in city, where COVID-19 positive cases have been identified during the past two to three days. Following Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s directions to divide the 30 circles into 17 units and appoint special officers each from Health & Medical, Police, Revenue and Municipal wings, the GHMC Commissioner has accordingly issued orders on behalf of the corporation, appointing officers of additional commissioner, joint commissioner, and superintending engineers for the post. Instead of the 12 containment clusters, as announced earlier, the government has later reduced the extent and increased the number of such areas, and named them as containment zones. Each containment zone includes the premises where the COVID-19 positive patient stayed, and the surrounding areas he/she visited. Officials from the GHMC informed that a total of 126 such zones have been identified across the city, where cases have been identified for the past few days. These containment zones will be barricaded and no outsider will be allowed to enter them. The residents of these zones will not be allowed to step outside, and officials will ensure that they get all the essential supplies and ration at the doorstep. Family members of the COVID-19 patient will be shifted to the quarantine centre, and their samples sent for tests. Even if the tests are negative, they will have to stay at the centre for the mandatory 14 days, the incubation period of novel coronavirus. “Besides, our teams consisting of ASHA workers and others will visit all the homes in the containment zone on daily basis and take note of their health status. If anything is noticed off the mark, they will inform the medical officer deputed for the zone, who in turn will shift the person to the quarantine facility, and take follow up action,” the official said. The number of containment zones will increase every time a patient is discovered in the newer areas, he said. All the containment zones will be disinfected regularly apart from the quarantine facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-19-special-officers-designated/article31335628.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Disputes in energy e-bills will be settled later: Minister||Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy has assured the domestic power consumers in the State that discrepancies, if any, in their bills raised electronically this month in the absence of details of exact consumption details would be settled once the discom staff resumes physical data collection on the energy consumption. He gave the clarity in the backdrop of some consumers raising complaints that the bills raised in the website of the discoms was not exactly the same as that of March last year, as indicated by them earlier this month. The Minister held a review meeting on the power supply position and revenue collection in the State with Special Chief Secretary (Energy) Ajay Misra, Chairman and Managing Director of TS-Transco and TS-Genco D. Prabhakar Rao and CMD of Southern Discom G. Raghuma Reddy here on Monday. The Minister complimented the staff of power utilities for ensuring uninterrupted supply to all categories of consumers even in the wake of adverse conditions of coronavirus spread care by taking necessary health safety measures. Irrespective of the untimely rains in several parts of the State during the last few days there was no shortage of rolling stock of distribution transformers for timely replacement in the event of their damage or repairs.  ERC direction On the domestic power bills for April, for the energy consumed during the month of March, the Minister said Telangana too was following the system being followed by several other States and the discoms has devised the method as directed by the Electricity Regulatory Commission (ERC). He, however, stated that energy consumption during March 2020 had increased at least by 20% in the wake of lockdown measures due to which most of the employees and other wage earners were restricted to remain at home, but the bills raised electronically were in tune with the ERC directions. The actual consumption charges would be collected only after taking the data of energy consumption physically when the lockdown restrictions were lifted by the government. Most of the consumers in the Southern Discom would generally pay their bills online regularly and the other consumers too would be required through online payment systems in place, he noted.  Commercial bills On the bills of commercial category consumers, the Minister said actual data of energy consumption by 10,700 consumers (business organisations) was taken physically by the staff concerned and the bills were issued to them. The remaining commercial consumers would have to pay 50% of their bill amount of March 2019, the Minister said and if there was any excess payment, it would be adjusted in the next bill. The revenue demand for low-tension (LT) category this month, April for March, was Rs. 620 crore in Southern Discom and it was Rs. 203 crore in Northern Discom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/disputes-in-energy-e-bills-will-be-settled-later-minister/article31335637.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nizamabad reports three cases||Fresh cases of COVID-19 positive cases were reported from four Telangana districts on Monday. Three more positive cases were reported from Nizamabad, taking the total number of coronavirus cases to 52 in the district. Out of the 103 samples sent for tests, 100 tested negative. Reports of 13 persons who are primary contacts are pending, according to the Collector C. Narayana Reddy. Samples of 63 Markaz returnees and 389 primary contacts were sent for tests and reports of only 13 are pending. The Collector said the possibility of positive cases among the 13 pending ones could not be ruled out. The wife and son of Khammam’s second confirmed COVID-19 patient from Quilla locality have been diagnosed with the coronavirus infection on Monday taking the count in the district to seven. Incidentally, two more family members of the 63-year-old second coronavirus patient including his daughter-in-law and 10-year-old granddaughter have already tested positive for COVID. The Quilla area in the district headquarters town has reported as many as five COVID-19 cases from a single family. The remaining two cases were reported from Pedda Thanda in Khammam rural mandal and Moti Nagar in the town a couple of days ago. Containment measures have been scaled up in the Quilla locality. All the entry and exit points of the fort area have been cordoned off by.Sources said that all the seven COVID-19 patients from the district are undergoing treatment in the designated hospitals in Hyderabad. A Jamaat returnee from Jainoor mandal headquarters in Kumram Bheem Asifabad tested positive for COVID on Monday taking the total of positives to three in the district. All three belong to a single family. (With inputs from our correspondents in Nizamabad, Khammam and Adilabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nizamabad-reports-three-cases/article31335624.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Learning a skill or two online||As the lockdown appears to stretch for one more fortnight, homes are becoming learning spaces. Baking, brewing, stretching, writing, cooking. You name an activity and it is being mentored/tutored online. In a society where filter coffee with chicory rules, Nishant Sinha of Roastery Coffee House offered a class on brewing coffee: “Personal online brewing class for all the home brewers who want to brew a good cup of coffee at home. This will be 30-minute free online personal tutorial.” He is also sharing secrets of creating the perfect cold-brew, which again is an online class. “People who signed up were serious about learning. People are still enrolling and I keep conducting the class when I have a big batch,” he says. The result is small rooms with multiple voices as people discover a community as they exchange notes and learn from masters. “Sometimes, a session time closes and I have to tell them, ‘Leave the meeting’. They stay logged on. In my sessions, there was tremendous attention to learning. But also deeper community bonding,” says Bhavana Nissima, who is offering online courses on writing. The online classes are evolving into something as else, as people starved of human interaction try to create a social life. “Folks enrolled to learn or practice something. And in longer programs, they discovered they enjoyed seeing and hearing others. And then it became a ritual. Greeting each other when session starts, connecting outside program times,” says Ms. Nissima. The online classes have proved to be a blessing for those who always wanted to stay fit but didn’t find the time. “Online classes are very interactive and I can correct the postures of the students or if the students have a question they can clarify. It’s also nice for everyone to see other people online as people are locked home. I even managed to do a fund raiser online with yoga + art,” says Harshita Soni, who has begun offering online yoga classes.  Sometimes, a session time closes and I have to tell them, ‘Leave the meeting’. They stay logged on. Bhavana Nissima, Offering e-courses on writing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/learning-a-skill-or-two-online/article31335619.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IICT, ICMR expediting approval process for COVID-19 drugs||Council of Scientific & Industrial Research-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (CSIR-IICT) in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is to trying to accelerate the regulatory approval processes for the prospective anti-viral drugs to combat COVID-19. The IICT has handed over the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) to further develop the drug, Favipiravir, to Indian pharma giant Cipla and it has now tied up with a multi-national firm to provide API for another anti-viral drug, Arbidol. “We are expecting faster regulatory approvals as Favipiravir has been used successfully in coronavirus patients in China, Japan and South Korea to bring down the viral load. Arbidol has also been extensively used and we have already made excellent progress in making the API,” informed IICT Director S. Chandrasekhar on Monday. In fact, directors of various institutes made in charge of CSIR’s five verticals to combat COVID-19 made presentations to Union Health Minister Harshvardhan and Director General Shekar C. Mande updating them on the ongoing research activity via video conference on Sunday night. The Minister was informed that Cipla is likely to come for approvals from the Drug Control Authority (DCA) in a few weeks for regulatory approvals. Since Arbidol is not in patent, it could take up to eight weeks for the pharma company to develop the drug after necessary testing and approvals. It was found that the Chinese had given this medicine along with an unknown herbal decoction. Mr. Chandrasekhar also told Dr. Harshvardhan that the institute has been conducting research in alternate anti-parasatic drugs too. This has helped a breakthrough in the making of anti-parasatic drug Hydroxychloroquine, which India is already supplying in bulk to various countries, including the US. This could reduce our dependence on China for the API to this drug as IICT scientists have sourced the two key chemical raw material compounds of acetyl butyrolactone and dichloroquinoline for making Hydroxychloroquine. “This is a very important development towards maintaining the supply chain of the HCQ drug,” he pointed out. The novel coronavirus has presented a fresh set of challenges to scientists, Mr. Chandrasekhar acknowledged and said: “We have drugs successfully treating HIV, Hepatitis-C, etc., so we will surely come out with an effective treatment and vaccine too. It is just a matter of time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iict-icmr-expediting-approval-process-for-covid-19-drugs/article31335621.ece
14 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||A snip here, a shave there||Family bonding in Hyderabad has now reached a whole new level. With hair salons remaining shut due to the lockdown, people are becoming their own beautician and that of their loved ones, shaving and trimming the hair and beards of their siblings and children. Several youngsters who spoke to The Hindu admitted that they picked up the scissors and trimmers to groom themselves, to a reasonable degree of success, thanks to hair trimming videos on YouTube. “My beard was too long and was itching, so my elder brother and I decided to trim it. We had never done it earlier, so we watched a few videos on YouTube and got down to business. We were quite happy with the result,” said Ahmed Farooqui, a 23-year-old social media expert at a multinational company. Two days later, Mr. Ahmed chopped his brother Azaz Farooqui’s tresses to buzz-cut style. “My brother has been growing his hair for close to three years. But he wanted to get rid of it, so I played barber to him,” he said, adding that they have even made a time-lapse video of their attempt. After watching the videos and photos, many of their relatives called them over to have their hair trimmed, said Mr. Ahmed. K. Shravya, a homemaker from Miyapur said she doesn’t like her children looking shabby, and hence, picked up a trimmer to shave off their heads. “My two sons get irritated and fall sick if their hair grows beyond a certain length. So, with no barber shops open, I used my husband’s trimmer to chop their hair,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-snip-here-a-shave-there/article31335613.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Officials tell Amberpet residents to vacate premises in one week||Several residents of Amberpet received a bolt out of the blue on Monday, when a group of officials knocked on their door out of nowhere, and asked them to vacate their premises within a week or two maximum. Though they knew that the time was not far away when they would have to vacate the premises to make way for the construction of flyover, the short notice during lockdown came as rude shock. The flyover was to be taken up by the National Highways as part of the elevated corridor between Amberpet and Ramanthapur, covering the 6 No. and Amberpet crossroads. 281 properties marked A total of 281 properties have been marked for acquisition on this stretch -- a task which was to be accomplished by the GHMC. Several properties have already been acquired and demolished too, while others are in the process of being acquired. As part of the process, owners of nine properties near 6 No. crossroads were served notices by the Office of the Special Deputy Collector (Land Acquisition) on February 14. It asked all the interested parties to appear in person or send authorised agent with claims of interest and relevant documents on March 15. They were also to submit objections, if any, about the property measurements taken for payment of compensation. “We accordingly, went and submitted documentary proof. I also filed objections about measurements, and awaited communication from the GHMC, with regard to the property in my father’s name. But I was appalled when GHMC officials arrived on Monday and asked us to vacate in one week from now,” said C. Praveen Kumar, He says he had given a written request asking for three months’ time to vacate, as he has to empty two shutters of junk downstairs. “My neighbours are seven families staying in the same building on rent. They are given time up to month-end. Where can we go house hunting during this lockdown, and who will be willing to rent their premises now, when any stranger is looked at askance due to coronavirus spread?” questions Mr. Kumar. When enquired, GHMC officials denied any knowledge about the issue, and blamed it on the Roads & Buildings department, who are authorising on behalf of the National Highways. However, Mr. Praveen Kumar is certain that the officials came from GHMC Circle office at Abids, as told by them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/officials-tell-amberpet-residents-to-vacate-premises-in-one-week/article31335633.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor seeks report from CS on dengue in Wanaparthy||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has reportedly sought information from the Chief Secretary on 38 dengue cases reported in Wanaparthy district. Secretary to Governor, according to highly placed sources, wrote a letter to the Chief Secretary on Monday, wherein Dr. Tamilisai is understood to have sought information and also made certain suggestions. The Governor was responding to a news report published in these columns on Monday. Sources said the Governor wanted the administration to closely monitor the incidence of COVID-19 in those areas where dengue cases are now reported. She referred to the WHO advisory on more testing of all individuals in the clusters where positive cases are reported. ICMR cleared labs The Governor desired officials should explore the possibilities of treating the critical patients with plasma treatment, since approval has been accorded by ICMR. Since ICMR has approved seven private diagnostic laboratories in the State, the State government may explore the possibilities to utilise the services of these private labs in conducting tests to detect COVID-19, the letter said. The Governor strongly felt that there is every need to protect the frontline warriors in fighting with COVID-19. The continuous conduct of tests to the doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and other staff, who are attending the COVID-19 positive patients directly have to be undertaken on regular basis and their health is to be monitored very closely. Unless we protect them by guarding their health, we cannot win this war against COVID-19, she observed. The area wise patients' data is to be closely monitored, so that the chains of transmission can be effectively dealt with by breaking them. The positive cases detected in new areas are to be investigated into in detail to trace out the transmission history. The categorisation of areas into red, orange and green zones depending on the number of COVID-19 cases will facilitate to intensify the monitoring, surveillance and to allow limited services to function in the safe zones. The State government may consider adopting this categorisation, the letter quoting the Governor said. Relief amounts The State government may provide the data pertaining to the relief amounts received by the public in the State from the Centre during the lockdown period. This lockdown period may favourably be considered to de-addict the alcoholics. The alcohol addicts are required to be counselled and rehabilitated suitably by opening more rehabilitation centres. The steps may be initiated in this direction. It is also learnt that many patients who have undergone transplantations are finding it difficult to get immunosuppressive medicines, which is of serious concern. The State government may consider taking adequate steps to ensure the availability of these medicines to the patients, the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-seeks-report-from-cs-on-dengue-in-wanaparthy/article31335643.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP seeks more testing for COVID-19||The Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded that the government release the details of number of people being tested for the COVID-19 as it was not being revealed in the daily health bulletin. Party spokesman K. Krishna Saagar Rao on Monday suspected that sufficient testing is not being done even though the World Health Organization (WHO) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has issued strong advisory to test extensively, contact trace and isolate to ensure arrest of transmission of coronavirus in the community. “It is evident that the State government is paying no heed to this very important task and behaving irresponsibly. Minister KTR is talking of plasma therapy initiative on TV channels without having either enough pre-emptive testing or anti-body testing facilities here,” he charged in a statement. Low rate of testing in Telangana has been leading to the State being unable to assess the cause of many unreported deaths which could be due to COVID-19. “Not ‘testing’ will not stop the contagion but will create a possibility of an unmanageable health crisis in the near future with rapid community spread,” Mr. Rao maintained. In the meanwhile, party leaders starting from chief Bandi Sanjay, K. Laxman, N.Ramchander Rao and others have been organising poor feeding and providing dry rations to the migrant labour and destitutes. Students return City president and MLC Mr. Ramchander Rao has also been instrumental in bringing home about 40 students to the city on Monday after obtaining special permission from the Central government. A special bus was arranged from here to bring them back after they were quarantined at the ITBP facility near Delhi on their return from Rome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-seeks-more-testing-for-covid-19/article31335646.ece
14 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress calls meeting of opposition parties tomorrow||Telangana Congress has decided to convene a meet of all the Opposition parties on April 15 to discuss the coronavirus situation in the State and review the measures taken by the government to handle the lockdown. The decision was taken at the meeting of TPCC task force on COVID-19 at Gandhi Bhavan on Monday. TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy later told the media that the meeting, presided by committee chairman Marri Shashidhar Reddy discussed several issues pertaining to the relief works being carried out across the Telangana State by Congress activists. Mr. Uttam Reddy reminded that it was Congress leader Rahul Gandhi who alerted everyone on February 12 itself about the serious threat coronavirus poses for our people and economy and had also expressed apprehension that the government was not taking this threat seriously. Now, Rahul Gandhi’s fears came true as the government acted only after one-and-a-half month when it called for ‘Janata Curfew’ on March 22. The TPCC chief claimed that the relief promised by the government due to lockdown was delayed and there were several discrepancies in the distribution of 12 kg per person free rice among BPL families. None of them got the promised Rs. 1500 financial assistance and similarly, the migrant workers too did not get the promised help of 10 kg rice and Rs. 500 cash. He announced that he would be writing a detailed letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on the present condition of people affected by the lockdown in the State. Mr. Reddy expressed deep regret over sanitation workers across the State not being paid salaries for the last two months and urged the government to pay 50% of salary as incentive to the sanitation, municipal and gram panchayat staff, ASHA workers, medical staff, police personnel and all others who have been working as frontline warriors in the battle against coronavirus. The TPCC chief asked the Chief Minister to clarify on the status of promise made by the Centre of providing 15 kg rice per person for three months. Centre’s promise of one free LPG cylinder for three months to the beneficiaries of Ujwala scheme be extended to the beneficiaries of Deepam Scheme in Telangana. He also questioned the Chief Minister on the urgency in calling tenders worth Rs. 22,000 crore for Kaleshwaram project when the entire country is at war with coronavirus. The Task Force meeting was attended by former deputy CM Damodar Rajanarasimha, AICC secretary Sampath Kumar, AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan and other senior leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-calls-meeting-of-opposition-parties-tomorrow/article31335651.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FCI moving rice to needy States, creating godown space||The last 10 days has witnessed Food Corporation of India (FCI) moving a large quantity of boiled rice to meet distribution to coronavirus affected poor in at least three States — Tamil Nadu, Kerala and West Bengal — creating the much needed godown space for Telangana to store food grains in view of a bumper crop this rabi. On an average, the FCI has transported 26,000 tonnes of rice every day to Tamil Nadu and Kerala for distribution under the Prime Minister's Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana which envisaged 5 kgs of rice per head per month. The beneficiaries will now get another 5 kgs per head as announced by the Centre. FCI General Manager in Hyderabad Aswin Kumar Gupta told The Hindu that the agency had a target of sending 4.75 lakh tonnes of boiled rice to Tamil Nadu and Kerala in April. Three lakh tonnes was already shifted to the two States by 10 wagons everyday for the past 10 days. Movement of another 2.25 lakh tonnes of boiled rice to West Bengal began three days ago. In addition, Karnataka was also sent 20,000 tonnes of raw rice but stopped later as the stocks were reserved for Telangana on demand.  Working hard Mr. Gupta lauded the relentless efforts of 1,000 employees and another 3,000 labourers of FCI working in odd hours to meet the targets of movement. The underlying benefits in the effort of FCI are that it is emptying space for storage of food grains in a big way in the godowns of the State. In view of a bumper crop this rabi after the Kaleshwaram and other irrigation projects released water to lakhs of acres for the first time. the State government was faced with the challenge to store the procured food grains. The total storage capacity of all godowns, including FCI, State and Central Warehousing Corporations, marketing department and private, was only 60.13 lakh tonnes but the government expected 93 lakh tonnes of paddy this rabi against 38 lakh tonnes for the same season last year and 15 lakh tonnes of maize against 8 lakh tonnes last year.  Extra space Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao even talked about using government and college school buildings to store the stocks to tide over space shortage. General Manager, State Warehousing Corporation, M. Sudhakar Reddy said space to store 3.5 lakh tonnes of food grains was already emptied by now after rail wagons started taking the stocks to other States. On the other hand, officials of marketing department said there was no immediate requirement of godown space because the paddy that was procured from farmers will straightaway go to rice mills and then the milled rice was shifted to FCI godowns for Central pool, a process that will take at least two months which will include weighment and payment issues with millers. An estimated 70% of paddy was converted into rice at the mills and sent to godowns. Agriculture Commissioner B. Janardhan Reddy said about one lakh tonnes of paddy was procured from April 4 when the sales began across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fci-moving-rice-to-needy-states-creating-godown-space/article31335650.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rations, cash yet to reach migrant workers||Sreenu is a migrant worker and ekes a living by ironing clothes in an apartment complex. His day used to start at 8 a.m. when he and his wife would collect clothes from apartments and press them and return home by 9 p.m. with their daily earnings. The couple has two school going children and life was going by with income that helped them make two ends meet. But their hardships began with the lockdown and the community banned outsiders from coming into the complex, including domestic help, as part of strict adherence to 'stay home, stay safe' norm. With their daily earnings gone, Srinu banked on the State government's assurance to get 12 kg of rice and Rs. 500 to every member of the family. “The ration shop dealer refused to give us rice as we don't have a ration card,” said Sreenu. There are 100 such migrant workers and their families in Khajaguda area. Repeat visits to the fair price shop did not help so far even as the 21-day lockdown is coming to an end. Srinu has the apartment complex residents coming to his aid with some monetary help but he is a worried man now with the lockdown likely to be extended and not sure of fending for himself and his family in the coming days. The situation of migrant workers eking a living through various means is no different from that of Srinu and much worse for some with no support from any quarters. A group of civil society organisations under COVID-19 Advocacy Lockdown Collective, which has been working at the field-level with affected people since the lockdown - in coordination with government officials, has represented to the government to ensure full implementation of GO 13 to migrants, GO 45 benefits to ration card holders and extension of those benefits to non-ration card holders to prevent imminent hunger. ‘Revise estimate’ They also said that the estimate of 3.26 lakh migrant workers be revised immediately. The registered Building and construction workers in Telangana are about 8.5 lakh and many of whom are from other States in addition to unregistered workers. Large number of workers in factories, shops and establishments are also pleading with civil society groups for help in getting rations. ‘Empower tahsildars’ They urged the government not to depend on owners of factories and other units to provide rations and entrust the responsibility to tahsildars to directly deliver the rations and Rs. 500 per head. The tahsildars must visit work sites and ensure sufficient food grains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rations-cash-yet-to-reach-migrant-workers/article31335625.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Calls for mental health counselling on the rise||The number of people dialling ‘108’ seeking mental health counselling is steadily rising. On April 11, when the helpline number was announced, four people dialled the number, and it increased to seven the following day. The counselling services are offered to COVID-19 patients, suspects and those under home quarantine in Telangana. The helpline is also open to people suffering from alcohol withdrawal effects as well as the medical and paramedical staff who are on COVID-19 duty. When a person calls, their basic details are sought and the call is forwarded to counsellors only if they fall into any of those categories. As of now, the counselling has not been extended to those with mental health problems. Of all callers in the past two days from various districts across the State, a majority sought help for depression. Two callers called for help with alcohol withdrawal effects. Chief Operating Officer (COO) of GVK-EMRI 108, P. Brahmananda Rao said if the services are useful, they will start a separate helpline in future with support of the State government for mental wellness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/calls-for-mental-health-counselling-on-the-rise/article31335615.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CII-TS moots COVID Innovation and IP Pool||The The Confederation of Indian Industry-Telangana (CII-TS) wants small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and other stakeholders to think creatively when naming products and processes they are developing as solutions for COVID-19 issues. This becomes important in view of a surge witnessed globally in filing trademarks for coronavirus and COVID-related marks. Many firms might be unaware that they may end up stepping into other’s Intellectual Property (IP) and brands. Thus, filing for COVID-related marks now may not yield expected outcome. Alternatively, it may also lead them into legal battle with brand owners, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cii-ts-moots-covid-innovation-and-ip-pool/article31335614.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC staff ‘lathicharged’||Hundreds of sanitation and other workers of GHMC could not draw their salaries from the bank, owing to alleged high-handedness shown by the police, inside the GHMC headquarters. The SBI branch inside the GHMC premises on Tank Bund was teeming with employees on Monday morning who arrived to withdraw their monthly pay, as is wont every month. However, the mandatory distance to be observed in view of COVID-19 spread was absent, as the turnout was huge, extending into thousands. Sensing unruly situation, the police present at the location tried to disperse the crowds and resorted to lathicharge, workers alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-staff-lathicharged/article31335629.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fruit packs on demand initiative gets good response||There is a huge response to the fruit packs supply, door delivery, initiated by the Horticulture and Marketing Departments in Hyderabad with the call centre receiving over 2,500 orders on the first day on Monday. According to officials, the call centre had received 408 phone calls and 70 WhatsApp requests for supply fruit packs worth Rs. 300 each. They were able to deliver orders to only 1,370 customers at their doorstep on Monday and the exercise would continue. The officials stated that their effort was to deliver the fruit packs within 24 hours after getting the call. As only one number in the call centre is unable to handle the calls, the government has arranged a new number to take the orders — 9114445555 — in addition to the existing number — 7330733212. On the supply of vegetable through mobile rythu bazaars, the officials stated that 201 of them had supplied vegetables in 403 localities in the City on Monday. The two measures proved helpful for both customers and farmers, Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fruit-packs-on-demand-initiative-gets-good-response/article31335640.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor, CM pay tributes to Dr. Ambedkar||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday paid tributes to Dr. B.R.Ambedkar on his birth anniversary falling on Tuesday. In a message issued here on Monday, the Governor said: “Dr Ambedkar is one of the greatest sons of India, who steered the writing of Constitution of India. He was an ardent social reformer, and an eminent jurist. Respected Babasaheb’s life is an example of victory of the human soul against repression and its clarion call for the justice to the poor and exploited. Let us all follow his path in building our nation as a mighty one”. Mr. K Chandrashekhar Rao opined that Dr. B R Ambedkar had shown an ideal path for Indian society. The CM recalled services rendered by Dr Ambedkar on the occasion of his (Dr Ambedkar’s) Birth Anniversary. The CM said the country is successfully functioning as a democratic, secular republic due to the untiring efforts of Dr. Ambedkar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-cm-pay-tributes-to-dr-ambedkar/article31335644.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Call for blood donation||Telangana BJP state president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar called upon BJP Yuva Morcha workers to come forward to donate blood for needy patients, who are facing problems due to scarcity of blood stocks in the hospitals, on Monday. Hospitals were having insufficient stock of blood after COVID-19 lockdown, which is leading to difficulties to patients and also those suffering with Thalassemia disease who need blood transformation regularly. Hence, party workers should be ready for donate blood for needy patients. The BJP president also appealed for celebrating the 129th birthday of Dr B R Ambedkar by paying tributes and distributing essentials to poor while following social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/call-for-blood-donation/article31335647.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CCMB among test validation centres||CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, has been identified by ICMR as one of the five validation centres for COVID-19 testing. CSIR-CCMB is the only non-ICMR lab to be a part of these Centres of Excellence that will validate non-US FDA and non-EUA/CE-IVD approved kits for testing. “Since March 31, CCMB has been a testing centre for COVID-19, and has been working with hospitals across Telangana. This new responsibility of kit validation will now enable us to support the healthcare and life science industry sector to bring all stakeholders together in this fight against COVID-19,” said CCMB Director Rakesh Mishra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ccmb-among-test-validation-centres/article31335620.ece
14 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jail refuses to admit accused with quarantine stamp||Chanchalguda central prison authorities on Sunday refused to admit an accused involved in several theft cases as he had COVID-19 home quarantine stamp on his hand. The accused Jatavath Mahesh (19) from Chintapalli Thanda in Nalgonda was apprehended by the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (east zone) team on Saturday. Before taking him to the magistrate, the police took him to Gandhi Hospital where mandatory COVID-19 test was performed. He developed fever and was tested negative for COVID-19. However, doctors at Gandhi Hospital put 14-day home quarantine stamp on his hand. “After the judge remanded him to judicial custody, he was taken to Chanchalguda. Upon noticing the stamp on his hand, the prison authorities refused to admit him and he was again produced before the magistrate, who granted him bail,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jail-refuses-to-admit-accused-with-quarantine-stamp/article31335632.ece
14 April 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Collector orders release of dues to civic workers||District Collector Prashant Jeevan Patil on Monday instructed Nalgonda and Miryalaguda municipal commissioners to take steps for immediate release of pending dues to sanitation workers. “Instructions have been given to Nalgonda Municipal Commissioner B. Dev Singh to see that February and March salaries to 112 regular staff in the municipality are paid within two days,” the Collector said in a statement. He was responding to the comments by Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president and Member of Parliament from Nalgonda N. Uttam Kumar Reddy that salaries of sanitation workers were not paid for two months and they were treated badly. Mr. Prashant Patil clarified that the salaries of nearly 600 workers in the municipality were paid on time and as usual. However, there was a pendency in release of salaries for 112 workers in Nalgonda and about 300 workers in Miryalaguda municipalities. “The pendency pertains to the sanitation workers who did not submit their Income Tax details for February and March,” the Collector said. After a review of funds and grants with municipal officials on Monday, he said the pending dues of 300 workers in Miryalaguda was cleared. Officials in Nalgonda were told to ensure that staff forms under the Income Tax Rules are submitted to the Treasury Department immediately, for release of salaries by Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/collector-orders-release-of-dues-to-civic-workers/article31335635.ece
14 April 2020||Warangal Urban Dist.,TELANGANA||Warangal native dies in London||A 26-year-old man from Warangal Urban district, reportedly died of cardiac arrest in London in wee hours of Sunday. According to the information reaching here, K. Satish hailing from Ramnagar village of Inavolu mandal went to London for higher studies in January. He was staying in Dallas Street in Piston City. Meanwhile, his parents appealed to the State government for help in bringing home the mortal remains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/warangal-native-dies-in-london/article31335630.ece
14 April 2020||Madrid,||Spain eases lockdown as toll falls to 517||Spain reopened parts of its COVID-19-stricken economy on Monday as slowing death tolls in some of the worst-hit countries boosted hopes that the curve may be starting to flatten and lockdown restrictions could soon be eased. Watched by a world that is keen to temper a brutal pandemic-induced recession, some Spanish factory and construction staff were set to return to work under strict safety guidelines. However China, where the virus emerged late last year, recorded its highest number of infections in weeks — most of them imported cases — as warnings echoed that lifting restrictions too early could unleash a second wave of COVID-19. French President Emmanuel Macron was set to warn the nation that its lockdown would stay in place for several more weeks at least, while outlining steps for recovery. More than half of the planet’s population is staying home as part of efforts to stem the spread of the virus, which has now killed at least 1,16,000 people and infected over 1.8 million, overwhelming healthcare systems and crippling the world economy. Cautious optimism Yet there is cautious optimism the virus may have reached its peak. Spain’s death toll fell again on Monday with 517 fatalities, the lowest daily figure of new confirmed infections since March 20. France and the U.S. also saw a drop in daily COVID-19 deaths, along with Italy, which reported its lowest fatalities in three weeks. But Spain’s Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez warned his country was “far from victory”, with the lockdown restrictions for the rest of the nation’s 47 million people remaining in place. “We are all keen to go back out on the streets... but our desire is even greater to win the war and prevent a relapse,” he said. Police in Madrid handed out face masks to commuters at a train station, where life appeared to be creeping back to normal, as workers in protective gear wiped down turnstiles. Governments in many countries continued to warn citizens to stay indoors on public holidays for Easter Monday as they grapple with a virus that has even infected national leaders. In Britain, Prime Minister Boris Johnson was resting at his official country residence Chequers a day after being discharged following “a week in which the NHS has saved my life, no question”, referring to the country’s National Health Service. The death toll in Britain has risen to 11,329, according to Health Ministry figures published on Monday — an increase of 717 on the previous day’s figures Mr. Johnson, like President U.S. Donald Trump, had initially resisted stringent measures such as shutting down public places. In France, Mr. Macron is set to address the nation just after 8:00 p.m. (1800 GMT), and sources said he would announce the lockdown in place since March 17 must be extended beyond its current April 15 expiration date until well into May. Mr. Macron will be looking to strike a careful balance between warning France -- where the death toll stands at 14,412 — that an early relaxation of the lockdown could be disastrous, while reassuring people that the government has a plan to get the country back to normality. China infections rise In China, where authorities appeared to have the virus under control last week, officials reported 108 new symptomatic cases on Monday, the highest number of confirmed infections in a single day in over a month. Imported cases accounted for most of the total, the National Health Commission said, underscoring why the government has been so focused on preventing new outbreaks stemming from international arrivals. China only recently lifted the lockdown on the city of Wuhan, where the virus first emerged in December. The World Health Organization, however, has warned countries against lifting lockdown restrictions too early.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/spain-eases-lockdown-as-toll-falls-to-517/article31335220.ece
14 April 2020||Seoul,||North Korea’s Kim Jong-un reshuffles top governing body||North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has carried out a major reshuffle of his State Affairs Commission, official media reported on Monday, replacing more than a third of its members. Mr. Kim has established an iron grip on the levers of authority in his nuclear-armed country since inheriting power in his late 20s in 2011. He is chairman of the SAC — the North’s highest decision-making body — and five of its 13 other members were replaced at a meeting of the country’s rubber-stamp Supreme People’s Assembly (SPA) Parliament on Sunday, the state KCNA news agency reported. “This is a rather large scale of SAC membership shuffle,” said former U.S. government North Korea analyst Rachel Lee. Pictures carried by the official Rodong Sinmun newspaper showed hundreds of lawmakers sitting in close proximity to each other without wearing protective masks. A Cabinet report reiterated the North’s insistence that “not a single case” of the COVID-19 pandemic that has swept the world since emerging in neighbouring China has been reported in the country. Pyongyang put thousands of its own people and hundreds of foreigners — including diplomats — into isolation and mounted disinfection drives as it sought to prevent an outbreak, which experts say could be devastating given its weak health sector and widespread malnutrition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/north-koreas-kim-jong-un-reshuffles-top-governing-body/article31335216.ece
14 April 2020||JACKSON,||Storms sweep U.S. south, killing at least 19 people||Severe weather has swept across the southern parts of the U.S., killing at least 19 people and damaging hundreds of homes from Louisiana into the Appalachian Mountains. Many people spent part of the night on Monday sheltering in basements, closets and bathroom tubs as sirens wailed to warn of possible tornadoes. Eleven people were killed in Mississippi, and six more died in northwest Georgia. Two other bodies were pulled from damaged homes in Arkansas and South Carolina. The storms blew onward through the night, causing flooding and mudslides in mountainous areas, and knocking out electricity for about 7,50,000 customers in a 10-State swath ranging from Texas to Georgia up to West Virginia, according to poweroutages.us. In Alabama, where Governor Kay Ivey suspended social distancing rules related to the pandemic because of the weather threat, people wearing protective masks huddled closely together in a storm shelter. A suspected twister lifted a house, mostly intact, and deposited it in the middle of a road in central Georgia. The National Weather Service tallied hundreds of reports of trees down, including many that punctured roofs and downed power lines. Meteorologists warned the mid-Atlantic States to prepare for potential tornadoes on Monday. In Arkansas, one person was killed when a tree fell on a home in White Hall. In South Carolina, a person was found dead in a collapsed building near Seneca.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/storms-sweep-us-south-killing-at-least-19-people/article31335214.ece
14 April 2020||Washington,||Trump lashes out at Fauci amid criticism of slow virus response||President Donald Trump publicly signalled his frustration on Sunday with Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the Federal government’s top infectious disease expert, after the doctor said more lives could have been saved from the novel coronavirus if the country had been shut down earlier. Mr. Trump reposted a Twitter message that said “Time to #FireFauci” as he rejected criticism of his slow initial response to the pandemic that has now killed more than 22,000 people in the U.S. The President privately has been irritated at times with Mr. Fauci, but the Twitter post was the most explicit he has been in letting that show publicly. The message Mr. Trump retweeted came from a former Republican Congressional candidate. “Fauci is now saying that had Trump listened to the medical experts earlier he could’ve saved more lives,” said the tweet by DeAnna Lorraine, who got less than 2% of the vote in an open primary against Speaker Nancy Pelosi last month. “Fauci was telling people on February 29th that there was nothing to worry about and it posed no threat to the U.S. at large. Time to #Fire Fauci.” In reposting the message, Mr. Trump added: “Sorry Fake News, it’s all on tape. I banned China long before people spoke up.” The tweet came amid a flurry of messages blasted out by the President on Sunday defending his handling of the outbreak, and pointing the finger instead at China, the WHO, President Barack Obama, the nation’s Governors, Congress, Democrats generally and the news media. Mr. Trump did not “ban China,” but he did block foreign nationals who had been in China in the past 14 days starting February 2. Despite the policy, 40,000 Americans and other authorised travellers entered the country from China since then.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-lashes-out-at-fauci-amid-criticism-of-slow-virus-response/article31335223.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Can Joe Biden defeat Donald Trump in November?||President Donald Trump and Joe Biden begin the general election campaign locked in a highly competitive contest that remains fought along the lines of the 2016 presidential election, according to national and battleground state polls. If anyone holds the early edge, it is Mr. Biden. He leads by an average of 6 points in national live-interview polls of registered voters. But the election will be decided by voters in the battleground States, not registered voters nationwide, and there the story is not nearly so clear or rosy for Mr. Biden. At the moment, a reasonable estimate is that Mr. Biden is performing four or five points worse among likely voters in the critical States than he is among registered voters nationwide. As a result, he holds only a narrow and tenuous edge in the race for the Electoral College, if he holds one at all. Even under ordinary circumstances, with seven months to go until the election, there would be plenty of time for the race to change. This cycle, the country also faces a pandemic and a severe economic downturn with the potential to upend the race. Downside risks Already, an initial uptick in the President’s approval rating has dissipated, perhaps because a rallying effect has given way to more focus on the administration’s coronavirus response. There will be many opportunities for the polls to shift again, and the President faces many downside risks without a return to normal life and to economic growth before the election. But at least for now, the polls suggest that American voters are divided along familiar lines, despite countless events that seemed to have the potential to redraw them. The President begins the campaign with strong support from the white working class who powered his upset win four years ago. He leads among white voters without a college degree, 61% to 32%, in an average of live-interview polls conducted since March 15, matching or perhaps even exceeding his margin over Hillary Clintonlate in the 2016 campaign. The results suggest that Mr. Biden, despite his reputed appeal to blue-collar workers, has made little to no progress in winning back the white voters without a college degree. Mr. Biden counters with a wide lead among white voters with a college degree. Overall, he leads, 55%-40%, among that group of registered voters. Mr. Trump seems to do a tick worse among white voters than he did four years ago, whether because of a slight decrease in his standing among college-educated white voters or the growing share of white voters who possess a four-year degree. Mr. Trump appears to retain his relative advantage in the disproportionately white working-class battleground States such as Wisconsin, Arizona and Florida that decided the 2016 presidential election. Mr. Biden leads in polls of registered voters in these States, but by a narrower margin than he leads nationwide. It raises the possibility that Democrats could win the most votes and lose the White House for the third time in six presidential elections.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/can-joe-biden-defeat-donald-trump-in-november/article31335226.ece
14 April 2020||COLOMBO,||Muslim organisations in Sri Lanka concerned over ‘hate mongering’||A group of Muslim organisations in Sri Lanka have sought immediate investigation and urgent action on “the continued hate-mongering against the Muslim community”, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. In a letter addressed to the acting Inspector General of Police, the organisations cited social media posts and audio recordings in circulation that, they said, violated laws on hate speech. “It is also important to investigate whether any organised group is supporting, aiding and abetting the spread of racial and religious hatred to destabilise the country at a time when the government’s fullest attention is on controlling and eliminating the deadly COVID-19 here in Sri Lanka,” said the letter dated April 12, and signed by organisations, including the Muslim Council of Sri Lanka and the Colombo District Mosques’ Federation. The letter refers to appeals made by anonymous persons in the audio clips, urging the public to refrain from making purchases from Muslim-run businesses, while accusing the community of trying to spread the coronavirus. The “racist appeals”, the organisations said, were similar to those circulated ahead of earlier instances of violence targeting the community in 2018 in the central Digana town, and soon after the Easter terror attacks last April. Muslims have already raised concern over Sri Lanka making cremation compulsory for COVID-19 victims, as it goes against their beliefs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/muslim-organisations-in-sri-lanka-concerned-over-hate-mongering/article31335208.ece
14 April 2020||Kabul,||U.S. envoy hails release of Afghan prisoners||The U.S. special envoy who negotiated a deal with the Taliban said on Monday that an initial prisoner exchange between the insurgents and the Afghan government was an “important step” toward peace. According to the International Committee of the Red Cross, the Taliban on Sunday released 20 Afghan security-force prisoners. The move came after the government last week released hundreds of insurgent captives. “The release of prisoners is an important step in the peace process and the reduction of violence,” U.S. Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad said on Twitter. “Both sides should accelerate efforts to meet targets specified in the U.S.-Taliban agreement as soon as possible,” he added, noting the exchange was more important than ever with prison populations threatened by coronavirus outbreaks. Mr. Khalilzad and the Taliban signed a deal February 29 that paves the way for U.S. and other foreign forces to quit Afghanistan in return for various commitments from the insurgents. The deal said the Afghan government would release 5,000 Taliban prisoners while the insurgents would free 1,000 Afghan security force personnel. The exchange was supposed to have happened by March 10, allowing peace talks to begin between the Taliban and the Afghan government — but the process has been beset with problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-envoy-hails-release-of-afghan-prisoners/article31335221.ece
14 April 2020||Lahore/Islamabad,||Pakistan Army aircraft crashes, two pilots killed||Two Pakistan Army Aviation pilots were killed on Monday when their trainer aircraft crashed during a routine training mission in Punjab province, the military said. The Mushshak aircraft crashed in Gujrat city, some 150 km from Lahore, the military’s media wing Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) said. Both the pilots, Major Umer — who was the instructor pilot and Lieutenant Fiazan, a student pilot — were killed in the accident, the Army said in a statement. Developed from Saab Safari, the Mushshak is a license-built fixed-gear basic trainer aircraft used by the Pakistan Army and Pakistan Air Force. Pakistan has a chequered military and civilian aviation safety record, with frequent plane and helicopter crashes over the years. On March 23, an F-16 aircraft crashed near Shakarparian in Islamabad during rehearsals for the Pakistan Day Parade. Wing Commander Nauman Akram was killed in the crash. In July 2019, 17 people lost their lives after a military aircraft crashed into a populated area in Rawalpindi. Five Army officials and 12 civilians were killed in the crash, the ISPR had said. And in 2016 a Pakistan International Airlines plane burst into flames after one of its engines failed, killing more than 40 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-army-aircraft-crashes-two-pilots-killed/article31335217.ece
14 April 2020||Ecuador,||Police remove 800 bodies in Ecuador||Ecuador said police have removed almost 800 bodies in recent weeks from homes in Guayaquil, the epicenter of the country’s COVID-19 outbreak, after the disease overwhelmed emergency services. Mortuary workers were unable to cope with a backlog, with residents sharing videos showing abandoned bodies in the streets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/police-remove-800-bodies-in-ecuador/article31335218.ece
14 April 2020||Lahore,||20 doctors test positive in Pak. province||At least 20 more doctors were tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday in Punjab, bringing the number of the medical staff infected by the deadly virus in Pakistan’s most populous province to 50. The Pakistan Medical Association has said that more than 100 doctors, nurses and para medical staff have been infected so far across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/20-doctors-test-positive-in-pak-province/article31335224.ece
14 April 2020||Kiev,||Ukraine President offers $1 mn for virus vaccine||Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has promised a $1 million reward to the country's scientists if they manage to develop a vaccine against COVID-19. The country with a population of around 42 million has confirmed 3,102 cases and 93 people have died.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ukraine-president-offers-1-mn-for-virus-vaccine/article31335209.ece
14 April 2020||Seoul,||Seoul, April 13, 2020 (AFP) -||Ji Seong-ho, the crutch-wielding North Korean lauded by Donald Trump in a State of the Union address, is seeking a seat in the South’s Parliament to defend other defectors, who have fled their reclusive homeland but often find themselves marginalised. The vote takes place on April 15.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/seoul-april-13-2020-afp/article31335212.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Staying at home on planet earth||Right now, more of humanity is likely at home than at any other time in history. From India and China to the United States, from Norway and Denmark to South Africa and Argentina, governments have told their people to stay at home, to slow the spread of the coronavirus. Billions held in place for an indefinite time: the implications of these radical measures will take time to unravel. What does home actually look like for different people? And what will come of our relationships with the wider world outside our doors? Home means many different things, as does the command to remain there. Lately I’ve been talking often with a family of textile workers in the industrial town of Tiruppur. The lockdown came so suddenly that they lost the chance to go back to their native place. Each family in their worker colony has one tiny room of their own. The children have been playing in the common courtyard. With police wielding batons on the streets, everyone is afraid to set foot outside. The factories are shuttered, wages suspended, and people are getting by as best as they can. Staying at home brings into focus the question of whom we consider our own, whom we take shelter with. A community checkpost has gone up on the edge of a village I know well in the Cumbum Valley. Panchayat workers are taking turns at the wooden gate, asking everyone to wash with soap and water, turmeric and neem, before they enter the village. The post is near the Dalit quarter on the outskirts of the village: isolated and disparaged in almost every matter, but included within this new collective boundary of cleanliness. Migrants caught in impasse Governments around the world assert home as a place of safety and shelter. This idea assumes that one has a viable home in which to stay put, that food and fresh water are accessible, that survival doesn’t require one to leave or flee. In recent weeks, many countries have seen a surge in domestic violence. And lockdowns at national and regional borders have caught millions of migrants in an existential impasse. The coronavirus may ravage densely packed refugee camps around the world, but people have nowhere else to go. The United States is turning refugees away now at its own borders, without giving them the chance to appeal for asylum. Within America, where I live with my family, many rely on online portals to the world beyond, juggling virtual meetings with lessons for kids, peering by video into the homes of others. Such distance is a privilege. Others, especially minorities and the poor, must still expose themselves: caring for the ill, harvesting food and delivering necessities, maintaining the infrastructure that lets the rest of us hunker down. The pandemic has also brought homelessness and eviction into focus, the simmering crisis of affordable housing in so many American cities. “Shelter in place” orders now govern many American localities. The language recalls the nuclear terrors of the Cold War era; people are advised to ‘shelter in place’ when the environment itself is hazardous, when simply being outside risks exposure. This idea helps explain why some in America, including the President, have blamed the pandemic on a “foreign virus.” There is racism in such language, akin to the way that Muslims have been blamed on social media for the spread of the virus in India. There is also a certain way of thinking here about the world beyond: as a space of uncertainty and threat, home as refuge from a dangerous world. Recent lockdowns come on the heels of an intense drive for security in everyday life. On a daily level, wealthy Americans and others elsewhere have already been armouring up: retreating to fortress-like homes, moving about in tank-like SUVs, walling themselves off in many ways. “Americans are in fear,” the security manager at an exclusive gated community in Florida told me a couple of years ago. The streets there were already strangely isolated and still. When the current pandemic passes, how many will remain afraid to go outside? Kinship beyond family circle In my urban neighbourhood in Baltimore, social life sputters on. Here, staying at home hasn’t meant just staying indoors. People seek out parks and open space with kids and dogs, calling out to each other from a distance. It’s springtime; with the cars and machinery idle, you can hear the songbirds more clearly, even the toads chirping from the flood control ponds that they’ve recently occupied. For the American toad, Bufo americanus , it’s mating season. Just as social restrictions have ramped up for us, they’ve begun to congregate by the water. It’s hard not to feel wistful, seeing these knots of toads clamber over each other with such abandon. Our own instincts pull us now in contrary directions, together for solace at this harrowing time, apart with concern for our most vulnerable kin. This may prove one of the most serious social challenges of our lifetimes. But it is also a chance for us to reflect on kinship and connection, beyond the span of the family circle. For it isn’t enough, we are learning, just to take care of our own, as if we were islands in the world. Epidemic diseases like COVID-19, avian influenza, and Ebola are zoonotic, crossing to humans from other animals. They are often sparked by ecological instability, by the destruction of natural habitat and the cramming of animals into wildlife markets and scarcely inhabitable factory farms. They are symptoms, in other words, of a crisis of homelessness in the animal world, magnified by global networks of trade and resource exploitation. As economic activity slows to a crawl, pollution has been clearing in the industrial centres of Asia, Europe, and North America. Gutting environmental regulations to kick-start the economy – as the United States and China have done now – will only make the world more dangerous to everyone’s health. Sense of a common fate The COVID-19 pandemic is a boot camp in ecological awareness, a reminder that the well-being of any one person is tied up with ever so many others, both family and neighbours and those we’ll never meet or know. This sense of a common fate, a truly planetary predicament, is a rare and crucial thing. It is manifest in the many mutual aid networks and progressive political measures that have taken shape to meet the needs of vulnerable populations. Such resources will matter for other serious problems like the climate crisis, which will provoke new waves of homelessness and displacement. So much will turn on our ability to dwell on the deep ties between our lives and others elsewhere, the forms of kinship that we may nurture. In April 1970, the first Earth Day was inspired by a photograph from Apollo 8, an image of the Earth as a fragile blue ball in the vastness of space. Many hoped this vision of a vulnerable world would catalyse environmental consciousness and bring a planetary healing, dissipating the rancour of social and political antagonism. As the 50th anniversary of this moment nears, in 2020, we seem to be edging even closer to ecological catastrophe. And yet the alternative remains, the chance to take the earth itself as a place of collective shelter. In a world of stark inequality, this will have to be more than the idea of a common planetary home. We need to think carefully about what home has been for particular people, and how to build and maintain more generous structures of belonging. The pandemic tells us that the right to housing, to shelter and habitat, is an urgent and essential one, for human beings and the countless other creatures we share this planet with. Securing this right will help to avert the ecological crises to come, and we may find ourselves at home in the world once again. Anand Pandian teaches anthropology at Johns Hopkins University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/staying-at-home-on-planet-earth/article31335197.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||How to cope with confinement||People across the world are under confinement in varying degrees. India has been under a national lockdown for three weeks now. This may continue for some more time as we battle with the novel coronavirus, an invisible organism threatening to claim large numbers of precious human lives. While the virus is a challenge in itself, coping with such a long period of confinement has emerged as another challenge. How does one cope with it? It is all in the mind. Any new situation with socio-economic consequences demands of us suitable adjustments or adaptation. In essence, we need to reset our mind. Adapting to confinement is not easy. It requires some resoluteness on our part, especially since human beings are social beings. We are used to racing against time, so surplus time is a challenge. But it’s not too difficult, as I have seen in the last three weeks. Adjusting to a new reality Prime Minister Narendra Modi, soon after announcing the national lockdown, said in a lighter vein that I would be among those who would find it hard to not move out of home. This is because Mr. Modi has been a witness to my hectic political life and journey over the years, including as Vice-President of India. Many of my friends too had similar concerns, as was evident in the fact that my landline and mobile phone ceaselessly rang after the lockdown came into force. They all enquired about me with some palpable concern. That is why I’m sharing my experiments with the confinement. I was also initially worried, but soon things fell into place. It didn’t require much effort and reordering of life, but a little retuning of the mind. The guiding principle is to make the most out of this new reality, seen by many as an adversity. A friend and former member of the Rajya Sabha, C. Narayana Reddy, in his Jnanpith Award-winning work Viswambhara, aptly said that everything is in the mind. “For sainthood or for animal instincts; For good deeds and evil acts; For freedom or confinement; For compassion or cruelty, the first seed lies in the Mind. This is the core of universal philosophy and the eternal truth of life,” he wrote. Mind is the set of cognitive faculties encompassing consciousness, imagination, perception, thought, judgment, language and memory. Many of these faculties come into play while we cope with the present confinement. We have to recognise a new reality, imagine the conditions of life that flow from it, and take decisions based on a rational consideration of this new scenario. We also have to count the downsides and the takeaways from the situation. I have undergone this exercise, as have most of my fellow countrymen, and this has been evident in the successful implementation of the lockdown so far. I have reasons to believe that we will collectively stay put in this new equilibrium of mind as long as it is required. We are now in a situation of life Before Corona (BC) and After Corona (AC). My daily life BC would start with a game of badminton. This would be followed by a cup of tea peppered with ginger, turmeric and cinnamon while spending over an hour browsing English, Hindi and Telugu dailies. Then I would have breakfast; keep several appointments; do official work, which included looking at files; have meetings with lunch in between; go on outstation tours, which were not too few in number; attend the Rajya Sabha during the sessions; walk in the garden in the evening; and spend some time with family in person or over the phone. After Corona My life AC continues with most of these elements except visits to different parts of the country, which I love, and the morning game of badminton at the Constitution Club, which has been substituted by yoga. Office work has been re-prioritised, with most of the officials working from home as required. The surplus time has resulted in some dividends for me as I have reset my mind. The foremost of these is that my wife and I are spending the longest time together since our marriage in 1970. This privilege was precluded by the demands of my political life all these years. This long togetherness has further strengthened our bond. Both of us are savouring the fragrance of this bonding and finding new virtues. My inquiries have revealed that this is the case with many of my friends and well-wishers. I have also been spending a good deal of this new-found time in reaching out to a large network of friends from school and my village days inquiring how they are coping with the situation and sharing my own experiences with them. As a keen learner of our parliamentary democracy, I have been able to revisit some of the illuminating debates in the Constituent Assembly and by some luminaries in our Parliament post-Independence. This has been a delight. My native district of Nellore in Andhra Pradesh is one of the worst affected by the spread of COVID-19, as some attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi. I have been regularly in touch with people from the villages and urban centres of this district closely monitoring the situation and rendering necessary advice. I have been interacting with several former veterans and colleagues in public life and those in the forefront of the current battle and sharing their feedback with the Prime Minister and others. I have also spoken to several Governors twice in the video conferences held by the President on preparedness in respective States, and flagged concerns, particularly those relating to the farm sector. I have been relishing the kirtans of the renowned Annamacharya in praise of Lord Balaji and savouring old film songs pregnant with messages of life and love. I have lent my bit to the ongoing efforts of reaching out to people about the causes and consequences of COVID-19 by publishing articles in Hindi, English and regional language dailies. I have urged them not to panic but also to not throw caution to the winds. I have urged all those concerned to draw the right lessons from the crisis both in terms of our present lifestyle and norms of international cooperation before another such challenge stares at us. Closely following what is circulating on social media about the virus, I have put out several messages based on the findings of the World Health Organization and the Indian Council of Medical Research, and official announcements, advising people not to believe fake information and superstitions and not be prejudiced. I have also been inquiring about the way millions of our students are coping with the disturbance in their academic calendar. I hope that order will soon be restored in this regard. I have regular exchanges with all those concerned in the Central and State governments on the spread of the virus and the direction of our admirable collective fight. I find that time is inadequate for me in life AC as it was BC. As long as one finds shortage of time, it is a life well-lived. When it is the case with fellow countrymen resulting in a larger sub-conscious mind guiding our thoughts and actions for larger collective good, we are on course to emerge victorious against the virus. M. Venkaiah Naidu is the Vice-President of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/how-to-cope-with-confinement/article31335201.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Re-imagining our economic choices||The COVID-19 pandemic will reshape all our economic choices. Nations have made a crucial choice in recent weeks, choosing human life over economic growth. Governments including ours have mandated lockdowns to slow the pandemic, relieve the pressure on their hospitals and save lives. On the one hand, there will be massive economic costs. Fitch Ratings have halved their 2020 growth forecast. The volatility is unprecedented. A Forbes assessment started with the pithy disclaimer “Last week’s economic forecast is out of date.” On the other hand, updates land in our phones on a minute-by-minute basis, invoking both our empathy and our fear. Our choice is obvious — human life over economic growth. To choose otherwise would be inhuman. Surely, we have always made the same choice? Hardly. For decades, we have chosen profits and growth over human lives. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that 4.2 million lives are lost annually due to air pollution. These deaths occur in dispersed locations, through varying illnesses and outside our frenzied social media feeds. Therefore, the choice is not as clear to us. It is a choice between 4.2 million lives and the marginal returns from industries choosing polluting vs. non-polluting technologies. This is not a Luddite call to replace our cars with carriages. Cleaner technologies are available, and not only for Prius owners. For instance, through our IFAD programs, low-cost technologies are being developed even for smallholder farmers. Saving lives Surely, we are finally saving all lives now? The recommendations are clear. Practice social distancing? This is hardly viable for the 2% of the global population who are homeless or the 20% who lack adequate housing. Social distancing will also take a disproportionate economic toll on the informal sector, employing up to 60% of the working population globally and 90% in India. The cure could trigger deep poverty and a food security crisis, actually endangering more lives. In this context, the first Rs. 1.7 lakh crore relief package was encouraging in its focus on ensuring food security and cash transfers for the vulnerable. Wash your hands? What about the 35% who lack access to sanitation? According to UNICEF, even prior to COVID-19, diseases directly linked to lack of safe water killed 1,400 children under five every day, globally over half a million a year. There has been a renewed focus on sanitation in recent years. More is needed, but long-term measures might expand the fiscal deficit. Economics is about choices, a study of ‘human behaviour as a relationship between ends and scarce means’. Trade-offs are central to these choices. On the one hand: 4.2 million, 0.5 million, 1,15,000 (and counting) lives. On the other: lower GDP rates, more expensive technologies, higher fiscal deficits. Such comparisons might not pass our usual aesthetic standards. But this pandemic will test our imagination. Binaries between left and right are collapsing. A Republican Treasury Secretary in the United States is suggesting cash transfers for all workers. The Confederation of Indian Industry is advising pay cuts for senior management while ensuring workers do not lose jobs. Liberal democracies are competing to curtail individual rights and movement. Citizens are supporting (even demanding) these restrictions. We have embraced a suspension of laws, a near-global ‘state of exception’. Changing the metrics These states of exception might be the new normal as black swans, highly improbable events with extreme impact, now spread rapidly. The pace and volumes with which we can move across territories and transport the virus have deepened our fragility. Perhaps it is time to shift from indices of economic growth and speed (such as rates of GDP growth) to those that build on lives and living conditions. Many organisations, including the one I work for, have already shifted their focus from mere incomes to resilience. Relevant indices already exist. The Human Development Index measures life expectancies as a proxy for long and healthy lives, education and national incomes per capita. The Multi-Dimensional Poverty Index builds on capabilities, captured through health, education and living standards. The difference between standard economic targets and these welfare-based indices is their clear focus on lives over profits. In Netflix’s new dystopian offering, The Platform , inmates are randomly assigned a level in a giant vertical tower. Food passes through a central chute from top to bottom. If the prisoners at every level took their reasonable share, there would be enough for everyone. That never happens, and those at the lower levels are forced to adopt brutal strategies to stay alive. This is a harsh representation of our economies. Maybe too harsh. But the undeniable fact is that we do not live in separate worlds. We inhabit a building with overlapping loops, where our rooms vary in size and comfort but are all linked. We face a common enemy, and there may be more in the future. One life undermined is a threat to everyone. What is the price we are now willing to pay for others’ lives? Kaushik Barua is the Cambodia Country Director at the UN International Fund for Agricultural Development. Views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/re-imagining-our-economic-choices/article31335191.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Accessing justice online||With Indian courts too under a lockdown for three weeks (and probably more), citizens have severely restricted access to justice for this period. However, the deeper malaise is the complete inability of the conventional court system to deliver timely justice. This shakes the very foundation of the polity on which we rest our constitutional promises. Collectively, the conventional court system appears to have heaved a frustrated sigh and dropped the challenge instead of picking up the gauntlet. Technology, however, now provides us an opportunity to meet the challenge headlong. The Kerala High Court did exactly that on March 30, 2020. It created history by not only conducting proceedings through video conferencing but also live streaming the proceedings. The judges conducted the hearing from their homes. Nearly 30 urgent matters were taken up for hearing, including bail applications and writ petitions, and were disposed of. The advocates concerned and law officers also participated in the proceedings from their respective offices. This is truly epochal. This example must be institutionalised and eternalised. A blueprint for e-courts To achieve this, the government must establish an effective task force consisting of judges, technologists, court administrators, skill developers and system analysts to draw up a blueprint for institutionalising online access to justice. Such a task force must be charged with the responsibility of establishing hardware, software and IT systems for courts; examining application of artificial intelligence benefiting from the data base generated through e-courts projects; establishing appropriate e-filing systems and procedures; and creating skill training and recognition for paralegals to understand and to help advocates and others to access the system to file their cases and add to their pleadings and documents as the case moves along. Once the blueprint is ready, the High Courts across the country may refer the same to the Rule Committee of the High Court to frame appropriate rules to operationalise the e-court system. The facility must not only enable access to courts but must provide access to justice through other processes as well. Let us take an example. The government, both at the Centre and the States, has innumerable poverty alleviation and distress eradication schemes. If all these schemes were properly implemented, there would be very little poverty or distress in India. So, why does this not happen? There is scant awareness amongst the beneficiaries about these programmes. What is the scheme about? How does one apply? Where does one procure the application forms? What is the next step? Within what time is the authority expected to respond? What is one to do if he or she does not? The answers to these questions remain a mystery to the beneficiaries. They invariably come up against a wall which they are unable to surmount. Now, if all this information is provided comprehensively at the grassroots levels and made available online in as many Indian languages as possible, it could be a huge step in creating awareness. Once this happens, it follows that more and more applications will be generated. Role of Legal Services Authorities So, what does all this have to do with accessing justice? While these schemes look rosy on paper, without implementation and accountability there is no justice to the aggrieved citizens. It is in addressing this problem that the Legal Services Authorities Act of 1987 and the officers functioning under them all over the country can play a huge role. If there is difficulty in accessing these schemes, a system must be set in place for the applicant to lodge online complaints with the Legal Services Authorities who can then ensure accountability and effective implementation. The local panchayat, municipal or corporation office, or any well-intentioned NGO can assist the complainant to make these online complaints to the Legal Services Authority if the complainant is unable to do so directly. The officers under the Legal Services Authorities Act may then be authorised to hear the complaints online and to direct delivery of redress to the aggrieved complainant in accordance with the law in a time-bound manner. This is just one of the myriad ways in which access to justice can be enhanced exponentially while simultaneously reducing the burden on conventional courts. The other facilities that would help access to justice are online mediation, arbitration, counselling in family court matters, quick settlement of disputed insurance claims, and many more. India is a land where skilled human resource is rarely lacking. If we can pick up the will power to do all of the above, justice will become an accessible concept to everyone. N.L. Rajah is Senior Advocate, Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/accessing-justice-online/article31335205.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Ambedkar and the Poona Pact||In late September 1932, B.R. Ambedkar negotiated the Poona Pact with Mahatma Gandhi. The background to the Poona Pact was the Communal Award of August 1932, which, among other things, reserved 71 seats in the central legislature for the depressed classes. Gandhi, who was opposed to the Communal Award, saw it as a British attempt to split Hindus, and began a fast unto death to have it repealed. Fair representation In a settlement negotiated with Gandhi, Ambedkar agreed for depressed class candidates to be elected by a joint electorate. However, on his insistence, slightly over twice as many seats (147) were reserved for the depressed classes in the legislature than what had been allotted under the Communal Award. In addition, the Poona Pact assured a fair representation of the depressed classes in the public services while earmarking a portion of the educational grant for their uplift. The Poona Pact was an emphatic acceptance by upper-class Hindus that the depressed classes constituted the most discriminated sections of Hindu society. It was also conceded that something concrete had to be done to give them a political voice as well as a leg-up to lift them from a backwardness they could not otherwise overcome. The concessions agreed to in the Poona Pact were precursors to the world’s largest affirmative programme launched much later in independent India. A slew of measures were initiated later to uplift Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Despite what Ambedkar had achieved for the depressed classes through the Poona Pact, there were carpers. Perry Anderson and Arundhati Roy argued that Gandhi through his fast coerced Ambedkar into the Poona Pact. Ambedkar, however, was hardly the person to bend to someone else’s will. As he observed in a talk years later, he was clear he would not “tolerate anyone on whose will and consent settlement depends, to stand on dignity and play the Grand Moghul.” It is also highly unlikely that an erudite and sharp person like Ambedkar would not have weighed the consequences of not signing the Poona Pact. It would also not have been lost on him that Muhammad Ali Jinnah, with the Muslims of India strongly backing him, was watching and waiting to take advantage of the evolving situation. Positive outcomes The Poona Pact had several positive outcomes for Ambedkar. It emphatically sealed his leadership of the depressed classes across India. He made the entire country, and not just the Congress Party, morally responsible for the uplift of the depressed classes. Most of all he succeeded in making the depressed classes a formidable political force for the first time in history. As a practical man Ambedkar was not looking for the perfect solution. As he remarked in a 1943 address to mark the 101st birthday celebrations of Mahadev Govind Ranade, all he wanted was “a settlement of some sort”; that he was not “prepared to wait for an ideal settlement”. It is very much in this spirit that he affixed his signature to the Poona Pact saving Gandhi’s life as well as that of the Congress Party’s while giving a big voice to the depressed classes. On the 129th year of his birth on April 14 this year, we would do well to remember Ambedkar as much for the Poona Pact as we do for the Constitution he helped conjure. Without the former, the latter would never have been. Uday Balakrishnan teaches at the Indian Institute of Science Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ambedkar-and-the-poona-pact/article31335203.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Sacking by subterfuge||The legality of the removal of the Andhra Pradesh State Election Commissioner (SEC) is seriously in doubt. That it was the culmination of an open conflict between the Election Commissioner, N. Ramesh Kumar, and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy makes it a glaring instance of misuse of power. The State government got the Governor to issue an ordinance to cut the SEC’s tenure from five to three years, and amend the criterion for holding that office from being an officer of the rank of Principal Secretary and above to one who had served as a High Court judge. This automatically rendered Mr. Kumar’s continuance invalid. Last month, just days before the local body polls were to be held, the SEC postponed the elections, citing the COVID-19 outbreak. The State government approached the Supreme Court, but the court declined to interfere. Having exhausted its legal remedy, the government should have waited for the ongoing fight against the disease to be over. Mr. Reddy’s allegation that the SEC, an appointee of his predecessor N. Chandrababu Naidu, postponed the polls to prevent a sweep by the YSR Congress may or may not be true. However, the Chief Minister has no legal right to terminate the SEC’s tenure, as the Constitution makes the holder of that post removable only in the same manner as a High Court judge. If courts uphold this means of dislodging the head of an independent election body, it would mark the end of free and fair elections. The State government seems to have gone by legal opinion that cited Aparmita Prasad Singh vs. State of U.P. (2007) in which the Allahabad High Court ruled that cessation of tenure does not amount to removal, and upheld the State Election Commissioner’s term being cut short. The Supreme Court, while dismissing an appeal against the order, kept open the legal questions arising from the case. The judgment seems erroneous, as it gives a carte blanche to the State government to remove an inconvenient election authority by merely changing the tenure or retirement age. This was surely not what was envisioned by Parliament, which wrote into the Constitution provisions to safeguard the independence of the State Election Commission. It is a well-settled principle in law that what cannot be done directly cannot be done indirectly. Therefore, the removal of an incumbent SEC through the subterfuge of changing the eligibility norms for appointment may not survive judicial scrutiny. Further, the Constitution, under Article 243K, prohibits the variation of any condition of service to the detriment of any incumbent. Even if the State government argues that a change of tenure does not amount to varying the conditions of service, the new norm can only apply to the successor SEC, and not the one holding the office now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/sacking-by-subterfuge/article31335192.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Google, pay||Last week’s ruling by France’s competition regulator that Google must pay news publishers and agencies for re-use of their content marks a significant turn in what has been a see-saw battle between European regulators and publishers on the one hand and the tech giant on the other. How this ends and what this leads to could set the template for not just the news industry in France and Europe but also the rest of the world. For the time being, the ruling gives the beleaguered news industry in France a rare edge in its dealings with the tech giant. Over the last two decades, even as publishers across the world struggled to make a commercially meaningful transition to the digital world, Google became the primary gateway for readers. While this worked well for the readers and for Google, which as a result could build a mammoth advertising business, it never worked well enough for news publishers, notwithstanding the increase in traffic they experienced. Many publishers are, hence, now in a position where they can neither let go of their dependence on the tech giant nor make monetary sense from this arrangement. Also, individually, they are too small to challenge Google’s might. It is by recognising the skewed nature of this copyright marketplace that the European legislators amended rules in April last year — something which France then gave force to in July. The genesis of the order by the French competition regulator was a complaint filed against Google by unions representing publishers. They charged Google with abusing its dominant position in response to the law, which seeks to create fairer grounds of negotiation. This it does by allowing for the possibility of publishers to be paid for article extracts picked up by aggregators. The complaint was that Google, on the grounds of complying with the new law, decided it would not display the extracts and other elements unless publishers authorise free usage. The regulator said it found that Google’s practices “were likely to constitute an abuse of a dominant position, and caused serious and immediate harm to the press sector.” It could be argued that the French case will do little to shake up the existing framework. Previous legislative attempts by other European Union constituents, such as Germany and Spain, to allow for such extracts to be monetised by publishers have proved counterproductive. For instance, Google ended up shutting down its news service in Spain. But the French attempt promises to end differently. That is because, built in in the regulator’s order is a requirement that negotiations “effectively result in a proposal for remuneration from Google.” Where will this go from here? Publishers across the world will be watching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/google-pay/article31335198.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Malpractices in Elections (From an Editorial)||Some 150 million Indians going to the polls to pick their representatives in the Federal and State legislatures is a majestic and unparalleled exercise of democracy which rightly evokes the admiration and respect of the rest of the world. But how far this exercise is carried out according to the prescribed rules is increasingly turning out to be quite a different story. The Representation of the People Act has laid down a strict code of electoral conduct to ensure that no extraneous influence is brought to bear on the voter in the free exercise of his franchise. Some of these rules, however, are so much more Utopian than realistic they have come to be more honoured in the breach. For instance, the rule about how much a candidate can spend on electioneering — Rs. 9.000 for a State legislature constituency (in Tamil Nadu) and Rs. 25.000 for a Parliamentary constituency — is so unrealistic considering the size of constituencies and the shortness of the distance that a rupee goes these days, it is an open invitation to candidates to circumvent it by getting money spent through other channels. There are many such rules which are similarly broken in practically every election that takes place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/malpractices-in-elections-from-an-editorial/article31335207.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Retail inflation eases to 5.91%||Retail inflation dropped to 5.91% in March from the 6.58% in February, mostly on a drop in food prices, according to the Consumer Price Index data released by the National Statistical Office on Monday. Food inflation fell to 8.76% in March, in comparison with the 10.81% in February. Vegetable price inflation saw the sharpest fall, dropping from 32% to 19% over the course of a month. Spices and prepared food, snacks and sweets were the only food categories that saw a slight increase in prices. Retail inflation has been easing off since hitting an almost six-year high of 7.59% in January, and analysts expect the trend to continue over the next few months. “With low crude oil prices and sharp slowdown in the economy, CPI inflation is expected to fall further,” said Rajani Sinha, chief economist and head, research, at Knight Frank India. “Weak demand side pressure on inflation would outweigh any supply side bottlenecks in the near-term,” she added. The COVID-19 crisis has also affected field data collection used to calculate inflation, although the NSO said the overall impact of missing price data on CPI estimates was within acceptable limits. “Keeping in view the preventive measures taken by NSO and announcement of a nationwide lockdown..., field work for price collection of CPI was suspended... from 19th March, 2020 and about 66% of price quotations were received,” said an official statement. For assessing the price behavior of remaining price quotations, NSO follows well established and internationally accepted methodology and practices.” Price data is usually collected from selected 1,114 urban markets and selected 1,181 villages by the Field Operations Division of NSO in a uniform weekly roster.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/retail-inflation-eases-to-591/article31335183.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||A March of doom for the auto industry||Total wholesale dispatches of vehicles slumped 45% to just over 10.5 lakh units in March 2020 as manufacturers halted production and sale in the last week amid the lockdown due to the outbreak of COVID-19. The automobile industry had dispatched over 19.08 lakh units to dealers in March 2019, as per data released by the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM). Production of vehicles across segments also fell by 33.6% to about 14.47 lakh units, compared with over 21.8 lakh units in March 2019. “The month of March 2020 was one of the most challenging months for the auto sector as the 21-day lockdown [brought] the production and sales of vehicles to a standstill in the last week. As revenues took a severe hit, OEMs struggled to meet fixed cost and working capital requirements,” Rajan Wadhera, president, SIAM, said. Stating that before the lockdown the industry had already been reeling under severe degrowth and pressure of a disrupted supply chain, he said the auto industry was losing an estimated Rs. 2,300 crore in production turnover for each day of closure. Wholesales of passenger vehicles stood at over 1.43 lakh units last month, down 51% from over 2.91 lakh units, while production fell 38.14% to 2.07 lakh units from 3.34 lakh. While domestic sales of cars fell 52.12% to 85,229 units, those of utility vehicles and vans declined 44.67% to 51,569 units, and 69.88% to 6,216 units, respectively. For commercial vehicles, domestic sales nosedived 88.05% to 13,027 units from over 1.09 lakh units, while production was down 82.88% to 18,057 units from over 1.05 lakh units in March 2019. The sale of two-wheelers fell close to 40% to 8.66 lakh units versus 14.40 lakh units in the year-ago month. Production was down by 28.21% to 11.61 lakh units, down from 16.18 lakh units. While scooter sales fell 32% to 2.63 lakh units, sales of motorcycles was down 41.89% to 5.7 lakh units during the month under review. “The auto industry is engaged in a dialogue with the government. There would be challenges on the supply side; demand side and also on the issue of availability of finance which would all need to be addressed to bring back growth in the sector,” Mr Wadhera added. For the full year 2019-20, total domestic vehicle sales stood at over 2.15 crore units, down 18% from more than 2.62 crore units dispatched in March 2019. Passenger vehicle sales last year fell 17.82% to over 27.75 lakh units, while those of commercial vehicles was down 28.75% to 7.17 lakh units. Two-wheeler sales were lower by 17.7% to 1.7 crore units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/a-march-of-doom-for-the-auto-industry/article31335180.ece
14 April 2020||MUMBAI,||COVID-19 travel curbs hit forex players||The sealing of international borders, the resultant travel restrictions imposed by most countries and the fear of catching the COVID-19 infection have severely impacted the foreign exchange industry, which is deeply integrated and works like an ancillary to foreign travel. Sudarshan Motwani, founder & CEO, BookMyForex.com said, “The April to July summer holiday season is when a large number of people travel abroad, especially to Europe and U.S., to avoid the hot weather in India. This season could witness a near-complete washout.” “It is hard to see business as usual or imagine people going out and enjoying themselves on a beach or in restaurants abroad,” he said. Mr. Motwani said that forex players might be able to see some travel starting June or July this year, but that would be mostly of those returning home, very essential business trips or to visit relatives in emergency situations. “There are no signs of people travelling abroad for the next six months for leisure trips or events or conferences even if the lockdown is over, due to the fear-filled environment,” he said. Economic conditions will leave lesser disposable income in the hands of the people and that will impact foreign travel. Currently, foreign exchange players are relying mainly on the money transfer business and card re-loads for people who are either abroad or have their close relatives living overseas, for daily expenses. These businesses have also seen some downturns. There are over 2,000 full-fledged money changers (FFMCs) registered with RBI in India. However just about 2% of these registered players are mid-sized to large organisations including a few fintech online players. While the large players in this sector would be struggling to stay afloat due to high expenses on account of rentals and employee costs, the very small stores have their own share of struggle.  Chaitanya Dhingra, Director of Mark Forex Hub India Pvt. Ltd. who runs two stores in Delhi/NCR said, “We are seeing a near-zero-business situation. People started selling their unspent or surplus forex due to a considerable increase in the rates of currencies such as the U.S dollar and Euro when the crisis started.” “Many money changers purchased currencies from customers but there’s not enough market to sell these as there is no demand right now due to travel restrictions. All this has led to a large holding of stocks or sell-off, sometimes even booking small losses,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/covid-19-travel-curbs-hit-forex-players/article31335173.ece
14 April 2020||Mumbai,||All policy tools at disposal to fight virus impact: RBI||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will not hesitate to use any conventional or unconventional policy instruments to mitigate the adverse economic impact caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, Governor Shaktikanta Das said, according to the the minutes of the monetary policy committee (MPC) meeting released by the central bank on Monday. The six-member MPC, at a non-scheduled meeting held in the last week of March, had decided to reduce the policy interest rate by 75 basis points (bps) to 4.4%, as the nationwide lockdown brought economic activity into a grinding halt. In no uncertain terms, Mr. Das outlined the central bank’s resolve to fight the economic fallout caused by the pandemic. “The Reserve Bank will continue to remain vigilant and will not hesitate to use any instrument — conventional and unconventional — to mitigate the impact of COVID-19, revive growth and preserve financial stability,” Mr. Das said. Commenting that there was a rising probability of a global recession, which may be deeper than the one experienced during the global financial crisis, Mr. Das said the near-term growth outlook for India had also deteriorated sharply due to the 21-day nationwide lockdown. The RBI had refrained from making any growth forecast during the policy review meeting. He said prior to the outbreak, some high frequency indicators such as manufacturing, railways freight traffic, exports and imports in January/February had improved after several months of contraction/deceleration. “With COVID-19, however, industry and service sector activities are likely to be severely impacted and the extent of the adverse impact would depend upon the intensity, spread and duration of COVID-19,” he said, while adding the only silver lining is likely to be agriculture, which is expected to remain resilient, with foodgrain production for 2019-20 estimated at a record 292 million tonnes. While the setback to economic activity could be cushioned to an extent, by the collapse in crude oil prices, there could be certain downsides in the form of decline in remittances from oil-producing countries. Indicating there was further scope for policy action to boost economic activity, the central bank said the inflation outlook had changed drastically due to the sharp fall in oil prices and food prices may also soften further on the back of record foodgrain and horticulture production. “In the extreme scenario in which we are, however, the easing off of inflation may occur sooner and faster,” RBI Deputy Governor in-charge of Monetary Policy M.D. Patra said, adding the inflation outlook offered the scope for taking a “calculated risk on current levels of inflation — which rule above the target — and focus on the 12 months-ahead forecast.” “By this rule, there is space for policy action that is large in size relative to its past but still keeps the policy rate positive in real terms over a one-year-ahead horizon so as to see off any lingering or latent inflationary pressures,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/all-policy-tools-at-disposal-to-fight-virus-impact-rbi/article31335178.ece
14 April 2020||Bengaluru,||‘About $250 billion lost so far, post economic shutdown’||Most businesses in non-essential products and services will have to resort to scaling down of operations in the range of 25-75% in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown. Automobile, high-end consumer goods, consumer durables, fancy FMCG items, expensive clothing, gems and jewellery, leisure holidays, restaurants and star hospitality will be some of the sectors that will witness deep down compression, while essential services such as food companies, pharmaceuticals and healthcare providers will continue to do business as usual, industry experts and trade body representatives said. The compression will lead to the loss of millions of jobs across segments in the country by the end of May, although data as of now is ‘the most fragile factor’. Businesses will embark on stringent austerity measures as reducing people and minimising the use of real estate will be critical in this regard. Pradeep Bhargava, president, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) said the COVID-19-driven uncertainty had resulted in erosion of income at all levels. All non-essential, luxury, high-end, lifestyle products and devices will be impacted at least for a year. These include luxury cars, super bikes, lifestyle accessories, leisure holidays, premium clothing and high-end mobile phones. Vinnie Mehta, director general at Automotive Component Manufacturers’ Association of India (ACMA) termed the current situation ‘confusingly fluid.’ “We had asked all our member companies not to lay off any employee and also to pay their salaries. We are happy to see 100% compliance to our advisory in March and we expect that to continue until April 15. But post that we are not sure of the future. The SMEs are in dire straits, the industry has no working capital to operate further.” Automobile industry is the largest employer in the country and currently provides 38 million jobs. It accounts for 49% of the country’s manufacturing GDP of which auto component industry has a share of 25%. “India, as a country, has lost straight $250 billion after a month-long economic shutdown. We are staring at a flat or negative economy. Demand compression has led to serious cash flow issues. Our SME sector employs 107 million people. Unless the govt. provides a cash flow relief, pretty soon, things are going to be ugly. The U.S. has a $350 billion fund for SMEs, a grant to support salaries and save jobs,” V. Balakrishanan, former CFO, Infosys, said. Mr. Bhargava was of the opinion that India has to put at least 4% of GDP towards COVID-19 relief, and not just a mere 1.7%, as that could bring an additional 3 lakh cash into the system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/about-250-billion-lost-so-far-post-economic-shutdown/article31335175.ece
14 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Indices in red as virus spooks markets||A negative trend in Asian markets coupled with concerns related to lockdown being extended in India pulled the benchmark indices down on Monday. The 30-share Sensex lost 469.60 points, or 1.51%, to close at 30,690.02. The Nifty ended the day at 8,993.85, down 118.05 points, or 1.30%. Incidentally, the India VIX index, after cooling off in the last few sessions, again surged, this time by more than 3% on Monday. Elsewhere in Asia, Nikkei lost over 2% while Kospi was down by 1.88%. The benchmarks of China, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore also ended in the red after countries such as U.S., the U.K., Russia and Spain, among others, reported a significant rise in new COVID-19 cases. “Indian equity markets plunged today, tracking weak global markets, rising number of cases in India and the fears of lockdown getting extended in the country till the end of the month,” said Siddhartha Khemka, head, retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services. “The market will continue to remain volatile with swings on either side,” he added. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net sellers at Rs. 1,244 crore on Monday while their domestic counterparts also sold shares worth almost Rs. 1,100 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indices-in-red-as-virus-spooks-markets/article31335176.ece
14 April 2020||Chennai,||Provide handholding to MSMEs, AIMO tells govt.||In the last one month, COVID-19 has literally wiped out the present and future plans of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and they have to be provided handholding to emerge successful, said the All India Manufacturers’ Organisation (AIMO). MSMEs face two operational issues viz. working capital and cash flow. Releasing payments To tackle them, the government should release all the payments due to them immediately. These include Goods and Services Tax refunds and tax-deducted-at-source refunds. The units must be allowed to defer payments such as GST, EMIs, interest etc. by six months, said K.E. Raghunathan, past national president, AIMO. “COVID-19 has not only killed their (MSMEs) plans but also made them dependent on government for orders, subsidy, incentives and refunds. Right now, MSMEs are struggling to figure out how to restart business once normalcy returns,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/provide-handholding-to-msmes-aimo-tells-govt/article31335186.ece
14 April 2020||MUMBAI,||FRAI urges PM to allow petty shops to open||Federation of Retailers’ Association of India (FRAI), a representative body of about four crore micro, small and medium retailers selling soft drinks, mineral water, biscuits, cigarettes, pan and bidis across India, has appealed to the Prime Minister to allow their members to open their shops. Ram Asre Mishra, president, FRAI, said “We appeal to the Prime Minister to empathise with the hardships faced by our poor and helpless individual members and allow them to open their shops immediately.” “We also appeal to the PM to immediately announce an economic package to compensate for the losses of petty retailers in daily income,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/frai-urges-pm-to-allow-petty-shops-to-open/article31335181.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Gold futures surge on local demand||Gold prices on Monday rose Rs. 771 to Rs. 46,065 per 10 gm in futures trade as speculators indulged in creating fresh positions on firm spot demand. On the Multi Commodity Exchange, gold contracts for June traded higher by Rs. 771, or 1.7%, to Rs. 46,065 per 10 gm on a business turnover of 17,577 lots. The yellow metal for August delivery edged up by Rs. 737, or 1.62%, to Rs. 46,223 on a business turnover of 1,986 lots. Fresh positions built up by participants on spot demand mainly led to rise in gold prices, analysts said. Globally, gold prices fell 0.61% to $1,742.10 an ounce in New York.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gold-futures-surge-on-local-demand/article31335184.ece
14 April 2020||Kozhikode,||‘Beast’ ready to strike again||Viswanathan Anand once called him the ‘beast’. B. Adhiban played like one at the simultaneous chess display on Saturday night to generate funds for India’s fight against the coronavirus. He won all his 18 games in the event conceived by Anand and organised by chess.com . The only player to finish with a cent per cent record, Adhiban completed his games sooner than the others (Anand, Koneru Humpy, Vidit Gujrathi, P. Harikrishna and D. Harika). It may have only been an exhibition event, and his rivals may not have been Grandmasters, but his performance has made him happy. Not in good form Adhiban hasn’t been having a great time since becoming only the fifth Indian to cross the magical 2700-mark in FIDE rating in 2019. Last April, he had reached a career-high world-ranking of 38, with 2701 Elo points. A year on, his rating is down to 2659. He is still India No. 4 and is ranked 82nd in the world. “It felt nice to do so well in the online simultaneous event. I thoroughly enjoyed it,” Adhiban told The Hindu . “When Anand told me about this, I agreed to be a part of it straightaway. I thought it was great that India’s strongest players were coming together for a noble cause.” The 27-year-old from Chennai lived up to his reputation as an attacking and entertaining player, as he gambled in his openings, with King’s, Morra and Danish gambits. “It was Vidit who suggested that I try those openings,” revealed Adhiban. “I am happy that I listened to him. I have great respect for him and admire his consistency.” Adhiban said that [consistency] was something he wanted in his game. He added he could not retain his 2700 rating because of some poor tournaments during the last one year. “Two of those were in China; you see, the coronavirus caught hold of me before anybody else!” he joked. The ‘beast’ was confident of regaining his Elo points. “I know where I went wrong. I was concentrating too much on the rating,” he said. “I was also making avoidable mistakes against lower-rated opponents.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/beast-ready-to-strike-again/article31335344.ece
14 April 2020||KOLKATA,||We need to motivate the boxers: Kuttappa||Apart from being a trainer and a motivator, men’s head coach C.A. Kuttappa has become a self-styled detective to track the training of elite boxers during the lockdown. This follows the Boxing Federation of India (BFI) facilitating a system through which coaches have been training boxers through video conferencing and other means. Even as he is enjoying a long break with his family at Mysuru, Kuttappa is closely monitoring the boxers’ progress. “Five (male) boxers have qualified for the Olympics and we have 10 others who have the potential to qualify. Three coaches have been assigned to monitor a group of five boxers. The boxers are given training programmes, videos and guidance to carry on with their training at home. High performance director Santiago (Nieva) and  I oversee everything,” Kuttappa told The Hindu .  “Since there is so much of uncertainty, we need to motivate the boxers as well. I also call up their parents and family members to cross-check whether they are training sincerely and not bluffing.  “The target is to keep them at their peak fitness level so that when the camp resumes they rejoin with 50 to 60 per cent of their game and not start from zero.” Kuttappa, however, said the Olympic qualified boxers were not short of motivation. “The confidence of guys like Amit Panghal, Manish Kaushik and Vikas Krishan is high and they are eager to perform. One has to make them understand that it’s a long wait for everybody and there is a need to sustain the motivation. “Since some of the Olympic qualifying events have finished, we send our boxers their own videos and that of their prospective opponents. This helps them watch, compare and analyse how to tackle their rivals. We have to prepare for the Olympics from now,” said Kuttappa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-need-to-motivate-the-boxers-kuttappa/article31335341.ece
14 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Appoorwa’s reign may get extended||S. Appoorwa, the two-time world carrom champion, might well join ace shuttler P.V. Sindhu in getting an extension of her reign! The 38-year-old won the 2016 World carrom championship in Birmingham and is now preparing for the next edition in Malaysia this September. But the World championship too might well be cancelled due to the pandemic, according to a senior official of the All India Carrom Federation. “I am not sure what is going to happen about the Worlds. But, I was preparing sincerely before the lockdown forced me to stay indoors. Everything looks grim around the world and sports, obviously, cannot be a priority,” said Appoorwa in a chat with The Hindu on Monday. “Fortunately, unlike other athletes, we carrom players are least affected in terms of training as all that we require is a carrom board and not even a partner too,” she said. “I have been doing daily single practice for one hour and my husband (Kishore) tries his skills on the board occasionally,” says the 2018 World Cup champion. “The biggest problem sometimes can be boredom which can be tiring mentally. So, we have to find ways to avoid that and stay fit,” said Appoorwa who works as a LIC Administrative Officer. What is her advice to young players? “I believe this is the best phase when they can learn a lot by watching videos as now most of the National and international events are available online,” she said. A long wait Appoorwa added that winning the senior National women’s title this February was one of the best moments of her playing career as she had to wait for more than two decades to realise her dream. Modest as ever, she said that she loves to pick a few new things watching younger players show their skills on the carrom board. And, Appoorwa is in no mood to call it quits. “Fortunately, age is no bar in my sport and I will continue playing as long as I enjoy,” said the champion performer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/appoorwas-reign-may-get-extended/article31335600.ece
14 April 2020||BENGALURU,||Private sports academies reeling under financial burden||The lockdown imposed due to the coronavirus pandemic has had a devastating effect on many private sports academies in the city. The Karnataka Institute of Cricket (KIOC), which counts Manish Pandey, K. Gowtham and many other big names on its rolls, is bleeding. “We’re facing humongous financial losses,” says Irfan Sait, director, KIOC. “We have around 2,000 wards on our rolls. We were also supposed to host 50 junior cricketers from Australia and England for a camp. That has been called off.” Plea to government “While the income has dropped to zero, our expenses remain. We have to pay rent for our campus and salaries for our 180-odd staff. We also have to run our hostel. We simply don’t have the resources to sustain beyond 2-3 months. The thought of cutting staff is dreadful, they are like family. I’m hopeful that the government will relax some lockdown rules, whereby we can at least conduct one-on-one sessions.” It has been a bitter pill to swallow for India’s Davis Cup coach Zeeshan Ali too. The Zeeshan Ali Tennis Academy on Sarjapur road has a residential programme and also rents out courts for pay-and-play activities. All that has come to a standstill. “The loss is going to be 100% as there is not a single court that is operational,” Zeeshan says. “Whenever catastrophe strikes, be it a recession or a financial trouble in the family, it’s the extra-curricular activities that get affected first. Schools can run online but that’s not an option for sport. And sports coaching is viable mostly for notable names. It is difficult for the small-time coaches, the markers and others. I hope the government comes forward. It will now be a good time to help the sports industry.” Worried man Former International badminton player Arvind Bhat, who runs the White Peacock Badminton Academy, is a worried man too. “We incur a monthly expense of around Rs. 15 lakh, including rent, staff salary and so on, but our revenue has dropped to zero,” he says. “We are in talks with our land owner and hoping to defer payment of rent by a few months. We have already cut salaries of our employees by 20 to 40%. Only if we eliminate the virus threat completely can the academy run at full strength again.” Vivek Kumar, founder & director, Padukone-Dravid Centre for Sports Excellence, an umbrella organisation which houses a number of reputed academies, says he understands the quandary the individual academies are in. His sprawling campus on the outskirts of the city is home to the Prakash Padukone Badminton Academy and Dronacharya Awardee Nihar Ameen’s Dolphin Aquatics. Understanding needed “We need to come to an understanding with them,” says Vivek. “Most of them are long-term contracts and it’s a question of understanding each other’s pain. Even after the situation eases, I don’t see too many children coming and playing. “Every parent is going to be cautious. The paradox is that they would also want their children to go out considering they have been locked in for so long. Much will depend on the social distancing norms the governments impose. We need to see how this plays out.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/private-sports-academies-reeling-under-financial-burden/article31335350.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indian students’ mixed bag abroad||A tennis scholarship to the United States is almost always a ticket to an exciting career. In the global crisis triggered by COVID-19, a few Indian players were lucky to beat the lockdown and return home. However, some like former National junior champion Sacchitt Sharma had to remain in the US. “I badly injured my ankle two months ago and had to stay back. The situation is getting worse here, but it is better near my University,” said Sacchitt, who studies in the University of San Diego, California. “I step out of my apartment to get groceries every week so that I am able to cook. “My ankle is better now and I have started running. If you are playing for a top University, the competition is very tough,” said Sacchitt. Y. Sahaja, the Southland Conference Player-of-the-Year in 2019 and a third-year student at the Sam Houston State University, returned home on March 19. “We anticipated the situation in the US and made a quick plan for her travel. She reached safely and is working on her fitness routine at home,” said Bhawani Kumar, Sahaja’s father. Siddhant Banthia, who has progressed remarkably after showing the initial spark by winning the singles and doubles titles in the UK under-14 championship in Wimbledon, is also back home. “I am spending time with family and building new hobbies like reading and painting. We have online classes from 7.30-10.30 p.m.. I try and work out for an hour daily, and follow the programme given to us by the fitness coach at the Wake Forest University,” said Siddhant, who does wall practice to keep his hand-eye coordination sharp. For Akansha Bhan, mother of Vasudha Bhan, it is a mixed bag. While Akanksha, who studies in Columbia University, came back on March 14, her elder sister Divya continues with her education in Wales. “Akanksha was supposed to come in May after her semester. But due to the crisis, her college was closed and classes are going online,” said Vasudha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-students-mixed-bag-abroad/article31335523.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Epic Ranji clash that Tendulkar won on his own||Nostalgia — not just the virus — is in the air, with sporting world literally coming to a standstill. Even without a lockdown, cricketing fraternity would have celebrated the 20th anniversary of an epic in the Ranji Trophy history. On Sachin Tendulkar’s request, the semifinal between Mumbai and Tamil Nadu was postponed to let him be available after representing Asia XI in Dhaka. And he helped Mumbai chase down a mammoth first innings total of 485 in a nail-biting game at the Wankhede Stadium. Hemang Badani, who starred for TN, and Ajit Agarkar, who had match-figures of six for 120 and shared a vital 37-run partnership with Tendulkar in a nervy chase, recall the game.  Hemang Badani  It was my first Ranji semifinal. I was nervous but excited since playing Mumbai in Mumbai is always special. It was a full-strength Mumbai side and we had a big total on the board after being asked to bat on a lively pitch. Then on, it was all about Sachin’s magnificence. I remember we had close to six or seven men on the boundary line and he still found a way to find the fence regularly. It was impossible to believe we lost to one man. It was remarkable to see his intensity on the field. I have never seen an international cricketer show such passion for his State side. After the match, it was sweet of him to speak with me. He spoke about my flow, bat swing and asked not to change the way I played. It was a very tough loss for us and took some time to come out of it. The only silver-lining for me was the way I batted when it mattered. A month later, I made my debut for India and I am sure this knock played a huge role in that.  Ajit Agarkar  Without trying to sound cocky, the Mumbai team felt pretty comfortable in the era that I played. We did lose games but seldom were we nervous. So nervous were most of us during that game that I didn’t watch the run-chase at all. I remember Ramesh (Powar) and I were glued to our seats inside the dressing room and stepped out only to applaud a milestone — majority of them were by Sachin. I think Amol (Muzumdar) was also sitting with us right through, so yes, I hardly watched the great knock. It was a stellar performance by both sides. Badani scored a good hundred, Robin scored a gritty century. But the chase was really anxious. Sachin batted almost right through the innings but despite Vinod (Kambli) and Amol giving him support, we always knew chasing down almost 500 was going to be a challenge. And Sachin rose to the occasion. One could sense during our partnership how badly he wanted it. No wonder he was so pumped up after crossing the line with a six. Never have I seen him so pumped up in a domestic game during my career.  We had to score 42 runs with only two wickets in hand. I ended up scoring those 42. The competition was so fierce and intense, I didn’t realise that No. 10 and 11 hadn’t scored a single run Tendulkar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/epic-ranji-clash-that-tendulkar-won-on-his-own/article31335413.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Top players for Magnus Carlsen Invitational||The top five in the world, headed by Magnus Carlsen, are part of an elite eight-man field in the $250,000 Magnus Calrsen Invitational online chess, that begins on April 18. Carlsen, Fabiano Caruana, Ding Liren, Ian Nepomniachtchi, Maxime Vachier-Lagrave, Anish Giri, Hikaru Nakamura and 16-year-old sensation Alireza Firouzja will battle it out for the $70,000 winner’s share. The richest online event in chess will be played on a league-cum-knockout format. After a double round-robin league, the top four players move to the knockout semifinals. The final is slated for May 3. Each encounter will include four rapid games, with 15 minutes for all the moves, plus 10-second increments after every move. On Wednesday, in the Pepe Cuena Invitational, Vidit Gujrathi plays Russia’s Peter Svidler, and P. Hari Krishna clashes with Poland’s Jan-Krzysztof Duda. In this best-of-12-game quarterfinals, the time-control is, 3 minutes plus 2-second increment from Move 1. If the players are locked at 6-6, blitz games will be played to break the tie. The winner of the Vidit-Svider match faces Spain’s David Anton Gujjarro while the winner of the Hari-Duda encounter meets Russia’s Vladislav Artemiev.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/top-players-for-magnus-carlsen-invitational/article31335346.ece
14 April 2020||Chennai,||‘Making Tokyo cut would be difficult’||Indonesian badminton player Tommy Sugiarto is worried more about the situation in his country than his chances of qualifying for the 2021 Tokyo Olympics. Ranked World No. 26, Sugiarto, the 2014 World championship bronze medallist, told The Hindu over phone on Monday that the situation in Jakarta was indeed a cause for concern.  “The current situation [in Jakarta] is very worrying because every day people are dying because of coronavirus. So we are at home, just following the instructions from our government.” Admitting it would be difficult to make the cut for the Tokyo Games, given the fact that two players — Anthony Ginting and Jonatan Christie — are ranked much higher than him at 6 and 7, Sugiarto said he was nevertheless trying his best. “For now, the main thing is health. I am keeping myself fit by doing a lot of exercises at home because most sports venues here are closed,” he said. The 31-year-old was quite critical of the All England Open authorities for not following the guidelines when they hosted tournament from March 11 to 15. “I noticed social distancing rules were not enforced. That’s what makes me wonder why they organised the tournament in the first place with the prevalence of the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said. Sugiarto, who has played in four editions of the Premier Badminton League, including this year for Chennai Superstarz, said the tournament was a big boon for the Indian juniors. “The Indian players, especially the juniors are very excited to take part in PBL because they can feel the atmosphere of competing with world-class players.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/making-tokyo-cut-would-be-difficult/article31335411.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The match at a glance||Ranji semifinal: Mumbai vs TN, April 11 to 15, 2000.   Toss: Mumbai.   Day 1: TN 397/4 in 90 overs (Hemang Badani 162 batting, Robin Singh 142 batting).   Day 2: TN 485 in 121.4 overs (Badani 162, Robin 183 n.o., Ajit Agarkar 4/83, Santosh Saxena 3/91); Mumbai 141/4 in 57 overs (Sameer Dighe 55, Sachin Tendulkar 34 batting).   Day 3: Mumbai 470/8 in 147 overs (Tendulkar 213 batting, Vinod Kambli 75, Amol Muzumdar 47).   Day 4: Mumbai 490 in 152 overs (Tendulkar 233 n.o., Aashish Kapoor 3/93, S. Mahesh 3/105); TN 171 in 54.1 overs (Hemang Badani 63, S. Reuben Paul 46); Mumbai 104/1 in 27 overs (Sameer Dighe 51 batting, Jatin Paranjpe 27 batting).   Day 5: Mumbai 169/2 in 44.4 overs (Dighe 73, Paranjpe 55 n.o.)   Result: Mumbai won by eight wickets .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-match-at-a-glance/article31335409.ece
14 April 2020||New Delhi,||Dice binds Team India, says Smriti Mandhana||Star opener Smriti Mandhana on Monday revealed the Indian women’s cricket team has traded the bat and ball for dice in maintaining their bond by playing ludo together online. The BCCI on Monday tweeted a video of Mandhana talking about how she is spending time off the field. “We, all friends together play ludo online, so that keeps us all bonded,” Mandhana said. The ace batter, like all other athletes, has turned to home workouts to stay physical fit. “Staying fit is very important, so I am working out. I keep in touch with the trainer and receive feedback. He keeps sending us all the regimen we need to follow,” Mandhana said. The 23-year-old is enjoying time with her family. “The other thing I like is spending time with my family. I keep helping mom with cooking. I guess washing utensils has become part of my daily routine and I love troubling my brother as well. It’s my favourite pastime,” she said. “The third thing I love is watching movies. I am a big movie buff. So, I make sure I watch two-three movies a week, not many because I don’t want to get addicted. I want to spend time with my family.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dice-binds-team-india-says-smriti-mandhana/article31335348.ece
14 April 2020||KOLKATA,||East Bengal, Mohun Bagan to join hands||Traditional rivals Mohun Bagan and East Bengal have sought to quarantine their almost century-old rivalry to jointly “overcome” the COVID-19 pandemic. The clubs were made a part of the #BeActive campaign launched on the UN International Day of Sport for Development and Peace to encourage people to be #HealthyAtHome. FIFA chose the Kolkata giants as the representatives from India. The two join the likes of Barcelona, Real Madrid, Liverpool and Manchester United, who are also asking their fans to set aside their rivalries and come together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/east-bengal-mohun-bagan-to-join-hands/article31335514.ece
14 April 2020||Kolkata,||BFI to host Asian meet||Amid uncertainty over resumption of sporting activities, the Boxing Federation of India (BFI) on Monday said the country would host the 2020 Asian boxing championships for men and women towards the end of the year. BFI president Ajay Singh made the announcement during E-Pathshala, the online review meeting of boxers and support staff over a video conference. “Our focus is to bring in more and more tournaments to India and being able to host this prestigious championship will be a huge honour. Our boxers can look to excel here,” a BFI release quoted Ajay as saying. The final decision on dates and venue will be taken after discussion with the government and other important stakeholders once the lockdown is over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfi-to-host-asian-meet/article31335342.ece
14 April 2020||MUMBAI,||BCCI defers IPL decision||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has decided to wait for the Central Government to spell out the extension of lockdown before announcing the fate of Indian Premier League (IPL). The IPL’s 13th edition has been suspended till April 15. On Monday, the BCCI top brass was scheduled to discuss an indefinite postponement of the T20 league. However, with the Prime Minister set to address the nation on Tuesday and expected to formalise the lockdown extension, the BCCI office-bearers decided to wait for the details before proceeding. As a result, IPL’s fate should be sealed by Wednesday.  PTI reports from New Delhi  The BCCI treasurer Arun Dhumal said it would be “too premature” to comment on whether the IPL can be slotted in place of the ICC World T20 in October-November. “Right now, the picture is very hazy. We don’t even know when the lockdown will end. How can we have a meaningful discussion,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-defers-ipl-decision/article31335351.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||AFI targets Sept. action||The Athletics Federation of India (AFI) is targeting a return to action by September this year, hopeful that the situation would improve enough by then to conduct domestic competitions. “We will try to resume our domestic competitions from September-October 2020 and for next year from March-April 2021. With the postponement of the Olympics, we hope many young athletes stand a chance to qualify while seniors need to focus on fitness. “At this stage we cannot say anything about foreign competitions-cum-exposure camps in 2020. Athletes would also be allowed to train outside (SAI Centres) after consultations once the situation improves,” AFI president Adille Sumariwala said after an online interaction with athletes, coaches and support staff on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/afi-targets-sept-action/article31335361.ece
14 April 2020||New Delhi,||Angad ji rocks: Sehwag reveals his batting inspiration||Virender Sehwag has stated the real inspiration behind his swashbuckling batting technique was Angad, the character from Ramayana . Sehwag, known for his great hand-eye coordination with minimal footwork, on Sunday shared a screen-shot of Angad from a TV series on Twitter and said: “So here is where I took my batting inspiration from. Pair hilana mushkil hi nahi, namumkin hai. #Angad Ji Rocks.”IANS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/angad-ji-rocks-sehwag-reveals-his-batting-inspiration/article31335360.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 11:37 IST,||Sudoku - April 14, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-14-2020/article31336641.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||A little sweet, a little sour||It all begins by collecting the star ingredient — neem flowers — that will go into a sweet pachadi on the big day. People spread a cloth beneath a neem tree in their neighbourhood the previous day, waiting for the delicate flowers to drop into it. A handful of the flowers will be fried in ghee and sprinkled atop a sticky, brown concoction of jaggery and sour mango simmered until you cannot tell them apart. Veppam poo pachadi , the special dish for Tamil New Year lunch, stands for how life can be sweet, but also bitter at times, and one should accept it for what it is. “This year too, I plan to make the pachadi ; I got the flowers from a tree nearby,” says 92-year-old Kamakshi Subramaniyan, who lives alone in Besant Nagar. “I have the other ingredients thankfully,” she adds. Usually, the day is busy: an elaborate lunch with vada and payasam , visits to places of worship, and families getting together. “But this year, I’m going to have to make do with oats porridge instead of payasam ,” laughs Kamakshi. She recalls the Tamil New Year lunch she usually has: “There’s a vada that we make with three different types of dals , rice, sambar , rasam , appalam , a sweet poli ...” The household smells and feels festive: those celebrating draw kolam at the entrance of their household early in the morning, not to mention the thoranam made of strung mango leaves at the front door. “It is going to be a different New Year this time,” says Kamakshi. “I will have all my relatives call me on the phone through the day,” she adds. It is something she looks forward to. “The Tamil New Year lunch comprises various dishes that have all the six tastes: sweet, sour, salty, bitter, pungent, and astringent,” says cookbook author Mallika Badrinath. This year though, she says she plans to tweak the meal according to ingredients available. “A neighbour shared a mango with me; it is a mix of sweet and sour, so that takes care of two of the six tastes,” she says, adding that her friends also plan to make a one-pot kuzhambu that has several vegetables thrown in to achieve the six tastes, such as bitter gourd, drumstick, and even gooseberry. “They will add sambar powder to it,” she says. For her, the day will comprise uploading a food video on her YouTube channel. “I do them with my husband, and we shoot and edit at home,” she adds. Rukmani Sivakumar, a music teacher in Poonamallee, has never been more thankful for the little things in life, than today. “A vegetable seller brought some lovely mangoes home the other day,” she says. She was thrilled, for mango forms an essential part of the festive meal. “I’m taking online classes, and will do so today as well,” she says, adding that New Year greetings are all going to be virtual. “Since all of us are at home, we plan to have a nice meal together, cooked with whatever ingredients we have at home,” she says. “This is the best thing about this New Year: the whole family is under one roof.”      We plan to have a nice meal together, cooked with whatever ingredients we have at home||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-little-sweet-a-little-sour/article31335150.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Building cultural bridges||Like everyone around the globe today, New York-based Indian classical dancer and award-winning choreographer Preeti Vasudevan is spending all her time indoors, maintaining social distancing, in her apartment with her husband and their nine-year-old daughter. She says that this period is both wonderful and challenging. Wonderful because she gets to be with family all the time, but a challenge because with all leading arts institutions closed, she and her team suddenly realised that all their shows and events planned for the first half of the year were a no-go! “This meant a life-or-death situation professionally for us. Instead of panicking, we sought to look into some social impact projects we had originally set aside for later this year. We pushed aside live projects and instead shifted our focus to online learning, which is why The Red Curtain Project was launched,” says Preeti, founder and artistic director of Thresh Performing Arts Collaborative, New York. The Red Curtain Project is dedicated to sharing stories, ancient and modern, from India. Many storytellers, across cultures, use the curtain as a device, as a magical threshold, as the boundary between the real world and the world of imagination created by the performer, says Preeti. “I couldn’t go into a dance studio to film and had to do the filming at home. So we pulled our curtain — which is red — and used that as our ‘theatre’ background. It then dawned on us that all storytelling cultures use curtains as the liminal space and so it gave birth to the name of the project — connecting storytellers from everywhere.” The Red Curtain Project is for all ages; its first series launched last week, however, is very child friendly, based on Jataka Tales. It is fun and told from the point of view of children between the ages of five and 12. “However, future stories will have more adult themes and we will mention parental discretion for these. We plan the stories as a series, with each story released weekly. Each series has three stories as a theme, with interactive elements in it, as well as a challenge to encourage people to film their own stories and share it with us, as we plan to create a library from around the globe during this time,” she says. Bharatanatyam dancer that she is, Preeti performs the stories using a bhinaya , which means expression in Sanskrit, and mudras (hand symbols) in order to create the mood of the story. According to Preeti, the key areas of this project focus on including a diverse group of collaborators to show the artistic process and how artists come together to create any story. “We have behind-the-scenes videos where you can watch how our music composer Mal Stein (from New York) and illustrator Bhumenjoy Konsam (from Manipur) work. Our learning partner, Learn Interactive, is helping us in our venture,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/building-cultural-bridges/article31335122.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The legend of Chandramukhi||Here is a trivia. It is next to impossible to find a Rajinikanth film from the last 30-odd years, whose title is something other than the lead character’s name or a combination of words that extol the lead character’s physical or behavioural attributes. The film that broke this pattern was Chandramukhi , which released 15 years ago today. What it did not succeed in breaking was how the film still ended up being completely about Rajinikanth. More on that later but here is more trivia. Of the big stars in Tamil cinema, only Rajinikanth and Suriya have starred in a supernatural/psychological horror-thriller film in the new millennium. Only one of them tasted success. By now, most people ought to be aware of the fact that Chandramukhi was not an original idea. The plot is drawn from Madhu Muttom’s story, which director Fazil turned into a blockbuster film, Manichitrathazhu , in Malayalam in the year 1993. P Vasu, who had been struggling to deliver a hit since Malabar Police in 1999, wrote a screenplay based on Manichitrathazhu and cast Kannada cinema’s ‘Sahasa simha’, the late Vishnuvardhan, in a film called Aptha Mitraa (2004); tragically, the last film of actor Soundarya who was killed in a plane crash a few months prior to the film’s release in August. The film was a runaway success, and Rajinikanth, who had been looking to revive his fortunes in Tamil cinema following the monumental debacle that was Baba (2002), called on Vasu to remake Aptha Mitraa in Tamil. The rest, as they say, is history.  Chandramukhi was a massive financial success and revived fortunes for the producer, Sivaji Productions, as well as Rajinikanth, who went on to command the second-highest fee for an actor in Asia with his next film Sivaji (2007). We will fit in one more trivia. Chandramukhi was also the first remake which won the Tamil Nadu State award for the best film; it split honours with Ghajini . Today, the Rajinikanth film would make the ‘comfortable watch’ lists of anyone enduring lockdown stress, and we list five reasons why.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-legend-of-chandramukhi/article31335141.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||This Delhiite did an online Ironman event on his balcony||Vipin Sharma, 35, from Delhi, was looking forward to doing his first Ironman in Spain this July. “Training from January onwards became the centre of my universe,” says the ultra runner, who has finished a 200k and several 100km runs since 2015. He didn’t know how to swim though, and the last he had cycled was in school. So he learnt swimming last year and had amped up his cycling, just getting into the groove, when the Coronoavirus struck and the lockdown began, making it unlikely for the event to take place. Since he could not go out, he decided to take part in the challenge that Ironman set out: a 21k run, 90k cycling, and another 5k running, all within three days. He decided to do the half marathon on the terrace, a 13-metre stretch that took him three hours and 47 minutes. “It was an absolute nightmare,” he says (his personal best is 1:45). “You are not able to build rhythm and I got blisters, which I never do in a half. The U-turns are hard, and it was mentally very challenging. Through the process, various thoughts came and went. “I began to question myself, thinking, ‘What am I doing? Why am I doing this?’” He also realised how much the world had shrunk into this little space. “You wonder how we have contributed to all this, how much we are responsible for it. And you think about how long it’ll be before we go for a group run or have a drink with a friend at a pub.” He thought the cycling leg would be difficult, but ironically that, done on an indoor trainer, wasn’t as hard as he had expected. The hardest part of it all was the 5k that he did on his balcony that took him two hours, 15 minutes. “Time would not pass,” says Vipin, who works as head of community for a to-be-launched nutrition brand, Habbit. “I knew thatif I just stepped out onto the street, I would finish it off in 22 minutes,” but as tempting as it was, he worked his way though the four-metre-long space. In the end, he was very happy that he did it. “I could have given up with many rational thoughts – that I could work on my strength instead, or that I was just wasting my time. But the fact that I didn’t, felt like I had accomplished something,” he says. “Perhaps if I had done the same distances back-to-back on the road, it would have been more physically difficult, but mentally, this was way more of a challenge.”  The hardest part was the 5k he ran on his four-metre-long balcony, that took two hours and 15 minutes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/this-delhiite-did-an-online-ironman-event-on-his-balcony/article31335153.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Far from the madding crowd||“You realise how isolated you have been when a pandemic happens and you have to make almost zero changes to your lifestyle,” says Ehraz Ahmed, a 30-year-old wildlife photographer who lives at the edge of Mudumalai Tiger Reserve in the Nilgiris. Ehraz, who also owns a resort in the Reserve, has been used to the company of just the hills and his two horses — Adrian and Chris — for a decade now. So living in the current lockdown is no different. “When you live in the wild you get used to planning ahead and are always prepped for unpredictable situations. Night-time travel restrictions have been in place here in the jungle for a long time now. I’m always stocked up with essential supplies for a month.” “So when the lockdown was announced, I didn’t really have much to do much except wait out the period. Of course my work interests have been suspended temporarily, but the priority is to safeguard ourselves and society from the contagion,” he says. It took years for him to build a life that could stay this untouched. “When I took the abrupt decision to quit city life and move to the jungle 10 years ago, I knew it was going to be a struggle, I knew it was going to change my life. I was only 20 years old then. My first home in the jungle was a tiny cottage deep in the woods with no electricity or water supply or even a road. I faced many hardships initially but I had exchanged the life of convenience and socialising for solitude, thrill and adventure.” “It was the best decision of my life,” he says. Like Ehraz’s relationship with the forest, sailor Aravindram’s bond with the sea has been a decade in the making. In his 11th year, the 32-year-old is the captain of a cargo ship that is scheduled to reach Australia’s Port Walcott on April 14. Week after week at sea is par for the course, for him: “My first voyage lasted 55 days, from Canada to South Korea via the Cape of Good Hope,” he says via WhatsApp chat. Yes, he has WhatsApp on board, despite being at a point in the ocean days away from the Australian coast. Satellite Internet aboard cargo ships is a fairly new phenomenon, he says, just about three years old. “It is limited access, but at least people are aware of shore news and in touch with their families.” Shore news includes updates about the COVID-19 outbreak, which is why the crew was not surprised when they were not allowed to disembark at their previous port, Port Dalian in China. The port before that, in Singapore, where they were scheduled to just refuel, is also where they stocked up on provisions this time. “We are stocking for about two to three months of provisions... fresh provisions we can take only for 15 to 20 days, and we take plenty of frozen foods,” says Aravindram. The ship contains everything from basic medical necessities, to pulses, rice, dal , flour, frozen meat and fish, frozen vegetables and fruit. “Maintenance equipment, spare parts, paint, engine spares, safety equipment spares, detergent... everything is on board,” says the captain who has a crew of 23 under his care and command. “I see some of them during the day and at mealtimes, not all,” he says. At other times, he has the sea and sky stretching out till the horizon for company. Back in Mudumalai, Ehraz has company of a different sort. “My horses keep me company along with the numerous wildlife that visit my land regularly. Elephants, sloth bears, leopards.... Last month I captured a tiger on the trail cam I had set up on my land. My cameras and night vision equipment are always on standby,” he says, adding, “Over the years my social circle has grown smaller and smaller. I have a very small set of friends who visit occasionally. The only people I’m constantly in touch with are my parents who live in Bangalore.” Life in the ghats Wildlife is also par for the course in Coorg’s coffee plantations, many of which, though not active at the moment, still manage to sustain multiple lives at a stretch. One of them is the Old Kent estate, home to about a dozen workers who live on the estate all year round. “Larger estates like ours have onsite labour quarters for workers and we also provide their families with healthcare and education support,” says the estate owner Sadat Sathak. “Coffee is intercropped with other diversified crops and vegetation. There is ample year round supply of fruits such as bananas, papaya and seasonal fruits such as orange, avacado, mango and guava are available for foraging. The fertile soil is very conducive for vegetables’ cultivation. The water bodies provide opportunity for fishing as well. All in all, the rich and varied vegetation on the Western Ghats is very much self-sufficient providing year-round food, with the need to venture outside seldom arising.” . Plantation workers are not the only one working far from urban environments: forest guards at many reserves stay on duty in their cabins in the woods for weeks on end as well, largely by themselves. In contrast are the sailors’ days on the cargo ship. “On short voyages, we have less free time and more hectic schedules. All equipment on board has to be maintained, like overhauling of machinery, main engine, then deck chipping and painting, greasing of all moving parts...” says Aravindram. On the longer voyages, however, there is leisure: “We play table tennis, carrom and other indoor games. On some ships we have swimming pools, we spend some time there, too.” After all, everyone needs some company and some fun, even Ehraaz. “I’m not a hermit really,” he says. “I’m as dependent on the outside world as anyone else living in the city. The little village of Masinagudi three miles away with its handful of shops caters to most of my requirements. Self sustenance for me is not sensible because I’m completely against the practice of agriculture in the jungles..” For Ehraz, the forest has its own appeal. “It’s a beautiful place to live in. Clean air, no traffic and lots of welcoming people. My daily schedule is a mixed bag. In the jungle every day is different. One day I’m out on business, the next day I’m out on a safari or a hike in the woods and on other days I’m doing nothing except spending time with my horses and reading and making future travel plans,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/far-from-the-madding-crowd/article31335159.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Classrooms in the Cloud||Suhail Saini* is in Class XII, in a Delhi school that has daily classes on Zoom. The school sends out a schedule and the students log on. “We have a 40-minute period and then a 20-minute break,” says Suhail. He adds that some teachers know how to use the software, with the white board and messaging, but some do not and that makes it difficult to understand a subject like Accounts. “We can direct message each other, which is like passing notes in school,” he says, though once the school realised what was happening, they barred this feature. “We have to all turn our cameras on, but many will say that they have bad connections, so they’ll just be on audio,” he adds, laughing. Suhail’s school is typical of most city establishments that are struggling to cover the syllabus. Many feel they need to justify the school fee, and are keeping children engaged. Teachers attempt to mimic a classroom setting, even as they themselves sometimes grapple with tech. Schools are also using Microsoft Teams for communication, though some schools who have been on Google’s G Suite for Education (that includes Google Classrooms), and Apple’s K-12 Education, make the transition to lockdown almost without a glitch. How does all the tech in the world bring a community together though? The privilege of tech? Shilpa Mehta, the founder-director at Paradise School in Goa, says her school has a culture where tech is embedded in the system, but is not an end in itself. There is Internet cabling in the school, with room by room connectors, so they don’t just rely on routers, making going online a seamless experience. “We are on Apple as we believe this provides the optimal digital experience for our children,” she says, adding that Apple Education offers avenues for both digital and educational growth. “We are aiming to become an Apple Distinguished School, so we are innovating education using tech.” The digital ecosystem of learning makes it easier for children to transition into a learn-from-home model, while still retaining the collaborative ethos. Shilpa started the school, affiliated to the International General Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE) in 2014 to help her daughter get a better schooling experience. She talks of “personalised learning”, of school being a “thriving environment”, of “ripping up the worksheets”, creating “a seeking spirit” in children who are often bored by the pedagogy of school, and “a living culture” in school being translated online into “digital bonds”. Tech without borders It is these digital bonds that The Granny Cloud talks about. Started by Professor Sugata Mitra, now in the UK, in 2008, it consists of about 75 volunteers, from around the globe, who hold fluid interactive sessions with children online, mostly over Skype. They introduce subjects, talk about things the children want to hear of, and build a bond with them that manages to cut across the space and sometimes a time gap, says Pune-based Suneeta Kulkarni, who heads the organisation that has spread as far as Greenland and Cambodia. Way back in 1999, Prof Mitra, as head of NIIT’s tech function, had set up a computer outside the office, with an internet connection, to see what the children of the slums around would do with it. Called the Hole in the Wall, it evolved into the School in the Cloud, based on a system of Self-Organised Learning Environments (SOLE) in 2007. The principle was simple: that children are able to self-learn with the help of the Internet, with guidance from the facilitator. Ideally, what is needed are a few screens that show life-size images (about 20 inches on the diagonal) and a cluster of children who could gather around each, and find solutions to ‘problems’ proposed by the facilitator. The ‘grannies’ were a subsequent introduction, so children could participate in their own language, and gain the confidence of interacting with people from outside of their circles. Gouri Chindarkar, who was introduced to the system in 2009 in a lab in Shirgaon, Maharashtra, says, “The process helps to brainstorm and come up with various perspectives and ideas behind simple tasks or activities. It helps to grow as a group while exploring various possible aspects behind a single thing rather than sticking to a single solution for any task.” In 2016, she was on BBC’s 100 Women list, as the first student of School in the Cloud. A community in isolation But these were children clustered together physically. How would such a system work at a time of physical distancing? Prof Mitra tried it out in Paradise School with about 70 children. “The first challenge is: How do you get everyone’s interest? If I ask them about the Kalinga war, they’re unlikely to be interested. So I said, ‘You’re at home because of the virus, but how do you know that the lockdown is right?’” The children were divided into Zoom rooms, were given time to discuss it, and then present their work. “There were nine-year-olds talking about it,” he says. While the sceptic may say online learning is okay for what is considered extra-curricular in the traditional Indian education system, Prof Mitra says the entire curriculum can be mapped into a series of questions that children find answers to. The key is for parents and teachers to see technology as an ally and an aid to building a community. “The school and university have been struggling in the last decade with the idea of how to factor the Internet in. On one hand, we say children are constantly staring at their phones, but my kind of work says, ‘What about the time when they look things up?’ One group feels libraries are better because the internet is full of junk, which is rubbish because it is those same people who are looking up the internet to check for information.” He says the problem is that we are not using it in the right way. “What they are doing is they are trying to create a classroom on the Internet. It doesn’t make sense. Imagine if all the cars disappeared and there were only aeroplanes, and we say we will drive around using the aeroplanes. It’s an old human habit of moving towards the past... Children can answer a lot of questions if you give them their phones back,” he says, adding that adult supervision is always important and a large screen always better, even at home. Cost accountancy All this tech does not come cheap though. With a yearly fee in the region of Rs. 1,65,000 to Rs. 3,85,000, Paradise caters to upper-middle class India, but a large part of our country gets left behind. Sandip Gund doesn’t see it that way. As a teacher who began in a school at the zilla parishad level, in Pashtepada, Maharashtra, he, along with the community, with funds from the people in the area, set up a solar smart e-learning centre, in a place where electricity was erratic. Today, he says the challenge is that while people have a TV and a smartphone, they may not always have data packs on their phones, and connectivity in remote areas can be tricky. What children need is offline content that he is currently making available free of cost during the lockdown period. This can be downloaded on the phone and then projected onto a regular TV via a screen-mirroring device that costs between Rs. 500 and Rs. 700. Children can then take quizzes or use the pen tool to make notes. In rural areas, Sandip points out, there is usually only one smartphone per family, so even at a time of lockdown, people in the house will gather around a large screen to see what a child is learning. In houses where there is Wi-Fi, curiosity may push adults and children to discover what the Internet has to say about, say the weather, and can grow into a professional tool used by farmers. Shared tech tools, in whatever way we can share them, are what people working in the tech-education space speak about. “In a world riddled with inequality, tech is a tool to open a window, a tool to solve problems,” says Katrin McMillan, who started Hello World, solar-powered digital schools called Hello Hubs, in Africa. She says that rather than assuming what communities need, or silicon valley stepping in ‘to solve the problem’, tech solutions can be found by each community. “Rather than the teachers, ask the children: ‘What should we do?’ They will know, and they will have the answers.  *Name changed to protect identity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/classrooms-in-the-cloud/article31335169.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Keep calm and stay in bed||The coming weeks are not what one would call an ideal vacation and the little ones too, have started feeling it. Conversations at home have evolved in the lockdown period, as families try to draw out routines to stay engaged. Children too, are most often not spared of these conversations and stress levels surrounding them, seem to be high. More so for families of children with disabilities. When Chennai-based Chetana Charitable Trust, an organisation that works extensively with children with disabilities, realised this, they felt it was imperative to contribute in their own little way. Their e-book, I am Sick , narrates a simple story of a little girl who falls sick — instead of stressing about the sickness, she enjoys all the attention she gets and the fact she can stay in bed for long hours. It is important to remember the good things, the book suggests. “There have been a lot of efforts in making children understand what is going on in the world right now. So, most children are quite informed. The flipside of this is that even when someone in the family/ themselves are mildly ill, they tend to think it is much more serious than what it is and start freaking out,” says Namita Jacob, director of Chetana Charitable Trust, explaining the e-book’s inception. The trust is known for using simple stories to send messages across to children in a comprehensible way; and to calm them. “As I worked the story out, I realised that it was easier to talk about themselves. Every child has fallen sick at one point or the other,” says Namita. After it got published online, responses from parents suggested that many little ones were increasingly feeling stressed lately. Though it was initially aimed at children with disabilities and their families, the book caters to all. “What we try to do with our books is to ensure they are accessible. Difficulty with comprehension is something that we deal with, very often,” continues Namita. Simple language and minimal illustrations (by Teresa Antony) amplify this. To make reading more interactive, parents can also include a tangible object when they read out each page. Apart from making books, the Trust also has an active library that issues tactile and Braille books to children with disabilities. Owing to the lockdown, they have not been able to circulate books for a while now. “We are now trying to get ideas out to families, on how to do storytelling at home and so on,” Namita continues. In addition to that, more simple stories like this that cater to children, will be shared online. I am Sick is available for download at www.chetana.org.in and will have an EPUB version. To volunteer with Chetana Charitable Trust to make physical books for children with disabilities, call 9840509739.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/keep-calm-and-stay-in-bed/article31335144.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||A fantastical facelift||Words cannot express the swelling nostalgia at the mention of Final Fantasy VII, a game that was launched in 1997 by SquareSoft, now known as Square Enix. It was a three-dimensional Final Fantasy, after years of 2D, and it was captivating with its rich storyline and unforgettable characters that I still idolise. This game elevated digital storytelling, courtesy a rollercoaster of twists and turns. More than two decades later, Square Enix has made the right choice of remaking this classic for a new generation, which deserves to experience the story of Cloud and friends. The world is in shambles: a greedy mega-corporation is sucking the planet dry — rather, processing the natural life energy into mako — to power a vast multi-layered city, Midgar. Final Fantasy opens in an explosive sequence, that puts you in the shoes of Cloud, a mercenary-for-hire and part of an elite military unit known as SOLDIER, with a mysterious past and a sword that is bigger than him. Cloud had been hired by a group called AVALANCHE, to take back the planet from Shinra, the aforementioned mega-corporation. A new experience Square Enix has captured the essence of the original Final Fantasy VII. It is a treat to see characters like Barret, Tifa and Aerith come to new life from their formerly-polygonal forms. Their character designs convey a stunning range of emotions and the voice-acting is top-notch, just as I imagined the characters speaking in the original. Some of the best memories of the game translate true to the original, along with the quirks. The biggest changes made to the remake were in the new revamped battle system. The original’s turn-based combat in today’s fast-paced Fortnite-addled world does not quite hold up, even though games like Persona 5 pull it off with some augments. Final Fantasy VII Remake now has real-time combat, which you need to mash to activate the menus that hold the special moves; from there, you can trigger magic spells, power moves and the glorious-looking summons that fill the screen. Battles have added depth of different moves for the different party members, as well as a stagger gauge for bosses and enemies. Battlefields themselves have an element of strategy to them, as you watch out for attacks and act accordingly — to keep the pace of the game going. The story is excellent and it is great to explore the sprawling city of Midgar, where there is a lot to do. Apart from the familiar quests from the original, in order to flesh out the game, there is a bit of padding that is tacked on for good measure. Justifying Square Enix’s decision to release the game in multiple parts, the addition of new content is pedestrian at best, and there is a missed opportunity to add something meaningful for returning fans. Square Enix have pulled out all the stops for the remake in the graphics department, with effects that will widen your eyes. Myriad touches bring the game to life and add a little cinematic flair to it — for example, when you open the menu during combat, everything freeze frames with a hint of slow motion as particles float about. Character animations are nuanced, while scenes are peppered with banter between characters. This game is a labour of love. Final Fantasy VII Remake is a fast battle system and does a ton of justice to its characters. While it does have its shortcomings with the added content, it is still an excellent first step in the right direction, irrespective of whether you have played the original or not. The writer is a tech and gaming enthusiast who hopes to one day finish his sci-fi novel  Final Fantasy VII Remake   Developer & Publisher: Square Enix    Price: Rs. 3999 for PlayStation 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-fantastical-facelift/article31335165.ece
14 April 2020||April 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Maximise your output||As we enter Week 3 of the lockdown, Gul Panag notes, “This is going to be at least a semi-permanent way of life. And as with any challenge, when we see one, we always find ways to rise to it.” The Dor actress has been holding Cool Tech talks on her Instagram page (@gulpanag) with people who have used technology to maximise their output in these challenging times. From businessman Anand Ahuja and designer Anita Dongre to comedian Kenny Sebastian and photographer Gayatri Nair, Gul has been talking to people who are staying ahead of the curve. “The lockdown has fundamentally changed the way we operate, and we need to ask ourselves how we will adapt to it, and continue to operate in this environment.” The current lockdown is only to flatten the curve, she adds. “So that if there is a trickle of cases instead of a flood, we will be better equipped to handle it. From a health point of view, the pandemic is not going to just go away once the lockdown is lifted. So we better adapt to the times.” She discusses how to do so, with her guests in her live sessions. Given we are heavily reliant on our phones and iPads as we work from our homes, we need to make sure that we optimise their use. “For instance, my talk with Anand Ahuja reminded me of how we need to be accountable for every minute of our time spent, rather than whiling it away on apps. Anand keeps his phone permanently on silent — phones constantly distract you with unnecessary notifications and are the biggest impediment to productivity. I do all my work on my iPad now instead, and use my phone just as a phone.” She adds that for daily reminders and memos, she has begun to relying on the good old pen and paper. This economising of time and effort can be applied everywhere, she says, “I have become so much more efficient in the kitchen too, and learnt to use the minimum amount of utensils to cook the healthiest food possible.” Her current series ends with Soha Ali Khan on Tuesday noon, but she plans to host more such talks in the coming future. “I want to bring more people for another edition of the Cool Tech series,” she says. “But I also want to speak to a psychologist, about how to deal with our anxiety levels. They have risen to unprecedented points.” Clarifying that there is a difference between stress and anxiety, she says the former has a specific origin, whereas the latter is a vague fear of the unknown. “It is not just health anxiety: economic anxiety, is only just beginning to kick in. We have to figure out how to handle that as a community.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/maximise-your-output/article31335161.ece
14 April 2020||New Delhi,||4 more deaths, 356 new COVID-19 cases||The Capital recorded 356 new COVID-19 cases and four deaths on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 1,510 and the toll to 28. This is the highest single-day increase in the number of positive cases. A total of 1,451 infected people are in hospitals. Meanwhile, medical staff, including a doctor, of three city hospitals have tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Monday. “A female deputy nursing superintendent in her late fifties, who was working at a COVID block in the LNJP Hospital, tested positive on Monday,” an official at the hospital told The Hindu . This is the second nursing staff at the hospital to have tested positive for COVID-19. On Saturday, an assistant nursing superintendent was confirmed to be infected. LNJP Hospital The LNJP Hospital is run by the Delhi government and is treating the highest number of COVID-19 patients in the city. Three staff, including a doctor, of Max Hospital East Block, Saket, have also tested positive for COVID-19 in the last two days, a spokesperson for the hospital said on Monday. On Thursday, two people with cardiac problems had tested positive for the virus. “A nurse and the general duty assistant who have tested positive most likely came into contact with the two cardiac patients,” the spokesperson said, adding: “The doctor who has tested positive was working in a flu clinic on the hospital premises, which acts as a screening point for patients. He was not in touch with the two cardiac patients. He could have been infected while working at the clinic or from his residential area.” He added that the hospital was yet to ascertain how the two cardiac patients got infected with the virus. Meanwhile, a nurse working at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday, taking the total number of hospital staff infected by the virus to three, said the hospital. On April 4, 108 staff of the hospital were quarantined after they came in contact with two patients, who later tested positive for the virus. “A total of 115 employees were eventually quarantined, out of which 112 have tested negative. They will be joining duty soon,” a hospital official said. Cancer institute Also, the Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI) remained shut on Monday despite sanitation of the premises being completed. A total of 22 healthcare workers, four patients, and a security guard of the hospital have contracted the virus. One of the four cancer patients had died on Saturday. “We will have a meeting on Wednesday and take a call on when to open the hospital,” B.L. Sherwal, director of DSCI, told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/4-more-deaths-356-new-covid-19-cases/article31335533.ece
14 April 2020||New Delhi,||JLN Stadium not yet a quarantine facility||The Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium here has not been turned into a COVID-19 quarantine facility despite the Delhi government writing to the Sports Authority of India (SAI) to hand over the stadium to them in March. Officials of SAI said that they had vacated officers staying on the premises, but the Delhi government said that they are not turning it into a quarantine facility right now. On the other hand, Delhi government officials said that there has been no communication from SAI on the matter. On March 30, District Magistrate (South-East) Harleen Kaur, had said in a letter to SAI to hand over the stadium “immediately”. “After receiving the letter, we asked for a day’s time to vacate six new joinees of SAI who were living in accommodation provided at the stadium premises. We vacated them and then held discussion with the Delhi government on who will manage the security at the facility and they said that they would revert,” an SAI official told The Hindu.  “The Delhi government then communicated that they were not using the facility right now,” the official said. When reached out for a comment, Delhi government sources, however, said, “Right now, we have adequate number of quarantine facilities. The Health Department has not received any communication from SAI on transferring the stadium to the Delhi government.” “The undersigned being the chairperson of District Disaster Management Authority [South-East] hereby requisite the above mentioned premises/buildings of Jawahar Lal Nehru Stadium Complex, Lodi Road, New Delhi – 110003 with immediate effect. Accordingly, the said premises/building may please be handed over immediately to the District Administration, South East,” District Magistrate (South-East) Harleen Kaur, had said in a letter to SAI on March 30. Both Ms. Kaur and Sandip Pradhan, Director General of SAI, did not respond to multiple calls and messages seeking comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jln-stadium-not-yet-a-quarantine-facility/article31335562.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Three policemen infected while on duty’||Three policemen who tested positive for COVID-19 last week are suspected to have been infected while on duty, said an officer on Monday. A Deputy Commissioner of Police and 30 other police personnel have been sent to home quarantine after the positive cases surfaced. Fresh guidelines Following the cases, the Delhi Police issued fresh guidelines to all staff deployed at barricades, hospitals and quarantine centres, the officer said. Another senior officer said instructions were also issued to all police stations to send 25% staff from each station to isolation in shifts. An Assistant Sub-Inspector posted under Safdurjung Enclave police station was deployed outside the AIIMS Trauma Centre. He might have been infected after coming in contact with a visitor to AIIMS or from a colleague or friend, said the officer. A senior officer said: “The ASI showed symptoms and later got tested positive for COVID-19.” The ASI was on duty last on April 9 and was on leave since then as he was unwell, an officer said. Family members, neighbours and colleagues of the three policemen have been advised to self-quarantine. They will be tested for COVID-19, he added. In another case, a 49-year-old ASI posted in the traffic unit under Hauz Khas circle had tested positive for COVID-19 on April 7. The three traffic policemen working with him have been told to self-isolate for the next 14 days. In the third case, a 44-year-old Head Constable posted in the Foreign Regional Registration Office at the Indira Gandhi International Airport’s Terminal 3 tested positive for COVID-19 on April 8. A senior officer said the policeman was deployed at the immigration desk and possibly contracted the virus from one of the passengers.  A policeman said the ASI on traffic duty and the Head Constable are good friends and often met after working hours and one of them may have infected the other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-policemen-infected-while-on-duty/article31335538.ece
14 April 2020||New Delhi,||East civic body removes vegetable vendors near Ghazipur market||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Monday cleared out the vegetable and fruit shops near Ghazipur sabzi mandi for encroaching upon the roads. Following visits to the area, the Executive Magistrate deployed for the market, filed a report on April 11 recommending the closure of such shops that were found to be placed close to each other, said an EDMC official. Following the inspection, the Sub-Divisional Magistrate (Preet Vihar) wrote to the Zonal Assistanst Commissioner directing him to take necessary steps for their closure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/east-civic-body-removes-vegetable-vendors-near-ghazipur-market/article31335535.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Activist forum condemns ‘witch-hunt’ by police||Several activists under the name ‘We the people of India’ have issued a statement condemning the alleged “witch-hunt” by the Delhi Police Special Cell against activists and students who were at the forefront of the democratic upsurge against CAA/NRC/NPR in the Capital. “This is a time when the nation needs to be focused on the health and hunger crisis across our land, when our priorities need to stay united to fight COVID-19. At a time when citizens in lockdown are unable to fully exercise their domestic rights, it is the moral duty of governments to guard against any abuse of power by the state,” the activists said. They added that instead, we have been seeing open communalisation of this pandemic and targeting of students and activists by agencies of the State. The activists pointed out the arrests of students of Jamia Millia Islamia, who were called for questioning by the city police and arrested . They also demanded that the activists and students incarcerated by the police in the middle of the pandemic be immediately released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/activist-forum-condemns-witch-hunt-by-police/article31335559.ece
14 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||RWA questions CM’s claim of screening||A joint Resident Welfare Association in Dilshad Garden raised questions over the Chief Minister’s claim of screening 15,000 people and retorted that residents in the area have not been screened for COVID-19. Kapil Verma, president of Sanyunkt Manch Resident Welfare Federation of Dilshad Garden, said that there was no screening in the areas under the jurisdiction of the federation. Mr. Verma said that under the aegis of the federation, 20 RWAs are connected, including sealed zones like Pocket J&K and Pocket L. “I am also the president of Pocket F and no one has been screened in this area. I have been told the same about other areas as well except one,” he said, adding that about 50 people were screened in Dilshad Colony on Sunday. “We are yet to ascertain where the tests have been conducted if they have.” Pramod Mehta, general secretary of Dilshad Colony’s C, F, G, and J Pocket, said that on Sunday, a team had come to the area and screened about 50 people till evening. On denial mode However, representatives of SG Pocket, LIC Colony and H Pocket among others denied screening in their areas. RWA member of Pocket L, where three persons were tested positive, also claimed that no person was screened in the area despite presence of positive cases. Mr. Verma and other representatives said that as a measure against the spread of COVID-19, the areas have been sanitised and officials are trying to ensure enforcement of lockdown. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, on Friday, said that 123 medical teams had screened more than 15,000 people living in 4,032 houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rwa-questions-cms-claim-of-screening/article31335563.ece
14 April 2020||New Delhi,||Man held for thrashing vegetable seller||After a video of a man beating up a vegetable seller went viral on social media, the Delhi police registered a case and arrested him on Monday, the police said. The accused was identified as Praveen Babbar, a resident of Badarpur Extention. He deals in the business of tour and travel, they said. The matter came to light after the video of the incident went viral and the police received a message on Twitter from the cyber cell in this regard. The incident took place at Tajpur Road on April 10. In the video that went viral on social media, a man can be seen asking for the ID card of the vegetable seller. After the seller fails to produce any, the man asks his name and address. When the vendor identifies himself as Mohammad Saleem, the man abuses him and beats him up with a stick. He also threatens him to not come to the locality without an ID card. While analysing the video, the police spotted a motorcycle bearing a Delhi registration number. They contacted the owner who in turn led them to the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-for-thrashing-vegetable-seller/article31335564.ece
14 April 2020||New Delhi,||Rai holds meeting with associations of 7 markets||Development Minister Gopal Rai held a meeting with the associations of seven wholesale markets in the Capital over the need to ensure social distancing on Monday. Vegetable markets will be open from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m. while fruit markets will be open from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m., he said, adding that the entry will be done only via coupons. “There were issues regarding social distancing in these wholesale markets, so today [Monday] I held a meeting with the market associations. The Delhi government has implemented an odd-even policy in these markets to restrict the footfall and to maintain social distancing in a bid to tackle the COVID-19 outbreak,” he added. The odd-even scheme will allow sale at odd-numbered platforms in each shed on dates ending with 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9 and even-numbered platforms on dates ending with 0, 2, 4, 6 and 8, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rai-holds-meeting-with-associations-of-7-markets/article31335536.ece
14 April 2020||New Delhi,||Extend relief to other virus warriors: BJP||Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, said that the government should extend the grant of Rs. 1 crore, announced for the kin of health workers involved in the treatment of COVID-19 victims, to staff of other departments also. In a letter to CM Arvind Kejriwal, he hailed the Delhi government’s announcement of compensation for health workers but added that a large number of “other warriors” were also fighting against COVID-19. “Delhi Jal Board, electricity department, Transport Department, Food and Supply Department, Delhi Police and sanitation workers are also discharging their duties,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/extend-relief-to-other-virus-warriors-bjp/article31335528.ece
14 April 2020||New Delhi,||HC: provide treatment to HIV+ woman||The Delhi High Court has asked the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here to give the necessary treatment to an HIV-positive woman, who also developed oral cancer recently. The court took note of the opinion of the doctors at AIIMS that considering the physical condition of the woman as well as her other ailments, performance of the surgery would be at high risk to the patient. Justice Mukta Gupta, who heard the case through videoconferencing, said the court would “not direct the doctors to take a different view”. During the hearing, AIIMS counsel assured that treatment will be administered to the woman as an in-patient and later as an out-patient by giving her definitive chemo radiation. “As assured in the status report, the doctors at AIIMS would give the necessary treatment to the petitioner after her tooth extraction is done and once her condition stabilises ,” the court noted. The court was hearing the plea of the woman who said that she was facing difficulty in getting treated due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-provide-treatment-to-hiv-woman/article31335530.ece
14 April 2020||New Delhi,||Disinfection drive starts in sealed areas||The Delhi government on Monday started the disinfection drive in containment and high-risk zones across the city to prevent the spread of COVID-19, using machines that can disinfect up to 20,000 square metre area per hour. The drive was started with a pilot disinfection drive at the Rajinder Nagar Assembly constituency. “Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal yesterday [Sunday] announced that in a bid to tackle the COVID-19 outbreak through hi-tech Japanese technology, the Delhi government will run disinfection drive at the red and orange zones here,” said Rajinder Nagar MLA Raghav Chadha. He said the technology is very unique and it is made specifically to spray disinfectants. “This technology is also very flexible as its length is adjustable, therefore, it can easily enter narrow lanes along with the broader areas,” the MLA said. “The key target of the Delhi government is to focus on the containment zones, therefore, the disinfection drive will start with the red zones. At Rajinder Nagar Vidhan Sabha, with three such machines, we have sanitised the whole area and studied all the necessary parameters,” he added. On the other hand, an intensive sanitation drive was carried out at 43 of the containment zones in South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), the civic body said on Monday. Up to 400 sanitaion workers, 23 sprinkling tankers, eight fire tenders and 19 jetting machines to sanitize these areas, it said, with a special focus on disinfection of houses where positive cases have been detected. Containment zones are being sanitised at least twice daily using knapsack and motorized pumps, the SDMC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/disinfection-drive-starts-in-sealed-areas/article31335537.ece
14 April 2020||New Delhi,||DMRC staff rejoin office, work through online mechanism||Senior officials of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), including Managing Director Mangu Singh, on Monday rejoined office even as the lockdown announced in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, continued. A team of DMRC architects and designers was coordinating with contractors, site personnel and design consultants through online mechanism for the construction of Phase 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dmrc-staff-rejoin-office-work-through-online-mechanism/article31335558.ece
