17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fresh cases rise by over 800; govt. pegs fatality rate at 3.3%||India registered over 800 COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday, with the tally touching 12,759 cases and 420 deaths. These include over 10,824 active cases. A total of 1,541 people have been cured and discharged and one had migrated. The total number of cases include 76 foreign nationals. The Health Ministry noted that India’s case fatality rate is 3.3% and percentage of people recovered is 12.02. According to reports from the State Health Departments, the total number of COVID-19 cases in India are 13,339, of which 11,289 are active ones. A total of 452 people have died of the disease. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said the rapid testing kit is not for diagnosis but for surveillance, especially in hotspots. A total of 3,02,956 samples from 2,86,714 individuals have been tested as on Thursday. ‘We are not testing less’ “Working in one shift, more than 42,400 samples can be tested per day; if we work in two shifts, we will be able to test more than 78,200 samples per day,” said ICMR spokesperson R.R. Gangakhedkar. Refuting allegation that India is not conducting enough coronavirus tests, the ICMR said, “India tests 24 people for one positive case, while Japan tests 11.7, Italy 6.7 and the U.S. tests 5.3. So, one cannot say that India is testing less.” The spokesperson confirmed that India has on Thursday received 5 lakh rapid test kits for COVID-19 from China. “These have a sensitivity of over 80% and are serology kits which is not to be used for early diagnosis but for surveillance purpose, especially in hotspots,” said Dr. Gangakhedkar. He added that there was no need to be concerned over the efficacy of the rapid antibody testing kits. “If an antibody test of a person turns out to be positive, one cannot necessarily be sure the person would not get infected ever again. This means, even if antibody is present, that doesn’t mean it will necessarily be effectively able to fight the virus.” Rapid antibody tests “Rapid antibody tests are for monitoring surveillance, not for diagnosis. Hence there is no concern with respect to the testing kits being faulty, that concern was with respect to immune response alone,” the ICMR spokesperson said. The ICMR added that there is currently no evidence to suggest that hot weather can have a slowdown effect of the virus. The Health Ministry has said that 325 districts have not reported any coronavirus case so far because of the actions initiated at field level. The implementation of containment strategies in some districts which earlier had reported COVID-19 cases has yielded positive results. One of such place is Puducherry’s Mahe district, where no case of the infection has been reported in the last 28 days. There are 27 other districts also where no positive case has been reported in a fortnight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fresh-cases-rise-by-over-800-govt-pegs-fatality-rate-at-33/article31361114.ece
17 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Idukki and Kottayam to walk back to normal life||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said Kottayam and Idukki districts would take their first baby steps towards restoring a semblance of normality on April 20. The districts have reported no new COVID-19 positive cases. Other epidemiological indicators have also qualified the regions for a calibrated and gradual return to regular life, he said. However, people in the region have to wear masks when they venture out and adhere to social distancing norms. The ban on social and religious events will continue. Hotels and restaurants can return to regular working hours. But the government is yet to decide if the establishments can serve customers on their premises. It has allowed takeaways and door-to-door delivery for now. The government will evaluate how Kottayam and Idukki tread the path of gradual economic recovery. Its observations will help the State form a template for coaxing back other regions to normality. The district administrations will determine how they walk back their respective jurisdictions from the lockdown. In stark contrast, the imposition of the lockdown would continue in Kasaragod, Malappuram, Kannur, and Kozhikode till May 3 with little scope for relaxation. The government has reckoned the areas high-risk localities given the relatively higher number of COVID-19 positive cases. It has also identified epidemic “hotspot” localities in the high-risk regions at the neighbourhood level. The government would barricade such areas from the outside world and allow only a single entry and exit point for the ingress of essential supplies, health workers, ambulances, and medicine. Evaluate situation Ernakulam, Pathanamthitta and Kollam districts would continue to remain under lockdown. On April 24, the government would evaluate the epidemic situation in the localities to decide whether to modify the restrictions to allow routine life in some measure. The government would incrementally relax the lockdown in Palakkad, Wayanad, Thrissur, Alappuzha, and Thiruvananthapuram from April 20. However, social distancing norms will remain in place. Shops and restaurants cannot admit patrons but can give food as parcels or home delivery till 7 p.m. Those who venture out into the open should wear face masks mandatorily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/idukki-and-kottayam-to-walk-back-to-normal-life/article31361424.ece
17 April 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai runs out of beds in ICUs, patients suffer||A 42-year-old Unani practitioner from Mumbai’s Govandi area with severe breathlessness, diarrhoea and failing kidney function had to wait nearly 30 hours to get an Intensive Care Unit bed with dialysis facility. By the time he got it on Thursday morning at the SL Raheja Hospital in Mahim, his condition was critical. The family’s ordeal continued even after getting a bed as no ambulance was ready to ferry a patient who had potentially been exposed to SARS-CoV-2 exposure. “One driver eventually agreed but he said that we cannot use the bi-level positive airway pressure (BiPAP) machine [for intensive breathing assistance] from his ambulance. So, we took the risk and shifted him merely on oxygen support,” said the patient’s brother. Nearly 40 days after the SARS-CoV-2 hit Mumbai, the city’s health infrastructure is crumbling with persons suffering from other diseases scurrying for beds. The city has 1,900 isolation beds and nearly 200 ICU beds. The city reported its first positive case on March 11. On Thursday, the total number of cases had gone up to 2,073, and the death toll in the city to 117. In another case, a 49-year-old man from Agripada who was admitted to the Kasturba Hospital died on Wednesday night waiting for a better facility. “We tried at least five hospitals, including Seven Hills and Saifee, but none had any vacant ICU beds,” said Samajwadi Party legislator Rais Shaikh who was helping the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-runs-out-of-beds-in-icus-patients-suffer/article31361117.ece
17 April 2020||Bhopal,||All residents of Indore set to be screened for COVID-19||As Indore grapples with a high fatality rate from COVID-19, the city administration is surveying all residents for Influenza-Like Illness and Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARIs) to check the spread of the novel coronavirus. The rate had shot up to 12% recently, the highest in the country. Of the 28 lakh residents of the largest and most populous city of Madhya Pradesh, health workers have already screened seven lakh. The rest will be surveyed in five days. With 707 COVID-19 cases as of Thursday, Indore has the third highest number of cases in the country, after Mumbai and New Delhi. With most patients having no contact or travel history, health workers are yet to locate the source of the outbreak. In the past four days, the number of cases grew by 492. And the city, which has ranked the cleanest in the country thrice consecutively, accounts for more than half of the 1,163 cases in Madhya Pradesh. So far, 10 nurses and paramedical staff members, and two front-line doctors have contracted the illness in the city. One private practitioner has also died. An official of the Health Department said such cases surfaced when hospitals did not provide personal protective equipment (PPE). Most of the 39 people who died in the city suffered from bilateral pneumonia, which worsened to Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome that caused the death. The novel coronavirus hastened the process. “Most of those who died had not revealed their illnesses before. They reached us very late carrying a heavy viral load, their lungs severely affected,” Chief Medical and Health Officer Pravin Jadia said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-residents-of-indore-set-to-be-screened-for-covid-19/article31361119.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘ Paani is all that he managed to say’||“When I first saw him, I thought he was dead. It was only after I went closer that I realised that the person was breathing very lightly,” said Sunil Kumar Aledia, the convener of National Forum for Homeless Housing Rights, whose photo of a destitute man lying on a pavement at Kashmere Gate has gone viral on social media. “‘ Paani (Water)’ is all that he managed to say. I bought a bottle of water and gave it to him,” said Mr. Aledia, who waited for over five hours for help to arrive. He said he made the first call around 2 p.m. on Wednesday. “I kept calling the helpline numbers, including 112 and 102. While most of the calls went unanswered, on two occasions the calls were disconnected. It was only after I spoke to the Joint CP, Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) and officials from the Delhi government’s revenue department that the person was finally rescued at 7.20 p.m.,” said Mr. Aledia, adding that the man was taken to Rajan Babu TB Hospital at Kingsway Camp. ‘Moved to hospital’ DCP (North) Monika Bhardwaj said, “We received a call after which we called an ambulance and shifted the man to hospital. He has been identified as Manoj and is undergoing treatment.” Manoj was found at a spot known as Faridabad Bus Stand, Kashmere Gate ISBT, close to the Kudesia Ghat where hundreds of migrant workers have been stationed since the lockdown. “Close to 5,000-6,000 homeless people lived there even earlier, but the count almost doubled since the lockdown was announced. We have made several representations to the government and even submitted action plans, urging it to take necessary steps,” Mr. Aledia said. He insisted that all those shifted out of the Yamuna floodplains to different locations across the city should undergo proper medical check-ups. “The people who have been living here for the last 10-15 days have had no access to proper sanitation and could not even take a bath. There is a high possibility that they are suffering from other communicable diseases as well. Proper medical check-ups should be done before they are made to stay with hundreds of others in shelters,” said Mr. Aledia. He said there are several grounds and stadiums which can be used to house homeless people. “The government should take appropriate steps.” he said. Reached for a comment, a Delhi government spokesperson said they were not aware of the particular case, but most of the people living on the floodplains had been “immediately shifted out” on Wednesday evening after their situation was brought to their notice. “Many people there used to stay in the shelters which were set ablaze [recently at Kashmere Gate],” the spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/paani-is-all-that-he-managed-to-say/article31361316.ece
17 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Number of COVID-19 cases in Guntur mounts to 122||The State reported nine new positive COVID-19 cases as of Thursday morning, taking the tally to 534 in 11 districts. Three new cases each were reported in Krishna, Kurnool and West Godavari districts. At a time when the Department of Health claimed that it would be testing over 3,000 samples in a day, for the first time on Thursday, the evening bulletin was withheld. In a positive development, at least 15 persons — 13 from Kurnool and two from Anantapur — have recovered and were discharged from hospitals. The Health Department on its Twitter handle announced that 13 patients were discharged and Deputy CM and Minorities Welfare Minister Sk. Amzath Basha and Kadapa district Collector C. Hari Kiran interacted with them at the hospital. So far, Guntur has reported 122 cases, the highest in the State. It is followed by Kurnool (113), Nellore (58), Krishna (48), Prakasam (42), Kadapa (36), West Godavari (34), Chittoor (23), Anantapur (21), Visakhapatnam (20) and East Godavari (17). A total of 35 patients, including 10 from Visakhapatnam district, have recovered and were discharged, while 14 persons succumbed to the disease across the State. Woman tests positive The test result of a 74-year-old woman came as a shock to several people at Gandhi Nagar and surrounding areas in the city. The woman, who got admitted to the Guntur GGH on April 11, was treated for heart ailment and died on April 12, but it emerged the next day that COVID was the reason. Funeral was conducted before test results were out and 100 people, including local leaders, who attended it, were sent to quarantine. Meanwhile, the city reported three new positive cases. This takes the total number of cases in the district to 48.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/number-of-covid-19-cases-in-guntur-mounts-to-122/article31361102.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army special trains to meet operational needs on borders||To meet the operational requirements on the northern and eastern borders during the lockdown period, the Army has decided to run two military special trains on April 17 and 18, Army sources said on Thursday. Separately, the Army issued fresh instructions to personnel on work and movement in compliance with the extended lockdown. “Only personnel due to rejoin units deployed on the northern and eastern borders and have undergone the mandatory quarantine period and found medically fit will be accommodated,” a source said. The train on April 17 would run between Bengaluru-Belgaum-Secunderabad- Ambala-Jammu and the one the next day would run between Bengaluru-Belgaum - Secunderabad-Gopalpur- Howrah-New Jalpaiguri-Guwahati, the source stated. This would enable decongestion of Category A and B training establishments in Bengaluru, Belgaum, Secunderabad and Gopalpur as well as assist in operational preparedness of active formations deployed on the borders, the source said. The Army was also coordinating with the Ministry of Railways for operating additional trains in the coming weeks. With lockdown extended till May 3, the Army issued separate instructions to personnel up to April 19 and from then to May 3. As per the instructions, all military establishments, cantonments, formation headquarters and units would observe strict “No Movement” till April 19, the sources said. Only personnel connected with provision of essential services would be allowed to move. A second source said that within the Army headquarters, only Military Operations, Military Intelligence, operational logistics and strategic movement branches would function to carry out operational and COVID-19 related tasks while keeping the duration of the stay and strength at bare minimum. All other branches have been asked to work from home till April 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/army-special-trains-to-meet-operational-needs-on-borders/article31361107.ece
17 April 2020||CHENNAI,||25 fresh COVID-19 cases in T.N.||A total of 25 patients tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 1,267 in Tamil Nadu, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said. The State has now reported under 40 new COVID-19 cases for the third consecutive day. At a press conference in the Secretariat, Mr. Palaniswami maintained that Tamil Nadu was still in Stage-2 and hoped that fresh COVID-19 cases would decline. “Some 150 persons have returned home after medical treatment. In the next few days, positive cases would become negative cases and we hope to see them return home,” he said. The spread of the pandemic “has reduced” due to the efforts taken by the State government, he said, and added that COVID-19 continued to pose a “major challenge” for Tamil Nadu. A total of 15 persons had died due to COVID-19 in the State, including one death on Thursday. Tamil Nadu could now undertake 5,590 tests a day at its 27 testing labs, he said. Asked about the delay in procuring rapid test kits from China, Mr. Palaniswami said that his government had been continuously taking steps to get them. “None of the States in the country has received the kits so far,” he added. Mr. Palaniswami also rejected the Opposition parties’ claim that the State government had not geared up in advance to procure medical equipment. He said orders had been placed to procure over 5 lakh rapid test kits though the State had sufficient stock of medical equipment. Listing out efforts being taken by his government, he also rejected the claim of the Opposition parties that there was a rise in the prices of vegetables. “The State government has kept the prices of vegetables in control for the benefit of the needy and the poor,” Mr. Palaniswami assured. Earlier in the day, Mr. Palaniswami chaired a video-conference meeting with District Collectors to take stock of the situation. Hitting out at DMK president M.K. Stalin for criticism against the AIADMK government, Mr. Palaniswami said the Opposition leader could not accept the fact that the State government had efficiently tackled the pandemic. Mr. Palaniswami questioned the steps taken by the 38 Lok Sabha MPs of the DMK and its allied parties in getting financial assistance from the Centre. Unlike other States where there was political unity in the face of adversity, “only in Tamil Nadu, there are parties that do not cooperate with the government even during these times,” he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/25-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-tn/article31361204.ece
17 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Fifty more test positive in State||COVID-19 positive cases touched the 700 mark on Thursday with 50 more new cases reported from different parts of Telangana. The Health department saw discharge of 68 cured cases, taking the total to 186. After admission at isolation wards of government hospitals, they tested negative twice for coronavirus. No new deaths were reported during the day with the number remaining at 18. Meanwhile, a data entry operator from Gandhi Medical College tested positive for coronavirus. Officials said that he does not work in the hospital building, but in a remote corner of the college located on the campus. A resident of Saidabad, he developed cough, cold, fever, three days ago. “His swab samples were collected which tested positive for the virus. He might have contracted it outside the hospital,” an official said. He was admitted in the hospital. According to the bulletin released by the Public Health and Family Welfare department, the total number of active cases in different hospitals government/private stood at 496, down from 514 on Wednesday and the drop in the active cases was because of the significant number of persons discharged. The GHMC area topped the list with 240 active cases and 134 persons discharged cumulatively followed by Nizamabad district which reported 42 active cases and discharge of 16 persons. The total number of positive cases in Vikarabad district too was on the higher side at 32 followed by Sruyapet 23 and Warangal Urban 21. Containment measures were taken up in 159 clusters spread over 13 districts. The department surveyed 3.97 lakh people in 99,257 households across the State. The capacity to test swab samples in the State would increase in the coming weeks as Telangana Health Minister Eatala Rajender said they received permission to test samples at two more laboratories, including at a lab associated with Labour department’s hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fifty-more-test-positive-in-state/article31361368.ece
17 April 2020||Lucknow/ Ghaziabad,||17 arrested for attacking officials in Moradabad||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday instructed officials to recover the cost of damage to property from the persons accused of attacking health officials in Moradabad on Wednesday. “If they don’t [pay up for the damage], their property should be seized,” a government spokesperson said, quoting the Chief Minister. Three persons, including a doctor, were injured when a crowd attacked a health department team that went to take samples for checking COVID-19 infection in the Nawabpura area of Moradabad, the police said. The area had been declared a hotspot after one resident died on April 13 of suspected COVID-19 infection. So far, 17 persons, including seven women, have been arrested, they said. An FIR was registered against 21 persons and another 200 unidentified persons under various clauses, including attempt to murder and rioting. Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Awasthi said the stringent National Security Act would also be slapped against the accused, as per Mr. Adityanath’s instructions, to prevent similar incidents in future. The area around Nek Wali mosque in Moradabad where the officials were attacked remained under complete lockdown on Thursday. Sandeep Badola, State president, Diploma Pharmacist Association, said health department officials would not go door-to-door for sample collection. “The health department team will sit in the local police station and the policemen should bring the possible COVID-19-infected persons to us for sample collection or institutional quarantine. We have conveyed this to the Chief Medical Officer and the district administration,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/17-arrested-for-attacking-officials-in-moradabad/article31361314.ece
17 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Cabinet meeting on Sunday||Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will chair a Cabinet meeting on April 19 to review the COVID-19 situation in the State. The Cabinet, it is learnt, will discuss measures being taken to control the spread of coronavirus infection, implementation of lockdown measures and take a call whether to continue the lockdown strictly till May 3 or give some relaxation to certain sectors and areas after April 20 in line with the guidelines issued by the Union government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cabinet-meeting-on-sunday/article31361372.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru,||In biggest daily jump so far, 36 new cases in State||A total of 36 new COVID-19 cases — the biggest jump in a day in Karnataka so far — were reported on Thursday. North Karnataka accounted for 28 of them. With this, the total number of cases in the State stands at 315. Thursday also saw another death confirmed in the State, taking the toll to 13. According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare, a 66-year-old male patient from Bengaluru, who had tested positive for the disease, died on Wednesday. The patient was admitted in Victoria Hospital and was on ventilator support since April 10.  Spurt in Belagavi Belagavi district in North Karanataka, with 17 cases, accounted for 47% of the total cases reported on Thursday. Vijayapura is next with seven cases. Five cases have been reported from Bengaluru, and three each from Kalaburagi and Mysuru. There has been one case reported from Gadag district. Before this, the highest number of positive cases reported in a day was 19. Speaking at a press conference in Bengaluru, S. Suresh Kumar, Primary and Secondary Education Minister, said that the number of positive cases in Belagavi and Vijayapura were on the rise. “In fact in Vijayapura, all of the 17 cases are reported from two families,” he said. Children and seniors Of the 36 cases reported on Thursday, five patients are aged below 16 years, and six are senior citizens. While a majority of them came into contact with positive patients, some of them also have a history of domestic travel. A total of 82 patients have been discharged as on Thursday in the State. The most number of active cases are in Mysuru [49], followed by Bengaluru Urban [38], and Belagavi [35].||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-biggest-daily-jump-so-far-36-new-cases-in-state/article31361151.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Refund fares to passengers, airlines told||There is some relief for air travellers as the government on Thursday asked airlines to refund air fares instead of blocking passengers’ money in credit shells. But this will benefit only those who booked flight after the lockdown came into force three weeks ago for travel post April 14. “If a passenger has booked a ticket during the first lockdown period and the airline has received the payment for booking of air ticket during the first lockdown period (March 25 to April 14) for travel during the second lockdown period (April 15-May 3) for both domestic and international air travel, the airline shall refund the full amount with levy of cancellation charges,” said an order issued by the Ministry of Civil Aviation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/refund-fares-to-passengers-airlines-told/article31361108.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||Zoom not a safe platform, says MHA||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has issued an advisory that Zoom video conference is not a safe platform. It was issued on April 12 and the MHA shared it with journalists on Thursday. U.S. based Zoom video communication has seen an exponential rise in usage in India as office-goers remain at home owing to the present lockdown. The software used in the online platform is said to be made in China and some calls were being routed through servers in China. The Cyber Coordination Centre of the MHA issued a set of guidelines for its safe usage. It was not for use by government offices and officials, the MHA noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/zoom-not-a-safe-platform-says-mha/article31361109.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Life as usual||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/life-as-usual/article31361111.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Seafarers may return in three phases||The government is working on a plan to allow seafarers to return to India in three phases. This includes allowing mariners on ships that are already at Indian ports to disembark when the lockdown is partially eased on April 20. The standard operating procedure to facilitate return of seafarers is likely to be finalised by Friday, a top source at the Shipping Ministry told The Hindu . “In the first phase, we will allow seamen on ships docked at the Indian ports to disembark and sign off. In the second phase, those on ships in deep sea will be allowed to return by sea. And in the final stage, we will permit those who have disembarked from their ships and signed off in a foreign country,” the source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seafarers-may-return-in-three-phases/article31361115.ece
17 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Golden Temple sees big dip in offerings||Amid the ongoing lockdown in the wake of COVID-19, the offerings at Golden Temple have fallen drastically. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal has urged people to donate in whatever possible way so that ‘langar’ at the temple and other gurdwaras can continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/golden-temple-sees-big-dip-in-offerings/article31361313.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||Six more deaths, 62 new COVID-19 cases in Delhi||Six deaths and 62 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Thursday, taking the toll to 38 and the total number to 1,640. The Delhi government declared three more areas as “containment zones”. The number of such zones in the city has gone up to 60.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-more-deaths-62-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi/article31361312.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lockdown only a pause button: Rahul||Lockdown is only a “pause button” and not a solution to stop the spread of the novel coronavirus, and the government should adopt aggressive and extensive testing to “defeat” the virus, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said on Thursday. In a virtual press conference, Mr. Gandhi said that though he had many disagreements with the government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, “today is not the time to fight with each other but to unite the country and take on the virus”. To a query if the nature and structure of democracy would change post COVID-19, he said though there was a possibility right now, the priority was to fight the virus. He cautioned the government on the migrant workers’ issue, saying it should act quickly or there would be “social unrest”.  Mr. Gandhi offered suggestions such as creating a safety net for the poor by offering free rations, putting money into the accounts of 20% of the poorest families in India, preparing a survival plan for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and protecting the interests of strategic industries, among others. “First thing to understand is that a lockdown is like a pause button, it’s in no way a solution to coronavirus. When we come out of the lockdown, the virus will start its work again. So, it’s important that we have a strategy to come out of it,” he said. “The biggest weapon to fight the virus is testing.” Mr. Gandhi pointed out that India right now was testing 199 persons for every one million people or 350 tests every district. “If you have to fight the virus, you have to increase testing dramatically and your testing has to go from chasing the virus to moving ahead of it. That means you have to move into random testing,” he said. ‘Create 2 basic zones’ Asked if he favoured partial lifting of the lockdown, he said, “It should be a strategic opening. You open particular key areas, use testing to identify and this is where the point of ramping up testing is important. You use testing to identify dynamically which are the hot spots and you clamp down on those hot spots. You create two basic zones in India -a hot spot zone and a non-hot spot zone”. Besides managing healthcare infrastructure, the economy needed urgent attention as there would be a “financial backlash” because of COVID-19. “You are going to see the first waves of unemployment and then that will start to spiral, you will see massive pressure coming on our financial system.” The government needed to set up structures to manage funding to avoid a financial crisis in a few months, he said.  Food and assistance On migrants getting restive to return to their native place, he said, “There are some people who have suggested moving the migrant people, some people are suggesting don’t move them. Give them food and assistance where they are. Whichever choice the government chooses, they need to act on it quickly. If they don’t act on it quickly social unrest will develop quickly in the country.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lockdown-only-a-pause-button-rahul/article31361031.ece
17 April 2020||Pune,||With 170 new cases, Mumbai crosses 2,000 mark||The number of COVID-19 positive cases and deaths continued to rise in Maharashtra as the State crossed the 3,000-case mark on Thursday, with 286 new cases being reported. The tally went up to 3,202, while the death toll surged to 194 with seven new deaths. Maharashtra has the highest death toll (more than 40%) and the highest number of positive cases in the country, accounting for a fourth of India’s total positive cases. Three of the new fatalities were reported from Mumbai, taking the city’s death toll to 117. The majority of the new cases in the State — 170 of the 286 — were reported from the city, followed by Pune district, which reported 66 fresh cases, including three from Pimpri-Chinchwad. With the new cases, Mumbai city’s tally of COVID-19 positive cases alone has crossed the 2,000-mark to reach 2,073, Pune reported four deaths, taking its death toll to 46. According to Pune divisional authorities, three of the dead were women. A 65-year-old woman from the Wakdewadi area, who was suffering from high blood pressure, a 54-year-old woman from Ganj Peth, and a 47-year-old woman from Kondhwa who had a kidney ailment, said Divisional Commissioner Dr. Deepak Mhaisekar. Pune district’s cumulative tally has touched 473 cases, with 435 of these from Pune city, around 40 of them from Pimpri-Chinchwad, and the rest from the district’s rural parts. Solapur district in the Pune division witnessed a sharp spike, reporting ten new cases. Nine of them were contacts of a woman who had been previously diagnosed with COVID-19. This woman had come into contact with a recently deceased shopkeeper who had tested positive for the virus, said district authorities. Thirteen cases were reported from Thane district, a further 11 from Nagpur, four from Malegaon in Nashik district in north Maharashtra, and fresh cases were reported from Panvel, Vasai-Virar and Navi Mumbai, as well as the Ahmednagar and Chandrapur districts. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said that 300 patients across the State had been discharged till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/with-170-new-cases-mumbai-crosses-2000-mark/article31361051.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||New normal: more airport time, no frills and higher fare||Passengers taking a flight must prepare to spend more time at the airport, temperature checks, fewer frills on board and possibly higher air fares, as airlines, airports and the government work to ensure physical distancing, hand hygiene and a sanitised environment to keep the COVID-19 infection at bay once the lockdown is lifted. “The key aspect we have to keep in mind is the safety of passengers by ensuring social distancing so that the infection does not spread. This means travel time will increase. Where passengers were asked to report 45 minutes before the departure time (for domestic flights), they will now have to report two hours earlier. We will encourage passengers to use automated modes as much as possible to avoid human contact. For example, they may be asked to check in through the mobile application or self check-in kiosks, which will undergo frequent cleaning,” Vistara chief commercial officer Vinod Kannan told The Hindu in a telephone interview. GoAir, however, requires its passengers to report three hours before a flight. Norms being finalised “The Ministry of Civil Aviation, the Airports Authority of India (AAI), the safety regulator DGCA and the aviation security watchdog Bureau of Civil Aviation Security are finalising guidelines for airports and airlines. Several airports have already started marking circles and squares at various contact points on their premises,” AAI Chairman Arvind Singh said. The CISF has submitted its recommendations on security protocol to the Ministry of Civil Aviation, which include measurement of body temperature at the airport entrance, filling up of a questionnaire on health conditions by passengers, only alternate check-in counters being opened and security personnel equipped with protective gear. CISF airport in-charge M.A. Ganapathy said that at the time of entering the terminal building, passengers would be asked to remove their mask for identification by security personnel and CCTV cameras. Once you board the flight, the middle row seat is likely to be left empty, in accordance with the DGCA guidelines, or possibly four out of six seats in a row could be left empty. While low-cost airlines IndiGo and GoAir will discontinue meals on board, Vistara will continue to provide them, with some changes in the delivery. “In order to ensure a superior quality of service, our cabin crew members interact with passengers several times and explain the menu. We will limit the number of interactions. We will offer pre-packaged cold meals to minimise contact,” Mr. Kannan said. Passengers must also be prepared for a costlier travel so that airlines can operate flights in a cost-efficient manner despite being required to leave 33%-50% of their flights empty. “If we are operating only two-thirds of our flight capacity, the cost per ticket will go up. But airfare is a function of supply and demand and we can’t predict the nature of demand. We know that in the first few days, there will be a lot of demand from passengers, but what happens thereafter is uncertain,” Mr. Kannan said. Vistara and other airlines have already announced that they will remove all reading materials from seat-back pockets, clean the aircraft after every flight and deep-clean the aircraft after every 24 hours and provide passengers with hand-sanitisers and masks. With multiple agencies involved in minimising the risk of infection, Mr. Kannan advises passengers to travel free of stress. “This is not an easy time, but air travel is the safest mode. The air inside the plane is re-circulated through HEPA filters to minimise infection. Just remember to wear your mask and factor in extra time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-normal-more-airport-time-no-frills-and-higher-fare/article31361058.ece
17 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Safety kits sought for doctors||Former Haryana Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday urged private doctors to keep their clinics and hospitals open amid reports that many have closed their clinics in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak. Mr. Hooda said the State government should provide corona safety kits to all government doctors as well as private doctors to avoid any possible infection. “Since the corona outbreak, the pressure is on the government hospitals which are overloaded. We must provide whatever relief we can to the government doctors who are at the frontline of our war against the deadly pandemic. I appeal to all private doctors to continue their services. In the times of pandemic, they can make a significant contribution by providing treatment of other diseases,” he said. Mr. Hooda said private schools should also provide some relief to parents of students and sought the State government’s intervention in the issue. “All the economic activity has come to a standstill due to the lockdown and people are unable to meet even the most basic requirements as many avenues of income have been closed. Therefore, many parents are not in a position to pay the expensive fees of private schools. The government should grant a concession in fees, by establishing synergy with such private schools. The government should help schools which don’t have a strong financial base so that parents do not have to bear the cost of fees in times of economic distress,” Mr. Hooda said. Recognising the role of government employees in the present situation, Mr. Hooda said whether permanent or temporary, all employees were saving lives. He appreciated the State government’s decision to double the salary of the employees of the Health department. He said while the decision was a welcome step, a similar announcement should be made for policemen, sweepers etc. Mr. Hooda said media persons, like government employees, must also be recognised as corona warriors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/safety-kits-sought-for-doctors/article31361081.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||India eyes record food production||On the back of a normal monsoon forecast, the Agriculture Ministry is targeting a record foodgrain production of 298.3 million tonnes for 2020-21, higher than the 291.95 million tonnes estimated for 2019-20. According to a presentation made by Agriculture Commissioner Suresh Malhotra at a National Conference on Agriculture-Kharif 2020 Campaign on Thursday, both rice and wheat production targets are minimally higher than the previous year. However, the focus is on driving the growth in pulses, coarse cereals and oilseeds. Due to the travel restrictions imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic, the Agriculture Ministry’s annual meeting to review the ongoing rabi or winter season harvest and layout prospects for the coming kharif or summer cropping season is being held via video conferencing. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar also interacted with State agriculture departments, briefing them on the measures taken to ensure a smooth and safe rabi harvest in the midst of the lockdown. Normal rainfall On Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department issued its first forecast for the monsoon, predicting normal rainfall, with a chance of above normal rain in August and September. The main kharif season crop is rice, and the Agriculture Ministry is targeting a harvest of 102.6 million tonnes, slightly higher than the last kharif season harvest of 101.95 million tonnes. However, it has lowered its rice production target for the next rabi season to 14.9 million tonnes. This means that the total rice production target for 2020-21 is 117.5 million tonnes, barely higher than the previous year's target of 117.47 million tonnes. Wheat production is also expected to remain steady, with a 2020-21 target of 106.5 million tonnes, in comparison to the previous year’s estimate of 106.21 million tonnes. The Agriculture Ministry hopes to ramp up production of coarse cereals this year, but admits that the challenge is how to create demand for nutricereals or millets. It is targeting a harvest of 48.7 million tonnes in comparison to the previous season’s 45.24 million tonnes. With regard to pulses, the target is 25.3 million tonnes compared to the previous season's estimates of 23 million tonnes, with the entire increase projected to come from the kharif season. Oilseeds major priority Oilseeds are a major priority, especially due to the disruption in edible oil imports caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The targeted harvest is 36.64 million tonnes, in comparison to the last season's estimates of 34.19 million tonnes. One challenge could be a shortfall in supply of soyabean seeds to the tune of 3.2 lakh quintals, due to unseasonal rains at the time of harvesting the seed crop. The Ministry has also created an action plan for oil palm plantation, given the disruptions in imports. It hopes to cover 31,500 hectares with about 45 lakh seedlings this year, with the bulk of the plantation in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-eyes-record-food-production/article31361029.ece
17 April 2020||PATNA,||Bihar to step up testing||Bihar with an estimated population of 123 million people has had far fewer sample tests done for COVID-19 compared to other States, but health officials said tests would be increased in the days to come. The State government has also announced a “pulse polio pattern drive” like door-to-door screening of all those residing within a 3-km radius of a patient. According to Principal Health Secretary Sanjay Kumar, till April 16 Bihar has done 8,846 sample tests at six centres with 607 under process. “Two more positive cases came from Buxar district on Thursday. The total number of COVID-19 positive cases in Bihar has gone up to 80 with samples of six persons — two males and four females of a family — having tested positive,” he said in a tweet. The two persons found positive had travel history from Asansol in West Bengal. On Thursday, eight persons whose samples earlier tested positive however were released from the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), which is designated as COVID-19 special hospital. Out of the eight, six were from Siwan (the red zone hotspot district) while one each are from Gaya and Gopalgunj districts. “Earlier the testing was done according to Central guidelines which did not suggest taking samples of those who were asymptomatic… but now we have started door-to-door screening and the sample tests will be increased in the days to come,” Ragini Mishra, Bihar’s COVID-19 nodal officer, told The Hindu over phone. Recovery rate “Besides, the number of sample tests are population-based and Bihar’s rank is way above so many other States,” said a Health department official. He added that the “COVID-19 recovery rate in Bihar is 51.30%, which is much higher than several States.” Earlier, the sample tests in Bihar were done only at two places but now it is being done at six places.“We are equipped to do more sample tests on a daily basis,” said the Health Department official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-to-step-up-testing/article31361046.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Most COVID-19 positive Indians abroad are in the Gulf||The majority of Indians who tested positive for COVID-19 infection abroad are located in the Gulf countries, a source familiar with the figures said on Thursday. The official maintained that India had sufficient quarantine facilities to house the affected individuals. However, a decision was taken not to evacuate the affected nationals spread across the world because of the highly contagious nature of the novel coronavirus that causes the infection. “There is no shortage of quarantine facilities in India. In fact, the nature of the virus is such that it spreads very fast. Therefore it is good that they remain where they are to avoid further spreading the virus, both in their host countries as well as in India,” said the source. The official said that a total of 3,336 Indians spread across 53 countries have tested positive for the novel coronavirus and 25 Indians have died in the consequent COVID-19 infection. Out of the total, around 2,061 are in Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, UAE, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia. On the northern coast of the Gulf, Iran also continues to host around 308 affected Indians, mainly in the cities of Qom and Tehran. UAE’s offer Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been in frequent contact with the Arab leaders of the member states of the Gulf Cooperation Council over the last two months as the cases increased among the blue collar Indian expats. The health related issues of the Indian workers in the region had been taken up most recently by Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who wrote to Mr. Modi expressing concern about the “well being of Indian diaspora” in the region, especially in Dubai. The United Arab Emirates has extended an offer to evacuate all affected Indian nationals following required medical tests, though New Delhi is yet to respond to that gesture. Earlier, on April 13, India sent a Rapid Response Team to Kuwait which held interactions with officials there, as the Gulf monarchy emerged as the largest host of Indians affected by the novel coronavirus abroad. The United Arab Emirates is also among the 54 countries where India is supplying the anti-malarial drug HydroxyChloroquine which is being tried in COVID-19 treatment. Apart from the Gulf nations, Singapore with 634 Indians is the other big hotspot. Italy (91), Malaysia (37), Portugal (36), Ghana (29), U.S. (24), Switzerland (15) and France (13) are some of the other countries on the list. Ministry’s control room To deal with the emerging situation, the Ministry of External Affairs set up a COVID-19 Control Room in March to serve as the nodal body for dealing with the Indians and their families living abroad. The official said that around 18,000 emails have been answered by the COVID-19 Control Room in the last few weeks. That apart, 5,000 phone calls and 2,000 public grievances were also addressed regarding the welfare of Indians who are abroad in the current difficult circumstances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/most-covid-19-positive-indians-abroad-are-in-the-gulf/article31361068.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||Police get 7-day custody of Navlakha||Civil rights campaigner Gautam Navlakha was sent to a seven-day police custody by a city court on Wednesday. Mr. Navlakha, accused of involvement in the Bhima-Koregaon riots of 2018, surrendered to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in New Delhi on Tuesday. NIA had appealed for a ten-day custody of Mr. Navlakha on the ground that custodial interrogation was required for analysing the data and documents retrieved from electronic devices that were recovered during the investigation. Mr. Navlakha’s counsel opposed the application, stating that he was 67 years old and had been falsely implicated in the case. Additional District Judge Sunena Sharma said that considering the nature of allegations, custodial interrogation was indeed required. The Judge then granted the police Mr. Navlakha’s custody for seven days. The court told the investigating officer that Mr. Navlakha must be medically examined every 48 hours. It said that in the wake of the public health emergency due to COVID-19 outbreak, the officer should take “extra precautions.” The accused being a senior citizen was more prone to infections. A Supreme Court bench had rejected the anticipatory bail pleas of Mr. Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde, an engineer and IIM graduate who taught at IIT Kharagpur, on March 16 and ordered them to surrender. The case against them was transferred from the Pune police to the NIA in January. Both have been charged under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Dr. Teltumbde surrendered in Mumbai on Tuesday. Mr. Navlakha could not travel to Mumbai due to the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown and surrendered in Delhi. Before surrendering to the NIA, Mr. Navlakha said in a statement: “My hope rests on a speedy and fair trial for myself and all my co-accused. This alone will enable me to clear my name, and walk free....” Previous arrests The Pune police had earlier arrested activists Sudha Bharadwaj, Shoma Sen, Surendra Gadling, Mahesh Raut, Arun Ferreira, Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Vernon Gonsalves and Varavara Rao for their alleged involvement in the Bhima Koregaon riots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-get-7-day-custody-of-navlakha/article31361040.ece
17 April 2020||Kolkata,||Elderly couple relive days spent in quarantine||So near, and yet so far. That turned out to be the case for an elderly couple from Kolkata who, upon their return from Australia on the night of March 21, were taken straight to a quarantine centre that was almost a stone’s throw from their home. Debajyoti Ghosh Roy, 69, and his wife Baisakhi, 63, are now back home and can afford to look back in amusement at the nearly two weeks they spent in confinement in unfamiliar surroundings, but the overriding feeling is that of fear. “When we get to hear that most people dying of COVID-19 are senior citizens, we feel scared,” said Mr. Ghosh Roy, who and his wife had gone to Hobart to spend time with their son when they realised India could soon be under lockdown. He hastily booked tickets and the two first flew from Hobart to Melbourne and then to Singapore. They landed in Kolkata at 10.45 p.m. on March 21, and it was around 3.30 a.m. that they — along with the other passengers — were put in buses and taken straight to the yet-to-be-inaugurated campus of the Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute at Rajarhat, the township where they live. Ample facilities “After basic medical examination we were sent to a hall on the sixth floor. We carried our luggage. The hall had been partitioned into many bays; our bay had 10 beds,” Mr. Ghosh Roy said. Ms. Ghosh Roy added: “It felt like a three-star facility, if not five-star. The sheets and blankets and towels were all brand new, so were the buckets and mugs in the bathroom. The food was vegetarian but very good.” Three days later, they were told that they would be moved to another location because these beds would now be needed for those who showed symptoms. So several of those quarantined here were again put into a bus and taken to a a three-bedroom flat. On April 3, they were asked if they would like to go home. “I called up our housing society — they were more than happy to have us back. But the other inmates were not so lucky,” Mr. Ghosh Roy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/elderly-couple-relive-days-spent-in-quarantine/article31361071.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||Mumbai team develops ‘voice-based test’||A university in Rome is conducting a pilot run for a patented artificial intelligence-based tool developed by three biotechnology students and a professor from Mumbai, which they claim can test COVID-19 through voice-based diagnosis. The tool is being tested by the University of Tor Vergata in Rome and has already been tested on 300 individuals. According to the students and the professor from DY Patil Institute of Bio Technology and Bio Informatics, Mumbai, the tool can be used in smartphones. The team includes bioinformatics students — Rashmi Chakraborty, Priyanka Chauhan and Priya Garg. “While several foreign universities are trying to launch a voice-based AI tool for COVID-19 detection, this Indian tool is fully functional and currently in use in Italy to successfully identify COVID-19 patients. The students have a full-fledged working software with a rich database of patients and healthy samples. This tool is being currently used by the University of Rome to detect COVID-19 patients with 98% accuracy,” said professor Santosh Bothe, who supervised the project. “As someone speaks to the microphone on the app, the tool breaks down the voice in multiple parameters such as frequency and noise distortion. These values are then compared to a normal person’s values and the patented technique then determines if the patient is positive or not,” he added. A team at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore, is also working on a diagnostic tool based on analysis of cough and respiratory sounds. Timbre is key According to Giovanni Saggio, professor at the Rome university’s Engineering department, the audio-based disease diagnosis tool can find coronavirus from the timbre of the voice. “Each human voice has 6,300 parameters, and only a few units, less than a dozen, specifically characterise individuals. The human ear is not able to distinguish them, but artificial intelligence does. Each one of our internal organs is sort of a resonator, so if we have a problem with our lungs or our heart, this is reflected in our voice,” Mr. Saggio said. “The same person has one voice when they are healthy, and another if they have a pathology. Since coronavirus compromises lungs and airwaves, the voice is definitely affected. The current novel coronavirus cases could be picked this way,” he added. Priya Garg believes this tool can be of great impact in the first level of screening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mumbai-team-develops-voice-based-test/article31361074.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC against use of ‘unproven’ drug||A petition filed in the Supreme Court contends that seriously ill COVID-19 patients in intensive care units in hospitals are subjected to “controversial, unproven, non-specific and potentially toxic off-label” use of anti-malarial drug Hydroxychloroquine and broad-spectrum antibiotic Azithromycin without taking any precautionary measures to prevent cardiac complications and possible death. A non-governmental organisation called People for Better Treatment, through its president Dr. Kunal Saha, drew the court’s attention to an extraordinary bulletin issued jointly on April 8 by the American Heart Association (AHA), the American College of Cardiology (ACC) and the Heart Rhythm Society (HRS) with stark warnings to doctors about the use of these two drugs on COVID-19 patients with existing cardiac conditions. The bulletin had said the use of these drugs on patients with cardiac conditions would possibly trigger arrythmia (abnormal heartbeat), heart failure and even death. It had advised to follow specific therapeutic measures in such cases. “Most of the drugs presently being used to treat COVID-19 patients are based primarily on anecdotal evidence and not on direct scientific data because very little actual research has been published on this new strain of coronaviruses which was isolated for the first time only a few months ago. COVID-19 patients receive primarily symptomatic therapy because no specific drug against the new SARS-CoV-2 viruses has been invented till now... Needless to say that when treating the vulnerable patients with an unproven drug for its off-label use, doctors should be extra vigilant about its potential harmful adverse effects on COVID-19 patients,” the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-sc-against-use-of-unproven-drug/article31361037.ece
17 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Braving cancer and fighting the spread of novel coronavirus||Despite under treatment for uterine cancer, Rama Sahu (46), an anganwadi worker of Khandara village in Ganjam district of Odisha, has not neglected her duty as an awareness building warrior against COVID-19. Her husband, Ramesh Chandra Sahu, says, “No one knows that she has to wear an adult diaper when she goes out of home to serve the women and children of Khandara in the scorching sun. She never misses her duty and forgets her ailment and pain while doing her work.” Difficulties are not new to Ms. Sahu. The couple lost both their sons at a young age. Her husband left his business as a labour contractor in Pune to return home and help her out. Local people praise Ms. Sahu’s dedication. Sarpanch Laxman Gouda said that every household was sure of a visit from her even during the lockdown. Thanks to her efforts, every woman in the village has taken an oath to follow all precautions, he said. “I have taught them the proper use of home-made face masks and the proper way of washing hands with soap at regular intervals,” Ms. Sahu said. Last week, she surveyed every household in Khandara to identify people having symptoms of cough, cold and fever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/braving-cancer-and-fighting-the-spread-of-novel-coronavirus/article31361077.ece
17 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Golden Temple sees a big dip in offerings||Amid the ongoing lockdown in the wake of COVID-19, the offerings at Golden Temple have fallen drastically, forcing the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to appeal to people to donate generously. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal has urged people to donate in whatever possible way so that ‘langar’ (community kitchen), at the Golden Temple and other gurdwaras can continue. Sharing the harvest “Shri Harmandir Sahib is a central place for Sikhs, where lakhs of people [sangat] are served food at ‘langar’ every day. Today, due to the coronavirus outbreak, most people are confined to their houses and very few people are visiting gurdwars. At this time of crisis, I appeal to people to spare a part of their income for gurdwaras. Specially, at this time when wheat harvesting is in full swing, I urge people to donate a portion of their produce, especially wheat, so that the ‘langar’ can be continued to be served to the poor and the needy,” Mr. Longowal said in a video message. He said that with the drop in people visiting the Golden Temple, the daily offering at the shrine had reduced to Rs. 10,000-15,000 in comparison to Rs. 20 lakh-25 lakh earlier. He said the monthly collection of the Golden Temple, Gurdwara Baba Deep Singh and other 40 gurdwaras was close to Rs. 12 crore in usual times. “In the financial year of 2019-20, Rs. 85 crore was received, which included offerings in cash as well as donations made online,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/golden-temple-sees-a-big-dip-in-offerings/article31361079.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||CRPF helps baby in Srinagar undergo emergency surgery||Tahir Ahmad Dar (30), a daily wager in downtown Srinagar, was crestfallen when his newborn baby was detected with a congenital heart disease. Doctors at the hospital where the child was born told Tahir and his wife, Humaira (27), to take the infant to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, as an urgent surgery was required. The lockdown complicated things as Srinagar is among the 170 “hotspots” districts identified by the Union Health Ministry. A friend who distributes medicines to the needy read Tahir’s post on Facebook. He called the CRPF’s Madadgaar helpline and sought their help. On Tuesday, constable Asif ul Rehman, who attended the call, reached out to Tahir and the baby was shifted it to the Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) in Soura, where an emergency procedure was done to save the baby. Tahir was told that the cost of the operation would be Rs. 5 lakh in Srinagar. “I had no money. After a friend read my post, he contacted the CRPF. The CRPF personnel met me near my home and gave me money to get my son treated. This is my first child… we sensed that there is some problem when the baby refused to take his mother’s milk,” Tahir said on phone from Srinagar. “Since his birth we have been in hospital. After the emergency procedure was conducted we have not met him, he is on ventilator but stable. Doctors say he is recovering,” said Tahir. Madadgaar (14411) is a 24/7 helpline launched by the CRPF in 2017 to help the residents of Jammu and Kashmir. Constable Rehman said the baby needed urgent medical attention and arranging transportation to the AIIMS would be difficult due to the restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crpf-helps-baby-in-srinagar-undergo-emergency-surgery/article31361083.ece
17 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. starts pool testing COVID-19 samples||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday said it had started pool testing COVID-19 samples in the State. Meanwhile, the number of deaths due to COVID-19 in U.P. climbed to 13 and the positive cases stood at 805, according to the State Directorate of Health Services. After experimenting with pool testing, which allows testing several samples together, in Agra, the State would now expand it to other districts. The first batch of 150 samples from Agra, tested in 30 pools of five samples each, turned out negative, said Amit Mohan Prasad, Principal Secretary, Health Department. “The testing was quite encouraging,” he said. Agra has turned out to be a major hotspot in the State with the most number of positive cases, 167, as well as deaths, five. For the pool testing, the administration collected samples from “buffer zones” outside the containment areas in Agra, said Mr. Prasad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-starts-pool-testing-covid-19-samples/article31361054.ece
17 April 2020||Srinagar,||J&K govt clarifies on testing kits||The Jammu and Kashmir government clarified on Thursday that the Kashmir Valley is not facing any dearth of testing kits. “There is no truth that a testing kit consignment was diverted to Jammu. It was first delivered in Jammu and the next day it was received in Srinagar. There was no interruption in the testing process because of any shortage,” said Dr. Samia Rashid, Principal of the Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar. The clarification came after The Hindu published a report on a consignment of 5,000 testing kits being diverted to Jammu. They were shifted to Srinagar only after the intervention of senior officials in the Union Territory. Ms. Rashid said a third testing centre was being established at the Jhelum Valley Medical College, Bemina. Testing centres are there now at GMC, Srinagar, and the Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences hospital. A government spokesman said doctors at the SKIMS hospital confirmed that it was not facing any shortage of test kits and had ramped up the number to 1000 tests a day. However, the hospital has not clarified as how many fresh samples from the Directorate of Health, Kashmir, were received on Wednesday, due to the delay in testing kits arrival. On the role of Dr. Jitender Mehta, Divisional Officer, National Health Mission, the spokesman said the former was actively involved in COVID-19 “mitigation and management”. “Dr. Mehta had no role in the procurement process,” the spokesman added. Dr. Samir Mattoo, Director of Health Services, said his department was carrying out sample collection across the Valley aggressively. Civil society groups and traders’ bodies have called for transparency in the mitigation plan pursued by the government to manage the crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-govt-clarifies-on-testing-kits/article31361069.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||Ministry issues SOP for sowing of kharif crops||The Union Agriculture Ministry on Thursday laid down the standard operating procedure (SOP) to guide farmers on safety precautions that need to be strictly followed during planting of kharif crops amid the threat of COVID-19 pandemic. “Transplanting of paddy and vegetables are labour-intensive activities. Hence, it is important to strictly follow guidelines on social distancing, sanitizing and wearing masks,” the SOP released by the ministry during the national video conference on kharif crops said. Workers should wash their hands, legs and face with soap when coming out of the field for meal or rest, it added. For preparing land for sowing of kharif crops, the ministry said, farmers should minimise labour and use tractor. Farmers should use seed-cum-fertiliser drills and reduce the number of workers in the field. As per the SOP, social distancing and sanitization norms should be followed during field preparation, sowing and fertiliser application. “Maintain social distance of atleast 1-2 metre during farm operations. Workers should be assigned separate duties with regard to farm activities,” it said. Sanitisation important “All farm equipment from seed drill, plough to tractor should be sanitized before use. Those working in the farm field should wear masks or cover their face with three layers of “chunnis, gamchha or towel,” it added. Each worker should have a separate utensil and clean it with soap after use, the SOP said. For operations like weeding and spraying of fertilisers and pesticides, the Ministry asked farmers to “Burn or bury in soil empty packets of pesticides. Sun dry empty bags of seeds, fertilisers for two days for re-use.” It also advised that farmers take bath and wash clothes with soap and sundry after the day’s work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ministry-issues-sop-for-sowing-of-kharif-crops/article31361024.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Fresh cases rise by over 800; fatality rate at 3.3%||“Rapid antibody tests are for monitoring surveillance, not for diagnosis. Hence there is no concern with respect to the testing kits being faulty, that concern was with respect to immune response alone,” ICMR spokesperson R.R. Gangakhedkar said. The ICMR added that there is currently no evidence to suggest that hot weather can have a slowdown effect of the virus. The Health Ministry has said that 325 districts have not reported any coronavirus case so far because of the actions initiated at field level. The implementation of containment strategies in some districts which earlier had reported COVID-19 cases has yielded positive results. One of such place is Puducherry’s Mahe district, where no case of the infection has been reported in the last 28 days. There are 27 other districts also where no positive case has been reported in a fortnight. The Ministry added that the Central government has amended the Environment Impact Assessment Notification, 2006, to ramp up availability and production of bulk drugs. All projects or activities in respect of bulk drugs and intermediates have been re-categorised, to fast-track their appraisal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fresh-cases-rise-by-over-800-fatality-rate-at-33/article31361033.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Refund fares to passengers, airlines told||There is some relief for air travellers as the government on Thursday asked airlines to refund air fares instead of blocking passengers’ money in credit shells. But this will benefit only those who booked flight after the lockdown came into force three weeks ago for travel post April 14. “If a passenger has booked a ticket during the first lockdown period and the airline has received the payment for booking of air ticket during the first lockdown period (March 25 to April 14) for travel during the second lockdown period (April 15-May 3) for both domestic and international air travel, the airline shall refund the full amount with levy of cancellation charges,” said an order issued by the Ministry of Civil Aviation. Airlines will have to issue refunds within three weeks of receiving a request. The Ministry had earlier held a meeting with airline CEOs on the matter. Importantly, passengers who had booked their tickets before the lockdown period kicked in will not benefit from the decision. Their money will be parked with the airlines and can be redeemed when they make a fresh booking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/refund-fares-to-passengers-airlines-told/article31361034.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Seafarers may return in three phases||®The government is working on a plan to allow seafarers to return to India in three phases. This includes allowing mariners on ships that are already at Indian ports to disembark when the lockdown is partially eased on April 20. The standard operating procedure to facilitate return of seafarers is likely to be finalised by Friday, a top source at the Shipping Ministry told The Hindu . “In the first phase, we will allow seamen on ships docked at the Indian ports to disembark and sign off. In the second phase, those on ships in deep sea will be allowed to return by sea. And in the final stage, we will permit those who have disembarked from their ships and signed off in a foreign country,” the source said. “Those in deep sea have already been quarantined in the vessel and they can be allowed to return earlier,” the official explained. He said seafarers on foreign land would be allowed to return to India only when the government lifted its ban on flights and allowed other Indians stranded abroad to return.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seafarers-may-return-in-three-phases/article31361035.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||All Indore residents to be screened for virus||Under the treatment protocol, the illness of a patient is first classified into one of the four categories — uncomplicated illnesses such as fever or sore throat, mild pneumonia, severe pneumonia and ARDS. Then, the treatment begins. The survey, said Jyoti Bindal, Dean of the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College, is to ensure that the patient doesn’t reach a critical stage. “Spot it early so that mortality reduces,” she said. Early spotting of respiratory illnesses, whose symptoms are identical to those of COVID-19 in the initial stages, may help to pre-empt the disease load in patients. As part of the door-to-door surveys, teams of health workers and teachers identify symptoms with an application-based questionnaire. Ten teams report to a doctor, who checks suspects and takes samples. For backup, a medical mobile unit is stationed in each area. “Only when we identify patients can we focus on certain areas and contain the spread there,” Indore Divisional Commissioner Akash Tripathi said. The survey initially focussed on 10 hotspots, but is being widened to areas where at least one case has been found.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-indore-residents-to-be-screened-for-virus/article31361038.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Mumbai runs out of beds in ICUs, patients suffer||“We tried at least five hospitals, including Seven Hills and Saifee, but none had any vacant ICU beds,” said Samajwadi Party legislator Rais Shaikh who was helping the family. The State government has identified— Nanavati, St. George, Saifee, Wockhardt, HBT Trauma Care and Seven Hills Hospitals —as critical care hospitals for COVID-19. Nanavati has 20 ICU beds for COVID-19, running at full occupancy. Three beds were vacant on Thursday evening after the patients were discharged. Saifee activated 63 beds for COVID-19 patients of which 26 are ICU beds. All were occupied on Thursday. Seven Hills has eight ICU beds managed by HN Reliance Foundation Hospital, and all have been full since the past several days. The HBT Trauma Care and St. George hospitals have five and 10 ICU beds respectively. However, St. George Hospital is yet to start admitting COVID-19 patients. The Wockhardt Hospital was shut after 52 healthcare workers tested positive and it was declared a containment zone. “Those who require critical care spend about 8-10 days in the ICU. Some patients get worse in the second week which prolongs their ICU stay,” said an infectious disease expert, adding that the city has always been short of ICU beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mumbai-runs-out-of-beds-in-icus-patients-suffer/article31361036.ece
17 April 2020||Mumbai,||26 new cases in Dharavi||Dharavi on Thursday reported 26 new cases taking the total from Asia’s largest slum to 86. The area also reported its ninth death, a 58 year-old man from Laxmi chawl. He was the first from Dharavi to test positive. Of the new cases, a majority are from areas that had already reported COVID-19 cases in the past, while a few are from new parts of Dharavi. On Thursday, Dharavi’s Mukund Nagar reported four new cases, thus totalling 18. Mukund Nagar is becoming one of the largest clusters within Dharavi. A total of 11 new cases were reported from Muslim Nagar, including a 13 year-old boy. Besides, newer areas of Dharavi reported cases on Thursday including Ramji chawl, Suryoday Society, Sairaj nagar, and Shiv Shakti nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/26-new-cases-in-dharavi/article31361043.ece
17 April 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal records 3 deaths, 24 new cases||The West Bengal government on Thursday confirmed three more deaths due to COVID-19, taking the toll in the State to 10. “Twenty four new cases were reported in the State in the past 24 hours,” Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said. “The total number of active cases in the State stands at 144 as on April 16,” he said. Mr. Sinha added that the three deaths were endorsed by the audit committee of doctors, which is looking into COVID-19 deaths, taking the number to 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/west-bengal-records-3-deaths-24-new-cases/article31361055.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Major batch of testing kits coming from China||A large consignment of testing kits for COVID-19 is scheduled to reach from China on Thursday, sources have confirmed. The kits are expected to boost India’s testing capacity in a major way. According to available information, 5.5 lakh Rapid Antibody Testing Kits sourced from Guangzhou Wondfo and Zhuhai Livzon and 1 lakh RNA Extraction Kits from MGI Shenzhen are among the consignment, which is a part of a total order of 15 million personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and 1.5 million rapid testing kits that India had ordered from China.  The Hindu had reported that India had called upon China to fulfil those orders amid concerns over tightened regulations on export of such equipment after several western countries complained over the quality. India’s Ambassador to China Vikram Misri, in an online interaction with reporters on Tuesday, said deliveries of the medical supplies for India would be stretched until April-end. Around six consignments of vital medical supplies were expected to reach India in the next fortnight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/major-batch-of-testing-kits-coming-from-china/article31361064.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||80 radio jockeys of Delhi FM Gold out of work||Despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s repeated pleas to employers not to lay off workers during the lockdown, 80 radio jockeys of All India Radio’s FM Gold in Delhi are out of work. The state broadcaster Prasar Bharati, which oversees the AIR and Doordarshan, has decided that in cities that has three FM channels, one will be dedicated to news about the COVID-19 pandemic. Hence, FM Gold, mostly an infotainment channel, has suspended its usual shows. All 80 jockeys who anchor the shows in Delhi are casual workers, and are paid for the shows they anchor. These 80 jockeys have not been called to work since March 20, five days before the lockdown was imposed nationwide. Harikrishan Sharma, president of AIR Casual Announcers and Compères Union, sent multiple e-mails to Prasar Bharati CEO Shashi Shekhar Vempati, but has got no response. In his e-mail, Mr. Sharma has flagged two circulars. The first one is the March 20 advisory issued by the Labour Secretary to the Chief Secretaries of all the States. It asked them to reach out to private as well as public enterprises and ensure that no worker is laid off. The Department of Expenditure, under the Ministry of Finance, issued a circular on March 23. It said, “In order to avoid any undue hardships under the prevailing extraordinary circumstances, it has been decided that wherever any contractual, casual and outsourced staff member of the Ministries/Departments and other organisations of the Government of India is required to stay at home in view of the lockdown..., they shall be treated as ‘on duty’ during such a period of absence and necessary pay/wages would be paid accordingly.” “FM Gold Delhi is not alone in this situation. In fact, many AIR stations across the country have cancelled the booking of casual radio jockeys. This is a stark example of unbridled and arbitrary functioning of AIR, which shows how the country’s biggest radio broadcaster is ignoring the Prime Minister’s repeated appeals, and the instructions issued by the Union government,” said Rama Sharma, a radio jockey working with FM Gold.  Many AIR stations across the country have cancelled the booking of casual radio jockeys. This is a stark example of unbridled and arbitrary functioning of AIR... Rama Sharma a radio jockey||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/80-radio-jockeys-of-delhi-fm-gold-out-of-work/article31361066.ece
17 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||13 arrested for illegal liquor trading in Odisha||Thirteen persons allegedly involved in illegal liquor trading during the lockdown and in attacking a police patrol at Birikote in Gajapati district of Odisha were arrested on Thursday. The police team also arrested 14 others involved in the storage and trading of illicit liquor at Birkote. Ban on liquor during the lockdown has led to illicit manufacturing and trading of liquor in several parts of the State, including Gajapati and its adjoining Ganjam district. Illicit liquor traders are cashing in on the rising demand from alcohol dependent persons. On Wednesday night, a police patrol from the Adava Police Station found a small crowd of people at Birikote. They had defied social distancing norms. It was found that country liquor was being marketed at the spot illegally. When the police team tried to seize the liquor and disperse the crowd, the mob attacked the police and damaged the police vehicle. A sub-inspector and three constables, including two women, were allegedly beaten up and locked up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/13-arrested-for-illegal-liquor-trading-in-odisha/article31361084.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Waking up to reality||The Kenopanishad stresses the unique chance given to each human being to get spiritually evolved and recognise the freedom that self realisation confers on one. It also warns people that failing to avail themselves of this opportunity to realise the self is destructive, pointed out Swami Sashishikananda in a discourse. Sadana is practice and upasana is individual effort that is to be directed inwards by which one can avoid future births and be determined to know the self in this very birth itself. No amount of spiritual classes can be effective unless there is an inner transformation. The effectiveness and value of the sadana depends on the sincerity of the sadaka and the intensity of the practice. The greatest hurdle is the world of experience that takes hold of our entire being and invades one’s thought and word and deed. Our attention is caught in the unreal. In truth, Maya creates and manifests the world. It is the appearance and it influences most of our lifetime. Precious time is spent on many unrelated issues. Like watching cinema for instance, we should know it has no connection with us. To understand that the self in each individual is not attached in any way to one’s personal ego/identity, the example of the presence of the self in the three states of waking, dream and deep sleep is often quoted. The personal ego is present in the waking state and dream states. But the personal identity is annihilated in the deep sleep state. Once the personal ego or the sense of ‘I’ and ‘Mine’ pertaining to the body is removed, one automatically realises the self as the witness/ consciousness existing without any relation to the three states that one experiences. Like the dream world experience vanishes when we get up, we have to wake up to the reality of our self existence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/waking-up-to-reality/article31361056.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||AICTE asks colleges to not demand fees||Colleges should not demand fee payments from students until the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown is lifted, the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) said on Wednesday. “It has come to knowledge of AICTE that certain standalone institutions are insisting that students should pay the fees, including admission fees, during the lockdown,” said a letter to all AICTE institutions from Member Secretary Rajive Kumar. “It is clarified that colleges/institutions should not insist on payment of fees till the ongoing lockdown is lifted and normalcy is restored,” he added. Professor Kumar said the AICTE would issue guidelines on the revised fee payment timelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aicte-asks-colleges-to-not-demand-fees/article31361025.ece
17 April 2020||Mumbai,||Minister plans action against news channel||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday announced that action would be taken against English news channel Times Now for airing fake news about Maharashtra Minister Jitendra Awhad’s daughter testing positive forCOVID-19. In a letter addressed to Maharashtra’s Director General of Police, Mr. Deshmukh said that Mr. Awhad had sent him a letter regarding the news telecast by the channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minister-plans-action-against-news-channel/article31361026.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||PIL in SC against job cuts in media||A public interest litigation petition was filed on Thursday in the Supreme Court stating that certain media organisations have issued termination notices, imposed wage cuts and unpaid leaves to their employees during the COVID-19 pandemic. A joint petition filed by the National Alliance of Journalists, the Delhi Union of Journalists and the Brihanmumbai Union of Journalists said this amounted to an “inhuman and illegal treatment”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pil-in-sc-against-job-cuts-in-media/article31361027.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||Home Ministry warns against use of Zoom||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has cautioned against use of Zoom video conference stating that it was not a safe platform. The advisory said the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) issued two advisories on February 6 and in March, cautioning on the use of Zoom for office meetings. The March 30 note on the CERT-In website said, “Zoom is a popular video conferencing platform. Insecure usage of the platform may allow cybercriminals to access sensitive information such as meeting details and conversations.” Another note posted by the CERT-In on April 2 said that multiple vulnerabilities had been reported in the video conferencing platform “which could allow an attacker to gain elevated privileges or obtain sensitive information.” The Ministry asked the users to set strong passwords and enable “waiting room” feature so that call managers could have a better control over the participants. It also asked the users to avoid using personal meeting ID to host events and instead use randomly generated meeting IDs for each event and asked to not share links on public platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/home-ministry-warns-against-use-of-zoom/article31361032.ece
17 April 2020||Lucknow/ Ghaziabad,||17 arrested for attacking officials in U.P.||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday instructed officials to recover the cost of damage to property from the persons accused of attacking health officials in Moradabad on Wednesday. “If they don’t [pay up for the damage], their property should be seized,” a spokesperson said, quoting the Chief Minister. Three persons, including a doctor, were injured when a crowd attacked a Health Department team that went to take samples for checking COVID-19 infection in the Nawabpura area of Moradabad on Wednesday, police said. So far, 17 persons have been arrested, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/17-arrested-for-attacking-officials-in-up/article31361047.ece
17 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat sees 163 new cases in a day||Gujarat recorded 163 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, with the tally going up to 929 while three persons died and 73 had recovered so far. So far, 812 people are under treatment while eight are on ventilator support with 20,903 samples tested in the State. Another worrisome factor is that the disease has spread to 24 of the 33 districts with the highest number (545) in Ahmedabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-sees-163-new-cases-in-a-day/article31361049.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||Pizza man has COVID-19, 89 quarantined||A 19-year-old pizza delivery man has tested positive for COVID-19 in Delhi, prompting authorities to quarantine 89 people, including 72 in houses of South Delhi where he made deliveries. “A total of 17 people, including the owner of the shop and other delivery boys, have been put under institutional quarantine,” officials said. “72 people in houses where he made the delivery have been put under home quarantine,” they added. The delivery man was currently under treatment in Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pizza-man-has-covid-19-89-quarantined/article31361052.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Copter makes precautionary landing||A Cheetah helicopter of the Indian Air Force (IAF), going to Chandigarh with COVID-19 test samples of Leh, made a precautionary landing on the Outer Ring Road just outside Hindon in Ghaziabad on Thursday morning after developing a technical snag. “Approximately 3 NM out of Hindon, aircraft developed technical snag and carried out safe a precautionary landing on Outer Ring Road highway. The actions taken by the pilots were prompt and correct,” the IAF said in a statement. A recovery aircraft was launched immediately from the Hindon airbase, the IAF said. The helicopter was rectified and recovered back promptly and safely at Hindon, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/copter-makes-precautionary-landing/article31361063.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||EPFO clears 3.31 lakh claims||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) had processed 3.31 lakh claims disbursing Rs. 946.49 crore in 15 days under the special pandemic withdrawal scheme, the Labour and Employment Ministry said on Thursday. As a part of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, the scheme had been notified on March 28 to provide relief to workers hit by the lockdown. “In addition, Rs. 284 crore has been distributed by the exempted PF trusts, notable among them being TCS,” the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/epfo-clears-331-lakh-claims/article31361062.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Operation Coverup||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/operation-coverup/article31361073.ece
17 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Infant in nomadic group dies||An infant among a group of 40 stranded nomads from Rajasthan died in western Assam’s Chirang district reportedly because of hardships endured due to the lockdown. Officials said the group had been in north-central Assam’s Sonitpur district when the lockdown was imposed. They had reached Rangiya, a major railway junction around 65 km northwest of Guwahati, to catch a train after believing that the lockdown would be lifted on April 14. The group managed to board a truck that had come from Rajasthan. But the police did not allow the truck to cross the Assam-West Bengal border. The group was subsequently dropped in Chirang district on Tuesday. A nine-month-old baby did not survive the ordeal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/infant-in-nomadic-group-dies/article31361075.ece
17 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||2.5 lakh Odia workers stuck in Gujarat||More than 2.5 lakh Odia migrant labourers stranded in Gujarat due to the lockdown are in a pitiable state as they are living in cramped rooms facing threat of infection and scarcity of food and no income. Most of these workers are from the Ganjam district employed in the textile industries of Surat that have closed down because of the lockdown. These workers are sending distress messages to the members of the Odisha Disaster Migration Mapping for Intervention (ODMMI), an organisation of social activists. Environmental activist Prafulla Samantra, who is part of the ODMMI, said they are keeping track of the situation through contacts in Gujarat and have also taken up the matter with the Odisha government. Pitambar Pradhan, an Odia lawyer of a labour court in Surat, said accommodation is the major problem faced by these labourers. Usually a dozen workers take small rooms of 100 or 120 sq. ft. floor area on rent. As all the textile units have closed down, all of them have to live in the cramped rooms where social distancing is quite impossible. They cannot remain and sleep in the rooms due to summer heat. “If anyone of them gets infected with COVID-19, it could lead to a dangerous situation,” said Mr. Mohapatra. Mr. Mohapatra and Mr. Pradhan said it was high time that the Gujarat government provided accommodation to them in schools and colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/25-lakh-odia-workers-stuck-in-gujarat/article31361085.ece
17 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Meghalaya doctor laid to rest after row over last rites||The body of a 69-year-old doctor, who died of COVID-19 complications on Wednesday, was laid to rest on Thursday after localities in Shillong and beyond disallowed his last rites for fear of contagion. The doctor’s body was interred at the Riatsamthiah Presbyterian Church cemetery in Lawmali area about 3 km from the hospital where he died less than 48 hours after testing positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/meghalaya-doctor-laid-to-rest-after-row-over-last-rites/article31361042.ece
17 April 2020||Patna,||Coronavirus: Police, medical team attacked in Bihar||Villagers in Bihar have attacked police and medical teams who were out to enforce the lockdown and for COVID-19 screening in the past few days. At Jagapakad village in East Champaran, at least nine officials were injured in an attack by a group of villagers on Wednesday. Similarly, a medical team and some policemen were attacked at Akauni village in Aurangabad when they went there for screening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coronavirus-police-medical-team-attacked-in-bihar/article31361048.ece
17 April 2020||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||Bank branches in containment zones to remain closed||The branches of both nationalised and private banks, except the State Bank of India’s Main Branch, in the containment zones in the district will remained closed until further orders, said Collector D. Rathna. She said on Thursday that 5 to 7 km radius of residences, where COVID-19 virus affected persons and their contacts lived, have been declared as containment zones so as to contain the spread of the virus. They had been barricaded preventing movement of vehicles. No resident of the demarcated areas should venture out without valid reason. In view of it, the bank branches in Ariyalur, Sendurai and Thirumanur have been asked to close until further notice. However, the main branch of State Bank of India (SBI) in Ariyalur would continue to function by strictly following the norms of personal distancing. The customers would be issued tokens for each transaction and would be called up one after another, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bank-branches-in-containment-zones-to-remain-closed/article31361549.ece
17 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Over 4,000 persons with flu symptoms found||The Chennai Corporation has identified 4,787 persons with COVID-19-like symptoms in various parts of the city. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said that as many as 693 of the 4,787 persons identified in a survey would be tested for COVID-19. In addition to the household survey, the civic body has collected samples from 85 containment zones where COVID-19 cases have been reported. “We have collected samples from 4,000 persons. We have set up 26 sample collection centres. The results of most of the 4,000 tests will be known by Friday. Chennai will get priority in rapid testing kits,” Mr. Prakash said. Referring to the penal action against commercial establishments for violations of social distancing norms and time restrictions, Mr. Prakash said 160 establishments had been sealed for three months. Stressing on the need for prevention of harrassment of tenants by landlords, Mr. Prakash said that a meeting would be held on Friday to assess the condition in the city. “The landlords should not collect rent. We will give strong direction to the landlords on rent collection on Friday,” he said. The Commissioner advised residents in containment zones to cooperate. “If residents are disciplined, there will be 100% success in containment of COVID-19. Residents are not allowed to move out of the containment zones. We have received 25 vehicles from Ford to take persons from containment zones for testing. Ten vehicles from Mahindra will be used for helping senior citizens and pregnant women,” said Mr. Prakash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-4000-persons-with-flu-symptoms-found/article31361218.ece
17 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Committee formed to work out an exit strategy||The State government on Thursday constituted an expert committee to formulate guidelines for a phased exit from the restrictions imposed during the COVID-19 lockdown in the State. Whatever action the State government takes after April 20 and once the lockdown is lifted will be guided by the panel’s report. Senior IAS officer and Finance Secretary S. Krishnan will head the 18-member committee, which will “consult stakeholders and generate suggestions” before submitting a report to the government on the way forward. At a press conference, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said the committee will identify industries that could be allowed to operate after April 20, within the norms laid down by the Centre, and submit a report. After getting permission from the Centre, the State government will take a final call, he added. “In order to revive the economy and provide a livelihood to the large number of families that have been deprived of their income due to the prohibitory orders, it is essential to plan for a phased removal of restrictions, taking into account the impact of COVID-19 and its trend,” a Government Order issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam said. Besides the Secretaries of the Revenue, Law, Health, Industries, MSMEs, Housing, School and Higher Education and Transport departments, the committee comprises the Director-General of Police, the Director of Public Health and representatives from the Indian Medical Association, the Private Nursing Home Board, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI). Former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Madras S.P. Thyagarajan and former Chennai Corporation City Health Officer Guhanandam are also part of the committee. Officials indicated to The Hindu   that the exit strategy was going to be a “long-haul exercise”, and a balance had to be attained to contain the spread of the virus and revive the economy at the same time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/committee-formed-to-work-out-an-exit-strategy/article31361244.ece
17 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police take serious note of bid to spread communal hatred||Stung by reports that attempts were being made to discriminate against Muslims by linking them to the spread of novel coronavirus in some districts, the Tamil Nadu police issued an alert to all commissioners and superintendents of police to take suo motu cognizance of the “inflammatory situation”. According to police sources, senior police officers across the State were told to initiate stringent action against those spreading “communal hatred”. Acting on specific inputs that a common pathway was closed to prevent Muslims from entering a village in Tenkasi district and another instance where some families were asked to vacate their rented houses in Erode district, Tamil Nadu Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy instructed the police officers to take firm action in consultation with the district administration and ensure communal amity, sources said. At Panboli near Sengottai in Tenkasi district, a common pathway earlier used by Muslims was closed to prevent them from entering the village. Some Muslim families living in a “majority Caste Hindu” inhabitation near Perundurai in Erode were pressurised to vacate the houses. Similar situations were shape in Tirunelveli district, sources said. The incidents followed media reports focussing on the link between the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi and the spread of coronavirus in Tamil Nadu. Since many COVID-19 patients were referred to as “Delhi returnees”, Hindus in some areas were trying to avoid Muslims, sources said. “An incident has come to notice in a village near Perundurai, where three Muslim families in rented occupations were being forced to vacate and leave the village. Though they pleaded that they did not have any travel history or contact with Delhi returnees, the majority people are unrelenting…they (the Muslims) do not want to lodge a complaint and antagonise the locals,” a senior police officer told The Hindu . The State intelligence sent out an alert cautioning the police that if the situation was not diffused at the earliest, it may snowball into a communal problem, paving the way for extremist elements to “interfere” and “inflame”. Police were told to resolve the issue amicably and maintain communal harmony, the sources said, adding that the campaign to boycott fruits/vegetable shops owned by the Muslim community members was thwarted by effective coordination with leaders of religious groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-taking-note-of-canard/article31361509.ece
17 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Norms for relief distribution justified: HC||The Madras High Court on Thursday observed that the State was “wholly justified” in imposing certain conditions for distribution of relief materials to the needy during the lockdown to fight COVID-19. It, however, ruled that the requirement to hand over the relief materials to the jurisdictional government officials was not well founded. Justices R. Subbiah and R. Pongiappan was disposing of a public interest litigation petition filed by the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) to forbear the government and its instrumentalities from interfering with distribution of cooked food, food grains, groceries, vegetables and medical kits to the poor by the party cadre across the State. After hearing arguments advanced by senior counsel P. Wilson, representing the petitioner party and Advocate General Vijay Narayan for the State, the judges said: “We also do not see any irrationality or arbitrariness in requiring individuals or group of individuals from seeking prior permission from the authorities concerned (for distribution). “Having regard to the magnitude of the situation which the State is presently combating, it is very much essential that the organisers and the beneficiaries strictly adhere to certain norms with a view to regulating the distribution of food and other items. Such a condition was issued only to ensure that there will not be any further spread of the malevolent disease.” Further, issuing a series of 10 directions, the court ordered that, henceforth, political parties, non-governmental organisations and other volunteers, wanting to distribute relief materials to the poor, must intimate the officials concerned at least 48 hours in advance. In case of distribution of cooked food, it must be inspected by Food Safety Officers. If the officers were satisfied with the health condition of those involved in preparation of food, as well as its quality, the volunteers could proceed with the distribution. “However, there shall not be any distribution of food in areas earmarked as hot spots by the government,” the Division Bench said and ordered that all venues should be sanitised before distribution. Granting liberty to the State to deploy police to regulate the crowd, the court made it clear that a maximum of three volunteers, apart from the elected representatives and vehicle drivers, could be allowed to distribute the relief materials at each venue and that more than three persons should not travel in vehicles used to transport the relief materials. “The petitioner organisation or other similar organisations, non-governmental organisations, individuals or group of individuals shall strictly ensure that social distancing norm is followed during distribution of food and that there is no deviation whatsoever,” the Bench added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-norms-for-distribution-of-relief-materials-justified-hc/article31361230.ece
17 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown deepens farm labour shortage||The extended lockdown has aggravated the problem of labour shortage in farm sector. K.S. Subramanian, director of research & NABARD chair, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, said the problem had affected thrashing of paddy in some areas, raised during the late Samba cultivation period. Likewise, the “timely harvest” of mango could not be done for want of workers. The manpower shortage has reflected in the area of transportation of produce, as several drivers are unwilling to hit the road for getting infected by the virus, acknowledged Gagandeep Singh Bedi, principal secretary (Agriculture). However, he said the government was adopting a multi-pronged strategy to address the problem of manpower shortage. Painful experience As for the general impact of the lockdown on farmers raising other crops, Mr. Subramanian pointed out that banana farmers had abandoned fruits in the fields or sold them at throwaway prices. It was also “painful” to see watermelons being dumped on roadsides, he said. He said that farmers should take advantage of the infrastructure available by using cold storage in districts. If efforts are intensified for procuring the entire produce, keeping it under cold storage and selling it through regulated market, it will offer “reasonable prices” for both farmers and consumers, he added. Meanwhile, the TNAU has designated 23 faculty members and assigned them to different districts for advising farmers, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-deepens-farm-labour-shortage/article31361251.ece
17 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Political parties, officials come to grips with technology||With theCOVID-19 lockdownforcing people indoors, political parties and State government offices are now getting used to holding virtual meetings, sometimes with hilarious initial consequences, as people figure out how these apps work. Political parties, especially, face such a challenge as their cadre on the ground are not familiar with such technology. The Tamil Nadu Congress Committee and the BJP units seem to have embraced this change quickly during the lockdown. While the Congress held a meeting of its district presidents, MPs, MLAs, and other wings of the party, with their State president K.S. Alagiri on April 6, the BJP took to video conferencing from the daySection 144 was imposed in the State. “It was a big challenge, bringing everyone together at a specific time. The meeting with Mr. Alagiri started at 11.30 a.m. and continued till 3.45 p.m. Initially, the challenge was to teach our people how to use the app. So, we had a test run for two days with various people in our party so that we were prepared for the meeting on April 6. Since some of our leaders are also quite elderly, they had to be taught how to use the app, and some of them have only normal mobile phones, not smartphones. So, those issues had to be fixed,” Lakshmikanthan, IT cell chairman, TNCC, told The Hindu . ‘Big success’ Mr. Lakshmikanthan said the meeting was a big success as more than 120 members, including MPs and MLAs, participated. “For some, it was emotional, as they were able to see many of their fellow party cadre in one place for the first time since the lockdown was imposed,” he said. The BJP, however, has found the going a bit easy as the party had leveraged the potential of video conferencing with Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressing cadre and holding meetings through this way regularly. Govt. departments In the State Secretariat too, a few departments have already taken to the video conferencing app. “It’s not just Ministers holding VC [video conferencing] with officials in remote locations. Even the lower rung of the Secretariat staff has joined the bandwagon already,” a Section Officer said. But what do they discuss when the State is in a lockdown? “Many of our projects with funds to be sanctioned from the Centre have to be finalised,” the officer said. Santhosh Babu, Chairman & Managing Director, Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation Ltd, said he was already holding virtual meetings with staff members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/political-parties-officials-come-to-grips-with-technology/article31361260.ece
17 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seized vehicles choke police stations||Many police stations in the city as well as across the State face a unique problem — a space crunch on account of vehicles seized from those violating prohibitory orders since March 24. At over 150 checkpoints across Chennai, the police have been intercepting vehicles of motorists who do not have valid reasons for venturing out. “We are seizing vehicles after booking cases. Sometimes, we release the vehicles immediately after receiving an undertaking that the motorist will bring the vehicle when required. In other cases, we keep the vehicles in our custody,” said a senior officer. Another officer said, “If a police station does not have adequate space to accommodate vehicles, they are parked in nearby Corporation premises such as grounds or schools. We also park them near checkpoints.” On the city’s outskirts, police stations keep vehicles in grounds guarded by personnel. According to the police, 1,79,827 vehicles have been seized from violators across the State. The city police seized 996 vehicles between Wednesday evening and Thursday morning. The police have announced that the vehicles would be released to owners from April 24 on production of papers. The release would be done between 7 a.m. and 12.30 p.m. A message would be sent to the person named in the FIR to come and collect the vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seized-vehicles-choke-police-stations/article31361220.ece
17 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers provided rations||Several migrant workers at the Ambattur Industrial Estate were provided rations on Thursday. The packs, consisting of rice, dal and oil, were distributed by the Inspectorate of Factories, in coordination with the Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association (AIEMA).  Worst affected A.N. Sujeesh, AIEMA president, said that the distribution was being done for the past three days. The AIEMA was roped in by the Inspectorate of Factories to coordinate the distribution among migrant workers, who have been badly hit by the COVID-19 crisis. “We have distributed 3,200 packs to migrant labourers, working in the Ambattur and Padi industrial estates. This was based on a list sent by the industrial units. A few workers representing their units collected the rations. Most of them are housed in the neighbourhood of the industrial estate,” he said. There are nearly 2,000 industrial units in the Ambattur industrial estate. The AIEMA has also provided rations to 1,500 migrant workers in temporary shelters and to those in need. “We are coordinating with officials of zone 7 of the Greater Chennai Corporation for the initiative and have contributed to their needs for four days, so far,” he said. The AIEMA also plans to provide rations to about 500 workers in the estate who have come from other parts of the State such as Kanniyakumari and Salem, shortly, added Mr. Sujeesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-workers-provided-rations/article31361214.ece
17 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ramzan: mosques to get free rice||The State government will deliver 5,450 tonnes of raw rice to 2,895 mosques across the State by April 19 for the Ramzan feast and the mosques will distribute the rice directly among beneficiaries at their homes, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam said. The Chief Secretary held a meeting with Muslim leaders and the Chief Kazi Salahuddin Mohammed Ayub at the Secretariat to work out modalities of rice distribution and the Ramzan feast traditionally held at mosques. Following the meeting, Mr. Shanmugam said the government will ensure that the raw rice will reach the mosques by April 19, and the mosques will distribute the rice in small packets to the doorsteps of the beneficiaries. The government held meetings with various Muslim organisations as well in the past two days. During the interaction with the representatives of the organisations, some put forth the view that the mosques will prepare rice gruel and distribute it to the beneficiaries. “We explained to them that this would require movement of vessels, rice gruel every day to the beneficiaries’ homes. This would require movement of volunteers every day and increase the chances of contracting the disease. Hence, we requested them to provide rice to beneficiaries once at their doorsteps,” he said. It was accepted by everyone and the decision was unanimous. The Muslim organisations can take the help of volunteers to deliver the rice at the doorstep and complete the process by April 22, Mr. Shanmugam added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramzan-mosques-to-get-free-rice/article31361253.ece
17 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Free kits, courtesy farmers’ groups||The Tiruvallur district administration, along with Farmers Producers’ Groups (FPGs) on Thursday, provided free vegetable, fruit and rice kits to over 2,000 families in Athipattu containment zone and Kattupalli village in Minjur block. There are 55 FPGs functioning in the district under the Agriculture and Horticulture departments. This is the first time the administration is giving free kits in containment zones through FPGs. Each kit approximately costs Rs. 225 and is sponsored by the Indian Oil Corporation. Each bag contains 2 kg of rice, one watermelon and 6 kg of vegetables. Sixty tonnes of vegetables have been distributed through FPGs in 12 blocks of Tiruvallur district since the lockdown began. “Of this, close to 15 tonnes have been provided for free to poor families. Each FPG has earned around Rs. 25,000 since the lockdown,” said G. Pandian, deputy director, agriculture, Tiruvallur district. Mageshwari Ravikumar, Collector, Tiruvallur district, said: “FPGs collect produce and provide it at reasonable prices to villages. This way, the farmers benefit and people do not have to step out. This ensures that produce does not perish.” The district administration has also tied up with 10 companies to sponsor and distribute free kits to their employees, through FPGs. The Agriculture Department has also ensured doorstep delivery of fertilisers and seeds to farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-kits-courtesy-farmers-groups/article31361210.ece
17 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IITs not to take part in World University Rankings||Several Indian Institutes of Technology, including IIT Bombay, IIT Madras, IIT Delhi, IIT Guwahati, IIT Kanpur, IIT Kharagpur and IIT Roorkee, have decided not to participate in the World University Rankings, an annual publication of university rankings by the Times Higher Education (THE) magazine, for 2020. In a joint statement, the premier institutes said they may reconsider their decision next year if THE “is able to convince them about the parameters and transparency in their ranking process”. The annual exercise often places IITs far below American and European institutions. Some of the major parameters for the ranking are having Nobel Laureates among faculty and having a strong international faculty and student presence on the campus. This year, the annual National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) exercise wasn’t carried out due to the COVID-19 lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iits-not-to-take-part-in-world-university-rankings/article31361232.ece
17 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Officials to keep an eye on migrant labourers||In the wake of Tuesday's incident when hundreds of persons landed at the Bandra railway station in Mumbai, the Tamil Nadu government has instructed officials to remain vigilant. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam has issued a communication to all District Collectors directing them to remain vigilant to any mass movement of migrant labourers towards transport terminuses. A senior government official said: “District Collectors have been asked to ensure that migrant labourers remained wherever they are presently. And any of their movement should be arrested then and there.”  Video conference Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami is scheduled to chair a video conference meeting with District Collectors on Thursday morning. He is expected to take stock of the situation after the lockdown was extended in all parts of the State. Meanwhile, the State issued a G.O. formally extending the lockdown in the State from April 30 to May 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-to-keep-an-eye-on-migrant-labourers/article31361246.ece
17 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rich people brought COVID-19 to State: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday said that it was the rich who “imported” COVID-19 by visiting foreign countries and other States. Asked whether the government had been considering granting any solatium to families of those who died of COVID-19, Mr. Palaniswami said: “Only the rich have got this disease. Where did the poor get this [COVID-19]? It was them [the rich] who brought this.” He said: “One could talk freely with the poor and there is fear only on seeing the rich. Because they visited foreign countries and imported the disease.” “Also, many persons visited other States and there is a disease here because of that,” Mr. Palaniswami said. “However, it did not originate from here,” the Chief Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rich-people-brought-covid-19-to-state-cm/article31361242.ece
17 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin opens temporary parlours||To ensure supply of Aavin products, the milk major on Thursday set up temporary parlours at 13 locations in the city. While two mobile parlours are selling milk, buttermilk and butter, the rest have milk-based products, including flavoured milk, ghee and sweetened khoa. “We will have these till the end of the lockdown. Residents of apartment complexes had requested us to set up temporary outlets. The parlours will stay open from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.,” said Aavin managing director M. Vallalar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-opens-temporary-parlours/article31361208.ece
17 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Donations of diagnostic kits, PPEs pour in||Hyundai Motor India on Thursday handed over COVID-19 advanced diagnostic testing kits to ICMR. Worth Rs. 4 crore, they have been imported from South Korea. Hyundai Motor India Foundation handed over 1,000 sets of dry rations to Mageswari Ravikumar, Collector of Tiruvallur. Sevalaya, a charitable trust, and BNY Mellon handed over 200 PPEs and a ventilator to the Government General Hospital in Tiruvallur district on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/donations-of-diagnostic-kits-ppes-pour-in/article31361215.ece
17 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Krishna water flow to Poondi reservoir stops||The Krishna water flow into Poondi reservoir, the major storage point of the city, stopped completely on Wednesday. According to the Water Resources Department (WRD) officials, water discharge from Andhra Pradesh would resume by May first week. On Wednesday, the Kandaleru-Poondi canal at the inter-state border received only a negligible amount of water. Officials noted that water release from Kandaleru reservoir in the upstream areas was stopped to discourage drawal for irrigation in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/krishna-water-flow-to-poondi-reservoir-stops/article31361227.ece
17 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SDPI moves HC||The Madras High Court on Thursday directed the Centre as well as the State government to respond to a public interest litigation petition which sought to restrain media houses which “communalise” the spread of COVID-19 by using terms such as “Corona Jihad”, “Corona terrorism”, “Islamic Insurrection” and “Corona bombs”. Justices R. Subbiah and R. Pongiappan ordered notices on the petition filed by ASA. Umar Farooq, State general secretary of Social Democratic Party of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sdpi-moves-hc/article31361245.ece
17 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Protocol in place for pregnant patients||Eleven pregnant women have tested positive for coronavirus disease (COVID-19) in State till now. In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, a number of hospitals have earmarked separate facilities for pregnant women with suspected symptoms or confirmed COVID-19, and have rolled out protocols for management of pregnant women. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said so far, 11 pregnant women had tested positive for COVID-19 in the State and were admitted in COVID-19 designated hospitals. Of them, two mothers have delivered babies. The official said there were protocols in place for management of pregnant women in the COVID-19 pandemic, both State-specific and recommendation of the Indian Council of Medical Research was being followed. Separate single isolation room/labour room is allocated for each of the women admitted in COVID-19 designated hospitals. The Health Department, in March, identified 1.5 lakh pregnant women who had their expected date of deliveries in these two months. Of these, nearly 35,000 women had been delivered of babies. All the identified women were followed up by village health nurses. At two of the government maternity hospitals in Chennai — Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for Women and Children, Triplicane, and Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology and Hospital for Women and Children, Egmore — doctors said separate facilities were earmarked for pregnant women reporting with fever. There were fever clinics and separate wards, labour rooms, operation theatres and intensive care units for pregnant women with suspected symptoms and confirmed COVID-19. Required safety kits such as personal protective equipment and N95 masks were available. Extra care A senior obstetrician said pregnant women do not appear to have a greater chance of getting sick from COVID-19 than the general public. Unlike Influenza A(H1N1), COVID-19 did not pose a high risk to pregnant mothers. Still, it was important to stay safe. “We screen women with suspected symptoms of COVID-19, quarantine or isolate them in hospitals. If she tests positive, we need to follow all safety protocols,” she said. N.S. Kanimozhi, senior obstetrician and gynaecologist, Cloudnine Hospitals, said, “Teleconsultation during the antenatal period is good but we have to mandatorily see some of these expectant mothers. Many of them have invariably gone into stress due to concerns such as reaching hospital on time. We are seeing instances of intrauterine growth restrictions,” she said. If a pregnant woman tests positive, she could deliver mostly through a caesarean section under spinal anaesthesia without allowing for a longer period of labour, she said. Deepa Hariharan, senior neonatologist, Sooriya Hospital, said if a mother tested positive for COVID-19, she can wear a mask, wash hands and express milk. “An unaffected member of the family can feed the expressed milk to the baby. This is the recommendation in the Indian setting whereas in some centres in China, they were giving donor milk to the babies,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protocol-in-place-for-pregnant-patients/article31361249.ece
17 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Suj/Semester exams to be held at the beginning of next academic year||Semester exams, to be held in April for institutions under the Higher Education Department, will now be held after colleges reopen for the next academic year. The exams were postponed since institutions closed on March 17 due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sujsemester-exams-to-be-held-at-the-beginning-of-next-academic-year/article31361211.ece
17 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK functionary booked for erecting banner||The Ayanavaram police have booked a case against an AIADMK cadre for erecting a banner, calling upon residents to collect tokens for free meals from Amma Canteens. A Corporation official lodged a complaint alleging the man violated prohibitory orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-functionary-booked-for-erecting-banner/article31361212.ece
17 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Woman electrocuted in Tiruvanmiyur||A 47-year-old woman was electrocuted in Thiruvanmiyur after she came in contact with a high tension wire while trying to pluck a drumstick. A long billhook being used by her accidentally touched a high tension wire passing above.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-electrocuted-in-tiruvanmiyur/article31361216.ece
17 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Private hospitals yet to act on Health Dept. directions on elective surgeries||Healthcare professionals from certain private hospitals in Coimbatore have alleged that the managements were asking them to perform elective surgeries without conducting a COVID-19 test on patients as mandated by the Health Department. It is learnt that the staff of some big private hospitals in Coimbatore city have brought this to the attention of senior officials of the Health Department. The Department had directed hospitals to postpone elective surgeries to avoid risk of COVID-19. Hospitals were supposed to conduct COVID-19 test on the patients if such surgeries were to be performed. However, the test was not mandated for emergency procedures such as the ones performed on victims of accidents, cardiac arrest and stroke. No shift system A senior doctor with a private hospital in the city told The Hindu the management was yet to implement a shift system to reduce the number of medical professionals on duty at the facility. “Hospital managements should ideally ensure that their facilities are run with minimal staff, that too in shift system. Medical teams including doctors can be deployed in shifts rather than mandating all of them to work every day. One team shall be made to work for a week allowing them to be in quarantine for the next week. This system will reduce the risk of medical professionals getting exposed to an environment where COVID-19 spread is reported high,” said the doctor, on condition of anonymity. A retired public health expert said that hospitals could do antibodies-based tests on patients, for faster results, if elective surgeries were to be performed. “This will ensure the safety of the medical team involved in performing the procedure,” said the doctor. While outpatient and inpatient flow in big private hospitals have declined anywhere between 60% and 75%, some nursing homes and clinics have temporarily suspended offering several procedures and consultation. Labour and pregnancy related patients, who used to consult in some of the nursing homes, are now forced to seek treatment at bigger hospitals, said another doctor of a private hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-hospitals-yet-to-act-on-health-dept-directions-on-elective-surgeries/article31361285.ece
17 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CMCH Dean removed from post||Two days after the issues related to basic amenities and safety of postgraduate students and house surgeons of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) cropped up, its Dean B. Asokan was removed from the post on Thursday. P. Kalidas, senior professor from the Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, was appointed to hold full additional charge of the Dean. The change in the administration came into effect following an order issued by the Health Secretary Beela Rajesh through Director of Medical Education (DME) R. Narayana Babu dated Wednesday. The order, a copy of which is with The Hindu , directed Dr. Asokan to report to the office of the DME. CMCH administration led by Dr. Asokan was criticised for its alleged mismanagement in ensuring basic amenities to PG students and house surgeons and their safety after two PG students, who was on duty at the COVID-19 special ward of Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Singanallur, tested positive on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmch-dean-removed-from-post/article31361283.ece
17 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Medical check up conducted for migrant workers||The Coimbatore City Police on Thursday conducted medical check up for migrant workers who got stranded here following the lockdown. Ramanathapuram station inspector (law and order) S. Murugesan said that 212 migrant labourers were screened at the Corporation Primary School at Puliyakulam. Mr. Murugesan said the medical check up was conducted with the help of the Health Department.Health workers screened them with thermal scanner and enquired whether they had flu-like symptoms. The police also handed over 750 kg of wheat flour, vegetables and oil to them. Similarly, the Singanallur police arranged a camp for 120 migrant workers on a school campus. The police also provided them with essentials. Senior police officials said that such medical check up would be conducted in the limits of other police stations in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-check-up-conducted-for-migrant-workers/article31361279.ece
17 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Police book people who failed to wear mask||The Coimbatore City Police started to book and arrest people who failed to wear mask when they came to public places. On Wednesday, the police registered 19 cases and arrested as many persons under the Epidemic Diseases Act for not wearing mask in public places. Vehicles of all the 19 persons were seized. The police registered 578 cases and arrested 625 persons for violating the prohibitory orders in the city and rural limits. The police seized 538 vehicles from them who were released on bail. The Coimbatore Rural Police have started marking vehicles spotted in public places with colour codes each day. This is to identify the frequency of use of the vehicle by persons while venturing out during lockdown period. The police will mark colours such as red (Sunday), white (Monday), brown (Tuesday), purple (Wednesday), yellow (Thursday), blue (Friday) and green (Saturday) on vehicles stopped at check points on major roads. The city police had already started painting bar marks on vehicles to find the frequency of their use.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-book-people-who-failed-to-wear-mask/article31361281.ece
17 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Death of tiger, tigress: 2 held||A special team of the Forest Department on Thursday arrested two persons on charges of poisoning a tiger and a tigress in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) in Coimbatore. They were identified as P. Rasu (36) and C. Karuppusamy (56) of a village near Pothamadai beat of Pollachi forest range of ATR where the carcasses of the big cats and that of a wild boar were found on April 8. The special team is on the hunt for two others -- D. Vellingiri, and M. Murugan. Department sources said the two confessed they poached the boar and poisoned the carcass, which was eaten by the big cats aged around 10. The accused said this was in retaliation to a carnivore killing a calf that belonged to them in December last year. The special team constituted by Additional Principal Conservator of Forests Debasis Jana (Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle and in-charge as Field Director of ATR) and Deputy Filed Director of ATR Arockiaraj Xavier came to know about the role of the accused after it questioned nearly 15 people from the locality. Pollachi Forest Range Officer A. Kasilingam said that the two accused were produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/death-of-tiger-tigress-2-held/article31361268.ece
17 April 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat meeting ends abruptly||Vice-president and a majority of panchayat ward members walked out of a meeting held here on Thursday alleging that the Adiyanoothu panchayat president had indulged in financial malpractice. Speaking to reporters, the vice-president S Jayaraman said the president, in connivance with panchayat secretary John Bosco, had granted permission for various development works in the panchayat without the consent of members. However, the two insisted that all the 11 members including him to sign the register which had the resolutions. “We opposed and refused to sign,” he said. The panchayat had given work orders to the tune of Rs. 7.50 lakh to a contractor recently to carry out development works. Similarly, another decision to auction tamarind trees in the panchayat to a private bidder was not informed to the members. But, the president wanted all the members to sign the resolution. Later, Mr. Jayaraman submitted a memorandum to the Collector M Vijayalakshmi to look into the issue and direct the panchayat secretary to nullify the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panchayat-meeting-ends-abruptly/article31361498.ece
17 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Three held for cheating hospital||Three persons, who cheated a private hospital of Rs. 1 lakh in the name of COVID-19 relief fund, were arrested by the police. Relief fund On April 13, T. Satheesh Kumar (31) of Gandhi Nagar, who works as an administrative officer at the private hospital on Perundurai Road, received a phone call from a person who claimed that he was a retired judge and was collecting money towards relief activities. Mr. Satheesh took up the matter with the managing director of the hospital who contributed Rs. 50,000 while the hospital staff contributed Rs. 50,000. On Wednesday, the person told Mr. Satheesh over phone that he was sending a person named Venkadapathy to collect the money. At 10 a.m., Venkadapathy along with Krishnamurthy and Girishkumar received Rs. 1 lakh from Mr. Satheesh. As they gave suspicious answers when Mr. Satheesh enquired about the judge, he demanded the money back. But the trio threatened him and attempted to escape. But the staff at the hospital caught them and handed them over at the Erode North Police Station. The three were produced in the court and lodged at prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-cheating-hospital/article31361275.ece
17 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Disinfection tunnels closed in Erode||Following a direction from the Directorate of Public Health, all the disinfection tunnels installed at various places in the district were closed on Thursday. Officials of the Health Department said the tunnels at the wholesale market, Uzhavar Sandhai and on roads in the city were closed. Likewise, tunnels installed at Gobichettipalayam municipal areas were also closed. The public were asked to wash their hands with soap properly and enter the market premises, they added. The officials said that many sponsors had come forward to install the tunnels at petrol bunks, on roads for two-wheelers and market areas. Since the tunnels were proved to be ineffective, they had been told not to install them, they added. At the Collectorate, people coming to get passes refused to use the soap stating that it was already used by many. They wanted hand sanitisers placed at the entrance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disinfection-tunnels-closed-in-erode/article31361274.ece
17 April 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||During COVID-19, this community kitchen garden serves well||In a venture that could instil confidence in farmers to bring back arid lands into cultivation and producing vegetables organically, a United States based IT professional has set up a model “community kitchen garden” at Veppangudi at Kadambur taluk in the district. The farm, which was set up with the expertise offered by Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) in November, 2019, on about 15 cents of a public space has now started bearing fruits. The village of about 200 households has become self sufficient for its vegetable requirements through the sustainable model. The farm has everything right from brinjal, tomato and ladyfingers to greens. There is no need for the residents to pay for vegetables. What they need to do is to chip in by way of doing some farm work such as watering, weeding and other chores for half an hour in the morning. Upon completion of the works, they return home with the vegetables for cooking. It does not have a well or tank for irrigation. It mainly gets domestic water from a ‘water way’ connecting neighbouring houses. If required, they collect water from the public tap to irrigate the plants. “Many residents think that arid land has no scope for cultivation. Nearly 30% of the village population has gone out in search of livelihood. We have now demonstrated that the vegetables for the entire village can be met even on a small piece of land with the effective water and weed management plan,” says K. Narendran, a native of the village and senior IT professional living in Arizona in the United States, who played a key role in the establishment of the community kitchen garden. T. Kalimuthu, one of the volunteers, said that the garden produced all kinds of vegetables, except hill grown vegetables. It was meeting the requirements of the village from January. The importance of the garden was being felt during the lockdown. J. Diraviam, Head, KVK, Karur, who visited the farm recently, said that it had become one of the best community kitchen models. The residents, collectively and voluntarily, had been nurturing the garden with bare minimum water and without using fertilizers. As it has a concentration of SC population, it has been decided to pass on the benefits of the Scheduled Caste Sub Plan of the Centre to the village. “The KVK had adopted the village to promote it in all spheres of development,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/during-covid-19-this-community-kitchen-garden-serves-well/article31361535.ece
17 April 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Containment measures reviewed||A review meeting on the COVID-19 containment measures was held in the presence of the monitoring committee at the Collectorate. The committee headed by R.Kirlosh Kumar, Managing Director, TASMAC, and ADGP M.N.Manjunatha, Police Housing Corporation Limited, reviewed the measures taken by the district administration. The sanitisation measures; enforcement of the lockdown and the sealing of the borders through checkposts along the borders shared with Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh; the quarantining of people, who had returned from abroad were among the measures reviewed by the Committee. Functions of the departments of revenue, public health, sanitation, district rural development agency, transport, local bodies and town panchayats of Hosur and Krishnagiri were also reviewed. Panchayats were urged to alert the block level authorities or the district control room about entry of persons from other districts or states, and to ensure that there was no import of infection into the district. The district did not have any COVID-19 cases so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/containment-measures-reviewed/article31361276.ece
17 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Couple living in phone booth find the going very tough||For 61-year-old G.R. Giridharan, a visually challenged person, and his 60-year-old wife G.R. Kanaga Devi, who have been residing inside a telephone booth in Kochadai here for several years, the last few weeks have been extremely challenging. This couple eke out a living by selling kadalai mittais (groundnut candy) and ellu mittais (sesame seeds candy). Every day Ms. Kanaga Devi guides her husband and they take a bus to sell the candies at Villapuram, South Gate and Avaniapuram. They manage to earn Rs. 200 in a day. However, the COVID-19 lockdown has affected their very means of livelihood. “With no income, we find it difficult to have at least two square meals every day. A few good Ssamaritans give us food. Officials from the district administration also gave us sufficient rice and pulses. However, we do not have kerosene to cook food. One litre of kerosene got from ration shop is over,” says Mr. Giridharan. Till 2010, Mr. Giridharan earned a decent income by running the telephone booth. However, popular use of cell phones meant fewer users for the telephone. “We got married eight years back. We decided to support each other and started selling candies,” he recalls. He says that the telephone booth has been his ‘home’ for the last 25 years. “For renting a house or even a room, I have to pay at least Rs. 2,500, which is beyond our means,” he says. Their dilapidated home is barely wide enough for the couple to lie down comfortably. “When it rains, water seeps through the damaged roof,” says Ms. Kanaga Devi. The couple used to pay Rs. 10 a day and use the nearby public toilet and bathroom. But since the lockdown, they are allowed to use only the latrine. “So we fetch water from the nearby water tank and take bath in the open, using a dhoti and bedsheet as a screen. However, this has resulted in water stagnation and aggravated the mosquito menace,” she says. “Listening to Tamil film songs from the 1980s on the radio is helping us sail through this period, says Mr. Giridharan. District Differently Abled Welfare Officer (in charge) M. Jeyaseeli says they have given sufficient rice and pulses that will last a month to the couple. “We will ensure that the couple can avail themselves of old-age pension and will take steps for their rehabilitation after the lockdown period,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-living-in-phone-booth-find-the-going-very-tough/article31361513.ece
17 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Coconuts on the way to other States once again||After a gap of over three weeks since the imposition of lockdown to curb the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, coconuts harvested from Vadipatti and Sholavandan were transported to other States on Thursday, bringing much relief to the farmers. Joint Director of Agriculture T. Vivekanandan said that coconut was raised on around 11,000 hectares at Vadipatti, Sholavandan, Alanganallur and Kottampatti blocks in Madurai district. Every day around two lakh coconuts used to be transported from Madurai to other States like Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Karnataka, Mr. Vivekanandan added. Godowns overflowing  However, following the lockdown, these coconuts were not transported, resulting in overflowing godowns in Sholavandan, said T. Perumal, national secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Sangh. “Nearly 70% of coconuts harvested from Madurai used to be transported to other States. With the restrictions in place due to the lockdown, the farmers did not harvest around 30 lakh coconuts, over the last three weeks,” Mr. Vivekanandan said. This has financially affected the farmers as most of them had borrowed from moneylenders and were dependent on the sales to repay their lenders. “Hence, the relaxation of rules to transport coconuts to other States, is a big relief to the farmers,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coconuts-on-the-way-to-other-states-once-again/article31361510.ece
17 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Teacher gets interim bail||Following the Supreme Court’s recommendation to decongest jails in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, Madurai District Court granted interim bail to a government school teacher, who was accused of sexually assaulting his student, till May 4. He was directed to stay in his house till then. Mahila Court Judge J. Flora granted the bail with the conditions that the petitioner should execute a personal bond of Rs. 10,000 before the Superintendent of Prison, Madurai and that he must appear before the court without fail on May 5. He shall appear before the Mahila court and execute a fresh bond with two sureties. With the accused languishing in prison from February 26 and on considering the urgent need and necessity to ensure social distancing to reduce the scope of infection, the interim bail was granted, the judge said. The case of the prosecution was that the teacher had asked two girl students to sweep his room. It was said that after relieving one girl from the assignment, he sexually assaulted the other girl. The police booked a case against him under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO Act) 2012, following which he was arrested and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teacher-gets-interim-bail/article31361518.ece
17 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Seizure of vehicles to continue||Though the Madurai City police on Thursday began releasing of 4,500-odd vehicles seized during the first phase of lockdown, Commissioner of Police S. Davidson Devasirvaatham has warned violators of curfew order that the vehicle seizure would continue. On Thursday, 194 two-wheelers and seven four-wheelers were handed over to the owners after the State government announced that the seized vehicles can be taken back by the violators. However, the police are getting a written undertaking from the vehicle owners that they would not violate Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure during the extended lockdown period. They should also declare that they would bring the vehicle to complete the legal formalities. Meanwhile, the Commissioner has warned the people that they should not take the cases for violation of curfew order lightly. “We have been booking the cases under the provisions of Indian Penal Code, Epidemic Diseases Act, and Disaster Management Act. The violators would not be able to join government service till the cases are legally disposed of. Similarly, they would not get clearance under police verification for getting passport and also would not be able to go abroad for education, job and medical treatment,” Mr. Davidson said and urged people not to step out of home unnecessarily and get entangled in police cases. The city police have booked 3,639 cases against 3,853 persons and seized 4,550 vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seizure-of-vehicles-to-continue/article31361516.ece
17 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Court grants bail to two||The Madurai District Court has granted conditional bail to two men who were arrested and remanded in judicial custody for illegal possession of toddy. They were held for possessing four litres of toddy during the lockdown period. Principal District Judge A. Nazeema Banu granted bail to K. Alagar and K. Veluchamy. They were booked under the Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act, 1937 by the Perungudi police. A similar case booked by the Avaniapuram police was pending against K. Alagar. The petitioners were ordered to be enlarged on bail on executing own bond each for Rs. 10,000 to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Sub-Jail, Melur. They were directed to surrender before the Judicial Magistrate concerned after four weeks and execute a fresh bond of Rs. 10,000. Thereafter, the petitioners were directed to appear before the Perungudi police and sign daily at 10 a.m. They were directed to cooperate with the investigation and not threaten the witnesses. If there was any violation of the conditions, the Investigating Officer can approach the Judicial Magistrate concerned for the cancellation of the bail, the judge said. The case was heard through video conferencing at the camp office of the judge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-grants-bail-to-two/article31361519.ece
17 April 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Nagapattinam fishermen at sea due to uncertain market conditions||There has been a muted response on the part of fishermen to the permission granted by the Fisheries Department for entry of country crafts into the sea during the lockdown period in force for containment of novel coronavirus. The fishermen spend time in the sea only for a few hours and consciously restrict the quantum of catch as their requirement now is only for self-consumption. They are still not prepared to net bigger catch due to the uncertainties of the market conditions. The ‘Mathi' variety fish that they net is sought after in Kerala. But, since the inter-State transport is restricted, coming back with large catches do not serve any purpose. There is still ambiguity over whether or not fish will be considered as an essential commodity for the purpose of hassle-free transport during the lockdown period, according to Kumaran, a fisherman belonging to Vedaranyam. The market for 'Mathi' variety fish is not encouraging in Tamil Nadu as the oil content is high. Traders from Kerala usually source the entire fish catches as the 'Mathi' variety fetches a good price in their State, Amal RaJ Xavier, Joint Director of Fisheries, Nagapattinam, said. "Nevertheless, we expect the situation to improve gradually. As of now, the fishermen are entering into the sea to net catches for own consumption. There is, of course, a general perception among the fishermen that it would make sense to wait until the end of the lockdown period to enter into the sea for resumption of livelihood,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nagapattinam-fishermen-at-sea-due-to-uncertain-market-conditions/article31361543.ece
17 April 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||No community transmission in Kanniyakumari district||Asserting that there was no community transmission of COVID-19 in Kanniyakumari district, M. Karunakaran, Special Officer designated by the State government to monitor anti-COVID-19 operations in five southern districts, said movement of people between the district and Kerala was being monitored round-the-clock by the police and public health department officials. Collector and Superintendent of Police were in touch with their counterparts in Thiruvananthapuram. “Those, who have to travel due to medical emergency or some other valid reason, can apply for e-passes being issued by the Collector,” he said. Speaking to reporters after chairing a review meeting held here on Wednesday, he said blood and throat swab samples of 182 persons, who had close contacts with five positive patients undergoing treatment in the Government Medical College Hospital at Aasaaripallam, had been tested and 11 of them were found to be carrying the virus. So, they were admitted in the hospital. Subsequently, places of positive patients like Dennison Road and Velladichivilai were disinfected. He said the COVID-19 relief that included Rs. 1,000 in cash, free rice, dhal, sugar and cooking oil were distributed to more than 98% of ration cardholders and the rest would get the relief shortly. Similarly, the dole for May would reach the beneficiaries soon. He said the district administration had done good job in ensuring supply of essentials and medicines to the public during the lockdown. “Since the district administration is taking efforts to curb the viral infection, the public should cooperate with the official machinery to end the crisis on an early note by remaining indoors,” he appealed. Elaborating the steps being taken to curb the viral outbreak, Collector Prashant M. Wadnere said 16 of 597 persons screened so far had tested positive for COVID-19. Even as 1,155 persons had been kept in home quarantine, the administration had taken steps to ensure uninterrupted supply of essentials and medicines to these families. Superintendent of Police Shreenath said the district police, which was vigorously executing the lockdown, had so far registered 4,397 cases and seized 3,563 vehicles used by violators. Additional Director General of Police and another Special Officer for the district Mahesh Kumar Agarwal, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range, Praveen Kumar Abinapu, Nagercoil Corporation Commissioner K. Saravanakumar and other senior officials participated in the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-community-transmission-in-kanniyakumari-district/article31361501.ece
17 April 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||L-G gives approval for rice to APL families||Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi on Thursday gave her approval for distribution of free rice to Above Poverty Line families, excluding government servants and income taxpayers. In her note to the Chief Secretary, which was shared to the media, Ms. Bedi said approval was given to provide 10 kg rice per ration card per month for a period of three months to APL families due to the prevailing condition. The operating procedure adopted for distribution of free rice to BPL families would also be followed for APL card holders, she said in the note. She also directed the Civil Supplies Department to ensure no pilferage or leakage during distribution of rice. Earlier, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy blamed Ms. Bedi for the delay in distribution of free rice to all cardholders as compensation for the livelihood loss due to COVID-19 lockdown. Speaking to reporters outside the Assembly, the Chief Minister said though all State governments had completed distribution of free rice, the Union Territory had only started the process now. After the Prime Minister made the announcement to distribute 5kg of free rice to people during the lockdown period, the government forwarded the proposal to the Lt. Governor. Ms. Bedi returned the file suggesting transfer of money to the beneficiaries’ account instead of distribution of rice, the Chief Minister said. The Lt. Governor had even mooted the money transfer proposal during a video-conferencing with President and Vice-President on April 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-gives-approval-for-rice-to-apl-families/article31361234.ece
17 April 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Flowers wilt, fruits perish in Pudukottai||Horticulture and floriculture farmers in Pudukottai district, especially in Alangudi taluk, have been hit hard by crash in prices of fruits and flowers. Farmers who had grown banana, jackfruit and water melons and flowers including jasmine, crossandra, chrysanthemum, tube rose and rose have been badly hit by the lockdown in Alangudi, Anavayal, Vadakadu, Mangadu, Keeramangalam, Kothamangalam, Pullanviduthi, Panankulam, Kulamangalam, Neduvasal and many other villages in the district. Fruits are raised on about 5,800 hectares (ha) and vegetables on 1,500 ha in the district. Most of them are raised in the Alangudi-Karambakudi-Gandharvakottai region. Given the price crash and poor demand, many farmers have not harvested banana and jackfruits, leaving them to ripe and rot in the trees. Flowers are not even plucked. Most farmers in the Vadakadu-Keeramangalam belt have about 10 to 20 jackfruit trees around their houses and many more in their farmers. Some raise the trees as inter-crop in coconut groves and others as a border crop, points out T. Kannan, a farmer of Senthankudi. “The jackfruits bring a seasonal revenue of up to Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 1 lakh to the farmers. Being highly perishable, banana and jackfruits can hardly be preserved,” says G. S. Dhanapathy, district chairman, Farmers Forum of India. Small farmers are forced to sell the vegetables grown in their fields at throwaway prices. In the absence of public transport, they are not able to take the vegetables to mandis in the towns. These are farmers who cannot afford to or have adequate volumes to hire goods carriers, he says. But this year, most of them stand to suffer heavy losses. “Farmers who had grown fruits and flowers in our area have been badly hit by the lock down – prices have crashed due to poor demand,” rues Mr. Kannan. Normally, traders from various parts of the state used to visit the villages and procure the jackfruits. But this year, the lockdown came at the time when the fruits were ready for harvest. “Traders say that there is not much demand and offer just Rs. 50-100 for a good sized fruit which earlier used to command up to Rs. 500. At this rate, we will hardly be able to recoup what we have spent on the cultivation,” says Mr. Kannan. Farmers like Mr. Kannan in the region allege that the government did not sanction compensation to jackfruits damaged in Cyclone Gaja. At least now, the government come to our aid and come with some support, they demand. Many farmers in villages such as Anavayal switched over to banana, flowers and vegetables after the coconut trees were felled by Cyclone Gaja. But all of them have suffered badly due to the lockdown despite good yields “Most farmers already had jackfruit trees. Last year, there was hardly any jackfruit yield after many trees were damaged in the cyclone. But this year, there was good yield but there are hardly any takers,” regrets M. R. Parthasarathy, a young progressive farmer of Anavayal. According to Mr. Parthasarathy, on an average about 30,000 banana bunches were exported daily from Anavayal to Kerala and other towns in Tamil Nadu. “Now hardly 1,000 bunches are exported. Similarly, about 5,000 jackfruits will be sent from here every day. Today, just about 100 fruits are going out. Floriculture farmers are the worst hit as there is hardly any off take of flowers,” he says. Some of the farmers like Mr. Parthasarathy suggest that the Department of Agri Business and Marketing should procure the fruits and flowers from farmers and market them to companies for making value added products. “The price crash has put farmers into severe hardship as they are already facing a severe cash crunch. The government should extend them all support,” says Mr. Dhanapathy. When contacted, a senior official of the Horticulture Department said that steps have been taken to arrange tie-ups between farmers and traders for marketing the produce. The District Collector has even held a meeting with traders and farmers to coordinate the process. Passes were being issued for goods carrier to transport farm produce to markets in other towns and cities. Fruits and vegetables are also procured from farmers and sold through mobile outlets. A tie-up has also been arranged between floriculture farmers and a private lemongrass distillation unit at Annavasal under which rose and jasmine will be supplied to the unit for oil extraction. About 300 kg of rose and jasmine has been supplied to the unit initially, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flowers-wilt-fruits-perish-in-pudukottai/article31361540.ece
17 April 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Man held for spreading rumour||A 42-year-old man was arrested at Ponnamaravathy on Thursday on the charge of spreading rumours that a man who was under home quarantine in the town was afflicted with COVID-19. The accused A. Sivakumar, a manager in a wedding hall, was arrested on a complaint lodged by a health inspector. Police sources said a man who had settled in Mayiladuthurai returned to his native Ponnamaravathy Town a few days ago. Since he had come from another district, the man was kept under home quarantine with a notice stuck in front of his house in this regard. Sivakumar who came to know about it allegedly circulated a voice message in the Whatsapp claiming that the man was afflicted with novel corona virus. He also appealed to the public not to go anywhere near the house of the man. A case was registered against him including under section 66 of the Information Technology Act and under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-spreading-rumour/article31361522.ece
17 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Seven recover from COVID-19 in Salem, discharged||Seven patients who underwent treatment for COVID-19 were discharged from Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here on Thursday. District Collector S.A. Raman, Dean of the hospital R. Balajinathan, hospital Medical Superintendent P.V. Dhanapal, Salem Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh, Deputy Director of Health Services J. Nirmalsen and other senior officials were among those who gave two of the patients a send-off, when they were taken home in an ambulance. The other five were four Indonesian nationals and their guide from Chennai who underwent treatment from March 22. After discharge, they were sent to Puzhal prison along with 11 others here. They were sent to Puzhal prison along with seven other Indonesian nationals and four Salem persons (all of whom were not COVID-19 positive), as they faced charges for violating visa norms and under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939. The two who were sent home were a 63-year-old patient from Kalarampatti, a contact of the Indonesian nationals, and a 43-year-old patient from Thammampatti who had attended the Delhi conference. Mr.Raman offered them vegetable kits and other safety gear. Mr. Raman appreciated the efforts of doctors here and said the patients would have to spend 14 days in home quarantine and follow other instructions from doctors. Entry restricted Their residences are located in containment zones and entry of outsiders has been restricted into these areas. Corporation and Revenue officials and the police are monitoring these areas. Essential items are delivered at their homes. Mr. Raman said people should wear masks when they step out. The administration was considering imposing of fines on those not wearing masks. The present containment measures would continue as Salem was in the red zone and declared a hotspot. Health officials advised the public to download the Arogya Sethu mobile app or register in the IVRS system using the number 9499912345.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-recover-from-covid-19-in-salem-discharged/article31361287.ece
17 April 2020||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Five new cases in Namakkal||Five new cases were reported in Namakkal on Thursday. A 50-year-old Village Health Nurse and a 46-year-old conservancy worker from Lathuvadi in Namakkal were among the five persons who tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. All of them were contacts of previous cases. In Salem, two new cases were reported. While one person had foreign travel history, another from Thammampatti had attended the single source event in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-new-cases-in-namakkal/article31361288.ece
17 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 patient discharged from Thanjavur GH||A 43-year-old person of Kumbakonam who had tested positive for COVID-19 virus during the last week of March, was discharged from Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on Thursday. The patient, working in an establishment at West Indies had landed in Chennai on March 18. From there he took a public transport to reach his residence at Kumbakonam via Villupuram. After arriving home, he suffered from high body temperature and cough and availed treatment at a private clinic in Kumbakonam. As the symptoms did not subside, he was referred to the Thanjavur Medical College hospital on March 25 where he was admitted to the special ward for treating COVID-19 patients. A swab test turned out to be positive on March 28. He was discharged after three subsequent tests were negative and a week of observation period, sources said. The Zonal Officer, COVID-19 Prevention Exercise, Thanjavur Zone, M. S. Shanmugam, the Collector, M. Govinda Rao, the TMC Dean, Kumudha Lingaraj and others greeted him by clapping their hands when he stepped out of the COVID-19 special ward building in the TMC hospital premises. Speaking to reporters later, Mr. Shanmugam, Commissioner, State Archaeology Department, said that tracing of the third-level contacts of COVID 19 patients has been taken up in the district. Around 75 first-level contacts of COVID-19 patients in the district and the second-level of 250 persons who were in contact with the first-level contacts were subjected to the COVID-19 test, already. Though most of them tested negative, the District Health Department had taken up the tracing of the third-level contacts - ie those who were in contact with the 250 persons, he said. The purpose of tracing the third-level contacts was to ensure that the transmission of COVID-19 virus, if any, was cut off completely, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-patient-discharged-from-thanjavur-gh/article31361545.ece
17 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||They pedal their way to get doubts clarified||Three folk artistes from Tiruvarur pedalled their way to Thanjavur on Thursday to get their doubts relating to the disbursement of relief clarified from officials concerned. The government had announced a relief assistance of Rs. 1,000 for the folk artistes and directed them to register the name and other details with the respective Zonal Art and Culture Department office. The Zonal office for the artistes in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam is located in Thanjavur town. Hence, the office-bearers of Tiruvarur District Folk Artists Association, Arul (34), Karthi (30) and Arivumani (37) contacted the Zonal office at Thanjavur and enquired about the procedure over the phone. They were told that they could register their details over the phone or WhatsApp number. However, some doubts cropped up among them about the steps to be adopted to apply for the assistance. As their attempts to get in touch with the officials turned futile, they hopped on to their by-cycles on Thursday morning to visit the Zonal Office at Thanjavur located 60 kilometres from Tiruvarur. They reached the Art and Culture Department office on the Court Road around 10 a.m. and returned to Tiruvarur after getting their doubts cleared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/they-pedal-their-way-to-get-doubts-clarified/article31361548.ece
17 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Welfare Board members asked to share details||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department has called upon the members of the Grama Kovil Poojarigal Welfare Board to share their details to avail COVID-19 relief. The Assistant Commissioner, HR and CE Department, Kumbakonam, Ilayaraja, has issued a statement requesting the members to present the following details – name, mobile number, bank passbook first page details and identification card image – through WhatsApp number 99657 27133 or over landline (0435) 2430564 in order to get the relief assistance of Rs. 1,000 credited in their respective bank accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/welfare-board-members-asked-to-share-details/article31361546.ece
17 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Police start releasing seized vehicles||Three weeks after it started seizing vehicles from its owners found violating the prohibitory orders clamped to check the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, the City Police on Thursday began releasing the vehicles in batches. Two -wheelers and cars which were seized by various police stations within the city limits on March 26 and 27 were the first ones to be released on Thursday at the City Police Armed Reserve ground at K. K. Nagar here where the confiscated vehicles were all stationed. A senior police officer said 248 two-wheelers and a couple of cars were released by the police and given back to its respective owners. The police had intimated in advance to the owners about the date of release of vehicles and the timing. The officer said the owners were asked to produce original documents such as driving licence, insurance and registration certification prior to releasing their respective vehicle. Photocopies of the documents were obtained from the owners. An undertaking in Tamil was taken from each vehicle owner that they would not violate the prohibitory order after receiving the vehicle. The officer said a team of police officers including a couple of Assistant Commissioners of Police were deployed at the Armed Reserve ground for release of the seized vehicles. The vehicles which were released on Thursday were lined up station-wise and date wise for easier identification of its respective owner. The officer said the exercise of releasing the vehicles would continue on Friday. Prior intimation would be given to the respective owner from whom acknowledgement slip would be obtained. Vehicles booked by various police stations in City Police limits were shifted to the sprawling Armed Reserve ground where they were stationed. The City Police had seized 4,671 two-wheelers, 113 autorickshaws and 97 four-wheelers till date from the violators after registering cases against them for defying the prohibitory orders. Fine amount collected so far from them was over Rs. 12.58 lakh. In Tiruchi Rural Police limits, a total number of 486 vehicles were released. These vehicles were impounded on March 24 and 25 in various police stations falling under the Tiruchi Rural Police limits. The vehicles were released at the respective police stations. Police sources said vehicles seized on March 26 and 27 would be released on Friday after checking the documents from the respective owners and obtaining an undertaking from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-start-releasing-seized-vehicles/article31361554.ece
17 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Police step up surveillance to curb illicit distillation||The recent seizures of illicit arrack and fermented wash in the district in the backdrop of closure of TASMAC liquor outlets due to the lockdown have kept the police on their toes. The Prohibition and Enforcement Wing (PEW) and the Tiruchi Rural police have stepped up surveillance by conducting surprise checks in various areas in a bid to curb illicit distillation. They have reached out to the village panchayat heads in the district seeking their help to combat this offence. In Tiruchi district, four such instances of seizure of illicit arrack were reported on different dates in the last week of March and early this month. In a couple of instances, about 13 litres of illicit arrack were seized near the Sobanapuram check post in Uppilliyapuram police station limits in Musiri sub division last week. The illegal consignment was being smuggled in a couple of four-wheelers when they were seized with the Uppilliyapuram police arresting arresting two persons and registering separate cases including under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. In another instance reported late last month, the PEW, Thuraiyur unit, seized about 120 litres of illicit arrack which was being prepared in a desolate spot at M. Pudur. Another case of seizure was reported a few days ago at Top Sengattupatti atop the Pachamalai hills where the Uppilliyapuram police confiscated about three litres of arrack which was being made illegally inside a farm. Apart from these cases, the police foiled a couple of attempts to make illicit arrack by destroying fermented wash besides seizing toddy which was illegally transported in vehicles from Thamampatti in neighbouring Salem district to Tiruchi district. An attempt to make illicit arrack has also been reported in neighbouring Perambalur district where the police destroyed a few days ago about 200 litres of fermented wash at Kalarampatti village and arrested a 29-year-old man in this connection. In another instance, a PEW team seized fermented wash at Vazhavandankottai on the outskirts of Tiruchi city. Field-level police officers say surveillance had been stepped to curb attempts to make illicit arrack at a time when TASMAC outlets were shut owing to the current lockdown. The list containing previous offenders involved in this illegal activity had been taken to mount a watch on them. Similarly, the erstwhile black spots areas where illicit distillation was once rampant had also brought under the scope of surveillance, say police sources. The PEW team in association with the district police were conducting surprise checks in various areas including Manapparai to keep under check any attempts to indulge in this illegal activity. A meeting was convened recently with a group of village panchayat heads in Musiri sub division during which the police appealed to the panchayat presidents to keep them informed about attempts to make illicit arrack in their respective villages. A separate meeting was conveyed at Thenpuranadu village atop the Pachamalai hills on Wednesday during the Musiri Police and the PEW team appealed to the villagers to tip them off any information of attempts being made to manufacture illicit arrack and movement of strangers. The Tiruchi Rural Police has asked the field-level forest department officials to alert them since vast areas of reserve forests come under the control of the Forest Department. The challenge for the police comes when the illegal activity is done within the house and not in public places, say the sources. Despite the challenges, police sources say they were mounting a vigil to curb illicit distillation in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-step-up-surveillance-to-curb-illicit-distillation/article31361552.ece
17 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||32 COVID-19 cured patients discharged from Tiruchi GH||Thirty-two patients out of 43 patients, who had tested positive for COVID-19, were discharged after treatment from the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here on Thursday. The patients were all given a warm send off by district officials and hospital staff with a round of applause. All of them, however, have been advised home quarantine for another 14 days as a precautionary measure. Among those discharged on Thursday were one each from Perambalur, Ariyalur and Karur as they tested negative twice for SARS-CoV-2, official sources said. The 32 patients were seen off by District Collector S. Sivarasu, hospital dean K. Vanitha, medical superintendent R. Yeganathan and team of doctors and nurses who applauded the patients as they boarded a 108 ambulance. Each patient was presented with a platter of fruits on behalf of the hospital. Mr. Sivarasu told presspersons that the patients had all responded to treatment well. “Among the discharged patients is a 67-year-old who is the oldest to undergo treatment for COVID 19 here so far. The youngest, a 18-month-old baby is doing well and will be sent home soon," he said. According to protocol, the second and third tests were done after the patients were monitored for 14 days, he added. Only 14 patients are in the isolation ward at the MGMGH now, Mr. Sivarasu said. “This does not mean that the public can take matters lightly and begin to wander outdoors. Now is the most critical time to flatten the curve,” the Collector said. The district administration has drawn blood samples from 502 residents in containment zones. Of these, 132 were tested on Wednesday and the results of others were awaited. “The reports showed that all of them were negative, which reinstated the fact that Tiruchi has not progressed to the third stage of community transmission,” he said. A total of 15,163 senior citizens and others susceptible to infection were regularly being monitored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/32-covid-19-cured-patients-discharged-from-tiruchi-gh/article31361532.ece
17 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Temporary markets to close on weekend||The district administration has announced that all temporary vegetable markets will remain closed on Saturday and Sunday to avoid gathering of crowds during the weekend. The move is part of measures to control public gathering in large numbers and to stop the spread of COVID-19 in the district, Collector S. Sivarasu said. He said that the ten temporary markets at Madhuram Grounds, Bishop Heber College Grounds, Anna Nagar Uzhavar Sandhai, Anna Stadium, Chathram Bus stand, E.V.R. school grounds, S.I.T. College ground, temporary Uzhavar Sandhai at Central Bus Stand and K. K. Nagar Uzhavar Sandhai will be shut on April 18 and 19. The wholesale market on Chennai Bypass Road will be shut on Friday night and Saturday night. People have been requested to purchase groceries from nearby outlets on these days, the Collector said. People are only allowed to travel within a two km radius to purchase essentials. Mr. Sivarasu also said that usage of four wheelers was restricted around the city unless it was being used to ferry patients or other emergencies. “Four wheelers cannot be taken to purchase vegetables,” he said. The Tiruchi City Corporation has begun selling vegetables on two push carts per ward, which the citizens must make use of, he added.  Helpline The Commissionerate for the Welfare of Differently Abled has set up a helpline for Persons with Disabilities. The District Differently Abled Welfare Officer R. Ravichandran said that since the helpline number- 18004250111 was set up in March, they have received 1003 calls seeking help in purchasing groceries and other essentials. The helpline number is routed through the DDRO and Revenue officials in the district he said. On behalf of Aavin Milk Dairy and the District Co-operative Milk Producers Union, 393 disabled and mentally ill children in five homes and four special homes were provided with biscuits and cool milk-based drinks on Wednesday. The Railway Protection Force of the Tiruchi Railway division has sponsored lunch for nearly 600 families, including 200 visually impaired people and who reside in Gandhi Nagar colony, Srirangam, Manikandam, Nagamangalam Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board and other locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temporary-markets-to-close-on-weekend/article31361550.ece
17 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Civic body purchases three spray gun machines||The Tiruchi Corporation has purchased three large spray gun machines to spray disinfectants at public places in important locations across the city, including the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. One spray gun, mounted on a truck owned by the civic body began spraying at the GH premises on Thursday morning. Three machines have been purchased by the civic body each worth Rs. 3.5 lakh from Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, Ranipet. District Collector S. Sivarasu inaugurated the machines and said that it would be deployed in places where people frequent during lockdown. “This will include the GH, ration shops and markets,” he said. S. Sivasubramanian, City Corporation Commissioner, said that the machines had been purchased to ease the burden on the Fire and Rescue Services personnel. The disinfectant sprays can each hold up to 1,000 litres of disinfectant solution, he said. “We have got a large supply of Sodium Hypochlorite solution from Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Limited. The solution, commonly used as a disinfectant is being sprayed across the city,” he said. One of the three sprayers was deployed on Thursday while the other two will be used across the city from Friday onwards, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-purchases-three-spray-gun-machines/article31361538.ece
17 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Precautions in place at BHEL Township||A halt to social gatherings, adherence to social distancing, wearing of personal protective equipment, disinfecting of vehicles at entry and exit points, arrangements made for hand washing at several locations, and conduct of awareness exercises constitute the precautions taken by BHEL Tiruchi for containment of the COVID 19 virus in the Kailasapuram and other townships housing over 5,000 families of employees. To provide guidance to employees, safety advisories were issued to all employees and a help-line manned by Occupational Health Services (OHS) officials was established under the direction of the Executive Director of BHEL Tiruchi R. Padmanabhan. With effect from March 16, all marriage halls, the Community Centre, Kailasapuram Club and other recreational facilities including the Jawaharlal Nehru stadium and parks in the townships were closed to prevent gathering of people. Forty volunteers were trained by doctors to spread awareness among township residents on the importance of social distancing, wearing masks, washing hands frequently with soap and water for a minimum of 20 seconds and staying at home except for emergencies, a press release said. A single point entry and exit was in vogue in the townships. To enhance monitoring and effective disinfection of individuals and vehicles entering the township, only the main township entrance at the Training Centre bus stop has been kept open, with restricted entry. Infra-red thermometers have also been issued to security personnel at factory and township gates and arrangements for hand washing have been made at the township entrance and all entrants are being advised to wash their hands before entry inside township. As part of its social responsibility initiatives, Fire Service personnel from BHEL Tiruchi, sprayed disinfectant using fire tenders in several neighbouring areas Through the local Government officials, BHEL Tiruchi, also donated a total of 300 bags containing 14 essential items each including essential groceries and vegetables, to below poverty line families residing at the Narikkorava colony in Thirunedungulam panchayat in Thiruverumbur taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/precautions-in-place-at-bhel-township/article31361533.ece
17 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Vegetables at doorsteps a big hit||Thanks to the good patronage, the Tiruchi Corporation has intensified distribution of vegetables at cost price to the doorsteps of its residents. The move is aimed at preventing the people to venture out to buy vegetables at vegetable markets, where the authorities find it difficult to enforce personal distancing. Initially the bags were priced at Rs. 150 a bag when the initiative was launched about two weeks ago. The price has now been slashed to Rs. 100 a bag. Each bag contains 11 types of vegetables, including drumstick, tomato, brinjal, carrot, coconut and green chilli. Prior to the commencement of the distribution, the Corporation purchases vegetables at the Gandhi Market and involves its workers to weigh them and filled in bags. The response was not well in the initial stage. However, it is said that it has received good patronage since the price was slashed.  A senior official of the Corporation said that it was one among the attempts to limit the crowds at vegetable markets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetables-at-doorsteps-a-big-hit/article31361536.ece
17 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Four more patients discharged||Four more COVID-19 positive patients, who were undergoing treatment in the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, were discharged on Thursday evening. Two patients from Melapalayam, one each from Pattamadai and KTC Nagar, were discharged after two samples drawn from them within the gap of 48 hours tested negative. With this, the total number of patients discharged from the TVMCH has moved up to 22 as one person on April 8, 12 on April 14 and five more on April 15 were discharged. Now, 35 patients are undergoing treatment in the TVMCH. Meanwhile, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish chaired a meeting with officials from Departments of Agriculture, Labour, Police and Revenue on allowing manufacturing units to resume operation as the Union Government has relaxed the lockdown norms for some sections of manufacturing units. She said the lockdown norms would be relaxed from April 20 to enable micro, small and medium enterprises like brick kiln, two-wheeler, four-wheeler and heavy vehicle repair shops on highways, rural industries, highway restaurants, fertilizers and pesticide manufacturing units, fishing, courier service, rural constructions, electricians, plumbers, coffee, tea and rubber estates etc to resume operations with 50% of workforce. So, the officials should concentrate on these units and allow them to work without violating the relaxed norms. “Since these measures have been initiated with the objective of improving the economy, officials should ensure it should not violate in anyway the lockdown and personal distancing being enforced everywhere,” Ms. Shilpa said.  18 patients discharged in Theni The Theni Government Medical College Hospital authorities discharged 18 persons, who were detected with COVID-19 positive virus, here on Thursday. After 41 persons in the district were tested positive, the authorities had taken a series of measures and treatment, which had successfully helped 18 of them to recover fully. Doctors advised them to remain in their homes for the next 14 days. Medical teams would continue to keep a vigil on their health until then. The virus spread when a group of men returned after attending a conference in New Delhi. While a total of 41 persons tested positive, one woman from Bodi died. Others were stable and recovering, doctors said and all the 18 discharged patients were sent in nine vehicles to their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-more-patients-discharged/article31361504.ece
17 April 2020||Tirupattur,TAMIL NADU||Ambur residents get ration supplies at doorsteps||Ambur residents have started receiving their ration supplies at their doorsteps from Wednesday. Since the COVID-19 positive cases touched 10 in Ambur alone in Tirupattur district, the District Collector, M.P. Sivanarul, announced the town as containment zone to limit the movement of people on the roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ambur-residents-get-ration-supplies-at-doorsteps/article31361226.ece
17 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Vehicles for disinfection, sample collection launched||The Tiruppur Corporation has launched specialised vehicles for spraying disinfectant and for sample collection on Thursday. Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan launched the disinfectant spray vehicle at the Collectorate on Thursday. According to a release, the vehicle, powered by two motors, will disinfect public places quickly. It possesses a GPS device to monitor the areas that were disinfected. Speaking to mediapersons, Mr. Radhakrishnan highlighted that no new cases were confirmed in the district for two days (Tuesday and Wednesday). He accepted cheques worth Rs. 14 lakh in total from three organisations for the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. N. Boopathy, City Health Officer, said the mobile sample collection vehicle would collect samples from the people in containment zones. The vehicle was modelled after the walk-in sample kiosk, WISK, installed at the Tiruppur Government Hospital. “We have collected samples of all the primary contacts. We have to take samples from the secondary contacts and the vehicle will speed up the process,” Mr. Boopathy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicles-for-disinfection-sample-collection-launched/article31361277.ece
17 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers raise Rs. 1.2 lakh for relief fund||In a moving gesture, more than 300 conservancy workers employed by the Udhagamandalam Municipality raised Rs. 1.2 lakh for the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to fight COVID-19. The fund raised by the workers, some of whom are employed as contract workers by the municipality, were handed over to the Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya on Thursday. K. Tamilarasan, one of the conservancy workers who contributed a day’s salary towards the effort, said that the workers had wanted to assist the government in any way they could, so that people in need of assistance could benefit. “Even though a day’s salary is crucial for us to run our household, we know that it is absolutely necessary for all of us to come together to help the people and the government in whatever way we can,” said Mr. Tamilarasan. Most of the contract workers employed by the municipality receive Rs. 420 as a day’s wages, with the workers themselves contributing somewhere close to an extra Rs. 100 extra per person. R. Saraswati, Udhagamandalam Municipal Commissioner, said that the gesture was very much appreciated. “The workers are already working everyday to keep everyone safe, and their jobs are so critical to the health and well-being of all the town’s residents,” said Ms. Saraswati, who added that the municipality had already urged the workers to first take care of their own families. “We told them that they are already doing such an important job for the community and that they did not have any compulsion to raise any funds, but they insisted on wanting to help,” added Ms. Saraswati. “Even if the funds we raised helped in preventing the death of one person from COVID-19, or from limiting its spread, we would consider the money to have been well spent,” said Palanisamy, another sanitary worker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservancy-workers-raise-rs-12-lakh-for-relief-fund/article31361269.ece
17 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Leopard stuck in fence rescued||A two-year-old leopard was rescued by the Forest Department staff after it got trapped in a fence in Mattakandy village near Manjoor in the Kundah Forest Range on Thursday. Forest officials said that the animal had entrapped its jaw in a fence put up around the perimeter of a tea garden, which it was trying to cross to enter a patch of reserve forest. The staff received information about the incident and rushed to the spot. K. Saravanakumar, Assistant Conservator of Forests, Nilgiris division, said that the animal rested for a few minutes after it was released from the fence, before escaping into the nearby forest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-stuck-in-fence-rescued/article31361270.ece
17 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Fireworks industry to resume work soon||Fireworks industry in this district would resume work from April 20. After a meeting with the Zonal Special Task Officer M. Karunankaran, Inspector General of Police (South zone) K.P. Shanmuga Rajeswaran and district officials here on Thursday, Collector R. Kannan said all 956 licensed fireworks units would resume work. “Only 50 % of employees can work at a time in each unit and employers need to ensure social distancing,” he said. The units need to be disinfected. “Employers have to ensure that workers come in shifts so that every one gets job. No industrial unit in municipal areas and containment zones would be allowed to resume work. This district has two containment zones – entire Rajapalayam municipal area and parts of Aruppukottai municipality. “The containment zone in Rajapalayam would be shrunk to the core area of six wards and rest would be brought out of the containment zone after health workers complete door-to-door survey for fever cases,” he added. Out of the 1.92 lakh people, survey has covered over 70,000 people. Among them, 882 people have been found to have fever and cold. They have been asked to remain indoors and teams are monitoring them. Meanwhile, out of the 3295 people who were advised to undergo home quarantine after they arrived from other States and abroad, 3086 have completed 28 days of quarantine. Groceries and other essential goods are being moved from various upcountry states and their availability is ensured. Over 4,800 migrant workers in the district were being provided with food, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fireworks-industry-to-resume-work-soon/article31361506.ece
17 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||GH to get sample testing facility||Testing of samples for COVID-19 would be possible at the medical college hospital here from next week, Collector R. Kannan said on Thursday. He told reporters that Reverse Transcription - Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) testing equipment has arrived at the GH but some of its accessories that have been imported have got stuck at Mumbai for customs clearance. “The clearance has been secured after the intervention of the Chief Minister and they are expected to arrive here soon. Next Wednesday we will be able to conduct tests here,” he said. As many as 445 samples sent for swab test in Government Rajaji Hospital could not be immediately tested due to limited testing. “Once we get the equipment ready, we can test 98 samples in six hours and around 294 tests in a day,” he added. As of now, only close contacts of positive cases are being allowed for testing. “Even some people who came for voluntary testing, could not be done as we wanted to test close contacts on priority basis,” he said. So far, 129 samples have been tested negative. Virudhunagar district has so far tested 17 positive cases and one has been discharged after treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gh-to-get-sample-testing-facility/article31361507.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||62 persons discharged after treatment at various hospitals||On Thursday, 62 persons who had testedpositive for coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and underwent treatment in various hospitals, were discharged across the State. This took the number of patients discharged after treatment to 180. This included five persons — four residents of Chennai and one from Kancheepuram — who were discharged from Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Of the 25 persons who tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, five persons (all contacts of COVID-19 patients) were from Namakkal. Three persons each from Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Vellore and Chennai, two from Salem and one person each from Villupuram, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Tirunelveli, Tiruvallur and Thanjavur reported positive, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. Chennai accounted for 217 positive cases, while Coimbatore had 127 cases. Tiruppur had 80 patients, while there were 70 patients in Erode. Testing facility With the addition of a testing facility at Government Kanniyakumari Medical College Hospital, the State has 27 laboratories — 17 in government and 10 in private. So far, 26,005 samples were sent for testing in the State. Apart from the 1,267 persons who tested positive, 18,743 samples returned negative. While 4,595 samples were repeat samples of the same patients, testing of 1,400 samples were under process. A total of 75,421 persons have completed 28-day home quarantine till date. Another 24,061 persons were under active home quarantine and 41 persons were in government quarantine facilities. A total of 1,882 persons suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to isolation wards in various hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/62-persons-discharged-after-treatment-at-various-hospitals/article31361258.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||HT industries in a crisis over power consumption charges||High Tension (HT) electricity consumers, who are mostly industries and institutions numbering more than 2,500 across the State, are in a crisis as the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation has not given extension in time to pay the current consumption charges. The HT consumers pay the bill for monthly consumption and have automatic bill reading system. Based on this, the bill is generated and the units get one week time from the billing date to pay the charges. After that there is 15 days time to pay with penalty. With most of the industries under lockdown since March 25, there were slight delays in providing the required details to Tangedco and hence there was a delay in generating the bill. But, the Tangedco has not given time for the industries to pay the charges, say the HT consumers here. The Tamil Nadu Electricity Consumers’ Association said the Tangedco should give at least five months time to pay the March bill without any penalty. On the Minimum Demand charges, the Association appealed to the State and Central Governments to extend 100 % waiver of the charges. Several HT consumers have given letters to the respective Tangedco offices seeking disconnection during the lockdown period so that they do not have to pay the MD charges. “The industries are already under stress. And, the Tangedco is creating more stress to the industries,” said a HT consumer here. The Souther India Mills' Association has made several representations to the State Government and the Tangedco. It pointed out that the Tangedco should give time to textile mills to pay the current consumption charges for March. It should also reduce the MD charges. Several hostel workers are staying in the mill premises. They need minimum power supply for lighting. Since this is an unprecedented situation, the Tangedco should waive the MD charges and should give time for the mills to pay the current consumption charges, it said. The lockdown is announced by the Central and State Governments and not requested by the industries. Hence, the Tangedco cannot ask the electricity consumers to pay MD charges for the period when the industries are not in operation, say industry sources here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ht-industries-in-a-crisis-over-power-consumption-charges/article31361265.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Palliative care is the answer||These incidents happened in the past couple of weeks: A patient, undergoing dialysis twice a week, wanted an opinion regarding the continuation of dialysis. Whether COVID-19 will affect him if he does? An elderly couple, dependent on help, who are living with their son who is working in essential service, were anxious. They said they did not know how to handle it if one of them, or their caregivers tested positive for a COVID-19 infection. What is the next step? Is there any institutional care to look after such patients? The answer is yes. There are hospices or palliative or rehab care centres. Palliative care is a medical speciality dealing with medical treatment for chronic and advanced diseases and care for elderly people with multiple diseases. The need to create awareness is much more in this group as these patients are people who are suffering from chronic illnesses and advanced diseases and are also severely immunocompromised. In these times they need to avoid unnecessary visitors. We also need to provide them with appropriate infection control measures — personal protective equipment, handwash, sanitisers for the health workers and those taking care of such patients. The key goal of palliative care is to reduce suffering of patients by early detection, intervention, complete protection, infection control and personal care. Preventing the spread of infection among patients who need palliative care is essential as their immunity is low and super added respiratory issues may increase the risk of the COVID-19 and the treatment may get complicated. We need to handle the community looking at the social, financial issues, and reduce their physical suffering by frequent monitoring of symptoms. We need to look for respiratory symptoms, encourage respiratory hygiene and cough etiquette. The best method now is to avoid contact with high risk groups. Family members must desist from visiting them and also save themselves from possible exposure. Consultations, whenever necessary, can be through telemedicine. We need to avoid interventions or treatments that may not be urgently needed. The risk groups include patients with illnesses such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, respiratory conditions, cancer, patients who have a compromised immune system, smokers, senior citizens, the elderly with multiple chronic conditions. Emergency situations depend on the treatment and disease phase, especially in cancer, dialysis, other rehabilitation specialisations. Treatment is required only when the concerned primary physician insists on it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palliative-care-is-the-answer/article31361237.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Small-scale units seek amendment in lockdown relief scheme||The small-scale industries here have appealed to the Union Government to make changes in the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) announced on March 26 so that the Provident Fund relief it has announced benefits all the industries. Coimbatore District Small Industries Association president R. Ramamurthy said the Centre proposed to pay the entire 24% of the Employees Provident Fund contribution on the monthly wages for the next three months. Most of the eligible employers had uploaded the data on EPF portal. But only a few received acknowledgement for it.  Gross wages The request by several employers was denied as the industries calculate wages as basic pay and Dearness Allowance. But the scheme is looking at gross wages. And this makes most of the employers ineligible for the scheme, he said. The Government should amend the scheme so that wages is calculated as basic and DA and not earned wages. Mr. Ramamurthy also urged the banks to extend loans to the MSMEs so that they are able to operate the industries. In a representation to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, the Joint Council of Associations of Coimbatore, appealed to the State Government to defer the payment of electricity charges by LT, LT CT and HT electricity consumers for March by a month from the date of resumption of normal working by the industries. The council also appealed to the Chief Minister to advise the Tangedco to calculate the electricity consumption data for March and April after the industries resume production and give time of one month from the date of resumption of work. The Government should waive off the MD charges for the lockdown period, the industry associations said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/small-scale-units-seek-amendment-in-lockdown-relief-scheme/article31361262.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Flower farmers hit due to lockdown||The lockdown for COVID-19 has severely hit flower farmers here. Many farmers here have let flowers wither away in the fields as demand has dropped and labourers are not also available to pluck flowers. The VOC flower market is the major market for flower trade here and it has been shutdown since the beginning of lockdown. Karnataka and Kerala are the major business areas for farmers here and with borders shut due to lockdown, many have left flowers wither away in the fields as farmers feel the cost of employing labourers isn’t profitable as well. Nerium varieties and jasmine are the major flower varieties cultivated in the region. According to officials from the Horticulture Department, flowers are cultivated for close to 3,000 hecatres here. M. Murugan, a jasmine farmer near Tharamangalam said, “we have no other go but to give away profits this season. I haven’t even plucked the flowers as the cost of employing workers is also costly. I would have to pay between Rs. 80-90 for a labourer for one kg of flower plucked but even if flowers are given for perfume manufacturing, we get only up to Rs. 60 per kg. Also, labourers will not be able to reach the fields due to lockdown.” He added that since its a long-term crop, jasmine farmers here are looking for better trade post lockdown. Officials from the horticulture department said that currently they have made arrangements to procure jasmine flowers for perfume manufacturing. Officials said that they are procuring between three to four tonnes of flowers for perfume production at Rs. 60-70 per kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flower-farmers-hit-due-to-lockdown/article31361273.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||25 fresh COVID-19 cases in T.N., says CM||“The State government has kept the prices of vegetables in control for the benefit of the needy and the poor,” Mr. Palaniswami assured. Earlier in the day, Mr. Palaniswami chaired a video-conference meeting with District Collectors to take stock of the situation. Hitting out at DMK president M.K. Stalin for criticism against the AIADMK government, Mr. Palaniswami said the Opposition leader could not accept the fact that the State government had efficiently tackled the pandemic. Mr. Palaniswami questioned the steps taken by the 38 Lok Sabha MPs of the DMK and its allied parties in getting financial assistance from the Centre. Unlike other States where there was political unity in the face of adversity, “only in Tamil Nadu, there are parties that do not cooperate with the government even during these times,” he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-tn-says-cm/article31361250.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Precautionary measure||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/precautionary-measure/article31361291.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Arrested||Tiruppur City Police on Wednesday arrested a man on charges of illegally stocking and selling liquor from his house. K. Nagendran (38) was arrested from his residence in Kodi Kambam Road and 277 bottles of liquor were seized from him, police said. He told the police that he had purchased the liquor bottles from a Tasmac outlet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrested/article31361266.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Elephant damages house||An elephant damaged a house at Kunivayal near Thorapalli in the Gudalur forest range and consumed food and vegetables kept there on early Thursday. Forest officials said that the house was broken into by a single elephant, while the occupants were inside. No one was injured in the incident. Residents chased away the animal. Forest staff have been posted in the area to drive the animal into the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, if it returns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-damages-house/article31361271.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A thorough wash||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-thorough-wash/article31361524.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown visitors||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-visitors/article31361222.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Elephant dies of suspected heat stress||A male elephant that was found dead near Karamadai in Coimbatore on Thursday could have died due to heat stress, according to the forest department. The elephant, aged around six, was found dead at Melur slope of Karamadai forest range. Residents of Korapathi tribal settlement found the elephant dead and other elephants standing beside the carcass on Thursday morning. They alerted the forest staff, who took a government veterinary officer from Mettupalayam to the place. The carcass did not have any injury. The autopsy findings suggested that the elephant could have died of heat stress, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-dies-of-suspected-heat-stress/article31361267.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||covid-19 update||As on April 16   Coimbatore  Persons in hospitals: 269 (male -156, male child – 9, female – 93, female child – 11) Government hospitals – 222 Private hospitals – 47 Positive cases – 127 (one fresh case on Thursday)  Tiruppur  Home quarantined: 883 Persons released after 28 days of home quarantine: 74 Samples lifted: 753 Results declared: 277 Positive: 80 (One case confirmed onApril 16 and admitted to ESI Hospital) Negative: 197 Discharged: 1 Results awaited: 476||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-update/article31361280.ece
17 April 2020||ADILABAD,KARNATAKA||Checkpost on NH44 most active||As the stream of migrant workers hailing from central and north India attempting to cross Telangana has resumed during the last four days, the Penganga river bridge on NH 44 which demarcates the inter-State border of the State with Maharashtra has become active once again. The place is also in focus as bus loads of people belonging to southern States, mainly pilgrims are arriving here, some with valid travel passes and some not, seeking to be allowed in. Authorities have permitted about 9 bus loads of pilgrims from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh who were travelling with valid permits and who had undergone quarantine, a necessity in these circumstances during the last few days. Another two bus load of pilgrims who obviously did possess valid travel passes were sent back. “We have allowed NRIs or others who had valid passes as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of External Affairs. All others, including the migrant workers seeking to enter Maharashtra, are being sent back in accordance with government orders,” Adilabad Superintendent of Police Vishnu S. Warrier revealed as he talked of the sealing of the inter-State border at this point.   Old Adilabad district comprising of Adilabad, Kumram Bheem Asifabad, Mancherial and Nirmal is bounded by Nanded, Yavatmal, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli districts of Maharashtra over a length of about 500 km. In terms of preventing import of COVID-19 from Maharashtra, the State government had recently ordered sealing of all entry and exit points along the border, which includes about 200 km of riverine border in Adilabad and KB Asifabad district. “There are seven checkposts in Adilabad and five in KB Asifabad which are completely sealed off,” affirmed Mr. Warrier, who is also the incharge SP of the latter district. “We have incorporated comunity patrolling and tapping our informer network in villages to check people from Maharashtra coming in,” he added of other measures.   “Checkposts have been established at Moogavelli, Talai and Somini to seal the incoming points on Pranahita river,” Kagaznagar DSP B.L.N. Swamy told of the measures to check infiltration along the river border. “In Mancherial, we have bound over the local ferry operators in Pranahita to control people coming in from Maharashtra,” disclosed Mancherial Deputy Commissioner of Police Uday Kumar. “The borders in Nirmal district are being manned even by civilian groups called village protection groups who exchange notes through a specially created WhatsApp group,” said Superintendent of Police C. Shashidhar Raju. “The five inter-State check posts have been sealed completely,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/checkpost-on-nh44-most-active/article31361170.ece
17 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Hospital getting ready to handle a possible rise in positive cases||The district hospital is gearing up to handle a possible rise in the number of COVID-19 patients in Belagavi district. Authorities have set aside 200 beds for COVID-19 patients in the designated hospital. The number of ventilators are being increased to 27, from 17. The hospital now has a flu corner to screen patients for coronavirus-like symptoms. Most of the departments are running on skeletal staff and non-emergency surgical procedures have been postponed. Doctors and paramedical staff from general medicine, paediatrics, pulmonary diseases, anaesthesia and anatomy and physiology have been deputed. There are challenges, however. “If the number of cases increases exponentially, we have neither the equipment nor trained staff to handle them,’’ said a senior doctor. “Since the disease is new, most of the staff members in the designated hospital have had no hands-on experience. Some of us who have used ventilators have trained some. While others have trained themselves using online video tutorials,” said another doctor. Director of Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences Vinay Dastikop said that the hospital is taking all necessary steps to manage the spread of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hospital-getting-ready-to-handle-a-possible-rise-in-positive-cases/article31361347.ece
17 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||ICMR-NITM lab may start working shortly||Indian Council of Medical Research has approved the use of the virology laboratory in the ICMR National Institute of Traditional Medicine in Belagavi as a COVID-19 testing laboratory. Officers say testing of throat swab samples could begin in two or three days. ICMR included the ICMR-NITM, Belgavi, among the approved laboratories on its website on Thursday. NITM has a fully equipped laboratory to conduct the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests to determine the presence of SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes COVID-19. “We, however, will need some time to start receiving samples as we have to mobilise reagents and calibrate some systems as per the ICMR protocol,” an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/icmr-nitm-lab-may-start-working-shortly/article31361348.ece
17 April 2020||BELAGAVI/ VIJAYAPURA/ HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Belagavi jumps to third place in number of positive cases||The sudden spurt in the COVID-19 positive cases in the northern districts of Karnataka, particularly Belagavi and Vijayapura, has put the district administrations on high alert. The northern districts recorded a total of 28 positive cases, of the 36 new cases in the State, on Thursday. Belagavi accounted for the majority of the cases, with 17 people testing positive for the infection. With the Thursday’s results, Belagavi district has the third highest number of cases in the State after Bengaluru Urban and Mysuru districts. Vijayapura recorded seven more cases, while Kalaburagi recorded three new cases and Gadag recorded its second case. With 17 new cases, the COVID-19 tally of Belagavi district has gone up to 36 now. The Thursday’s tally includes five persons with a travel history to Delhi. Their infection was confirmed after repeat tests. All the 12 others are primary contacts of the earlier cases of affected persons. The new cases include eight persons from Hire Bagewadi, seven from Kudachi near Raibag, and one each from Chikkodi and Belagavi. The Raibag cases include one person each from Maharashtra, Goa, and Vijayapura who are residing in Raibag. Soon after the test results came in, Belagavi Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli held a meeting with officials and asked them to strictly enforce containment protocol and other measures to stop the spread of the disease. He announced that two new containment zones would be created at Yallur village on the outskirts of Belagavi and Sankeshwar. There are nine containment zones in the district now, including the military cantonment camp area in Belagavi, Belgundi, Yellur, Sankeshwar, Peeranwadi, Hire Bagewadi, and Kudachi. Travel history With seven new cases, Vijayapura district’s tally has now gone up to 17 — all belonging to two families — with one person dead. Of the seven patients, six are primary contacts of patient 221. This patient has the history of travelling to Ichalkaranji in Maharashtra. The other case, an 18 month old baby girl, who is a primary contact of patient 228 who has the history of people of Pune visiting the family to attend a funeral. The district administration has so far quarantined 373 people for coming into contact with P-221 and P-228 and sent their throat swabs for testing. Seven deaths in NK With the Thursday’s spurt in cases, northern districts now have a total of 125 cases (out of 315 in the State) of which seven persons have succumbed to the infection so far while four have been discharged from hospital.  (With inputs from Girish Pattanashetti, Rishikesh Bahadur Desai, and Firoz Rozindar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-jumps-to-third-place-in-number-of-positive-cases/article31361175.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP has no plan for the homeless: HC||Observing that the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has no plan even after 21 days of lockdown to identify vulnerable persons in need of food and shelter, the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the State government take serious note of the civic body’s affairs. The court also said that the government’s interference to ensure that the BBMP complies with all the statutory obligations to protect the interests of migrants and the homeless living on the streets was crucial as Bengaluru Urban comes under the red zone of COVID-19-affected districts, accounting for a third of the positive cases in Karnataka. The court referred to the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, dealing with the responsibilities of local bodies and the penal action that could be taken against government officials who fail to perform the duties assigned to them, as COVID-19 has been declared a disaster. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna issued the direction as the BBMP could not provide any data on migrants and homeless persons living on the streets, or a plan to identify such persons to protect them during the lockdown. The Bench was hearing through videoconferencing some PIL petitions related to the COVID-19 lockdown. The Bench also noted that advocates representing petitioners and the Centre standing counsel, based on their interaction through videoconference with the BBMP Commissioner as per the court’s direction, categorically stated that the BBMP had no plan for identifying homeless migrants and other vulnerable persons on the streets despite specific directions issued in this regard by the Additional Chief Secretary (Urban Development Department). The Bench also noted that a councillor had written a letter to the court on the inability of the BBMP to provide food. After the BBMP counsel said that 40 marshals have been now assigned to identify vulnerable persons on the streets, the Bench asked how 40 marshals could be tasked to identify vulnerable persons across 198 wards. Referring to the BBMP’s statement that it had now secured data from the Labour Department that there were about 61,000 migrant workers in the city, the Bench said this data on migrants appeared to be of those on construction sites, but the question was what effort the BBMP had made to locate vulnerable persons in the past 21 days. On the BBMP’s “tall claim” that food was supplied to around eight lakh persons and that around 68,000 ration kits were distributed, the Bench wondered to whom the food and rationkits had gone, when the BBMP had not identified migrants in need and other vulnerable persons. How will homeless migrants and others on the street benefit if the BBMP merely gives a public notice in newspapers about the availability of food and shelter, the Bench asked. It adjourned further hearing on the matter till April 21 after directing the government to submit a report of compliance by coordinating with the BBMP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-has-no-plan-for-the-homeless-hc/article31361162.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Portal set up to coordinate with NGOs for relief work’||The State government on Thursday told the High Court of Karnataka that a portal — Sakalpa — has been made functional to coordinate COVID-19 response-related activities with non-governmental organisations (NGOs), private sectors, and others. NGOs and voluntary organisations can provide details of their relief measures to the government by logging into the portal,https://www.karnatakafightscorona .org/, the government said. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna, which is hearing through videoconference the PIL petitions on issues related to COVID-19 lockdown, directed the Deputy Commissioners (DCs) to act at the earliest by appointing nodal officers who can coordinate with NGOs immediately. The government, in its response to the court’s earlier order, said that the DCs have been now instructed to coordinate with NGOs and other voluntary organisations through videoconferences by appointing nodal officers in each district and municipal levels. The Bench, in its April 13 order, had told the government that NGOs/voluntary organisations cannot be prevented from distributing food provided they followed the norms of social distancing and other precautionary measures. Help by individuals Meanwhile, the Bench asked the government to create a mechanism to take maximum advantage of individuals ready to help the needy. Pointing out that there may be several individuals who are eager to provide cooked food or ration kits but may find it difficult to approach government offices for taking up these activities, the Bench said that such activities of individuals also could be channelised on the lines of the activities of NGOs so that benefit reaches the needy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/portal-set-up-to-coordinate-with-ngos-for-relief-work/article31361179.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM launches mobile testing kiosk||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday launched a mobile COVID-19 testing kiosk for swift collection and testing of the infection in identified clusters/hotspots. He launched the booth at this home office ‘Krishna’ and said that the mobile testing kiosk eliminates the need for at-risk persons to visit the nearest hospital or clinic and helps in effective implementation of social distancing norms during collection and testing of samples. While one of the booths would be stationed near the Chief Minister’s Office, another one would be deployed in Bengaluru South, said a release from the government. “Through the kiosk, we have reduced the risk of COVID-suspect individuals spreading the infection to those around them,” said Bengaluru South MP Tejaswi Surya, whose office brought together the fabrication experts, doctors from RGUHS and HCG, technical advice from young doctors from KLE Institute, and financial assistance to build the kiosk. The booths have been developed by Manoj P. Kudtharkar of Mantra e-ventures, a startup based in Bengaluru. Vishal Rao, member of the COVID-19 consultative group, an advisory body to Government of Karnataka, has mentored the project. Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences will provide assistance in scaling up the operations using its network of colleges and hospitals for the testing of individuals on the ground. The booth, 6.5 feet tall and 3 feet wide, is made up aluminium and acrylic glass, surfaces known to be resistant against the virus. Resembling a telephone booth, it can be mounted on a mini-truck or a pick-up truck, which can be parked in an open field or a cluster. The utility supports PPE for booth workers, and gloves and a medical kit to collect samples are also placed inside the booth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-launches-mobile-testing-kiosk/article31361184.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bringing the king of fruits to your doorstep||With a huge demand for mangoes, the Karnataka State Mango Development and Marketing Corporation is trying to ensure that consumers’ requirements are fulfilled. However, with the lockdown in place, the corporation is struggling to work around the restrictions that have been put in place. It is mapping a contingency plan in coordination with various departments and buyers of large quantities of the king of fruits. Already, the understaffed corporation is inundated with requests for different varieties, including Badami, Sindhuri, Raspuri and Penisha, from various apartment complexes and housing communities. Right now, it is catering only to bulk orders(over 250 kg). Smaller orders may be routed through India Post. Senior officials said that they are finding it difficult to get packing material and restrictions on inter-State movement are making logistics tricky. “Most of the requirements within the city are serviced in either crates or boxes with a capacity to hold 12 pieces. We are having problems getting boxes as the manufacturers are in neighbouring States,” an official said. The corporation is trying to facilitate procurement of mangoes from farmers through the processing industries. “The processing industry usually procures two major varieties – Badami and Totapuri. We are also trying to facilitate B2B (business to business) linkages,” the official added. Poor yield This year production in the State has reduced by nearly 50%. While Badami and Totapuri varieties had reduced to around 50%, the production of Sindhuri, Raspuri, Mallika and Malgova was just around 40%. The poor yield has been attributed to an extended monsoon, water retention in the soil and higher than normal temperature during the winter months. This, officials of the corporation said, had delayed flowering. That apart, pests and diseases afflicting the mango crop in February further impacted production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bringing-the-king-of-fruits-to-your-doorstep/article31361160.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Public notification issued on price of meat||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which has been flooded with complaints about butchers charging exorbitant pricesfor chicken and mutton, has stepped in to set a maximum price for meat. As per a public notification issued on Thursday, meat stalls cannot charge more than Rs. 125 a kg for live chicken, Rs. 160 a kg for dressed chicken, and Rs. 180 a kg for skin-out chicken. The maximum rate for 1 kg of mutton is Rs. 700. During the lockdown, the rising price of meat has added to the financial strain on citizens, said the BBMP in a release, noting that the unfair trade practice was in violation of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. It said action would be initiated against the owners of stalls found to be overcharging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/public-notification-issued-on-price-of-meat/article31361157.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police file six cases against landlords||Tapan Chakraborthy, 56, a resident of Burdwan district in West Bengal, came to the city on March 15 for an emergency medical treatment and checked into a guest house in Kadugodi. However, with the national lockdown, he and his family have been stranded in the city for over a month now and are running out of cash. Despite government directives clearly saying those stranded should not be evicted, the guest house management tried to do so. Mr. Chakra-borthy approached the police, leading to the guest house owner and manager being booked under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Since the lockdown began, the city police have booked at least six cases against landlords of PG accommodations for allegedly harassing occupants for rent and trying to evict them. Most of these cases have been booked in Whitefield division, where there is a concentration of such accommodations. In these cases, the owners and managers have been accused of stopping supply of water, electricity and even food to occupants who have not been able to pay. However, one PG accommodation owner, on condition of anonymity, said that they were incurring expenditure on building maintenance, housekeeping, catering and other things. “If we don’t get the rent, how will we keep the facility running?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-file-six-cases-against-landlords/article31361165.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC judge visits relief centres for migrants||A team from Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) on Thursday visited the two relief centres established by the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) for migrants in the city. They found that food was being supplied to the inmates by NGOs. The team comprised KSLSA executive chairman Justice Aravind Kumar of the Karnataka High Court and the Principal District Judges of Bengaluru city and the Bengaluru Rural, and others. They visited the relief centres, situated at the All-India Institute of Local Self Government in Gandhinagar and at St. Philomena’s English School in M.G. Railway Colony. The team found 58 male inmates at the Gandhinagar centre. They were being provided food and other facilities by the Jain Charitable Trust and the Railway Protection Force (RPF). The centre is managed by an NGO named CURDS, a report stated. There were 95 inmates (89 men and six women) at the Railway Colony centre. There was no female attendant. The food was being provided by the RPF nd NGOs there too. The centre is managed by an NGO named ICDSS. The BBMP had provided masks, sanitizers and medicines at both centres. On interacting with the inmates, the doctors attached to the High Court were satisfied with the health conditions, and the inmates had no serious health issues. The report also stated that the inmates were satisfied with the food supplied. Centre shifted Another team, led by G. Basavaraja, member-secretary, KSLSA, which visited a notified relief centre at Yeshwantpur, found that the centre did not exist. The team could not get information on where it was shifted to and the whereabouts of those housed there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-judge-visits-relief-centres-for-migrants/article31361163.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Road transport utilities seek support from govt.||The four road transport corporations in the State have approached the government seeking financial assistance to pay their employees for April. As buses have remained off the road for nearly a month, the financial health of the corporations — KSRTC, BMTC, NWKRTC, and NEKRTC — has further deteriorated. KSRTC managing director Shivayogi C. Kalasad told The Hindu that the four corporations together had 1.3 lakh employees on their rolls. “We need financial support of Rs. 364 crore to pay salaries for the month of April. Both the KSRTC and BMTC have sought more than Rs. 100 crore each.” Following government orders, the utilities have stopped operations, barring skeleton services for those carrying out essential services.Mr. Kalasad said, “Across the country, road transport corporations are facing financial issues. Like us, they have approached their respective State governments seeking support. Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi has assured us that the State government will find a way to support the corporations.” For the past week, because of the lack of operations, the KSRTC has incurred a revenue loss of over Rs. 253 crore. BMTC managing director C. Shikha told The Hindu that the fare box is the primary source of revenue for salaries. “For the previous month, the BMTC managed to pay the salary of its employees as we operated buses till March 21. Our operations have been stopped for close to a month now. As there is no revenue source, we have approached the State government,” she said. Even before the lockdown, road transport corporations were in financial distress owing to increasing operational costs such as the rise in fuel price over the years. They have been incurring losses of more than Rs. 1,000 crore a year. Long-term effect The bus corporations are likely to feel for many months the impact of the current restrictions, which will be lifted, at the earliest, only on May 3. They have had to defer the tender process for leasing e-buses and other projects. Some officials feel that even if the lockdown is lifted, governments may impose certain riders by limiting the number of passengers per bus, in order to maintain social distancing. Others believe that premier services like AC buses may not be allowed to operate in the initial days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/road-transport-utilities-seek-support-from-govt/article31361167.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Probe into shooting transferred to CID||Theprobe into the incident at Bhoopasandra where a youth was shot in the leg while allegedly trying to escape during a spot inspection a day after he had been arrested for violating the lockdown and assaulting two police constables has been transferred to the Criminal Investigation Department. The accused Tajuddin and members of his family were arrested on March 25. A video showing them attacking the constables when they reportedly tried to enforce the lockdown over COVID-19, had gone viral. However, a new video clip emerged showing the policemen beating and kicking Tajuddin and his friend Khutbuddin. The next day the police, claiming self defence, shot at his leg when he attempted to escape during a spot inspection. At that time, the Sanjay Nagar police registered three FIRs in connection with the incident but the family’s versions of what happened differ from that of the police’s. Director General and Inspector General of Police Praveen Sood on Thursday directed the CID to take over the cases and submit a report after probing the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/probe-into-shooting-transferred-to-cid/article31361169.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kannada channel served notice for programme on ‘helicopter money’||The Press Information Bureau (PIB) has served a show-cause notice to a private Kannada television channel for “spreading false information” through its programme titled ‘Helicopter Money’ on Wednesday. The notice issued by PIB’s Additional Director-General M. Nagendra Swamy said the programme titled ‘Helicopter Money – Helicopternalli Surithara Modi?’ aired by Public TV at 8.30 p.m. on Wednesday was “false, mischievous and clearly violates the broadcasting code and rules”. The programme speculated that money could be given free to the people. “When the whole country is fighting COVID-19, your channel, instead of creating awareness and educating the public, [is] spreading false information, creating panic and social unrest,” said the notice addressed to Public TV’s chairman and managing director H.R. Ranganath. The notice has asked the channel to show cause why it should not be taken off the air immediately and has given it 10 days’ time from the receipt of the notice to reply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kannada-channel-served-notice-for-programme-on-helicopter-money/article31361176.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No demand for flowers||On the damage to floriculture business, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said there was no demand for flowers since all festivals and ceremonies have been banned during the lockdown. The government will conduct a survey on damage to floriculture business to provide relief to growers, Mr. Narayan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-demand-for-flowers/article31361197.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Clarification sought from Centre on e-commerce businesses||The State government has sought a clarification from the Centre on granting permission to e-commerce companies to allow delivery of non-essential items during the lockdown. So far, e-commerce firms have been allowed to deliver only essential items such as food, pharmaceutical, and medical equipment. Since the Centre’s guidelines were not clear, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said the government has written to the Centre seeking clarity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/clarification-sought-from-centre-on-e-commerce-businesses/article31361185.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Phone-in programme||Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board will hold a phone-in programme on Saturday between 9 a.m. and 10.30 a.m. According to a release, Tushar Girinath, chairman of BWSSB, will address the grievances of consumers related to billing, overflowing manholes, meter reading, improper water supply, and sanitary issues. For details, call 080-22945119.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/phone-in-programme/article31361164.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minority Dept. issues orders for Ramzan||As Ramzan is set to commence later this month, the Minority Welfare, Wakf and Haj Department has issued orders that are to be followed for this duration. The order issued by the department secretary states that people are not to be allowed to perform five times c ongregational prayers, including Jumma and Taraveeh prayers, in the masjid. No public address is to be done by the staff of the masjid for offering namaz. The order also states that azan shall be given at a low decibel through public address system. It also categorically states that no arrangements for iftar or Dawat-e-sahri shall be organised. The order states that all the managements of the Wakf institutions are directed to follow the order in the larger interest of public health. They have stated that any violation will attract the provisions of the Wakf Act 1995.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minority-dept-issues-orders-for-ramzan/article31361186.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Random testing is key’||With a delivery person testing positive for COVID-19 in Delhi, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said it was important to have random testing, especially of those involved in the delivery of essential services. Speaking to reporters here on Thursday, Mr. Narayan said that with the huge shortage in testing kits, random testing can be done only depending on availability. The government was also trying to scale up the existing lab testing capacity, he said. He also said it was important for all companies to start regular screening of employees, including those who were asymptomatic. That apart, instructions and directives on social distancing, and usage of masks and sanitisers had to be followed stringently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/random-testing-is-key/article31361196.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HAL contributes||Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. produced and handed over more than 300 aerosol boxes to many States including Karnataka, U.P., Maharashtra, and Kerala to be used in hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hal-contributes/article31361182.ece
17 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Dry days extended||The district administration has issued an order extending dry days in Dharwad district till May 3. According to a release, the sale and transportation of liquor has been prohibited during the period of the order. It has also instructed all bars and restaurants, liquor depots, wine shops, liquor outlets not to defy the ban order. Meanwhile, the district administration has clamped prohibitory orders on fairs, car festivals, weekly shandies and religious programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dry-days-extended/article31361354.ece
17 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||275 vehicles seized||Police attached to the Dharwad Rural Police Station have seized 275 motorcycles from different villages on the charge of violating lockdown and collected a penalty of Rs. 1.35 lakh during the last two days, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/275-vehicles-seized/article31361355.ece
17 April 2020||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Woman allowed to stay with her 3 positive children||Under normal circumstances, no person other than healthcare professionals are allowed insidea COVID-19 isolation ward. However, the plight of three children who had tested positive for the infection and had been separated from their mother — as she had tested negative — has forced the Dharwad district administration to allow the woman to stay with her children on humanitarian grounds. In the first COVID-19 case reported in Hubballi, a 27-year-old businessman who had returned to Hubballi from a business trip had tested positive and subsequently his brother (P-236) and his brother’s three children tested positive. However, the mother of the children tested negative, and being a primary contact, she was quarantined, while the children were shifted to the isolation ward. While one boy is three-and-a-half years old (P-234), another is five years old (P-233), and eldest girl (P-235) is seven. All of them are now lodged in the isolation ward of the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) along with their father. The 32-year-old mother of the children had petitioned the doctors at KIMS and also the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad to allow her to stay with her children. After discussing the matter with the senior doctors of KIMS, the Deputy Commissioner, Deepa M., has allowed the mother to stay with her children. ‘Precautions taken’ Meanwhile, KIMS authorities have clarified that all precautions have been taken to ensure that the mother is safe. She has been trained and provided with all protective wear, mask and gloves. “She cannot wear PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) continuously. So we have asked her to always wear mask and gloves and maintain safety guidelines. She too is being tested regularly,” said KIMS director Ramalingappa Antaratani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-allowed-to-stay-with-her-3-positive-children/article31361177.ece
17 April 2020||K.V. Aditya Bharadwaj,KARNATAKA||Ad hoc renegotiations on over rent for April||With the lockdown extendedtill May 3, many people in the city are struggling to pay their monthly rent. It is not just families living in residential properties that have been affected; students and people living in paying guest accommodations and small business owners who rent commercial space too have taken a hit. In these times of uncertainty, many tenants and landlords have begun negotiating the rentals for April. Shashikanth R., a factory worker from Rajajinagar, said he paid the rent for March but also indicated to his landlord that meeting April’s rent might be tough as he was not sure if he would get his salary. “The landlord accepted my request and asked me to pay whatever I could afford in May and the remaining amount in instalments once the lockdown is lifted and I begin work again,” he said. In fact, landlords of most labour camps on the city’s outskirts have announced a waiver of sorts. “Our landlord has said we need not pay rent for two months for now,” said Yellamma, a resident of a labour camp in Kundalahalli. However, not all landlords can afford to be this accommodating, as the rent they receive is their only source of income. “My landlord recently told us that he would need us to pay the rent for April and that he couldn’t make any concessions. We told him that we would vacate the house when he returned the advance we paid. Now he has agreed to deduct the rent from the advance,” said Krishna Kumar, a resident of Hulimavu. Apartments Renegotiations over the rent for April have begun in middle-class residential localities as well. “We have invested our life’s savings on the property and are dependent on the rent we receive. Likewise, the tenants are also under stress. This is a time we need to renegotiate with empathy,” said Narasimhappa, a landlord in Vidyaranyapura. N.S. Mukunda, founder-president of Citizen’s Action Forum, said they have decided to send a circular to all the over 110 residents’ welfare associations under their umbrella, appealing that they renegotiate on humanitarian grounds. “But the fear is this crisis may stretch beyond April. These ad hoc arrangements to defer payments will work for a month or two, not beyond,” he said. Commercial crisis Meanwhile, discontent is brewing among traders and businessmen. “Traders need to pay their staff salaries as well. The three-month moratorium on EMIs is a sham as not paying EMI will cost us dearly in the long run. Most traders are in a tough spot and will be unable to pay rent for April,” said T.A. Saravana, chairman of Basavanagudi Merchants’ Association. Sajjan Raj Mehta, a leading merchant from Chickpet, the wholesale market hub of the city has a similar view. “Neither the landlord nor the tenant is at fault. The burden needs to be borne by both. The government needs to help traders with some sops to help us tide over the crisis,” he said. However, multiple traders’ associations said they have now begun deliberations on the April rent and would try to arrive at some formula by the end of the month.  We have invested our life’s savings on the property and are dependent on the rent we receive. Likewise, the tenants are also under stress. This is a time we need to renegotiate with empathy Narasimhappa,a landlord||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ad-hoc-renegotiations-on-over-rent-for-april/article31361156.ece
17 April 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||BJP leader booked for bid to get travel pass for primary contact||Following a complaint lodged by Koppal tahsildar Jambunath Majjgi, the Koppal police on Wednesday booked a case against BJP leader and former chairman of the Koppal Urban Development Authority Gurubasava Holagundi for trying to get a person, who was a primary contact of a COVID-19 patient, get a travel pass from government authorities. According to Deputy Commissioner of Koppal P. Sunil Kumar, Mr. Holagundi, accused number 2, had brought Shikha Sheik, accused number 1, who was a primary contact of a COVID-19 patient (P-194) to Koppal on the promise of getting her a travel pass to go to Mumbai. It is learnt that Ms. Sheik had travelled from Mumbai to Dharwad in a private bus on March 19 and a COVID-19 patient had also travelled in the same bus, making the former the primary contact. She had stayed in various places and finally landed in Koppal. Mr. Holagundi took her in his scooter to the police headquarters in Koppal for getting her a travel pass. Upon knowing her travel history, the Koppal police quarantined Ms. Sheik and the family members of a person she had stayed with. Ms. Sheik revealed that she had come to Koppal on the promise by Mr. Holagundi to get her a pass.  Superintendent of Police G. Sangeetha said Mr. Holagundi was sent to an institutional quarantine on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-leader-booked-for-bid-to-get-travel-pass-for-primary-contact/article31361171.ece
17 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Police tighten security as Kalaburagi records three more positive cases||With the increase in coronavirus positive cases in Kalaburagi, the police have tightened security across the district to check the spread of COVID-19. The district reported three positive cases on Thursday, P302, a 23-year-old female and a contact of P274; P314, a 32-year-old male who was suffering from influenza illness and had travelling history to Bengaluru; and P315, a five-year-old boy. The officials of the Health and Family Welfare Department are tracing the contacts and travelling history of the five-year-old boy. With these three new cases, the total number of COVID-19 positive cases rose to 20 in the district. Of the total 20 positive cases reported, tracing of contact history in three cases, including P274, P314 and P315, is under way. This indicates community outbreak and the virus is spreading widely from person to person. Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat in a release said that the district has a total of 599 throat swab samples, with 20 positive cases and 378 negative cases. Lab results in 201 cases are awaited. The quarantine wards established at ESI Hospital have cured three cases. The district has reported three deaths due to coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-tighten-security-as-kalaburagi-records-three-more-positive-cases/article31361349.ece
17 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Social distancing norms thrown to the wind at APMC Yard in Mangaluru||The very purpose of closing down the Central Market and shifting wholesale vegetable and fruit business to Baikampady APMC Yard here to ensure social distancing has been defeated with retail sales of vegetables and fruits being carried out at the APMC Yard. With a large number of people crowding the Central Market that housed wholesale as well as retail merchants during the relaxation hours, Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh on April 2 itself ordered that wholesale traders have to shift to the APMC Yard. Retail vendors could enter the APMC Yard only to buy vegetables and fruits for sale in their respective outlets, the order had said. Subsequently, Mangaluru City Corporation Commissioner too passed two orders prohibiting all commercial activities in the Central Market and asking wholesale traders to shift to the APMC Yard. The corporation Commissioner had also spoken about making alternative arrangements for the 240 retail merchants functioning out of the Central Market.  Akin to Central Market When The Hindu visited the APMC Yard on Thursday morning, it was akin to the Central Market, except for the fact that the retail business was being done on an open ground. Hundreds of individual buyers had thronged those selling vegetables and fruits at the makeshift market throwing all norms of social distancing to the wind. Though the police were present in good numbers, they were mute spectators, while none from the corporation or the Agriculture Marketing Department were to be seen on the spot.  Strict action Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharath Shetty, in whose constituency the APMC Yard falls, said that the open ground of the APMC abutting NH 66 where the retail business was being carried out would be closed down on Friday itself. Wholesale traders would be asked to shift to the far-end of the APMC Yard that has godown facilities. It was the wholesale merchants who were doing retail business too at the APMC Yard, Dr. Shetty said and added they were cautioned that their licence will be cancelled if they continued with their retail business also. Ms. Rupesh said that she would ask the corporation to immediately make alternative arrangements for displaced retail merchants from the Central Market complex. Corporation Commissioner S. Ajithkumar Hegde did not respond to queries on the ongoing retail sales at APMC Yard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/social-distancing-norms-thrown-to-the-wind-at-apmc-yard-in-mangaluru/article31361357.ece
17 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Reappointed||The Board of Directors of Karnataka Bank has reappointed P. Jayarama Bhat as part-time (non-executive) Chairman and M.S. Mahabaleshwara as Managing Director and CEO of the bank after approval from Reserve Bank of India. While Mr. Bhat will hold office till April 13, 2021, Mr. Mahabaleshwara will be in office for three years from April 15 this year, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reappointed/article31361346.ece
17 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Daily price bulletin||The district administration will direct the Horticulture Producers Cooperative Marketing and Processing Society (HOPCOMS) to release daily retail price bulletin for fruits and vegetables to check overpricing by retail merchants. Responding to queries from The Hindu on overpricing of fruits and vegetables and fruits by private retail merchants, Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh said that their prices should not cross the price fixed by HOPCOMS. The fortnightly price bulletin was unscientific, she admitted and said that the administration would ask the society to release daily bulletins. Retail merchants have been charging exorbitant prices for vegetables and fruits though the wholesale prices remained constant and in some cases, have fallen. They have been exploiting the lockdown to fleece hapless customers, complained Rajesh Shetty, a resident of Karanglapady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/daily-price-bulletin/article31361364.ece
17 April 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||‘Introduce token system to help avoid crowding outside banks’||District in-charge Secretary N.S. Prasanna Kumar has directed the lead bank manger and bank officials to take initiatives to avoid crowding and ensure social distancing outside banks as beneficiaries were coming to draw pension amount deposited in their respective accounts under various government schemes, including Jan Dhan Yojana. Addressing a meeting in Raichur on Thursday, Mr. Prasanna Kumar said that beneficiaries under various schemes were coming to banks to draw amounts. But, they were not maintaining social distancing despite a guideline to prevent the spread of COVID-19 virus. Therefore, bankers should take immediate steps and introduce token system to avoid crowding, he advised. District Health Officer Ramkrishna said that 100 samples have been sent so far for tests. Of these, 69 have tested negative and results have to come for the remaining. As many as 27 suspected cases were kept in hospitals and of these, 22 were discharged after they tested negative. Five are still in hospital awaiting their test report. A total of 232 people are now in government quarantine and 760 people are in home quarantine. Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar briefed Mr. Prasanna Kumar about the action taken to bring water from the Tungabhadra dam to the district. “A sum of Rs. 1 crore was released to supply tanker water to 35 problematic villages,” he added. Mr. Prasanna Kumar visited the APMC yard in the city and told farmers that there was no restriction on transporting farm produces to the yard. Relaxation has been given for agriculture activities. Laxmikanth Reddy, CEO, C.B. Vedamurthy, Superintendent of Police, Durgesh, Additional Deputy Commissioner, and district-level officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/introduce-token-system-to-help-avoid-crowding-outside-banks/article31361351.ece
17 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||1,000 families each in 35 wards to get free ration||The Shivamogga City Corporation has decided to distribute free kits of ration to 1,000 families that have lost livelihood owing to lockdown in each one of its 35 wards. The decision was taken at an emergency meeting of the corporation here on Wednesday evening to discuss the relief measures to be taken for families that have lost their livelihood. Members cutting across party lines said that daily wage earners, porters, drivers, street vendors are in financial distress owing to lockdown and it was the obligation of the corporation to ensure that they get access to food and other essential commodities. Yogesh H.C., a member said that many families from Shivamogga working in Bengaluru have returned home after the enforcement of the lockdown and the quantum of solid waste generated in the city on a daily basis has increased. Emphasising on the need to maintain cleanliness and hygiene in public places, he said that for proper disposal of additional solid waste, at least 25 more civic workers should be appointed. Chidananda Vatare, commissioner, told the meeting that ration kits, face masks and gloves have been provided to civic workers of the corporation. The corporation has also ensured ample stock of disinfectant, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1000-families-each-in-35-wards-to-get-free-ration/article31361363.ece
17 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Three commercial outlets booked||Cases have been booked against owners of three commercial outlets on Jail Road here for running their business in violation of the lockdown order. During routine patrolling on Thursday, the police found that two utensils shops, one owned by Krishnamurthy and the other by Raghuveer, were conducting business. The police immediately closed down the shops and booked cases against the owners. The police also found that a hair-cutting salon was offering service and it was crowded with customers. The salon was closed and a case booked against its owner Murali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-commercial-outlets-booked/article31361362.ece
17 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||‘We cannot allow you to return now, please excuse us’||Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Thursday apologised to natives of Udupi district working in Bengaluru, Mumbai and Pune and said that it was not possible to allow them to return here on account of the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic and that they should stay where they were now. He made his appeal in a video clip in the backdrop of persistent demands from the natives of this district that they should be allowed to return home. In the video clip, Mr. Jagadeesha said that Udupi district had so far recorded three COVID-19 positive cases. Of these three, two men were already discharged from the designated hospital. One more person who was receiving treatment was also expected to be discharged soon. He said that parliamentarians and legislators of Udupi district were calling him regularly and urging him to allow the natives of Udupi district working or settled in other places to return to the district. The people’s representatives were under a lot of pressure, he said. “But as per the guidelines of the Union and State governments, we cannot allow you return to the district. The government policy is that people should stay where they were presently located. Hence, it is not possible to allow you back at this moment. You should excuse us,” he said. “After the government lifts the lockdown, you can come and meet your relatives. If you come now, it will be a problem for both you and the people here. You must understand this. We do not want to create problems for you. But it is my bounden duty to follow the government policy. Hence, I request you once again to stay where you are,” Mr. Jagadeesha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-cannot-allow-you-to-return-now-please-excuse-us/article31361360.ece
17 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Eight more with symptoms||As many as eight persons with symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to hospitals in Udupi district on Thursday. A press release here said that of the eight persons, four were suffering from SARI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eight-more-with-symptoms/article31361358.ece
17 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Prohibitory orders extended||Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha has extended prohibitory orders under Section 144(3) of the Criminal Procedure Code throughout Udupi district till further orders in the backdrop of the Union government extending the lockdown period till May 3 on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, according to a press release here on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prohibitory-orders-extended/article31361361.ece
17 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Healthcare equipment handed over||Infosys Foundation handed over healthcare and medical equipment worth Rs. 28.75 lakh to the district administration to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic here. A press release here on Thursday said that the equipment provided included gloves, N-95 face masks, face shields, and Personal Protection Equipments (PPEs).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/healthcare-equipment-handed-over/article31361359.ece
17 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Vijayapura Corpn. reaching daily needs to residents in Containment Zone||For easing the life of around 2,000 families living in the Containment Zone of Vijayapura city since they cannot venture out for any needs, the staff of the City Corporation has taken the responsibility of meeting their daily needs. From supplying groceries to vegetables to medicines, the corporation staff have been making arrangements to reach these essential items to the residents. The district administration has sealed the entire localities coming under Gol Gumbaz Police limits after six cases were reported there. “Since people are barred from moving out of these areas, we are trying to reach their daily needs to them,” said Corporation Commissioner Harsha Shetty. He said that the corporation has deputed seven female staff to receive list of groceries, vegetables and milk from residents. The numbers to contact are Kavyashri Ingleshwar Ph: 9845991132, Rashmi Malgavi 7680820881, Priyanka Kulkarni 9901093720, R.A. Muzawar 8310425195, Priti Ivani 8197804052, Parimala Chimmalagi 9481082045 and Pallavi Gunnapur Ph: 6363585604. “The staff will work between 8 a.m. and 2 p.m. Each kit of grocery will cost Rs. 670,” he said and added that each kit will help a family of four sustain for a week. He said that service will continue till the areas remain sealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vijayapura-corpn-reaching-daily-needs-to-residents-in-containment-zone/article31361353.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Dy. CM: UG, PG semester exams tentatively scheduled for June||The semester examinations for various UG and PG programmes of various universities will be held tentatively in the first two weeks of June, said Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who also handles the higher education portfolio. Speaking to reporters here on Thursday, Mr. Narayan said that to complete the pending syllabus, institutions have been conducting online classes for students. Interactive e-content is available on Vijayeebhava and Jnananidhi YouTube applications, where experts have recorded lessons for students.  Consulting V-Cs “We held a video conference with the Vice-Chancellors of all universities in the State and sought suggestions on the tentative examination dates,” Mr. Narayan said. With regard to practical examinations, the Minister said the department was yet to take a call on whether the practical examinations have to be held or if the student could be evaluated based on the internal assessment marks. “The Vice-Chancellors have been given time till Friday to put forth their suggestions on the two issues. We are keen on conducting the semester examinations in June so as to not waste any time,” he added. Asked if the private universities would also have to abide by the dates set by the department, Mr. Narayan said the schedule was applicable to them (private universities) as well. “We need to have uniformity; and the private universities also come under the purview of the government,” he said. About migrant students studying in the various universities, the Minister said it was the responsibility of the managements to ensure they are not inconvenienced.  Syllabus revision Speaking about syllabus revision in line with the new education policy, Mr. Narayan said committees had been formed for the various streams to come up with a relevant syllabus. “We have three months’ time. We must make use of this time to improve the quality of learning. We have sought suggestions from Vice-Chancellors on whether syllabus revision has to be done for the next academic year,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dy-cm-ug-pg-semester-exams-tentatively-scheduled-for-june/article31361189.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘5,000 tonnes of vegetables, fruits procured daily from growers’||The State government has been procuring about 5,000 tonnes of fruits and vegetables every day from growers from different districts and there is no shortage of these items in cities and towns, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said. The procured commodities are being sold at Horticultural Producers’ Cooperative Marketing and Processing Societies (HOPCOMs) and APMC markets to ensure steady supply of essential items to consumers during the lockdown. Mr. Narayan, who is heading a ministerial team on supply chain management, chaired a meeting of Ministers and said all perishable commodities such as grapes, tomatoes, and other vegetables and fruits are being procured on day-to-day basis. All APMC and other type of markets have been kept open during the day and no market is allowed to shut during the lockdown period. Processing industries have procured about 1,200 tonnes of tomatoes and wine-making industries have been asked to procure grapes. The Ministers discussed the issue of allowing distilleries to procure grapes but no final decision has been was taken, Mr. Narayan said after the meeting.   All HOPCOMs and markets have been told to follow uniform pricing while selling commodities. About 12 outlets have been raided for selling commodities at higher prices, he said. It has also been decided to grant permission to set up more milk vending and vegetable vending outlets in cities. On the Agriculture Marketing Department’s decision to set up 12 new APMC yards in Bengaluru, Mr. Narayan said the Deputy Commissioner has been instructed to identify government lands. The proposal on the establishment of new APMC yards in the city or the city’s outskirts received a big push now owing to COVID-19, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/5000-tonnes-of-vegetables-fruits-procured-daily-from-growers/article31361187.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CCB officials question Muthappa Rai for 2 hours||The Central Crime Branch officials on Thursday questioned activist Muthappa Rai for two hours to ascertain his alleged association with underworld operative Ravi Pujari, who was arrested in February this year. As Mr. Rai was unwell, a team of officials went to his house to question him. According to CCB officials who had interrogated Mr. Pujari, the two men had reportedly met abroad many times in the past. “The investigation will be about their association and dealings,” a senior police officer said. The CCB are also questioning Mr. Rai about the murder of builder Subbaraju in 2001, where he was the accused but had been acquitted. Mr. Pujari is also an accused in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ccb-officials-question-muthappa-rai-for-2-hours/article31361190.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||All to themselves...||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-to-themselves/article31361195.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Catching up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/catching-up/article31361181.ece
17 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Quarantine ends for 962 people||The mandatory quarantine period has ended for as many as 962 people in the district on Thursday. Officials, however, said that 196 people were newly put in quarantine taking the number to 6,122.  Two hospitalised Besides, two persons were hospitalised with symptoms of COVID-19 in the district. As of Thursday evening, nine people were under observation at hospitals in the district. They included five at Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha; three at Taluk Hospital, Kayamkulam; and one at Taluk Hospital, Haripad. No fresh case of the disease has been reported in Alappuzha since April 8. Five so far The district has so far witnessed five COVID-19 cases. The first person, a Wuhan returnee, was completely cured in February. The second case, a Gulf returnee, was discharged from hospital last week after being tested negative for the disease. The other three persons are undergoing treatment at the MCH. Meanwhile, the police have registered 225 cases and arrested 238 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. They have been booked under the Kerala Epidemic Disease Ordinance, 2020. Authorities have also seized 96 vehicles.  The police have registered 225 cases and arrested 238 people for violating lockdown restrictions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quarantine-ends-for-962-people/article31361476.ece
17 April 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Munnar hopeful of more Nilgiri tahr calves||The calving season of the Nilgiri tahr is coming to a close, and Forest Department officials are expecting an increased number of calves owing to the peaceful and undisturbed environs in its habitats, spread across Munnar, in the wake of the lockdown. An official at the Eravikulam National Park (ENP) told The Hindu that the final count of the newborns would be available after the census in May. The calving season of the Nilgiri tahr is from mid-January to April.  Though Rajamala is considered the natural habitat of the Nilgiri tahr, the animal is found in areas including Devikulam, Adimaly, Kadavary, Kambakallu, Mankulam, and Meesapulimala. The census has been extended to these places too. Though the population stood almost stable, the number of newborns in each calving season ranges between 65 and 76. The main predators of the Nilgiri tahr in the Munnar region of the Western Ghats are wild dogs and leopards. The calves could also fall prey to eagles in the early stages. No traffic With the COVID-19-induced lockdown, there is no movement of vehicles or people inside the animal’s habitats, said the official. Usually, during the calving season, the ENP is closed, but a limited number of vehicles are allowed to ply to the Edamalakkudy tribal grama panchayat. A few residents of the panchayat too take the road. This year, with the lockdown clamped, the movement of vehicles and pedestrians is nil. Though the northeast monsoon is also a mating season and newborns are noted on occasions other than the main calving season, their numbers are limited, said the official. Changes in monsoon could impact the calving season, depending on which the Forest Department extends the ban on the ENP entry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/munnar-hopeful-of-more-nilgiri-tahr-calves/article31361445.ece
17 April 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Heavy damage to crops in summer rain||Widespread damage to crops has been reported in heavy summer rain and wind that have been lashing the district for the past several days. The crop loss has been estimated at Rs. 2.79 crore, according to preliminary reports of the Agriculture Department. Rain severely affected crops, especially plantains, vegetables, rubber, areca nut palms and coconut palms in Panamaram, Cheeral, Edavaka, Thariyode, Kottathara, Padinharethara, Thavinhal, Vellamunda, Muttil and Poothadi grama panchayats, P. Santhi, Principal Agriculture Officer, Wayanad, said. “Rain adversely affected 838 farmers in the district,” she added. Plantain farmers are the worst hit. As many as 91,875 bunched and non-bunched banana plantains cultivated on 40 hectares were uprooted. An estimated loss of nearly Rs. 2.4 crore was reported in the plantain sector alone and 325 farmers were affected. Besides, 20 areca nut palms, 16 coconut palms, and 750 rubber trees were uprooted. Vegetables on 3.5 hectares were destroyed in heavy rain. However, many farmers in the district complained that they were yet to get compensation for crop loss occurred in 2018-19 fiscal. But Ms. Santhi said that the department had disbursed a sum of Rs. 28 crore as compensation last year. The department had submitted a report to the government to grant a sum of Rs. 3.5 crore to disburse among farmers, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-damage-to-crops-in-summer-rain/article31361439.ece
17 April 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Action sought against medical college||Kasaragod MLA N.A. Nellikkunnu has demanded action against the authorities of Kozhikode Government Medical College Hospital for allegedly refusing to treat a 12-year-old patient from Kasaragod who is suffering from brain disease. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Nellikkunnu said the child had been getting treatment at the Government Medical College at Pariyaram and was referred to the Kozhikode Medical College after her condition deteriorated. However, on reaching the hospital, the authorities allegedly refused to treat her, citing that they were not admitting patients from Kasaragod.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-sought-against-medical-college/article31361428.ece
17 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Medical college gets virology lab||A diagnostic facility for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test to identify the virus causing COVID-19 was opened at Government Medical College, Ernakulam, on Thursday. Interestingly, the real-time reverse transcriptase PCR test will provide results in two-and-a-half hours. The facility was a top priority at the medical college hospital as the samples collected in the district used to be sent to the National Institute of Virology, Alappuzha, and later to the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Biotechnology, Thiruvananthapuram, to lessen the load on one institute. Also, the load of COVID-19 testing is more in Ernakulam thanks to the international airport which has major entry and exit points. Besides, the district lagged behind in getting test results quickly as the results of samples sent to Alappuzha or Thiruvananthapurm came only the next day. Up to 180 samples can be tested a day at the new laboratory which has two PCR machines. The lab was set up at a cost of Rs. 1.25 crore. Dr. J. Lancy, head of the department of microbiology at the medical college and the laboratory in-charge, is among those who got special training during the Nipah viral outbreak. Dr. Jona and Dr. Indu and technicians Vipin Das, Afri, Anju Sebastian, and Archana will be part of the team conducting tests at the facility. The laboratory has also secured permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct tests for other viruses too. The asset development funds of P.T. Thomas, MLA (Rs. 27.57 lakh), and the local area development fund of Hibi Eden, MP (Rs. 36 lakh), were utilised to ensure bio-safety parameters for laboratory cabinets and to procure test kits. Kerala Medical Services Corporation Ltd. provided equipment for the laboratory, while the Public Works Department (PWD) built the infrastructure. Two vacant rooms in the microbiology laboratory complex were converted into a five-room modern facility to house the new laboratory. Samples will be collected and results printed in the reception area. Samples will be processed in various stages, including RNA extraction, and they will then go into a master mixer room and later for processing for real-time PCR that gives the test result.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-college-gets-virology-lab/article31361427.ece
17 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||State cautious about asymptomatic carriers||The State is cautious about the asymptomatic spread of COVID-19, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said. “But since we have quarantined people aggressively and campaigned for social distancing, asymptomatic spread is likely to be limited.” Asymptomatic spread has been found in some through contact tracing, but there is no evidence of it yet in the community, the Minister told The Hindu on Thursday. “We have been doing the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test for some random samples, cases that come to hospitals with fever and pneumonia symptoms, and have found them negative for COVID-19.” Private hospitals have also sent some fever cases and cases with COVID-19-like symptoms to the government sector. Hence, the probability of missing out on cases is less, said Ms. Shylaja. But at the same time it is not time yet to say that the virus has been reined in, the Minister said, adding the virus is new and it could mutate too. Antibody test Experts believe that the antibody test, a serological test to know whether there is a spread in the community, would help the government strengthen the surveillance. However, it is not a test that could give a cent per cent result, said Ms. Shylaja. While PCR tests are most reliable, antibody test could give false negative too. But the advantage is that a lot of people could be tested, she said. The virus could mutate as in the case of viruses such as H1N1, said pulmonologist Tinku Joseph of the Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences here. He said there could be asymptomatic carriers which could not be assessed because of the lack of such testing facilities here. Most countries now conduct these tests that would help ascertain whether there is a community spread or not, said Dr. Joseph, adding that widespread random tests are recommended at this stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-cautious-about-asymptomatic-carriers/article31361448.ece
17 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Start-ups may reap post-pandemic benefits||Notwithstanding the immediate setbacks inflicted by the pandemic, start-ups may enjoy far greater opportunities in the post-pandemic world, Saji Gopinath, CEO, Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM), has said. Talking to The Hindu on Thursday, Mr. Gopinath said the fast-paced economic growth expected after the pandemic would demand quick solutions, which may benefit start-ups capable of adapting and fine-tuning their products to the market demand. “Already some of our start-ups have reinvented to cater to the booming demand for medical devices. The KSUM is conducting free webinars (seminars conducted over the Internet) on learning and development programmes led by top executives from tech giants such as Twitter for helping start-ups acquire the skill sets needed for that adaptability to manage their growth arch,” he said. Future opportunities Rather than despairing, the start-ups should utilise this lockdown for fine-tuning their products so that they can reap the benefits of future opportunities. They should also make maximum use of quality mentors and support systems now readily available, besides taking advantage of previously expensive tools such as cutting-edge communication facilities now available cheaply. Mr. Gopinath, however, said that in the short term, the start-ups would be hit like all other sectors, especially those in select sectors such as tourism and real estate. A recent study conducted by the KSUM with a sample size of 580 start-ups found that 52% have been hit by a major slowdown, of which 14% have been closed down. Of the 86% start-ups still working, 44-45%, though, have not been seriously affected. Major slowdown “Start-ups already into business are experiencing a major slowdown, while those in the product development stage have not been much affected as the majority of them would have arranged the cash flow for the next 3-6 months. Though some hardware start-ups were initially hit by shortage of components from China, even that has been resolved now,” said Mr. Gopinath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/start-ups-may-reap-post-pandemic-benefits/article31361454.ece
17 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Spurt in illegal liquor brewing in Ernakulam||The Excise Department is all set to deploy drones to check increasing instances of illegal brewing of liquor in the district following the closure of liquor outlets and bars during the lockdown. Department officials in the district are planning to source drones from private players for the purpose. “The idea is to use them for detection of illegal brewing of liquor in inaccessible areas such as forests,” said A.S. Ranjith, Deputy Excise Commissioner, Ernakulam. Coastal areas Excise officials have noticed a surge in illegal brewing of arrack centred around households, especially along coastal areas, using pressure cookers and gas stoves. At least one such case has been reported from each of the 15 excise ranges in the district. Though only seven litres of illicit liquor and nine litres of arrack have been seized during the lockdown, the destruction of over 3,000 litres of raw materials point to the scale of illicit brewing taking place in the district. “It is mostly for self-consumption and for small-scale distribution among friends and acquaintances. We have not yet come across any harmful spurious stuff. Some of them even confessed to having learnt the art of brewing spirit from social media,” said Mr. Ranjith. The department suspects that not all addicts have got accustomed to a life without liquor or survived withdrawal symptoms. Some may have found alternative ways to satiate their craving for alcohol. Officials have cited the increasing popularity of arishttam among tipplers as a potential indication of the state of things. Over 300 litres of arishttam sourced mostly from independent dispensaries were seized during the lockdown, said Mr. Ranjith.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spurt-in-illegal-liquor-brewing-in-ernakulam/article31361431.ece
17 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Start-up set for mass production of N95 masks||The State may not experience another shortage of N95 masks if and when a pandemic breaks out at any point in the future. A Kochi-based company, working with the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) and Maker Village, is determined to turn the shortage of N95 masks, the most common particulate-filtering facepiece respirator across the world, felt during the fight against COVID-19 being the last such episode. “The product has cleared all eight tests, including those prescribed by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH). Of them, five were conducted at the South India Textile Research Association and three at a major mask manufacturing company. The approval of the Union government alone is pending for which the product has been sent to the DRDO lab at Gwalior for clearance from the Indian Council of Medical Research,” said Saji Gopinath, Chief Executive Officer, KSUM. In fact, production can be started once government approval is obtained in which case it will be the third such company in the country to produce N95 masks. The startup has the capacity to churn out 5,000 to 10,000 masks a day and has already stockpiled raw materials for manufacturing over 2 lakh masks, Mr. Gopinath added. Quality paramaters In all the eight tests, the product exceeded the quality parameters of N95 and nearly matched the standards of N99 masks. According to N95 specifications, bacterial filtration needs to be at least 95%, whereas it was 99.70% for the product. Particulate matter filtrate was 99.91% as against the standard of 95%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/start-up-set-for-mass-production-of-n95-masks/article31361432.ece
17 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Decision on Kuttanad, Chavara bypolls in May||The Election Commission of India will take a call on holding two byelections in the State during the first week of May as the extended COVID-19 lockdown will expire by then. Any extension of the social distancing drive and lockdown beyond the third week of May would force the Commission to call off the bypolls as much time would not be left for the next Assembly elections. The term of the current Assembly expires on May 19, 2021. Also, holding of public meetings, door-to-door campaigns and even voting would become impossible in the event of the extension of the social distancing norm. A decision on the byelections in Kuttanad and Chavara constituencies will be taken along with other States. The two seats fell vacant following the deaths Thomas Chandy and N. Vijayan Pillai. The commission had plans to hold the bypolls in April in the State. Following the outbreak of the disease, the office of the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Kerala, had suggested that they be held in May or June.  Machines ready However, the office of the CEO, Kerala, has completed the first-level check of the electronic voting machines and VVPAT machines as instructed by the Election Commission. Though it may require only around 1,000 machines for holding the byelections, around 30,000 voting machines and 35,000 VVPAT are ready in the State, Teekka Ram Meena, CEO, Kerala, told The Hindu . The Election Commission had also sought to know whether any additional machines would have to be moved to Kerala from the neighbouring States, the sources said. If the byelections are to be held, the voters’ list as updated on January 1, 2020 will be used for polling. The final voters’ list for the two constituencies were published on February 4, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/decision-on-kuttanad-chavara-bypolls-in-may/article31361472.ece
17 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC ruling in cheque bounce case||The Kerala High Court has held that an appellate court has no power to reduce the statutory period of 60 days provided under the Negotiable Instrument Act for an accused in a cheque bounce case to deposit a minimum of 20% of the compensation awarded by the magistrate court during the pendency of the appeal. The court passed the order on Thursday while disposing of a petition filed by an accused against the Thalassery sessions court’s order in a cheque bounce case which had asked him to pay the compensation within 15 days. The court observed that Section 148(1) of the Negotiable Instrument Act empowered the appellate court (sessions court) to direct an accused who had filed an appeal against the conviction by the magistrate court to deposit 20% of the compensation or fine awarded by the trial court. Any direction given by the appellate court that the amount should be deposited within a period fewer than 60 days would be illegal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-ruling-in-cheque-bounce-case/article31361446.ece
17 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Local body seeks deadline extension||In view of the delay on the part of the State government in updating the software, the Kottayam district panchayat has sought an extension of the deadline for submitting bills for projects under the annual Plan of the local self-government institutions for 2019-20 to May 15. Earlier, the government had extended the bill submission date from March 31 to April 18, taking into account the countrywide lockdown. According to Sebastian Kulathungal, president of the district panchayat, the State government made necessary changes in the software only two days ago and hence the local bodies were unable to submit the bills within the existing time frame. “With the lockdown restrictions coming into effect from the last week of March, which was the deadline for submitting bills for annual projects for the year 2019-20, local bodies have not been able to complete the projects and draft the bills within the deadline. Taking this into account, the government issued an order extending the deadline to April 18 but initiated the corresponding updates on the website only on April 16, leaving the local bodies with just two days to submit the bills,” he said. Highlighting the issue, he has also sent letters to the Chief Minister, Finance Minister, and the Minister for Local Self- Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-body-seeks-deadline-extension/article31361479.ece
17 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Bite-sized videos as baits for tourists||The COVID-19 crisis has brought the tourist inflow to Kerala, as elsewhere across the globe, to a complete halt. To keep the State’s tourism prospects alive, the Responsible Tourism (RT) Mission is rolling out bite-sized videos of performances of its artisans and craftsmen. The videos, two to five minutes long, explaining the activities, are shared through online platforms to reach out to domestic and international tour operators and travellers. Starting from April 2, the mission has filmed about 500 videos. Buoyed by the positive response they have evoked among the travel community, the agency hopes to convert a fair share of its overseas viewers into actual customers. “Each video begins and concludes with the need to maintain personal hygiene to stay safe from the COVID-19 outbreak. In between, the artists introduce themselves, give a brief demonstration of their activities and even narrate stories about their performances to engage with the guests,” explained K. Roopesh Kumar, coordinator, RT Mission. Among the videos that have evoked a huge response include a ‘COVID sculpture’ in wood by Ratheesh of Bedakam in Kasaragod district and Sopana Sangeetham and Bhadrakali Theeyattu performances by artists associated with the Pepper Project at Vaikom. Crafts training too Meanwhile, the mission also seeks to expand the scope of its videos to include training in a couple of heritage crafts using coconut shells and other cheaply available raw materials. From February this year, the takers for packages by the RT Mission, focussing on the village life, had witnessed a steep fall. By March, the agency was forced to cancel all its bookings for the season with the disease turning into a pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bite-sized-videos-as-baits-for-tourists/article31361478.ece
17 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||IUML MLA questions utilisation of CMDRF||Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) State secretary K.M. Shaji, MLA, has said the public contributed to the Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund (CMDRF) not to reimburse the fee of lawyers appearing for his party men facing trial in murder cases. At a news conference at the house of IUML leader M.K. Muneer here on Thursday, Mr. Shaji alleged that Rs. 2 crore had been paid to counsel of the accused in the killings of Muslim Youth League worker Ariyil Abdul Shukoor in 2012 and Youth Congress worker S.P. Shuhaib in 2018. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had spent Rs. 8 lakh from the State Disaster Response Fund to travel in a helicopter from a CPI(M) conference in Thrissur to Thiruvananthapuram two years ago. Later, the payment was routed through the government after the issue kicked up a controversy, the Azhikode MLA alleged. On Wednesday, the Chief Minister chastised Mr. Shaji for his Facebook post ridiculing him for soliciting donations to the CMDRF. Mr. Vijayan asked the IUML leadership to take note of the attitude of its legislator to create confusion in the minds of the common man when the State was fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. Staff Reporter adds from Thiruvananthapuram: Meanwhile, Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel lashed out at Mr. Shaji for allegedly propagating falsehood about the CMDRF and demanded that the IUML clarify its position in the issue. Rubbishing allegations that the CMDRF was being utilised to remunerate lawyers, he said there were separate mechanisms for such purposes. CPI(M) charge Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan accused Mr. Shaji of trying to scuttle the COVID-19 containment efforts of the government. When the entire State is jointly striving to contain the virus spread, Mr. Shaji was raising false allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-mla-questions-utilisation-of-cmdrf/article31361457.ece
17 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||A one-stop platform for COVID-19 information||An international team led by an Indian Institute of Management Kozhikode (IIM-K) student has developed a digital tool to fight COVID-19, and also misinformation about the pandemic. The website, covidfyi.in, is a one-stop digital directory for all COVID-19 related emergency services from government agencies. Only official information from government organisations was available on the platform to ensure authenticity and credibility, a statement said here on Thursday. The website provides information on authorised labs, designated hospitals, grocery stores, mental health, emergency helplines, contacts of task force teams, field officers, emergency doctors and fever clinics. The 16-member core team led by Post Graduate Programme student Simran Soni, is functioning with the support of volunteers. The idea originated at coronathon.in (hackathon for COVID-19 India) and has been completed with zero funding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-one-stop-platform-for-covid-19-information/article31361437.ece
17 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||App launched for drinking water supply||Jala, a mobile application for volunteers and policemen working for COVID-19 prevention to freely avail potable water, has been launched in the city. According to the technical team behind the initiative, interested citizens can sponsor potable water for the needy though the app. It can be downloaded fromwww.jalawater.in, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/app-launched-for-drinking-water-supply/article31361425.ece
17 April 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||Firemen offer free medicines to poor||Personnel of the Kerala Fire and Rescue Services are proving again and again that their job is ultimately driven by service. After hitting news headlines by delivering medicines and other essentials to people across the State last week, Firemen in Palakkad have gone a step further by distributing medicines free of cost to the poor. “We are doing it with the help of agencies which are willing to help. Lions Club of Palakkad has come forward with help. We are roping in other voluntary organisations too in the days to come,” said District Fire Officer Arun Bhaskar. Mr. Bhaskar and team inaugurated their new service on Wednesday by getting vital medicines for a kidney patient from Padalikkad near Malampuzha. The medicine was procured from Jubilee Mission Medical College at Thrissur and delivered to the man at Padalikkad. “So far, we have been reaching out to people in different places with the medicines they wanted. They were paying for the medicines either directly to us or by transferring to bank account. “But during this work, we found that some people were struggling really hard to make the payment for medicines,” said Mr. Bhaskar, explaining the situation that made them launch the free medicine supply scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/firemen-offer-free-medicines-to-poor/article31361433.ece
17 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||No new case in Pathanamthitta||With a total of 11 patients getting cured of COVID-19, Pathanamthitta has only six patients now at its two hospitals as on Thursday evening. No new COVID-19 case was reported from any part of the district on Thursday. The nasal and throat swabs of 148 quarantined persons in the district were tested negative for COVID-19 on Thursday. As of now, 15 persons, including the six infected patients, have been quarantined at the isolation wards set up at three hospitals in the district. Resident Medical Officer Ashish Mohankumar told The Hindu that their health condition was stable. District Medial Officer A.L. Sheeja said seven persons each had been admitted to the Pathanamthitta General Hospital and at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, besides one person at the General Hospital at Adoor. Dr. Sheeja said the administration was awaiting clinical examination results of as many as 378 samples from the Virology Laboratory at Alappuzha. District Collector P.B. Noohu said that all the 20 persons who attended the Tablighi Jamaat in March were tested negative for COVID-19. Home quarantine Presently, a total of 4,779 people have been home-quarantined in different parts of the district. As many as 619 among them have come from abroad while 4,583 others came from the other Indian States. As many as 235 primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons in the district were home quarantined as on Thursday, Mr. Noohu said. The DMO said that all the 4,779 persons had to strictly remain in quarantine for not less than 28 days. A meeting chaired by the Collector also decided to resume the routine vaccinations for children at various government and private hospitals in the district against the backdrop of the government decision to extend the lockdown till May 3. 120 litre wash seized An excise team led by V. Robert, Circle Inspector, seized 120 litres of wash in a raid conducted at a house in Vaipur, near Mallappally, on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-new-case-in-pathanamthitta/article31361480.ece
17 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Curbs on private vehicles to ease||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Thursday that the government would allow the movement of private vehicles within Palakkad, Wayanad, Thrissur, Alappuzha, and Thiruvananthapuram districts in a limited manner from April 20. Cars with a licence plate ending in odd and even numbers could hit the road on alternate days. However, not more than two persons could travel in a car, Mr. Vijayan told mediapersons. The police would not allow pillion riders on two-wheelers. The government would continue to block inter-State borders. The ban on air, sea, rail, and road travel would continue at least until May 3, the Chief Minister said. Construction works Mr. Vijayan also attempted to coax construction activity back to life. Private builders and the PWD could execute pending works. However, the employers have to ensure the workforce is adequately protected from the pandemic. Industries could start production. However, they should not employ more than 50% of the workforce at a time, Mr. Vijayan said. The State would also open the farm, plantation, and food processing sectors. Oil, rice, flour, and coconut oil mills could operate within COVID-19 safeguards in all districts except those under lockdown till May 3. Public service Mr. Vijayan said village offices, Akshaya centres, and offices of local bodies should resume the delivery of public services in COVID-19 insulated environments. The government also allowed barbershops to open on Saturdays and Sundays. The management should not engage air condition nor entertain more than two customers at a time. The salons should not offer beauty and spa treatment and only bare services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-on-private-vehicles-to-ease/article31361462.ece
17 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||392 people out of quarantine||The district administration placed 212 people under surveillance on Thursday as part of the COVID-19 containment efforts. As many as 392 people were removed from quarantine after completing the mandated 28-day period. Now, 2,203 people are in home quarantine. Twenty-six people were admitted to hospitals in the district with symptoms of the disease, while 16 people were discharged on the day. A total of 116 people with symptoms were being treated in the Government Medical College Hospital (67), General Hospital (7), Nedumangad District Hospital (4), Peroorkada District Model Hospital (3), SAT Hospital (3), Peroorkada Mental Health Centre (8), besides a few others in various private hospitals. Besides, 40 people are under isolation in a Corona Care Centre in the Mar Ivanios College hostel. Results negative While 92 throat swab samples were sent for tests on Thursday, 61 samples sent earlier returned negative. Two patients diagnosed with COVID-19 are under treatment in the district. All others have been discharged. Meanwhile, the police continued to adopt stringent action against violators of the lockdown in the district. The Thiruvananthapuram City Police registered cases against 157 people and seized 120 vehicles mostly in the Vizhinjam, Nemom, and Valiyathura police station limits. As many as 142 people were booked under the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural Police registered 364 cases, arrested 371 people, and seized 262 vehicles. Spurious liquor Excise officials arrested Shibu, 38, of Aryanad on charge of possessing five litres of arrack, 120 litres of ‘koda’ and equipment for brewing liquor. The Rural police also nabbed four people in Kadakkavoor, Nagaroor, and Chirayinkeezhu for allegedly manufacturing and selling spurious liquor. Two litres of arrack and 83 litres of ‘koda’ were confiscated. T.N. natives arrested Three Tamil Nadu natives, Sathyanadan, Murugan and Bhoothapandi, were taken into custody by the police after they were travelled illegally in a vehicle that transported essential commodities from Tamil Nadu. They have been transferred to a quarantine facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/392-people-out-of-quarantine/article31361484.ece
17 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State eyes rescue act from banks||With the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) cautioning the State government against major market borrowings at exorbitant rates and the Centre allegedly turning a deaf ear to its demand for financial support, nationalised banks are being deemed as a potential option for bailing out the State from the fiscal crisis. After raising a tranche of Rs. 6,000 crore in the first week of April from its sanctioned limit, the government remains clueless on sourcing further resources for meeting its recurring expenses, including salary and pension in the months ahead. The Centre has still not responded to the demands for clearing the Goods and Services Tax compensation, raising the borrowing limit from the current 3% to 5% and transferring arrears due under various heads. The government now has no option but to wait till the market settles down. Request for support Post lockdown, the government will have to respond to a cry for life support from different sectors such as micro, small, and medium enterprises, transport, public distribution system, health and a host of others. Already various sections have flagged their demand for urgent financial support and the demand is set to grow even more louder on easing the curbs. A government that is in the throes of a deep crisis could ill-afford to be benign, but it could not afford to shrug off the responsibility too. The current crisis does not offer any leeway to wait till the market firms up and economic and business activities are back in full swing. Nationalised banks and public sector undertakings that have substantial reserves at their command could come to the rescue of the government by purchasing bonds floated at competitive rates. Left with very limited lending options, this would be a safe route for the banks to park their funds. Safe investment According to Planning Board member K.N. Harilal, banks should shed their insouciant attitude and deem it as an opportunity for safe investment and fulfilment of social commitment. “Investing in government bonds is perhaps the safest option than thoughtlessly investing it in the private sector,” he says. All India State Bank of India Employees’ Association general secretary K.S. Krishna shared the view and said that since lending avenues are limited for banks, investing in bonds at reasonable rates would be helpful to the government as well as the banks. Whether the banks would respond to the demand is what remains to be seen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-eyes-rescue-act-from-banks/article31361463.ece
17 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||An opportunity for education reforms||Though the lockdown has unravelled the government’s plans to advance the academic calendar, academicians feel the recess can become an opportunity to herald reforms in the education sector. Many educational institutions are utilising videoconferencing platforms and e-resources to ensure continuity of learning as classes and activities on campuses remain suspended. Though institutions will return to conventional pedagogical methods once formal classes resume, there is a growing demand to incorporate the benefits of virtual classrooms into the academic system. Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) Vice Chairman Rajan Gurukkal P.M. says the pandemic has helped create a new synergy for better higher education by breaking much of the clichéd institutional structures that impede “real learning”. The time is ripe for students to carry forward self-directed learning and for teachers to teach online, he says adding that the lockdown demands academics to alter their mode of teaching and redesign courses for online delivery. “Those who are experienced with online teaching and tools should help their colleagues to adapt their courses accordingly. Those going back to teaching in traditional classrooms are expected to incorporate some of the online tools they are now learning now,” Prof. Gurukkal says. Open online courses While universities and colleges in the State have mostly used emails to communicate institutional matters with students, the lockdown has prompted teachers to use the facility for transmission of lessons and assignments. Besides, several students have taken to massive open online courses (MOOC) on their own. The KSHEC recently published the University Grants Commission (UGC)-prescribed portals for online courses and e-books. The present situation, Prof. Gurukkal says, is an ideal opportunity for universities to shift to the information and communications technology (ICT) environment and adopt the use of multimedia and imaging technology in an era of advanced outcome-based education. He also proposes bar-coding of answer sheets to expedite the examination process. The Kerala University Teachers’ Organisation calls for conducting seminars over digital platforms post lockdown. Similarly, attendance for open defences must be limited to 10 people with the rest taking part via videoconferencing. Moreover, the situation should be used as an opportunity to go paperless by relying on the digital document filing system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-opportunity-for-education-reforms/article31361453.ece
17 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State steady on recovery path||Kerala continued the trend of having more people on the recovery list than on the sick list, with nearly four times the number of new COVID-19 positive cases figuring on the recovery list on Thursday. While there were seven new COVID-19 cases on the day, the number of patients who recovered from the disease was 27. Five of the new COVID-19 cases are people who returned from abroad while two others had developed the disease through contact with imported cases. Four of the new cases are reported from Kannur, two from Kozhikode and one case is from Kasaragod. Of the 394 cases of COVID-19 reported by the State so far, only 147 are currently undergoing treatment. Except for two deaths, the remaining 245 people have all recovered from the disease. Among those who recovered are two Junior Health Inspectors who had contracted COVID-19 while on duty at the Cochin international airport. The number of people put under surveillance by the State has come down to 88,855, out of which, only 532 are admitted to isolation wards, while the rest are all in home quarantine.  17,400 samples tested The State has tested samples from 17,400 persons so far, with 16,459 samples turning out be negative for COVID-19. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who briefed media about the day’s developments, said the State was able to send back 268 British tourists who had got stranded in the State following the lockdown. The group included the seven British nationals who had been treated for COVID-19 at the Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam. District-level plans He said that every district had been asked to prepare its own COVID-19 containment and mitigation action plan, which had to be implemented by the local self-governments along with the Health Department. The local bodies should have a special plan of action on how they would manage the local hotspots in their jurisdiction Mr. Vijayan said all patients who had been discharged after COVID-19 treatment and their family members should remain in quarantine for another 14 days in their own homes and avoid social interaction with others. This was something the local bodies would have to monitor and ensure. Hospitals, clinics, laboratories and physiotherapy units could all open and function as usual. Role for local bodies The local bodies should also put a permanent system in place so that they could monitor the vulnerable groups (those above 60 years and those suffering from chronic ailments) in society and ensure that they got medical attention. District Collectors and district medical officers should call a meeting of private hospitals and seek their cooperation in running telemedicine facilities and mobile medical units to reach across to vulnerable groups. The Chief Minister also reminded the local bodies to take the message of the importance of pre-monsoon cleaning to all homes so that the looming threat of infectious diseases outbreaks was not ignored in the frenzy over COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-steady-on-recovery-path/article31361471.ece
17 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SIET comes up with a school that does not close at all||At a time when schools are closed, the State Institute of Educational Technology (SIET) has come up with the idea of Poottatha Padashala (school that does not close). The programme is being implemented in association with Doordarshan and other mass media. Initially, the SIET has planned two programmes with the support of Doordarshan here as part of Poottatha Padashala. Live programmes will be telecast through Doordarshan for higher secondary students from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. from Friday to Wednesday. Experts in various subjects will attend a one-hour question-answer session. The focus will be on subjects for which the higher secondary examinations were postponed owing to the lockdown. High school students High school students too will get screen time. Videos will be telecast for them for half-an- hour every day at 6.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. These video tutorials will concentrate on Mathematics, Physics, and Chemistry for SSLC students. Separate classes will be held for English and Malayalam medium students. On Friday evening, the video tutorial will be on wave motion. Topics such as power transmission and distribution, second degree equation, effect of electric current, rate of chemical reaction, nomenclature of organic compounds, polynomials will be telecast in the following days. Repeat telecast of the live programme for higher secondary students will be at 11 p.m. the same day and 8 a.m. the next day. SIET’s YouTube channel Poottatha Padashala too would host academic content for students of all classes from Sunday, SIET Director B. Aburaj said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/siet-comes-up-with-a-school-that-does-not-close-at-all/article31361450.ece
17 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DPR for rail corridor submitted to govt.||The Detailed Project Report (DPR) and the alignment for the 530.6-km semi-high-speed rail corridor from Kochuveli to Kasaragod was submitted to the government on Thursday for approval. The cost of the ambitious project, Silverline, has come down from the Rs. 66,079 crore in the feasibility report to Rs. 63,941 crore in the DPR prepared by Paris-based Systra. The Board of Directors of the Kerala Rail Development Corporation (K-Rail) that met on Wednesday under Chief Secretary Tom Jose approved it. Approval needed The DPR and the alignment were likely to come up before the Cabinet this month itself so that it could be forwarded to Railways, official sources told The Hindu . The approval of the NITI-Aayog and the Union Cabinet was needed as the project is to be taken up as a joint venture between the State and Railways. The new lines between Kochuveli and Tirur will be a greenfield corridor and the remaining between Tirur and Kasaragod will be parallel to the existing lines. Trains will run at 200 km per hour and Ernakulam can be reached in one-and-a-half hours and Kasaragod in four hours from the State capital. The alignment prepared is same as in the feasibility report except for minor modifications of plus or minus 10 to 50 m to avoid religious/heritage structures. The line with Standard Gauge 1,435 mm is expected to be completed by 2025 if work starts this year. Funding cost While 52% of the cost will be raised as loan, the remaining expenditure will be met by the Centre, State and by financial institutions. The FIRR is estimated to be 8.49% over 50 years. The line, with 10 stations, including the Cochin airport, is expected to have a ridership of 79,934 persons daily in 2025-26, according to V. Ajith Kumar, Managing Director, K-Rail. Via 11 districts EMU type trains of nine cars, with business and standard class seats, with a seating capacity of 675 are to be operated on the line. Seen as a game-changer in Kerala’s infrastructure and economic development, SHSR is to be implemented with minimum land acquisition for laying the tracks that will cut through 11 districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dpr-for-rail-corridor-submitted-to-govt/article31361459.ece
17 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Help at hand to make a vegetable patch||Developing a green thumb during the lockdown? The city Corporation will supply home-bound residents with seeds and manure to start their own vegetable patch. Besides making the city self-sufficient in vegetables, the civic body also intends to provide residents some relief and recreation during the lockdown by means of farming. The Corporation plans to distribute 20,000 kits in its 10 wards, Mayor K. Sreekumar said. The project is being taken up in association with the Krishi Bhavan at Kudapanakkunnu. Besides the kit of seeds, saplings, organic manure, a ‘njattuvela’ calendar, farming instructions, and a booklet on pest control will be distributed. Minister for Finance T.M. Thomas Isaac who inaugurated the project said it could help generate more produce at less cost. The Jeevani Sanjeevani markets launched in association with the Agriculture Department are functioning at seven places in the city. The markets will open at one centre each day. The centres are VV Yoga Centre, Sasthamangalam – Sunday; SMRC School, Karamana – Monday; in front of Sakshavu hotel, Kaithamukku – Tuesday; Vattiyurkavu – Wednesday; Narmada Shopping Complex, Kowdiar – Thursday; Corporation complex, Pongumoodu – Friday; and in front of Ehtnic Weaves, Paruthippara – Saturday. Farmers can barter produce at these markets. The Corporation too is procuring produce from farmers for use in its community kitchens. Farmers can call 8590036770 for handing over their produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/help-at-hand-to-make-a-vegetable-patch/article31361482.ece
17 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nod for interstate travel for exigencies||The government has given permission for the entry of persons, especially Kerala natives, to the State through border check points on medical emergencies and humanitarian considerations subject to conditions during the lockdown. Pregnant women, those seeking treatment and those travelling to attend the funeral of a relative or visit a terminally ill relative will be allowed. Pregnant women will have to obtain a medical certificate from a registered gynaecologist. Officials at the border points will inspect the pass and the clearance granted by the Collector in Kerala and allow entry into the State. They must comply with the quarantine instructions given at the border. Those seeking medical treatment should apply for permission from the Collector of the destination district, after which the patient can approach the competent authority of the State of residence for pass. In case of death of relative or one wants to visit a terminally ill kin, a vehicle pass from the authority in the State of residence should be obtained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-for-interstate-travel-for-exigencies/article31361442.ece
17 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Thunderstorm warning||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a thunderstorm warning for the State which will be valid till April 20. Till Saturday (April 18), one or two places in the State can expect thunderstorm accompanied by lightning. Thunderstorm accompanied by gusty winds, with speeds reaching 30 kmph to 40 kmph, is very likely at one or two places till April 20. The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority has advised the public to take adequate precautions as there is a possibility of lightning between 2 p.m. and 10 p.m. during summer showers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thunderstorm-warning/article31361467.ece
17 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Anganwadi workers to the aid of the elderly||Anganwadi workers have reached out to 37 lakh elderly in the State till date during the lockdown. The details of the elderly have been collected and passed on to the Health, Local Self-Government, and Social Justice Departments, besides the District Collectors. Any requirements by the elderly for medicines, community kitchen services or those of counsellors are being met through the departments concerned. Anganwadi workers are also keeping a close watch over the elderly who are living alone, besides those under surveillance as per the Health Department’s information, to ensure their welfare. Food for children They are also dropping off take-away food for preschool children, adolescent girls, pregnant and breastfeeding women at their homes. Social Justice Department officials have also collected details of 797 old-age homes functioning in the State.  They reach out to 37 lakh aged people during lockdown||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anganwadi-workers-to-the-aid-of-the-elderly/article31361481.ece
17 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A helping hand for stressed-out parents||It is not easy for families to stay confined to their homes for days together during the lockdown. The pressures of working from home combined with children whose tempers may be frayed owing to boredom can take a toll on emotional well-being. A telephone counselling service, Balamithram, has been launched to reach out to such stressed-out parents. The Child Development Centre on the Government Medical College Hospital campus and the Kerala State Women’s Development Corporation had together launched Balamithram, Minister for Women and Child Development K.K. Shylaja said. Many people, especially employees of IT firms, are working from home. This poses many challenges, especially with regard to looking after children. Balamithram would help such parents, especially women working in the IT sector, the Minister said. Parents who see signs of mental stress in children can call 8281381357 for intervention. A checklist (www.cdckerala.org) has been developed to see if children are very anxious owing to COVID-19. Parents can use the checklist to understand the children’s mental condition and if need, contact the phone number between 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. for telephone counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-helping-hand-for-stressed-out-parents/article31361451.ece
17 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SCTIMST develops test kit||The Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) here has achieved a breakthrough in developing a cost-effective confirmatory diagnostic test kit for COVID-19 using the RT-LAMP (reverse transcriptase loop-mediated amplification of viral nucleic acid) technique for detection of the ‘N’ Gene of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The tests conducted at the NIV, Alappuzha, found Chitra GeneLAMP- N to show 100% accuracy and 100% congruence with test results using RT-PCR. An official release here said the test kit was awaiting approval by the ICMR for COVID-19 testing in India. It added that the new gene testing method would allow confirmation in one test without the need for a screening test. The test kit can detect two regions of the gene which will ensure that the test does not fail even if one region of the viral gene undergoes mutation during its current spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sctimst-develops-test-kit/article31361470.ece
17 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KSWDC gets Rs. 10 lakh to purchase PPE||Two national funding agencies have sanctioned Rs. 10 lakh for the purchase of personal protective equipment (PPE) for health-care providers through the Kerala State Women’s Development Corporation (KSWDC). The National Backward Classes Finance Development Corporation and the National Scheduled Castes Finance Development Corporation have sanctioned CSR funds, which amounts to Rs. 9,85,600, which will be utilised for purchase and supply of 800 PPE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kswdc-gets-rs-10-lakh-to-purchase-ppe/article31361474.ece
17 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One killed, four injured in jeep-van collision||One person was killed and four others, including three Matsyafed director board members, were injured when a jeep collided with a mini-van near Pallipuram on Thursday. The deceased was identified as Bibin Jacob, 52, of Pongumoodu. Matsyafed officials His vehicle, which was headed towards Thiruvananthapuram, collided with the official vehicle of Matsyafed that was going in the opposite direction.  The injured Matsyafed officials were identified as K.C. Rajeev, C.K. Majeed and T. Raghuvaran, who is also a member of the Paravur block panchayat in Ernakulam. Their driver Suresh, who hails from Thripunithura, was also injured. They were heading for their native places after attending a meeting in Thiruvananthapuram, the Mangalapuram police say. The incident occurred in Thamarakulam, near Pallipuram, around 4 p.m. The Fire and Rescue Services personnel had to cut open the mangled remains of the vehicles to take out the injured persons. Businessman While Mr. Majeed and Mr. Suresh were admitted in the Government Medical College Hospital, Mr. Raghuvaran and Mr. Rajeev are being treated in a private hospital in the city. Bibin Jacob, who ran a spices business, is survived by his wife Mercy Sara Thomas and two sons Jacob N. Ninan and George K. Ninan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-killed-four-injured-in-jeep-van-collision/article31361485.ece
17 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU||The APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has extended the deadline for applying for affiliation for the 2020-21 academic year. Applications can be submitted until May 8 (without fine) and May 13 remitting fine. Details can be obtained from ktu.edu.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu/article31361466.ece
17 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||MP to help poor patients get medicines||T.N. Prathapan, MP, has launched a project named Athijeevanam at his office at Ayyanthole here to distribute life-saving medicines free of cost. Medicines will be delivered at the doorstep of people below the poverty line if they contact the MP office with their medical prescription. The facility will be on till May 3. People with yellow or pink ration cards may send their medical prescription, along with a copy of their ration cards and contact number, through WhatsApp to C.C. Sreekumar (94476 70210), Ravi Jose Thanikkal (94961 23476) and K.K. Sanil Kumar (98470 13968).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mp-to-help-poor-patients-get-medicines/article31361429.ece
17 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Two youths consume spirit||Two youths who consumed spirit at Konathukunnu, near Irinjalakuda, on Thursday were admitted to a hospital in a critical condition. Hemant Chandran, 34, and Vinu, 30, of Vallivettam consumed spirit along with four others as they did not get liquor. As their condition turned critical, people took Hemant Chandran to the Thrissur Government Medical College Hospital and Vinu to the Ernakulam Medical Trust. Both of them are in the ICU. The police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-youths-consume-spirit/article31361449.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Four more test positive in Kannur, 2 cases in Kozhikode||Four more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kannur on Thursday. According to District Collector T.V. Subhash, three of the infected were Dubai returnees. Those tested positive included a 48-year-old Patiyam native who arrived at the Karipur airport on March 19, a 48-year-old Peralassery resident who arrived at the Kochi airport on March 20, and a 41-year-old Cheruvanchery Chirat resident who arrived at Karipur on March 19. Another patient, a 27-year-old woman of Cheruvanchery, contracted the disease from her husband who had tested positive on April 8. There are now 7,013 people under observation in the district, including 6,584 in home quarantine. In Kasaragod One more person tested positive for COVID-19 in Kasaragod on Thursday. The 20-year-old man, who is a resident of Chemmanad, had returned here from Dubai. There are now 61 COVID-19 patients in the district. As many as 8,389 people are under observation, including 8,266 in home quarantine and 114 in hospitals. Meanwhile, 24 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease were discharged from hospitals in the district on Thursday. In Kozhikode Even as the State government has proposed to include Kozhikode in the red zone where COVID-19-related restrictions will have to be continued for the time being, two more persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday. They belong to the family of the resident of Edachery, a senior citizen, who was found infected earlier. One is his 39-year-old son who had come from Dubai on March 18, and the other is his 59-year-old wife. Their body fluid samples collected on April 13 had tested negative. However, those collected on April 14 tested positive. With this, five members of the same family — the senior citizen, his wife, two sons, and another girl — are now undergoing treatment for the infection. Soon after the senior citizen was found infected, all his family members and contacts were shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital. The number of patients from Kozhikode has gone up to 18 now. Two persons each from Kannur and Kasaragod too were under treatment here. Nine persons from Kozhikode and two from Kasaragod have recovered. Right now, 12,875 persons are under surveillance here, with 1,298 completing their observation cycle on Thursday. Twenty-eight are in hospital, whild 11 were discharged on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-more-test-positive-in-kannur-2-cases-in-kozhikode/article31361436.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back in action||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-in-action/article31361441.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Half-baked dreams||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/half-baked-dreams/article31361487.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In good hands||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-good-hands/article31361490.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||A blessing in disguise||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-blessing-in-disguise/article31361456.ece
17 April 2020||A.D. RangarajanTIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||British national leaves quarantine centre, thanks caregivers||Amid cheers, Clive Bryant Culley profusely thanked his caregivers and caretakers, as he left the COVID-19 quarantine centre at Padmavathi Nilayam here on Thursday, completing his mandatory quarantine period. A Wales-based geography professor, Culley came to India in October 2019. He came to Tirupati for worshipping at Sri Venkateswara temple at Tirumala, after which he had to stay back owing to the nationwide lockdown announced by the Centre. As all foreigners were required to undergo the compulsory quarantine, he was shifted to this centre. Since March 24, he had been staying here and the COVID-19 test results conducted showed negative twice. After he got the required permission from the UK Embassy to travel, he was scheduled to fly home from Ahmedabad on Friday evening, for which he had to take a domestic carrier the same morning from Hyderabad. On getting the required permission from Collector Bharat Narayan Gupta and Superintendent of Police A. Ramesh Reddy, a discharge summary was generated at 5 p.m. on Thursday. Prof. Culley’s joy knew no bounds on learning about his discharge. Upon leaving, he showered his compliments on the centre in-charge S. Lakshmi and other staff members and made a special mention of Pravallika, who offered him food everyday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/british-national-leaves-quarantine-centre-thanks-caregivers/article31361575.ece
17 April 2020||Alappuzha,ANDHRA PRADESH||In the time of pandemic, couple will tie the knot online||The lockdown or the distance of over 2,500 km between them will not prevent this couple from getting married as per schedule. P. Anjana, 28, from Pallippad, near Haripad, who is staying in Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh, and Sreejith Nadesan, 30, from Changanassery in Kottayam will tie the knot, albeit in a virtual setting on April 26. Ms. Anjana, an analyst in an IT company in Uttar Pradesh, was to reach Pallippad on April 18 for the wedding. “The COVID-19-induced lockdown has prevented me from travelling to Kerala, but it is not going to stop our marriage. Despite both of us being at different places, our families have decided to go ahead with the wedding as planned,” she said. On the big day, Mr. Nadesan, along with his parents and close relatives, numbering five, will reach the bride’s house at Pallippad, where her father stays. Ms. Anjana, her mother and brother will join them from Lucknow via a video calling app. Between 12.15 p.m. and 12.45 p.m., the bridegroom will symbolically put a wedding chain (mangalsutra) around the bride’s neck on the screen. Following this, Anjana’s mother will tie a locket with thread on her neck. The couple got engaged on November 9, 2019. “The marriage was originally planned in January, but it was later shifted to April 26 for convenience. When the restrictions were imposed, there were talks between the families over postponing the marriage. Both of our families later agreed to conduct the marriage over a video call as there are no auspicious dates for conducting our marriage in the next two years,” said Mr. Nadesan, an employee of a bank in Kumbanad. As per lockdown norms According to Pankajakshan Achary, father of Ms. Anjana, the marriage will be held in compliance with the restrictions imposed in the view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Nadesan said that once the lockdown ends and Ms. Anjana is able to join him, a wedding reception will be organised for relatives and friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-the-time-of-pandemic-couple-will-tie-the-knot-online/article31361089.ece
17 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||First 2 positive patients of Anantapur discharged||The first two COVID-19 positive patients in Anantapur district were discharged on Thursday night as both of them tested negative two consecutive times after their treatment period was over. A 36-year-old woman of Hindupur, who had visited Mecca and a 10-year-old boy from Lepakshi, who was a primary contact of another person, who had visited Mecca, were hale and hearty, said district Collector Gandham Chandrudu while giving a send off to the duo with everyone present there clapping. Pat for doctors They were taken by an ambulance from the KIMS Saveera COVID-19 Hospital in the city to their respective places. The two were admitted to the Hindupur Government Hospital after they tested positive on March 29 and later shifted to the COVID Hospital. The Collector said the doctors and paramedical staff who made the recovery possible with their dedicated efforts deserved praise. Additional DMHO Padmavathi had a chat with the recovered patients and said even after going home, they should take care of themselves by staying in self-isolation for the next 14 days and eating nutritious food. She said this would be a morale booster for the 17 COVID patients in the district still undergoing treatment. The district administration would take care of both suspected and confirmed cases and none should panic if they notice the symptoms. They should try to maintain social distancing and should not venture out of their houses without purpose, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-2-positive-patients-of-anantapur-discharged/article31361562.ece
17 April 2020||Anantapur,ANDHRA PRADESH||Samples piling up as labs run out of testing solution||Samples for COVID-19 testing are piling up across the State due to short supply of viral transport medium (VTM) and viral lysis buffer for Truenat Machines. Oral and nasal swabs are collected and kept in the VTM, a liquid that helps preserve the virus for testing. The viral lysis buffer helps to neutralise some viruses.  Presumptive tests stopped Anantapur Government Medical College Microbiology Laboratory currently has the capacity to test a maximum of 90 samples a day. It is expected that the flow of results would slow down for a couple of days until fresh batches of VTMs and VLMs reach Anantapur, Visakhapatnam and other districts which have a high incidence of positive cases. Presumptive testing for COVID-19 has been stopped at the RDT Bathalapalli Negative Pressure Laboratory, as it was waiting for the VTM to land. The State government has around 2,000 units and has placed an order for another 10,000 units, which were expected to arrive by Thursday. Testing of samples is expected to resume again by early Friday. While the VTM cartridges need to be tested in Bio-Safe Negative Pressure Laboratory or a Virology Laboratory, the VLM cartridges can be used anywhere - places where the concentration of potential cases is more. In Anantapur district, Hindupur being the hotspot of COVID-19 cases, the administration is planning to deploy all its 18 Truenat machines available in the district at Hindupur, Anantapur and Kadiri. Pooled testing A ray of hope, however, is ICMR’s likely approval to pooled samples testing, to save precious testing resources in the country. “If the ICMR approves it, six samples can be tested at one go. Only if the sample turns positive, all of them are tested individually. A lot of time and money can be saved by using this method,” said Bathalapalli laboratory head Raghu Prakash Reddy. The samples in Truenat machines with VLM cartridges destroys the virus after the test. Testing can be done in an open environment also instead of a sealed virology laboratory needed for a VTM cartridge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/samples-piling-up-as-labs-run-out-of-testing-solution/article31361564.ece
17 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State has sufficient COVID testing kits’||The government, responding to the report in The Hindu on the lack of kits for undertaking COVID-9 tests on TrueNAT machines, said 2,000 kits each had been despatched to every district in the State and that from Friday, it was expecting to test 2,000 samples a day. The release said the delay was not due to lack of the testing medium, but due to the extra initial time taken by scientists in laboratories to get accustomed to the new procedure. The State had 20,000 kits, would soon get 30,000 more and in addition to them, the government placed order for 1 lakh kits for conducting the tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-has-sufficient-covid-testing-kits/article31361568.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka’s testing rates are lowest among southern States||Karnataka is yet to obtain the much-awaited rapid testing kits for COVID-19 from China. This has lead to delay in beginning randomised tests, which was supposed to have commenced on April 12. Although Karnataka has been boasting of a relatively low number of positive cases compared to other States, an analysis by The Hindu shows that Karnataka has the lowest testing per million population among the southern States (barring Telangana). While the rate of testing in Telangana is not in public domain, Karnataka’s rate is lower than Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Andhra Pradesh. According to data compiled by The Hindu , which is a combination of numbers reported by the Central Health Ministry and updates from State governments’ Health Departments, Karnataka has been doing 182.3 tests per million people. Kerala, with 483.1 tests per million people, ranks the highest, followed by Tamil Nadu which has done 285 tests per million people. Andhra Pradesh has done 217.5 tests per million population. During the press conference on Thursday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said the number of tests conducted in Karnataka was increasing by the day. “We conducted 415 tests on April 6 and 1,241 tests on April 16,” Mr. Kumar said. According to statistics from the Department of Health and Family Welfare, so far, 13,724 tests have been conducted as of Thursday. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar acknowledged that the testing kits were yet to arrive from China. “I have been told that around 1 lakh testing kits will come by Sunday. All States are seeing a delay in receiving the kits,” he said. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said 3 lakh kits had been ordered.  Meanwhile, statistics from the Department of Health and Family Welfare said in the area of the deaths per one crore population, Karnataka stood at the 10th position as of Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnatakas-testing-rates-are-lowest-among-southern-states/article31361093.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka govt. withdraws Labour Department order||Karnataka’s Labour Department was to have set up a helpline to assist those in distress within 48 hours of issuing a notification on April 13 asking factories not to reduce wages or retrench employees. However, in a volte face, the government instead withdrew the notification within 48 hours, on Wednesday. Trade unions are set to meet Chief Secretary T.M. Vijaybhaskar on Friday to register their protest against the withdrawal of the order, and seek security for industrial labour.  Tripartite meeting Meanwhile, Labour Minister A. Shivaram Hebbar, who met a delegation of trade union leaders on Thursday, convened a tripartite meeting on April 23 to discuss the issue. “We will discuss income and job security for labourers,” M. Satyanand, secretary, AITUC, Bengaluru unit. Citing a March 29 Union government’s directive, the State government withdrew the earlier order, which had brought some solace to factory employees, especially those on contract or working as casual labour. The order was important in Bengaluru’s context as, according to trade unions, nearly 50% of the labour force in the organised sector is on contract or is casual labour. Sources said the State government came under “tremendous pressure” from the industry bodies after Labour Secretary P. Manivannan issued the April 13 order under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, as industries remain closed in view of COVID-19 pandemic. The notification had also asked the employers to consider employees as working even if they were on leave or unable to work from the employed place owing to COVID-19 outbreak. The employer organisations, including Karnataka Employers’ Association and the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry, had petitioned the government to withdraw the order.  ‘Under pressure’ A senior Labour Department official admitted that the order was withdrawn after the State government insisted that it be withdrawn. The government, in turn, was also under pressure, he added. Mr. Vijaybhaskar was not available for comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-govt-withdraws-labour-department-order/article31361092.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru/Hyderabad/Thiruvananthapuram/Chennai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka reports spurt in COVID-19 cases||A total of 36 new COVID-19 cases — the biggest jump in a day in Karnataka so far — were reported on Thursday. North Karnataka accounted for 28 of them, and the day’s numbers pushed up the State tally to 315. One more patient succumbed to COVID-19 taking the toll to 13. The Department of Health and Family Welfare said the 66-year-old man from Bengaluru died on Wednesday. The patient was admitted to Victoria hospital and was on ventilator support since April 10, after being referred from a private hospital. Spurt in Belagavi Belagavi district in North Karnataka, with 17 cases, accounted for 47% of the cases reported on Thursday, followed by Vijayapura, with seven cases. Five cases were reported from Bengaluru and three each from Kalaburagi and Mysuru. There was one case from Gadag district. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that the number of positive cases in Belagavi and Vijayapura was on the rise. “In Vijayapura, all of the 17 cases are reported from two families,” he said. Of Thursday’s 36 positives, five of the cases were less than 16 years old and six were senior citizens. While the majority had come into contact with positive patients, some patients with a history of domestic travel also tested positive. A total of 82 patients had been discharged as on Thursday. The most number of active cases were in Mysuru at 49, followed by 38 in Bengaluru Urban and 35 in Belagavi. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said Kottayam and Idukki districts would take their first steps towards restoring normalcy on April 20. These districts reported no new COVID-19 positive cases. Telangana and A.P. In Telangana, the total of COVID-19 positive cases stood at 700, and among them, 496 were active. The number of patients discharged was 186 and the death toll was 18. There was no death on Thursday. Andhra Pradesh reported nine new positive COVID-19 cases as of Thursday morning and the tally went up to 534 cases in 11 districts. Three cases each were reported in Krishna, Kurnool and West Godavari districts. Although the Department of Health had claimed that it would be testing over 3,000 samples in a day for the first time on Thursday, there was no evening bulletin. Reports said at least 15 persons including 13 from Kurnool and two from Anantapur had recovered and were discharged. 62 discharged in T.N. In Tamil Nadu, 62 persons who had tested positive for COVID-19 and underwent treatment in various hospitals, were discharged. This took the total number of patients discharged to 180. Five persons, four residents of Chennai and one from Kancheepuram, were discharged from Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Of the 25 persons who tested positive on Thursday, five (all contacts of COVID-19 patients) were from Namakkal. Three persons each were from Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Vellore and Chennai, two from Salem and one person each from Villupuram, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Tirunelveli, Tiruvallur and Thanjavur, a bulletin from the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine said. Chennai accounted for a total of 217 positive cases, while Coimbatore had 127 cases. Tiruppur had 80 patients, while Erode had 70. With the addition of a testing facility at Government Kanyakumari Medical College Hospital, the State had a total of 27 laboratories — 17 in government and 10 in private sectors. A total of 26,005 samples were sent for testing. Apart from 1,267 persons who had tested positive, 18,743 samples returned negative. While 4,595 samples were repeat samples of the same patients, testing of 1,400 samples was under process. A total of 75,421 persons completed 28-day home quarantine till date. Another 24,061 persons were under active home quarantine and 41 were in government quarantine facilities. A total of 1,882 persons suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to isolation wards in various hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-reports-spurt-in-covid-19-cases/article31361098.ece
17 April 2020||Bengaluru/Mysuru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Pharma staff caught virus from Chinese’||A day after the police disclosed that samples of raw material drawn from the pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud, near Mysuru, had tested negative for novel coronavirus, the Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar claimed that the investigations into the source of infection were pointing to an employee’s contacts with a Chinese person. The police authorities in Mysuru, however, maintained that the source of infection was yet to be established. Dr. Sudhakar told The Hindu that patient-52, who was the first employee of the company to be tested positive, had come in contact with a Chinese person from whom it is suspected that he contracted the virus. “The Home Department’s investigation reveals that he was in contact with a Chinese person. We are relieved to know the source and will intensify our contact tracing efforts,” he said. The number of persons linked to the pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud testing positive for COVID-19 has now touched 49, including the three who tested positive on Thursday, leading to Mysuru emerging as one of the COVID-19 hotspots in the State. Probe under way Superintendent of Police of Mysuru district C.B. Ryshyant, however, said that police investigations were yet to identify the source of infection among the employees of the company. While denying that P-52 had travelled to either China or any place outside India, Mr. Ryshyant said the company had shared the travel history of its employees as per the requirements of the investigation into the source of infection. “We don’t see this person having travelled to any place outside India,” he said. Mr. Ryshyant said the police investigations were covering all possible angles. P-52, who had recovered earlier this month and was quarantined at home, had given his statement to the police. He was cooperating with the police investigation. “As of now, we have not been able to identify the source of infection and will share it whenever we do so,” Mr. Ryshyant said. On Wednesday, while speaking to reporters in Mysuru, Additional Director-General of Police Parashivamurthy had said that the raw materials the pharmaceutical company had imported from China had tested negative for the virus. The samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. Meanwhile, the company too has sought clarify that none of its employees, who had tested positive so far, had travelled overseas in the last six months. In a statement on Thursday, the company — Jubilant Life Sciences Ltd. — said, “Patient-52 did not travel to China or (made) any overseas trip in the last six months. Further, none of the employees tested positive so far travelled overseas in the last six months.” It said, “It was unfortunate that a wrong perception was created in public and the media about the raw material imported from China.” The company said patient-52, in any case, never had any contact with the raw material nor had a role in receiving, transporting, handling or storage of the material.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pharma-staff-caught-virus-from-chinese/article31361091.ece
17 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Trying our best to come to terms with the reality’||Sunanda (name changed), a 23-year-old student, was at her home in Koretipadu when a posse of policemen, municipal, and Medical Department personnel knocked at her doors last Sunday. Within 30 minutes, she along her family found themselves was bundled into a mini bus and taken to a students’ hostel now turned into a quarantine centre on the campus of Acharya Nagarjuna University. “We were given hardly any time even to pack our belongings. Some of the elders forgot to bring their medicines. We understand the situation and will stay here till the quarantine period is over,’’ she says. Families were given individual rooms, usually occupied by two or three students. Food is served three times a day, but many found the bland food served by the Akshaya Patra Foundation not suitable to their palate. The local administration found another catering agency from Thursday. The government has fixed the daily mess charges of Rs. 300 per person, which includes breakfast served with tea. Milk, biscuits for children are yet to find their place on the menu. A young family is trying to adjust to the new surroundings. “My two children are crying and want to go home, and we are trying to pacify them,’’ says a woman. Things can be really difficult at night as the hostels are located far away. The administration placed teams to man the hostel. Two resident doctors play a major role in the team of ten persons, which includes a policeman. The district administration had to act fast given the spike in the number of positive cases. On April 15, the number of persons tested positive in Guntur district stood at 116, but the alarming fact is that 92 of them are from Guntur.  According to the medical bulletin by the Medical and Health Department, 1,666 persons are lodged in 23 quarantine centres , mostly located around Guntur city. “We are providing proper amenities at quarantine centres and we urge people to cooperate. We are moving the primary and secondary contacts as a precautionary measure,’’ said Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trying-our-best-to-come-to-terms-with-the-reality/article31361122.ece
17 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red Cross at the forefront of service||In these testing times, voluntary organisations and corporates have come together to extend help to the local administration as the battle against COVID-19 continues. The Indian Red Cross Society, Guntur branch, has been in the forefront of relief measures. The team IRCS Guntur now has about 150 active volunteers drawn from different fields -- bankers, students, lecturers and chartered accountants -- who are volunteering in managing crowds at busy markets, filling up sanitisers and distributing them to police and health personnel, and some extending relief to persons lodged at quarantine centres. On Thursday, IRCS vice-president P. Ramachandra Raju and his team distributed biscuits to the inmates at the quarantine centre on the campus of ANU. ``We are thinking of providing toys for children and drawing books after discussing with district administration. We have also placed our volunteers who inform us if the inmates need anything. On Wednesday, we supplied medicines to some inmates,’’ said Mr. Raju. ITC-ABD is supplying dignity kits to 2,000 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-cross-at-the-forefront-of-service/article31361123.ece
17 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus turns to villages||The district administration has turned its focus on the rural areas of the district. On Thursday, senior officers visited Narsaraopet, Gurazala and Dachepalli to take stock of the situation. Earlier, MLA of Narsaraopet, Gopireddy Srinivasa Reddy ,launched a TrueNAT testing centre in the town which enables rapid testing of oral swabs. The Collector said that there were seven cases which have turned out to be positive in Narsaraopet. Meanwhile, the number of positive cases in the district reached 120.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-turns-to-villages/article31361124.ece
17 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rural leaders trained on COVID-19||National Institute of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj (NIRDPR) in collaboration with UNICEF, Hyderabad field office, is training over 28.33 lakh community leaders through online programmes to practice social behaviour required to control the transmission of COVID-19 cases in villages in association with the governments of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Risk communication The online training programme was initiated along the lines of a detailed risk communication plan to build capacities of Panchayat Raj institutions (PRI), self-help groups (SHG), National Service Scheme (NSS) officials, volunteers and community radio stations (CRS) on the role that they can play in preventing the spread of COVID-19 in their groups and village communities. The programme is being conducted via a digital app for enabling video conference calls with district master trainers from rural development, Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty (SERP) of Telangana, officials of National Service Scheme (NSS), health functionaries of AP and community radio stations. Fact check “We recognized the exceptional role that leaders of PR and village organizations in dealing with the crisis of COVID-19 by disseminating reliable information. Hence, we decided to build their capacities by endowing them with facts about COVID-19, common symptoms, modes of transmission and key behaviours, among other things,” said NIRDPR Director-General W.R. Reddy. Good response “The response from the participants to the programme has been very encouraging and they in turn are communicating the messages further down to the panchayat level. Our training programmes extend to about two hours over video conference calls,” said director of the Communication Resource Unit, and Head of the Centre for Good Governance and Policy Analysis (CGG&PA) Gyanmudra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rural-community-leaders-trained-on-covid-19/article31361168.ece
17 April 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hospital sealed as founder tests positive after death||All the patients treated by K.M. Ismail Hussain, founder of K.M. Hospitals, located opposite Osmania College, in the city were asked to get themselves tested for COVID-19. The advisory came in the wake of the authorities declaring Dr. Hussain positive for coronavirus on Wednesday after his death on Tuesday. District Collector G. Veerapandian on Thursday appealed to all the patients and attendants who had come to the hospital between March 20 and April 11 to get themselves checked and seek advice by contacting the phone number 8333988955. Dr. Hussain (76) was initially said to have died of heart-attack. But later, his samples tested positive for COVID-19. The authorities sealed the hospital and shifted the patients to the Government General Hospital. Many from Telangana Many patients from Alampur and Gadwal in Telangana had visited the hospital, and hence, as a precautionary measure, they were asked to check their health condition. Meanwhile, the relaxation in lockdown was reduced to 3 hours from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. The district Collector said that anyone moving out without a face mask would be penalised. In the red zones, all essential items, including groceries and medicines, were being supplied at the doorstep of the residents. With the results of 1,137 samples received till 11 p.m. on Wednesday, the total number of positive cases was 115 in the district. There were two deaths so far and one person was discharged. The results of 1,026 samples were awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hospital-sealed-as-founder-tests-positive-after-death/article31361588.ece
17 April 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||SHG donates Rs. 40 lakh for COVID relief||Women from underprivileged families, part of Self-Help Groups in Kurnool district, showed their magnanimity by donating Rs. 40 lakh to the COVID-19 Relief Fund on Thursday. YSR Kranthi Patham Self-Help Group district president P. Lakshmi Devi handed over a cheque for Rs. 40 lakh to Collector G. Veerapandian on Thursday.  Meanwhile, fresh fruits are being sold in the city at Rs. 100 per bag at the doorstep of people in Kurnool city. The initiative was launched in the city on Thursday with one van and two auto-rickshaws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shg-donates-rs-40-lakh-for-covid-relief/article31361569.ece
17 April 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leader goes on fast seeking ex gratia for the poor||Senior Telugu Desam Party leader and former Nellore Urban Development Authority chairman Kottamreddy Srinivasulu Reddy staged a fast here on Thursday demanding an ex gratia of Rs. 5,000 to each poor person to sustain themselves during the lockdown. “The State Government should provide essential commodities free of cost to all those living in the containment zones, and should also allow 200 units of free electricity per month and three cooking gas cylinders for three months,” Mr. Reddy said. He said that it was unfortunate that the ruling party was keen on holding local body elections at a time when the people were facing severe hardships in the wake of imposition of lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leader-goes-on-fast-seeking-ex-gratia-for-the-poor/article31361570.ece
17 April 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five more persons test positive in Nellore||Five more persons tested positive for coronavirus in SPSR Nellore district on Thursday. With this, the number of active cases rose to 58 in the district, which has been declared a COVID-19 hotspot by the Centre. The fresh cases were reported from Nellore city, COVID-19 nodal officer Narendra said. The mouth swab of a 65-year-old person, who died during treatment, confirmed that he was carrying the dreaded virus. He had returned from Delhi after taking part in a religious congregation there. A doctor from Nellore, who underwent treatment at a private hospital in Chennai, was the first casualty in the district. A student who had tested positive after returning from Italy had recovered. Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar Yadav said that the situation was under control, with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy constantly monitoring the situation and taking active steps to prevent the spread of the disease. Mr. Anil Kumar exhorted people living in containment zones to cooperate with the government and confining themselves to their homes. Ongole unchanged In Ongole, health officials heaved a sigh of relief as 653 persons tested negative for the disease. The number of active cases stood at 41. Drones were used by the civic staff to sanitise the COVID-19 hotspot of Islampet in the city, which accounted for the highest number of 20 active cases. More than 51,000 persons in the containment zones were under surveillance in the district, which has also been identified by the Union Government as a COVID-19 hotspot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-more-persons-test-positive-in-nellore/article31361572.ece
17 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Pinarayi helping firm in exploiting health data’||Leader of the Opposition in Kerala Ramesh Chennithala on Thursday accused Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan of opening the door for U.S.-based firm Sprinklr to exploit the personal health data of Keralites for profit. Mr. Vijayan refused to take any questions on the controversy at his daily COVID-19 briefing, saying he had clarified the issue on Wednesday. He said he was ending his regular press conferences and would inform the media when he wanted to meet them again. Mr. Chennithala alleged that Mr. Vijayan had misused his office to mandate that field workers funnel the health data of COVID-19 vulnerable persons to the digital repositories of Sprinklr by using the “free” mobile phone app supplied by it. Data trade chances He said Sprinklr possessed the data of nearly 1.75 lakh Keralites. Ernst and Young had pegged the value of the private medical information of an individual at Rs. 10,000. Forbes valued it at Rs. 75,000. By a conservative estimate, Sprinklr held medical information worth Rs. 700 crore. It could easily palm off the data to private players in the pharmaceutical and health sector without the consent of the government or the knowledge of citizens, he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pinarayi-helping-firm-in-exploiting-health-data/article31361095.ece
17 April 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to refund ticket amount||Devotees who have booked their darshan tickets in advance for the period between March 13 and May 31 will be paid back their ticket amount, the TTD in a note said. The TTD on Thursday appealed to pilgrims to mail the details of their darshan tickets along with bank account number, IFSC code to helpdesk@tirumala.orgto facilitate the payment. Refunds will also be made to those who booked tickets online or at post offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-refund-ticket-amount/article31361094.ece
17 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to extend meal scheme to other districts as part of COVID relief efforts||More charitable institutions and philanthropists have chipped in with ample support towards improving the lives of the people hit by COVID-19, and the resultant lockdown. Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which has been rendering yeoman service by providing food to the stranded pilgrims, migrant workers, and shelterless poor everyday, has now announced to extend the gesture up to May 3 and also to other districts. 70,000 food packets every day The temple management has so far distributed over 25 lakh food packets from March 28 onwards for the needy. The food prepared at the TTD employees’ canteen used to be packed into a whopping 70,000 packets and distributed in the morning and evening. After the TTD administrative building came under the red zone, the kitchen activity was shifted to Srinivasam Rest House, Tiruchanur Annaprasadam Complex and SPW College. Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal announced that an allocation of Rs. 13 crore (Rs. 1 crore to every district) had been made from Srivari Nitya Annaprasadam Trust to provide food packets to displaced people and daily wage earners and appealed to District Collectors to utilise the same. Tirupati MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy, who has been monitoring the supply and distribution of TTD’s food packets among the poor, handed over 10 tonnes of rice donated by a merchant M. Kishore Kumar for the cause on Thursday. Mr. Reddy personally donated six tonnes on Wednesday. “As the TTD feeds thousands of shelterless and destitute people, it is our responsibility to ensure the supply chain remains intact,”, he said. CSR at work Meanwhile, as part of its corporate social responsibility, TVS Motor Company has taken up public outreach initiatives throughout Andhra Pradesh to contain COVID-19 induced hunger. The company’s dealers Keshvin Automotives (Tirupati), Aparna Automotives (Kurnool) and Godavari Motors (Kadiyam) are supplying food grains to low-wage employees, feeding local community near the railway station and providing assorted vegetables to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-extend-meal-scheme-to-other-districts-as-part-of-covid-relief-efforts/article31361567.ece
17 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Putting popularity above public safety||The concept of social distancing, evolved to avoid human-to-human contact, is followed more in the breach than observance by those who preach. After the lockdown was clamped across the nation, people are allowed to come out for their basic requirements, with a rider to follow social distancing. Standing at least one metre from others ensures that the airborne virus emanating from a vector does not infect others when they cough or sneeze. In their endeavour to reach out to the public while distributing essential commodities, it is the overzealous politicians who tend to ‘miss this gap.’  Srikalahasti MLA Biyyapu Madhusudhan Reddy drew flak from the national media the other day when he took out a huge tractor rally in the town. Originally meant to distribute rice bags to every village in the constituency, the motorcade of tractors doubled up as a procession to honour donors such as industrialist Ratan Tata, social activist Sudha Narayanamurthy, film actor Mahesh Babu, among, others by putting up their huge cutouts. Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha regularly inspects the rythu bazaar, visits infected colonies in Kadapa district to distribute sanitisers, grocery and vegetables to the public. He too often faced public and media ire for violating the norm, while ‘getting closer’ to the public, though he never misses his face mask. ven on Thursday, he distributed essentials at a colony in Kadapa when he was almost mobbed by the beneficiaries. Many leaders still move around in the garb of providing essentials to the public, and creating awareness and for assisting the frontline workers, without understanding the perils of such ‘outreach’ exercises in COVID-19 times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/putting-popularity-above-public-safety/article31361577.ece
17 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Notwithstanding hassles, door delivery of essentials continues||Door delivery of essential commodities, initiated by Tirupati and replicated in other cities in the State, has been largely successful in preventing crowding of denizens, but it faces hassles due to thorough barricading. No sooner had the Centre announced lockdown than the Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT) roped in super markets and departmental stores to supply essentials at the consumers’ door step. Municipal Commissioner P.S. Girisha on Thursday announced that the scheme benefited 20,087 households in the city during the first phase of the lockdown period. “The 13 super markets that were granted permission will continue to operate till May 3,” he said, cautioning them to stick to the maximum retail price (MRP). Mobile numbers of all major stores are prominently displayed and circulated, based on which the consumers send their grocery list over WhatsApp. The cargo vehicles with the required permission promptly door-deliver the stock. While the residents accuse the super markets of indifference and not responding to their calls, the latter find it hard to negotiate with the policemen at some barricades. Meanwhile, the second phase of ration distribution began at fair-price shops on Thursday. Chairs were arranged in the circles meant to observe social distancing, hinting at longer queue lines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/notwithstanding-hassles-door-delivery-of-essentials-continues/article31361566.ece
17 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Equipment augmented to speed up testing process’||With only fewer samples being tested a day due to a lone testing facility at VRD Laboratory at SVIMS, the Chittoor district administration has taken an initiative to find alternatives. The VRD lab can test 300 samples a day, but as the number of samples started rising, there is a quantum jump in pendency. To offload burden on the VRD lab, the government made arrangements to launch testing with Truenat machines and also by setting up another COVID-19 testing lab at Multi Disciplinary Research Unit (MDRU). District Collector Bharat N. Gupta said 17 Truenat machines were set up in various hospitals, which could handle up to 20 samples a day. Mr. Gupta announced that results could now be provided within an hour of collecting the throat swab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/equipment-augmented-to-speed-up-testing-process/article31361578.ece
17 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Close watch on containment zones for the next 3-4 months’||Special Chief Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy said colour changing of containment zones will go on till the COVID-19 outbreak reaches a plateau in the State, which, he said, could take three to four months. Addressing a press conference on Thursday, Dr. Jawahar Reddy said classification and colour coding of zones was a dynamic phenomenon. “For a red zone to turn orange, there should be no case reported in the area for 14 days and after the next 14 days, it could be considered a green zone. Green zone can turn orange with fresh cases. The process will go on for the next three to four months,” he said. He said of the total 676 mandals, only 94 mandals had reported cases so far and there are 154 clusters. Considering the status of cases on April 20, the zones would be declared and no relaxation of lockdown in the 94 mandals which have containment zones, Dr. Reddy added.  ‘Testing the key’ He said more number of cases were being reported because more and more samples are being tested. “The idea is to test as many people as possible before the lockdown is lifted so that we know the level of infection in the community. Those areas with infection can be isolated even after May 3. If we don’t test enough, there will be a silent spread,” he added. Dr. Reddy said that the State’s current testing ratio is 331 per million against country’s ratio 198 per million and as of Wednesday, 16, 555 samples had been tested. “In the last two days, we have tested more than 2,000 samples a day and on Thursday, it could be more than 3,000. AP is one of the few States to commence TruNat testing with which 4,000 samples could be tested per day,” he said. “Focus will be on testing samples of persons with fever symptoms. There are 32, 700 such people and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked us to complete testing in a week,” Dr. Reddy said.  He said the lab in Vijayawada had already begun testing pooled samples as approved by the ICMR. Two more labs in SV Medical College, Tirupati and Kurnool Medical College were going to be ready soon. Hereafter, quarantine centres would be called COVID Care Centres, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/close-watch-on-containment-zones-for-the-next-3-4-months/article31361581.ece
17 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM: involve SHGs in making masks||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy ordered that self-help groups be involved in the making of masks and priority given to distribution of three masks per head in hotspots. Mr. Jagan also instructed the officials to extend a financial assistance of Rs. 2,000 each to people from weaker sections being sent home from quarantine centres, to enable them to buy nutritious food thereby develop immunity. Addressing a review meeting on COVID-19 at his camp office on Thursday, Mr. Jagan said efforts should be made to improve the facilities in the quarantine centres while spreading awareness on social distancing which proved to be effective in checking the spread of the disease.  Focus on aqua exports He said the lists of beneficiaries of ‘YSR Rythu Bharosa’ and ‘Matsyakara Bharosa’ schemes should be displayed on village secretariats’ premises. He instructed the officials to ensure unhindered export of aqua products to other States. Deputy CM and Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Director-General of Police Gautam Sawang, and Special CS (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-involve-shgs-in-making-masks/article31361087.ece
17 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former Mayor for resuming liquor sale||Former Mayor and a doctor of medicine Jandhyala Shankar in a letter to the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy requested that liquor be made available during the lockdown period. Dr. Shankar wrote that it would add to the revenue of the State government which was already facing a financial crisis. Starting his letter with writer-philosopher Aldous Huxley’s quote, “Make a rich man spend his money in some form or other. It eventually goes to the poor or distributed among the deserving people,” Dr. Shankar said the government was not in a position to forego a substantial revenue on liquor sales even for a short period, when it was being forced to incur huge expenditure in controlling the spread of COVID-19. He recalled that even in the days of prohibition, liquor was available to some on medical prescription. Some heart patients were prescribed some wine to keep them healthy. For the purpose of maintaining social distancing “door delivery” of liquor be allowed, he suggested. “The government may consider door delivery through some recognised NGO. The NGO may be permitted to charge Rs. 25 or a little more over the regular price. The NGO should contribute Rs. 20 to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund and keep the rest to meet the expenditure of delivering the liquor,” he suggested. Dr. Shankar said, “I am 85 years, former Mayor and a medical doctor. As desired by some responsible and senior citizens and (also) on my own behalf, I am writing to you. When everyone is remaining home and some affluent citizens wish to have a drink in their residence there is nothing wrong in their desire.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-mayor-for-resuming-liquor-sale/article31361125.ece
17 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Halt to functions deals a body blow to service providers||The suspension of marriages, gruha pravesams (house warming) and other functions during the lockdown have affected lakhs of families in the State. Many traders and farmers have suffered huge losses while workers lost their livelihood as weddings have stopped. People offering services like catering, lighting and flower decoration, wedding cards printing, photography, videography and digital screen printing besides priests, musical parties and others artisans have remained jobless. Cloth merchants and those growing and trading in vegetables, flowers and fruits are among the worst hit. Cascading effect “About 100 people work in our catering unit per day and many others like ice cream and pan vendors, truck owners (to carry the items) and wholesale vegetable, flower and fruit vendors depend on us indirectly. All are rendered jobless,” said a caterer G. Naresh. “Many flower and lighting decorators and sound system providers for various function halls and temples have lost their bread due to the lockdown,” lamented a decorator P. Sukumar of Vijayawada, who used to order colourful flowers in bulk from Bengaluru. ‘Sitting idle’ The event managers who put together everything from the start to the finish for various functions are sitting idle now. “With many good ‘muhurtams’, March, April and May are peak season for us. We eagerly await this period of the year to earn some money for ourselves and those who depend on us. Luck didn’t favour us this year,” bemoaned an event manager Santosh. “As marriages and other celebrations are cancelled, there is no work for transport operators,” rued a taxi owner Guttula Rama Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/halt-to-functions-deals-a-body-blow-to-service-providers/article31361130.ece
17 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Domestic power consumers urged to pay March bills promptly||In a bid to make up for the slump in revenue collections due to the lockdown, AP-Transco has appealed to domestic consumers to promptly pay their March bills (same amounts as paid for February) as the DISCOMs did not record individual meter readings. The power utilities are heavily dependent on domestic consumers to stave off the crisis precipitated by the steep fall in demand from bulk consumers, including the Railways and commercial establishments. This resulted in a massive decline in revenues. Plus, a large number of consumers did not pay bills for February because of the lockdown. To exacerbate they didn’t have online remittance facility either. “The AP-Transco and DISCOMs are therefore pinning their hopes on the domestic sector to come to their rescue,” said officials in the Energy Department, who pegged the number of households at 92.24 lakh out of the total 1.45 crore electricity consumers. The average shortfall in the collections of DISCOMs stood at 36.73 per cent. Fall in demand The total sales of power fell to 4,500 Million Units (MU) in March from the expected 5,000 MU to 5,500 MU. If the present situation continues, sales are likely to drop to nearly 3,500 MU in April. Energy Secretary N. Srikant requested the domestic consumers to make payments without any delays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/domestic-power-consumers-urged-to-pay-march-bills-promptly/article31361583.ece
17 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector cautions RMPs, private doctors||Krishna Collector Md. A. Imtiaz on Thursday asked private doctors and RMPs to inform the district administration immediately if they were approached by patients with coronavirus symptoms.  Mr. Imtiaz said RMPs and PMPs should desist from treating any patient with COVID-19 symptoms such as cough, cold and high fever. They should, instead, refer them to the State COVID Hospital set up at the Government General Hospital (GGH), or the District COVID Hospital at Pinnamaneni Medical College at Chinnaoutpally. The Collector said that the Municipal Commissioners and tahsildars should issue the ‘ban’ orders (restriction to treat coronavirus patients) to the RMPs and PMPs in their respective jurisdictions and submit a report to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-cautions-rmps-private-doctors/article31361126.ece
17 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM pays tributes to Kandukuri||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thurday recalled the contributions of writer Kandukuri Veeresalingam Pantulu to the society on the occasion of his 172nd birth anniversary on Twitter. Paying tributes to the writer and social reformer on Twitter, Mr. Jagan tweeted, “Kandukuri Veeresalingam is the father of modern Telugu society. As a social reformer, he strived for the eradication of wrong practices in society and ensured access to education for women and all sections of society. Paying rich tributes to him on his birth anniversary.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-pays-tributes-to-kandukuri/article31361120.ece
17 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC issues e-filing norms||The Registrar General of the High Court issued guidelines for e-filing of cases and video-conferencing to secure the functioning of the court in consonance with the mandate of social distancing, thereby contribute to the curtailment of the spread of COVID-19. The filing is to be done through the web-link available on the HC website https://hc.ap.nic.in The video-conferencing will be through Zoom Meeting Application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-issues-e-filing-norms/article31361582.ece
17 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Design courses of international quality in skill development’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday asked officials to design new international courses and impart training to students through the Skill Development Centres set up across the State. Addressing a review meeting on the proposed construction of Skill Development University and training centres in every parliamentary constituency, he discussed about construction of buildings and the courses to be introduced as part of the project. He said the courses should be of international quality and world experts would be engaged to put in place the curriculum. The idea was to enhance the knowledge and efficiency of the students who pass out of ITI, diploma, engineering and other courses. Efforts should be intensified for approval of proposed institute in Visakhapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/design-courses-of-international-quality-in-skill-development/article31361590.ece
17 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 43.29 crore as relief to BPL families||The government has sanctioned nearly Rs. 43.29 crore towards financial assistance to the BPL families during the lockdown imposed for the containment of COVID-19, according to G.O. Ms. No.9 issued by Principal Secretary (revenue-disaster management) V. Usharani. The Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty has been mandated to disburse the money on the basis of rice cards data with the support of the village volunteers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-4329-crore-as-relief-to-bpl-families/article31361585.ece
17 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Transport delays, panic buying hit availability of medicines||Notwithstanding the slew of measures initiated by the authorities to ensure adequate supply of essential drugs, citizens complain that they are unable to get some medicines for diabetes, hypertension and other lifestyle disorders. People are seen standing in queues, while maintaining social distance, at the drug stores in the city during the lockdown relaxation hours. “All waiting in the queues are not lucky. For some prescribed medicines, I have to visit several stores since the lockdown began,” rued a man standing at a medicine store at Maharanipeta on Thursday. Meanwhile, retailers claim that they are not getting the supplies regularly from the wholesalers in view of the transportation problems due to the lockdown.  Lockdown blues “Though there is no dearth in the supply of drugs from the manufacturers to the wholesalers, the lockdown has seen a surge in the demand. People resort to panic buying and stock their supplies for three to six months. Apart from this, problems in transportation is also resulting in delay in the supply,” said a retail medicine store requesting anonymity. Some big drug store chains are also running out of stock of essential drugs every now and then. Some big chains are also not accepting online orders even as they have stopped or reduced the discounts on purchases, said a consumer. “Hydroxychloroquine, an anti-malarial drug being used to treat the COVID-19 patients, is also prescribed to rheumatoid arthritis patients. Now, the shortage of the medicine is a cause of concern,” said T. Kameswara Rao, general secretary of Praja Arogya Vedika (PAV). What the officials say However, the authorities said that there was no shortage in the supply or distribution of drugs. “There could, however, be delays in procurement at the retailer level. We have issued a limited number of passes to delivery boys as allowing all employees of the medical stores to deliver drugs will defeat the purpose of the lockdown,” said K. Rajitha, Assistant Director, Drugs Control Administration, when the issue was brought to her notice on Thursday. Luckily, the medical equipment and drugs are being handled at Visakhapatnam international airport, the only airport in Andhra Pradesh operating exclusive cargo flights, six days a week, said Vizag airport Director M. Raja Kishore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/transport-delays-panic-buying-hit-availability-of-medicines/article31361601.ece
17 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lapses galore at FP shops, says survey||The Federation of District Consumer Organisations has demanded registration of criminal cases against the fair-price shop dealers who resort to malpractice in weight while distributing free rice and Bengal gram (sanagalu) to bemeficiaries. A preliminary survey conducted by consumer rights activists at various places in the district on Thursday morning has revealed that many fair-price shop dealers were distributing less commodities than the specified quantities to the beneficiaries, a statement quoted federation president Kandregula Venkata Ramana as saying. “The difference in weight was up to 150 gm for every 1 kg of Bengal gram supplied, while the same for rice was up to 2 kg per 20 kg supplied,” he said. ‘No stamping’ Giving more details about the survey, Mr. Venkata Ramana said that it was revealed that around 64 % of the consumers were being cheated in this manner. There are 12,45,259 ration card holders under the purview of 2,193 fair-price shops in the district. “Over 75 % of the additional counters opened at the FP shops are using weights and measures, which do not bear the stamping of the Legal Metrology Department,” he said. Mr. Venkata Ramana said complaints were sent through emails to Collector V. Vinay Chand, legal metrology and civil supplies departments. He called upon the consumers to dial the toll free number 1800 425 4202, in case of any such complaints. He also appealed to consumer organisations to be vigilant in this regard.  Shops to open at 6 a.m. Meanwhile, Joint Collector L. Shiva Shankar asked the fair-price shop dealers to open the shops by 6 a.m. to overcome the technical problems pertaining to servers. “Rice and Bengal gram are being distributed to ration card holders . The FP shop dealers have been instructed to stick to the timings. Stringent action will be taken against those who violate the guidelines,” said Mr. Shiva Shankar. Prices of some essential commodities have been revised as per prevailing market rates, he said at a meeting of Price Fixation Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lapses-galore-at-fp-shops-says-survey/article31361603.ece
17 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rights groups want govt. to stop MGNREGA projects||Taking strong exception to the government’s decision of allowing the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) works amid the coronavirus pandemic, the Human Rights Forum (HRF) and Samalochana, an NGO, have said that it would pose risk to the lives of the workers. They demanded immediate stoppage of the works. “We call upon the government to pay all registered MGNREGA workers (including the inactive workers) their full wages as advance during the lockdown period. These wages should not be paid as unemployment allowance, but as wages for the period when they should have been working, but are unable to do so,” said V.S. Krishna of HRF. With more than 93 lakh registered workers, Andhra Pradesh is one of India’s leading States in implementation of the MGNREGA. “The scheme has been the lifeline for lakhs of households as it provides livelihood security . What is worrisome is that more than 8.3 lakh workers were engaged in various MGNREGA works across the State on Wednesday (April 15). Prakasam district where many mandals have been declared as containment zones, recorded the highest number of 1.95 lakh workers reporting for work on Wednesday,” said B. Chakradhar of Samalochana. Given the pandemic, continuing NREGA works amounts to a violation of human rights of the workers. “Given the nature of works, it would not be practically possible to ensure social distancing. Rather, it is putting the workers’ life at risk, he added. According to Mr. Krishna, even as the pending dues have been cleared, many workers are not in a position to collect them as banking correspondent services and customer service points remain non-functional. The government should ensure door delivery of wages through village volunteers, he said. “The government should automatically enrol all MGNREGA workers as registered workers under the Building and Other Construction Workers (BoCW) Act so that they can avail of social security benefits in the form of insurance, scholarships for children’s education, pensions and etc,” said Mr. Krishna. Automatic enrolment As most of the migrant workers are not attending works they would have slipped into the inactive workers category. Many beneficiaries might have their job cards deleted in the workers’ lists. “We urge the government to increase in man days of work to 200 per job card and ensure automatic re-enrolment of all whose job cards have been deleted for the next year to accommodate more workers. There must be adequate budgetary allocation,” pointed out Mr. Chakradhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rights-groups-want-govt-to-stop-mgnrega-projects/article31361610.ece
17 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||May 7 is last date to apply for APPGECET||APPGECET-2020 convener P. Srinivasa Rao has said that the last date for submission of application forms without late fee has been extended to May 7 as the COVID-19 lockdown has been extended up to May 3. In a release on Thursday, Prof. Srinivasa Rao said candidates could visit the website – https://sche.ap.gov.in/pgecet – for detailed information on the submission of applications online and other updates. He also added that the portal for online submission of applications was active, and that they had been accepting online applications since March 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/may-7-is-last-date-to-apply-for-appgecet/article31361604.ece
17 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Export of HCQ will not hit India’s fight against corona’||Revocation of ban on the export of Hydroxychloroquine, an affordable drug for treatment of malaria, will not hit India’s fight against COVID-19, says a top official of the Pharmaceuticals Export Promotion Council of India (Pharmexcil). India is the world's largest producer of Hydroxychloroquine, popularly called HCQ. United States President Donald Trump recently made a personal request to India to lift the ban to enable export of the drug to help his country tackle the pandemic as New York became the epicentre of noval coronavirus after incidence was brought under control in Wuhan (China) — the birthplace of the deadly virus. Indian drug formulators export 80-85 % of the production to almost all parts of the world, as global pharma majors more or less stopped large-scale production of this low-cost molecule due to lack of demand. Only three companies in India, including Laurus Labs, have the approved Drug Master File (DMF) in the United States. Leading manufacturers of HCQ tablets are IPCA Laboratories, Zydus Cadila Healthcare, INTAS Pharmaceuticals and Laurus Labs Ltd. Of these, Laurus Labs is located near Visakhapatnam, Pharmexcil Director-General Ravi Uday Bhaskar told The Hindu on Thursday that the demand in various countries for HCQ had gone up all of a sudden as the treatment of COVID-19 patients combined with Azithromycin was showing positive results. The global demand for this product has increased manifold. The Government of India had prohibited its exports to meet the requirements of its people. Steady earnings Upon review of the status of the Indian manufacturers’ capabilities in fulfilling the needs of the nation, the government had taken a call to release the exports to countries which needed it the most, he said. Mr. Uday Bhaskar said India's current manufacturing capacity of HCQ was 38 tonnes per month which could be scaled up to 58 tonnes per month in the coming days. He said HCQ was now being termed by many countries the game-changer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/export-of-hcq-will-not-hit-indias-fight-against-corona/article31361594.ece
17 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials brace for intensified testing||In a attempt to check the spread of COVID-19, the authorities have initiated measures to intensify the testing by using rapid testing kits in the district. Approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Truenat test kits have been sanctioned to the Narsipatnam and Anakapalle government hospitals and the Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases. Doctors in each PHC need to send five samples and one with COVID-19 symptoms to the testing facilities equipped with rapid testing kits. “In the GVMC limits, 30 samples and 10 with COVID-19 symptoms from each zone need to be sent to Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases, and King George Hospital,” Municipal Commissioner G. Srijana told mandal development officers, tahsildars and government doctors in a video conference on Thursday. Sample collection While collecting the samples, priority should be given to the suspect cases identified during the door-to-door survey and those above 60 years of age, co-morbidity cases, people with history of diabetes, heart issues and other complications, she said. The District Medical and Health Officer will impart training to medical officers and doctors in the rural areas. They should be assisted by MDOs and tahsildar while collecting the samples, a release issued by district administration said. GVMC Chief Medical Officer K.S.L.G. Sastry said at least 200 to 300 rapid tests were conducted in the urban areas on April 12 and 13 and all have been tested negative. Paderu Sub-Collector S. Venkateswar, DM & HO S. Tirupati Rao and Andhra Medical College principal S.V. Sudhakar participated in the video conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-brace-for-intensified-testing/article31361608.ece
17 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Transgenders lend a helping hand to slum-dwellers||Seeing the lockdown blues of the poor and daily wage workers living in the slums, a group of transgenders has taken up the responsibility of distributing food packets, essential goods and vegetables to them on a daily basis. The group, led by Mallika, spends around Rs. 3,000 every day to procure vegetables or essentials items such as rice, dal, oil and sugar. The group has been doing the service since March 28. It selects one slum a day located in the areas such as Kancharapalem, Allipuram and Gnanapuram, and distributes either the food material or cooked food to the needy. “We either supply various vegetables or cooked food, or essential provisions,” says Mallika. “Our community is one among the worst-hit due to the lockdown as we cannot go out for begging. As such, there has been no daily income. But we are managing to part with some amount from our savings as this is the time to join hands and help the poor,” says Mallika. “We try to reach out to at least 50 to 100 households per day,” Mallika adds. There are about 1,500 tansgenders in the city and they are a close-knit community. “We are living in groups for economic sustenance and also to take care of our old and sick,” says Mallika.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/transgenders-lend-a-helping-hand-to-slum-dwellers/article31361592.ece
17 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 nurses on COVID duty to undergo swab test||Three nurses on COVID-19 duty at the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) were sent to Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases for swab test and seven more were sent to the isolation ward at Pradhama Hospital after they complained of symptoms, on Thursday. Report sought Meanwhile, King George Hospital (KGH) Superintendent G. Arjuna said that a detailed report had been sought from the VIMS Director on some nurses allegedly making statements before the media, without consulting the higher authorities. “Around 100 staff nurses were deputed to the VIMS on March 27 and relieved on April 14 and 15. Some staff nurses had developed mild symptoms of weakness and explained to the Nursing Superintendent on their inability to work,” said Mr. Arjuna. Protocol violation They were asked to undergo swab testing and remain in home or hospital quarantine as per the COVID-19 protocols for employees. However, they refused to undergo swab testing and issued a press note, without consulting the higher authorities, he said. Mr. Arjuna further said that as per the guidelines, those who worked in the COVID-19 positive patient’s ward should be quarantined for 15 days depending on their symptoms and they should undergo swab test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-nurses-on-covid-duty-to-undergo-swab-test/article31361598.ece
17 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Quotations for 15,000 PPE kits received’||Joint Collector L. Shiva Shankar has said that all measures are being taken for purchase of the required medical equipment for checking the spread of COVID-19. At a meeting, he said eight quotations were received for supply of 15,000 PPE kits, 12,000 N-95 masks and 10 lakh three-layered masks. The special purchase committee comprising DRDA Project Director, DM & HO, AMC principal and APMHMICD SE will review the quotations and submit a report to the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/quotations-for-15000-ppe-kits-received/article31361597.ece
17 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘10 disinfection chambers will be set up’||Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy on Thursday said that disinfection chambers would be set up at 10 different places in the city, with the help of donors. He held a meeting with industrialists and sought donations to help the needy affected due to lockdown. “Nearly 2 lakh BPL families in the district are facing troubles due to lockdown. We will provide them kits containing essentials costing around Rs. 750,” he said, adding that about Rs. 15 crore was needed for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-disinfection-chambers-will-be-set-up/article31361606.ece
17 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youngsters step up at a time of crisis||Students from several colleges have joined hands to donate vegetables to poor families in Vizianagaram. Forming a group called ‘We Are For You’, the students, led by Kumar Naveen, said they were distributing vegetables among poor families with a view to building their immunity. Local leaders Mylapalli Pydiraju and Patavada Ramanamurthy utilised the services of youngsters to gather information about poor people in the area who do not possess ration cards. Mr. Pydiraju, who distributed essential commodities to the families, lauded the initiative of the youngsters for ensuring help to the needy persons. “It is heartwarming to see the youth rise to the occasion at a crisis like this. They are the real backbone of the country,” Mr. Pydiraju said. A social worker named Paluri Siddardha and his friends are working in remote areas of Srikakulam district to distribute food among the poor. Mr. Siddardha said that he travelled around 15 km to distribute food packets and essential commodities to physically challenged and senior citizens. A physically challenged man named S.Narayana in Allini village of Burja mandal thanked Mr. Siddardha for crossing difficult terrain in order to reach the remote village. Ambedkar India Mission-Srikakulam district coordinator B.S.S. Prasad Kumar and his team have been distributing groceries to the poor for the last four weeks. Many youngsters on his team are collecting donations from family members and relatives to buy vegetables, groceries and other essential commodities. “Extending help at this hour would instil confidence among the poor who have lost their livelihood. They can make ends meet during the lockdown, which has left them without a source of income,” said Mr. Prasada Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youngsters-step-up-at-a-time-of-crisis/article31361573.ece
17 April 2020||VJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State making all efforts to control coronavirus’||T. Vijay Kumar Reddy, Commissioner, I&PR, and member, State-level Task Force Committee for Corona Control, has said the government is taking extensive measures to control the spread of coronavirus. Attending a videoconference chaired by Ravi Mital, Secretary, Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, along with Secretaries of the Information Department on Thursday, he explained the measures taken by the government in the State. He said Andhra Pradesh took up an extensive awareness drive on the coronavirus by engaging the village and ward-level volunteers, creating special apps to reach out to the people, establishing call centres and by using various media to educate the public. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had been conducting daily review meetings with the Chief Secretary, the DGP and senior officials of various departments to ensure that there were no loose ends. A total of 2,40,000 village and ward-level volunteers (one volunteer for every 50 houses), had been conducting household surveys to identify and refer ‘positive’ patients to isolation centres and COVID hospitals. Besides, 104 call centres were established to enquire about health issues, 1902 call centres to settle problems of farmers related to issues like minimum support price and marketing facilities for the farm produce, 14410 call centres for tele-medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-making-all-efforts-to-control-coronavirus/article31361589.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Migrants’ tales||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/migrants-tales/article31361100.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Livelihood concerns||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/livelihood-concerns/article31361596.ece
17 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Determination fuels his 1,700-km journey home||By the time the lockdown is lifted and normalcy restored, determined people, especially those from the working class would have performed quite a few acts attempting to reach their far located homes. The feats of 20-year-old Mahesh Jena, a migrant worker who pedalled 1,700 km to reach home in Odisha from Sangli in Maharashtra and the 1,400 km scooter ride of teacher Razia Begum of Bodhan in Nizamabad to bring back her stranded son from Nellore in Andhra Pradesh are just two examples. The name of Anil Kumar Das, a 29-year-old fabricator from Motihari, Bihar, would get added to this list if he pedals the 1,700 km to home from Patancheru in Hyderabad from where he started at 7 a.m. on April 15. He had already covered over 300 km on his bicycle purchased three days back for the purpose when he crossed Adilabad town via the NH 44 bypass at 9 a.m. on Thursday. Mr. Das is tech savvy and uses a smart phone which is his guide for the route. Amateur cyclist “The route in not difficult as this NH reaches Varanasi, and from then on - it will not be a problem to find way to home,” said the resolute migrant worker.  The fabricator had come to Patancheru to work with a multinational e-commerce company only on March 6. “I got some payment for work till March 20 but it was spent in the subsequent days of lockdown,” the amateur cyclist recalled. “I decided to head home and the options that were left to me were either ride on a two-wheeler or a cycle. The latter stood better chances of being ignored by security personnel on the road and hence I purchased the cycle for Rs. 4,800,” Mr. Das disclosed. The fabricator, clad in smart jeans and a full sleeved t-shirt, was stopped in the night by police at Gamjal toll plaza, about 120 km away from the inter-State border at river Penganga on NH 44. “I used the time to take rest for two hours before taking to the road once again,” he smiled, revealing the determination to complete the journey. On seeing women in a group of migrant labourers arriving at the road side camp where Bheemsari villagers were serving food, Mr. Das seemed to compare his status with those in the group. “I am married but am lucky enough that my wife did not accompany me to Hyderabad,” he grinned as he made the observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/determination-fuels-his-1700-km-journey-home/article31361410.ece
17 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Woman dying at hospital reveals 19 cases||In what can be called a textbook case of the spread of COVID-19, a patient’s uninformed decision to visit a private hospital for treatment has resulted not only in her death, but also the infection spreading to 19 more persons. Index case in this instance was an aged matriarch of a family residing in Talabkatta (or Talab Chanchalam) area of Santhosh Nagar Circle, which has been declared as containment zone now. Ailing from several other co-morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes and kidney problem for long, she developed bronchial infection recently, and went to a private hospital in Purani Haveli area for treatment. The doctors at the private hospital too failed to alert the authorities about the severity of the case, despite being aware of the current situation and the rampant spread of COVID-19 in the city. Their treatment could not save the woman, and she breathed her last on last Friday. Swabs collected after death were sent for diagnosis, and tested positive, sending the authorities into a tizzy. A total of 41 persons who came into contact with her were sent for tests, and the area around her residence was declared as containment zone. Of the total, 37 were her immediate family, who were residing within half a kilometre radius of her dwelling. “As she had been ailing for long, they kept visiting her at home, thereby contracting the virus. Of all the samples, a total of 17 tested positive, and have been sent to Gandhi Hospital. They all were her family members which included children,” an official informed on the condition of anonymity. That was not the end of the spread though. Two of the health care professionals who had attended to her at the private hospital too tested positive on Thursday, the official informed. Source of infection for the deceased person is not yet clear, and it is assumed that she might have contracted it from a Nizamuddin Markaz returnee from Delhi. While Minister for Health Eatala Rajender made a passing mention of the infection during his press conference, he stopped short of saying that the index patient in this instance had been treated at a private hospital. The government is yet to announce any action against the hospital for failing to alert the authorities. Earlier too, there were more than one instance of COVID-19 patients dying after getting treated at private hospitals. Meanwhile, a statement from GHMC informed that a total of 25 persons were freshly diagnosed with coronavirus infection on Thursday. Officials under the condition of anonymity say that the number is close to 30. Several of the new cases are from the existing containment zones, while a couple of zones have been freshly created pertaining to cases from other areas, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-dying-at-hospital-reveals-19-cases/article31361396.ece
17 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Self report if you are in doubt, says Health Minister||To contain the spread of coronavirus at the earliest, Health Minister Eatala Rajender has appealed to people to ‘self report’ in case they had come in contact with any of the Tablighi Jamaat returnees, and developed symptoms of COVID-19, or were in contact with coronavirus positive patients. Stating that there is a chance for the infection to spread to hundreds of people through one positive case, he said, “If you were in contact with a COVID-19 positive patient, regardless of whether you are in a containment zone or not, we can contain (the virus) soon if you report.” Addressing a press conference at the State Health campus in Koti on Thursday evening, he said that the virus has spread to 81 people through six Markaz returnees. The 81 people are from six families. Besides, 20 people from a family at Talabkatta tested positive for coronavirus, and that has spread through a person who has returned from the Markaz meeting. He also said that out of the 700 COVID-19 cases in the State, around 645 are Markaz returnees and their contacts. Meanwhile, to boost the confidence of people, he said that those who were treated in isolation wards have recovered. In some cases, couples tested positive but their children negative. Space was made for a separate ward at Gandhi Hospital for such children, he said. He added that around 80% positive cases are not having symptoms such as cold, cough or fever, leading to confusion. However, their test results were positive. The Health Minister also said that doctors have been constantly counselling patients and providing them nutritious food and snacks at regular intervals. The model implemented by the Karimnagar administration to contain the spread of the virus was successful, and was being replicated in Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/self-report-if-you-are-in-doubt-says-health-minister/article31361376.ece
17 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘No ICU ventilator manufacturers in State’||There are no Intensive Care Unit (ICU) ventilator manufacturers in the State. Even across the entire country, there are a few ventilator manufacturers. Stating this in an interim report filed in Telangana High Court hearing a batch of PIL petitions relating to COVID-19 related issues, the State government said order was placed to procure 600 ventilators. Of this, 110 are indigenous and the remaining to be imported. Presently, there are no makers of COVID-19 testing kits approved by the Central Drug Standard Control Organisation in the State. But order was placed to secure 1,35,000 testing kits being manufactured in other parts of the country and approved by the CDSCO. Another order to import 2,50,000 of CDSCO approved kits was given. However, there are sufficient number of companies making hand sanitisers in the State and the country. Already, orders were placed to procure 3,14,000 bottles of hand sanitisers, while 27,785 litres of hand sanitisers were received as donation from different sources. In addition to general procurement of drugs, COVID-19 govt. experts suggested that 53 drugs be procured for effective management of coronavirus. An order was issued to get these drugs in quantities suggested by the committee. Personal Protective Equipment are being supplied to all personnel involved in COVID-19 treatment based on risk profile. Categories like hospital entry, emergency department, were made. PPEs are being given to persons working there based on requirement. As on April 13, highest number of total cases, 46%, was reported in GHMC area. There were no positive cases in Yadadri, Mancherial, Naryanpet, Wanaparthy and Warangal Rural by then. The govt. made it clear that none of the doctors or para-medical staff involved in treating COVID-19 patients tested positive for the virus so far. The govt. positioned 4,028.028 tonnes of rice at the disposal of district authorities for distribution among migrant labourers across the State. Managements of all dairies were instructed not to jack up price of milk. In temporary shelter homes, one volunteer for four inmates was deployed. Police have deployed teams at quarantine centres. Till now, no instances of quarantined persons escaping were reported. Like temples, mosques and churches have been closed by involving all stakeholders and community elders, the govt. said in its report. Police officers were sensitised to have a humane approach while dealing with people in distress. Misbehaviour and violation of instructions by policemen were being dealt with seriously. Stating that efforts were being made to deal with the situation in professional manner, the govt. said many people were not obeying lockdown instructions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-icu-ventilator-manufacturers-in-state/article31361407.ece
17 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||A norm observed more in breach||The Gudimalkapur vegetable market is a hub of activity at the crack of dawn. Wholesale buyers from surrounding areas and sellers from nearby areas bring their produce to trade. By 8 a.m., there is no space to walk. The entrance is blocked by vehicles and people jostle to get past each other. Social distancing? Well what’s that. The problem is not unknown to officials. On April 10, a social media user tweeted: “Gudimalkapur vegetable market is not yet closed completely. People are gathering in hundreds daily and we are much concerned as we stay near it. I would like to request you to take please some action,” tagging IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao. On April 15, another user brought the issue to the notice of the police. “Please direct the concerned SHO Traffic Asif Nagar to remove all footpath encroachments beside vegetable market Gudimalkapur as they are not maintaining social distance in morning hours,” tweeted Balwant Reddy tagging the top police and civic officials. But things have remained the same. “If I stand at a distance someone else will come and get in,” says Shankar outside the Union Bank branch in Attapur on Thursday morning. As the Rs. 1,500 dole has been credited to the accounts by the Telangana government, a queue has formed right from 9 a.m. and at noon, it has hardly moved. “We need the money and we also want to check whether it has been credited to the account,” says Shankar, who works as a mechanic in the area. With high demand for everything, social distancing remains just a norm on paper. At 7 p.m. on Wednesday, a wispy young man who used to work in a restaurant, waits in the line to have food at the Annapurna canteen near Lakdi-ka-Pul. It is a queue with about 30 persons who wait their turn to have dinner before they walk back to the surrounding areas to sleep for the night. A few have the mask slung around the neck and social distancing is out of question. “For lunch, we have 300 meals but for dinner, fewer people come and we run out of food by 7.30 or 7.45 p.m.” says Raju, the supervisor at the canteen giving a clue to why people stand so close to each other. A missed turn in the queue for social distancing can mean a night of hunger. They don’t want to risk it even if policemen from the nearby Saidabad PS come out waving their batons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-norm-observed-more-in-breach/article31361391.ece
17 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Social distancing is a casualty here||The streets in Filmnagar in the uptown Jubilee Hills paint a different picture in these tough lockdown days. People here are going out as if there is no lockdown, with minimal police presence and abundance of street vendors. Especially inside the Basthis here, social distancing is the last thing on people’s minds, as they go about their business of buying essentials easily. Even in the supermarkets, mandatory social distancing norm is not maintained and people are hardly seeing any police vehicle here. Meanwhile, the same is the situation at Vijayanagar Colony, Humayun Nagar and parts of Asif Nagar and Toli Chowki. People are moving freely even during the curfew time, that is, 7 p.m. to 6 a.m. Several concerned residents claim that police have hardly visited their colony since the lockdown was announced nearly four weeks ago. No hustle and bustle Not all localities, however, witness brazen violation of social distancing norm. Factors also contribute to the pattern such as location of large fresh produce markets in the neighbourhood and how effective, affordable are the alternative arrangements. Albeit small, there are pockets, with a good number of residents, in large localities where the guidance is by and large adhered to. A case in point is some areas in Gachibowli that used to bustle on account of big and small commercial establishments, eateries and movement of vehicles. These also were areas teeming with young working professionals. Barring a few small neighbourhood shops and large format modern retail stores dealing in essentials and a clutch of pharmacies, all other establishments now remain shut. Some big shops implement measures to prevent overcrowding. Vegetable and fruit vendors are frequenting the localities and gated communities. Vehicular movement has considerably come down. Water tankers, small vans with essentials and two-wheelers of food delivery firms ply. In the by-lanes of HMT Hills, Shatavahana Nagar, Bhagya Nagar, Pragathi Nagar, Shamshiguda and Yellammbanda localities in KPHB area, no social distancing is followed at street-corner kirana shops, vegetable and fruit vendors who are coming in mini vans and push carts as the buyers have either little or no awareness about the importance of maintaining distance. The norm of mask-wearing is also being flouted by many vendors. Even e-commerce grocery platforms are not following the norm with some delivery boys not wearing mask. Garbage collectors in the area hardly wear mask. Gated communities In the West Zone area, people are mostly adhering to lockdown confining themselves to home. The area comprising Hi-Tech City, Business District and Gachibowli has many IT and ITES employees working from home. Yet within the gated community, for some life is as usual, going for walk without masks within the community or in the vicinity, children gathering in the play areas in groups. When vehicles selling vegetables and fruits, especially mangoes, are parked near the apartment complex gates, people are seen crowding without wearing mask. “This kind of behaviour will bring to naught all the precautions taken so far. The concept of ‘stay home’ cannot be diluted by roaming freely within the perimeter of the residential complexes when there is potential for infected but asymptomatic persons spreading the coronavirus,” said Neeraj, a member of the managing committee of residents welfare association of a gated community in Manikonda. It is not very far from declared containment zones with COVID positive cases. If adults take walk, will children agree to sit at home, asked a resident. Parts of Banjara Hills witnessed either lockdown or social distancing violations. Some residents were seen jogging on the roads towards the evening, while others were out walking their dogs. This did not stop even after 7 pm. Some residents were seen walking in groups of two and three, and in close proximity. Incidents of residents standing on the roads and talking were also witnessed in areas such as Road Number 14.  (With inputs from Abhinay Deshpande, N. Ravi Kumar, B. Chandrashekhar, M. Melly Maitreyi and Syed Mohammed)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/social-distancing-is-a-casualty-here/article31361394.ece
17 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Now, main challenge is to trace secondary contacts||Tracing all those who had attended religious congregations like Tablighi Jamaat outside the State was the main task of Telangana police for the past three weeks. Not any more. Identifying secondary contacts of all COVID-19 positive cases and enforcing lockdown at all hot-spot or containment zones is the challenge staring at them, now. “The next two weeks of lockdown are crucial in checking further spread of the virus and all our efforts should be aimed in ensuring as little movement of people as possible,” a senior police officer observed. After the death of a Tablighi Jamaat returnee came to light, the entire intelligence network in the State was put on high alert. Everyone associated with the network was assigned the task of tracing people who returned to the State from the TJ meeting. In a few days, intelligence teams assisted by respective local police traced almost all such persons, details of some of them were missing though. Then came the alert about persons who went from the State on a visit to Deoband in Sahasranpur, Uttar Pradesh. “Normally, it is a circuit tour of Deoband, Ajmer and Markaz, for some though the number is far less compared to the total number of participants at the TJ meeting,” an Intelligence officer said. But it is already 24 days since the lockdown was announced, he said. “Any person who had attended meetings outside the State and contracted the virus would show symptoms and most likely test positive,” a medical official said. So, the relevance and importance of tracing people who returned to the State after participating in such meetings is lost now. Now, the main job of police is to identify and analyse the movements of secondary contacts of a person testing positive. “Primary or close contacts of the person (mainly his family members) are immediately quarantined and their samples collected,” he said. Yet, some baffling cases are making the job difficult. Like the ones in which the authorities were unable to ascertain from whom a person contracted the virus. There are cases who had no travel history or no family member being positive and yet, they were tested COVID-19 positive. “Unless we spot how they contracted the virus and restrict the movement of that person, controlling its spread is difficult. And that is our main job now,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/now-main-challenge-is-to-trace-secondary-contacts/article31361378.ece
17 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Metro Rail maintenance is a continuous process: MD||We are a long way off to even think of public transportation in twin cities in the current lockdown period and no one is sure whether it will be possible to run Metro rail, the suburban train services or even buses after May 3. In the meantime, Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) and L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad (L&TMRH) authorities are striving to keep the systems working ever since the total shutdown happened last month. Metro Rail authorities have sourced special permissions from the government to conduct special checks at metro rail depots of Miyapur and Nagole on the rolling stock with few standard runs too being conducted. The entire overhead electric traction across the three corridors — Red: L.B. Nagar to Miyapur or Corridor 1, Blue: Nagole to Raidurg or Corridor 3 and Jubilee Bus Station to Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station (MGBS) or Corridor 2 is being periodically checked with the help of the electric maintenance vehicle moving up and down. “But, the signalling network has not been switched off as it is a very sophisticated one, and we cannot simply switch it off and on. Senior engineers of L&TMRH are keeping the operations and command centre alive with skeletal staff. We are working in such a manner that whenever the permissions come from the government to start commercial operations, we should be able to do so at 24 hours’ notice,” informed HMR Managing Director N.V.S. Reddy on Thursday. If that takes care of the overhead infrastructure, down below HMR is ensuring that the stations premises and the street works including footpaths, furniture and others, completed in the Red and Blue lines is maintained with regular cleaning and sanitising. “This period has also given us time to complete pending street-level works on the 10 km Green Line. Regular watering and pruning of plants is being taken up. We are keeping the central medians under our control also clean by issuing passes to the workers and taking all the precautions in about 56 km,” the Managing Director added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/metro-rail-maintenance-is-a-continuous-process-md/article31361380.ece
17 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State government evaluating economic impact of COVID-19||The Telangana government under the stewardship of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is evaluating the economic impact of COVID-19 on the State and how it is expected to withstand it. The lockdown impact on every sector due of disruption in industrial productivity, production, supply chain issues across the nation is being studied carefully. Officials who have been studying the economic recession the world and the country had gone through in the past decades and subsequent recovery indicated that there are several models of economic recovery like V shaped recovery, U shaped recovery, W shaped recovery et al. A V-shaped recovery is characterised by a sharp economic decline followed by a quick and sustained recovery. A U-shaped recovery is a type of economic recession and recovery when metrics like employment, GDP and industrial input decline gradually and then gradually rise back over time, typically over a period of 12 to 24 months. A W-shaped recovery, sources explained, begins like a V-shaped recession but then turns back down again after showing false signs of recovery. The W shaped recessions are also called double-dip recessions because the economy drops twice before the full recovery is achieved. One really does not know what model of recovery will the country witness or if there will be any serious backlash like virus resurgence. “Unlike many other States, Telangana is in a better position,” B. Vinod Kumar, Vice-Chairman, State Planning Board, says. He is optimistic that the State will be much better off than other States in facing and overcoming the economic impact. “ My personal perception is the ongoing and the future infrastructure projects in the State for which tenders worth Rs. 20,000 crore to Rs. 25,000 crore were already floated and tied up for funds with the nationalised banks, will stand the State in good stead in this difficult period,” he says. The execution of these infrastructure projects should not thus have any problem and they will put money back in circulation in the market in the form of labour and material components and they will also bring multi-fold revenue on consumption of variety of goods like iron, steel, sand, diesel etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-government-evaluating-economic-impact-of-covid-19/article31361404.ece
17 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Detention system may be lifted for degree students||The government is toying with the idea of doing away with the detention system for first and second year degree students this year and promote them to higher classes with academic days getting lost due to lockdown. The exams will be held whenever the situation eases but the first and second year students will get automatic promotion to the next year even if they don’t secure the mandatory credits. “We don’t want to burden students in the unpredictable situation now and are contemplating removing detention system for this year,” the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) chairman, T. Papi Reddy told The Hindu . This is not automatic promotion, but easing pressure on them. However, they have to clear the backlogs next year as they do by appearing in the supplementary exams. First priority for conducting the exams will be for final year students as they have multiple plans like appearing for national-level entrance exams for various universities. Exams for PG courses will not be a problem as their numbers are less compared to a few lakhs in the degree courses. If the situation worsens and lockdown is further extended officials are also considering conducting the exams with truncated syllabus. A senior professor with huge experience in the examination system said that either the academic year has to be extended, which looks unlikely, or simply conduct the exams with truncated syllabus so as to save the academic year. The argument is, even if the lockdown is relaxed after May 3 opening the colleges and universities is highly unlikely as that would bring thousands of students on to the campuses. The varsities and colleges will not be in a position to ensure social distancing and the closure of colleges for some more time looks the only option. So, focus will be on exams for degree final year students and final year PG students. As per the almanac of the universities in Telangana, exams for the post-graduate second year students have to start in May as they complete their syllabus in April. The first year exams are held a little later. By now most colleges have completed 70% to 80% of the syllabus and the remaining will be completed online though there are some practical issues with connectivity, particularly for the rural students. Moreover, majority of the students and faculty are not tuned to online teaching and learning. Though the TSCHE is encouraging the varsities to go for online classes, conducting the exams online is not the option now given the feasibility factor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/detention-system-may-be-lifted-for-degree-students/article31361408.ece
17 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Online tests for EAMCET, IIT-JEE, NEET from April 20||The Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) is organising summer coaching to students appearing for EAMCET, NEET, IIT-JEE through online video classes free of cost and this can be accessed on tsbie.cgg.gov.in. The BIE now plans to conduct daily, weekend, and grand tests in both English and Telugu medium for all the students of government Junior Colleges and social welfare Junior Colleges and all other students with the help of CloudEdz Pvt Ltd. The examination schedule will be starting from April 20 onwards. Daily tests comprise 40 questions and Cumulative and Grand tests comprise 160 questions as final exam online model. Each exam will be open to students for 36 hours (from 6 a.m. on exam day to the next day 6 p.m.) The details can be had from Bahuguna Saradhi, programme coordinator on 92999-94866 between 10.30 a.m. and 5 p.m. Any student can register for free online exams using the link ‘tscie.rankr.io’. The video links are available on the website ‘tsbie.cgg.gov.in’ also, according to Syed Omer Jaleel, Secretary, BIE and Commissioner Intermediate Education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/online-tests-for-eamcet-iit-jee-neet-from-april-20/article31361381.ece
17 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR tours containment zones||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao, on Thursday, toured the containment zones in the city, and interacted with residents, in an exercise to boost the morale of the confined population due to the lockdown in Hyderabad. He visited the zones in CIB Quarters, Asif Nagar, and Mallepally areas of Khairatabad circle and spoke to the people about the need for containment zones. He inquired about the health status of their family members, and asked if they had awareness about coronavirus, and if they got the campaign material published by the government in this regard. Urging them not to venture out in any circumstance till the lockdown is lifted, he asked the people to contact officials in case of any medical assistance. The Minister also interacted with sanitation and medical staff working in the containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-tours-containment-zones/article31361384.ece
17 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Over 23k face shields handed over to govt. hospitals||Hyderabad-based company ButterFly Edufields, which had recently partnered with the Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) to develop an aerosol isolation box to treat COVID-19 patients, has delivered thousands of face shields to frontline healthcare workers. According to the company’s co-founder K. Sharat Chandra, face shields — made of OHP sheets, elastic bands and styrofoam sheets — have been delivered free to government hospitals dealing with coronavirus. These government hospitals include OGH, Koti Hospital, KMC Warangal and Gandhi Hospital, among others. The requirement at NIMS and KMC Warangal was 1,000 face shields each and 2,000 face shields at the Government General Hospital in Kakinada. “The disposable design was approved at NIMS. We have delivered 23,300 face shields to over 65 hospitals in five States. These are distributed free to government hospitals treating COVID-19 patients. are making a small contribution in whatever way we can,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-23k-face-shields-handed-over-to-govt-hospitals/article31361385.ece
17 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Koheda fruit market to be developed||The Marketing and Agricultural departments are planning to establish a major fruit market at Koheda, a mandal headquarters village in Rangareddy district, abutting the Outer Ringh Road, as the existing makeshift facility is causing traffic problems and inconvenience both to farmers and traders. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy, accompanied by Minister for Education P. Sabitha Indra Reddy and legislators D. Sudheer Reddy and M. Kishan Reddy and Market Committee Chairman Ramnarsimha Goud, visited the existing market and examined the works pertaining to fruit market facilities there on Thursday. The Minister said the existing facility was congested and the farmers were facing problems in getting their produce there. Koheda would be developed into Asia’s biggest agricultural market.. Local consumption Meanwhile, the State government is preparing an action plan to improve the local consumption of sweet lime to help the farmers growing the fruit publicising for its local marketing. The decision was taken following the lack of demand for the fruit in the northern parts of the country and cities such as Bengaluru in the south due to lockdown. Ministers Niranjan Reddy, Indra Reddy and G. Jagadish Reddy distributed one tonne of sweet lime donated by a farmer in L.B. Naqgar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/koheda-fruit-market-to-be-developed/article31361386.ece
17 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NGOs sourcing rice from FCI for free distribution||As the food requirements of poor and people on streets are getting acute by the day due to prolonged lockdown, NGOs have stepped in to source rice at subsidised rate straight away from the Food Corporation of India (FCI) for free distribution. The FCI has already allotted Grade ‘A’ rice meant for public distribution system to four NGOs in Telangana at Rs. 22 a kg while its market price ranged from Rs. 35 to Rs. 40 a kg. The FCI has also offered wheat at Rs. 21 a kg but there were no takers in the State. General Manager of FCI here Ashwin Kumar Gupta told The Hindu that many organisations had approached the agency for allotment of rice but only a genuine few were selected. The FCI informed all the collectors of Telangana with copies to the Chief Secretary and the Civil Supplies Commissioner on Wednesday that the Centre had decided, as a one-time measure, that charitable trusts and NGOs running relief camps or community kitchens for providing food to the needy people may be provided food grains — both rice and wheat — under FCI’s Open Market Sale Scheme (OMSS). Accordingly, it was decided that the district collectors shall be nodal officers for the purpose. The charitable trusts and NGOs must first approach the collectors along with a request letters mentioning details of their organisations, purpose for which the rice will be used, quantity and depots from where they wished to lift the stocks. The offices of collectors will verify the credentials of the organisations and endorse the letters if the claims were genuine. Then, they may deposit the money to the account of FCI regional office here. The minimum quantity to purchase shall be one tonne but there was no cap on the maximum. The organisations may mail the request letters along with the collector’s endorsement and payment particulars to the FCI which will then direct its divisional offices to issue release orders to concerned depots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ngos-sourcing-rice-from-fci-for-free-distribution/article31361402.ece
17 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Act against shop owners, Raja Singh urges CP||BJP MLA T. Raja Singh urged Hyderabad Commissioner of Police (CP) to take action against owners of some commercial establishments in his constituency for violating the social distancing norm. In a letter to CP Anjani Kumar, Mr. Singh said shop owners in several places in Goshamahal constituency, including Mangalhat Market, Godekikbar Market, Aghapura, Charkandil, Nampally Yousufain Darga Road market, Isamiya Bazaar, and MJ Market, were not maintaining the prescribed social distancing despite repeated instructions by government officials. ‘Book spitters’ “I request your good office to keep an eagle eye and book cases against shop owners and all others who are spitting outside their shops,” Mr. Singh stated in his letter. Recently, the BJP MLA and his supporters were criticised by netizens for violating the social distancing norm, by holding Mashal (torches) and standing close to each other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/act-against-shop-owners-raja-singh-urges-cp/article31361388.ece
17 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||WhatsApp Chatbot on COVID-19 in Urdu||The Telangana government has launched WhatsApp Chatbot in Urdu to provide authentic information to citizens on coronavirus. The Chatbot was initially made available in Telugu and English only. To start a conversation with the Chatbot, the user should send ‘Hi’ or ‘Hello’ or ‘Covid’ to 9000658658 on WhatsApp. Alternatively, the user can click on the link ‘https://wa.me/919000658658? text=Hi’. This leads the user to the welcome page of Chatbot and one should select A for Telugu, B for English and C for Urdu. Once the user selects C, a menu with 10 topics is displayed and one should choose a topic to proceed. Principal secretary, Information Technology, Jayesh Ranjan said that there is a dearth of authentic information on COVID-19 in vernacular languages. The situation is even more discouraging when it comes to languages like Urdu, which is the second official language of the State. “To address this concern, the Telangana government has decided to bring out the WhatsApp Chatbot in Urdu.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/whatsapp-chatbot-on-covid-19-in-urdu/article31361382.ece
17 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Striking nurses resume duties||The nurses employed on outsourced basis at Gandhi Hospital resumed duties on Thursday. They met Health Minister Eatala Rajender who promised to take their request to the notice of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. More than 200 outsourced nurses, working in COVID-19 wards, had boycotted duties from Wednesday demanding basic pay between Rs. 25,000 and Rs. 35,000 per month. They said that after working for over 13 years, their current salary was Rs. 17,500. B Meghamala, a nurse, said they met the Health Minister on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/striking-nurses-resume-duties/article31361389.ece
17 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ratnadeep supermarket seized for lockdown violations||Responding to a complaint from a citizen, the GHMC Enforcement wing conducted an inspection of a supermarket in Srinagar Colony on Thursday, and sealed it for violating lockdown regulations. The Ratnadeep supermarket was shut down, for allowing crowd inside, in violation of social distance norm. Besides, no queue was maintained at billing counter, and workers were not wearing gloves, a press statement informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ratnadeep-supermarket-seized-for-lockdown-violations/article31361397.ece
17 April 2020||Nalgonda,TELANGANA||Fluorosis campaigner dead||Veeramalla Rajitha, a spirited campaigner against fluorosis hailing from Khudabkshapalle of Marriguda mandal in the district, passed away due to prolonged illness on Thursday. The 28-year-old woman was vocal about better facilities. “Except for the Rs. 3,016 Aasara pension under physical disability, I did not receive any help from the government. A nutritious diet, medicines and caretaker are not possible with the pension,” she said on various platforms. “Mission Bhagiratha water helped to an extent, but the project (Shivannaguda Balancing Reservoir) should be completed soon,” was her wish. On Thursday, around 10 a.m., she passed away at her Khudabakshpalle house where she used to live along with her labourer parents and her brother’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fluorosis-campaigner-dead/article31361415.ece
17 April 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Work stopped at Erravalli||Land oustees of Erravalli in Kondapaka mandal have stopped bund work of Mallannasagar on Wednesday demanding that they be paid full compensation. This was for the third time that the villagers stopped bund work in the recent past. The village would submerge in Mallannasagar reservoir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/work-stopped-at-erravalli/article31361413.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||COVID cases surge in Suryapet||Suryapet distict accounted for 16 out of 50 COVID positive cases reported on Thursday. District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy said that Suryapet reported 16 COVID-19 positive cases, the highest in a single day so far. The earliest highest was 11 reported on Saturday. According to Mr. Reddy, of the 16 found positive, 14 are family members of those tested positive in the Kothagaudem bazaar area in the town. One each tested positive for the virus from Yepuru and Tirumalagiri villages. All the 39 positive patients are undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital. One tests positive in Karimnagar The detection of one more COVID positive case in Karimnagar town on Wednesday night has come as a rude shock to the district authorities . The new patient, also a Delhi returnee was shifted to Gandhi Hospital and his family members were quarantined. With this, the total number of positive cases in Karimnagar district has mounted to 19. A five-year-old boy from a village in Jagtial mandal tested positive on Wednesday night and he was shifted to Gandhi Hospital. According to reports, the boy’s parents took him to Guntur district in Andhra a few days ago for free surgery for specially-abled persons. They returned two days ago and villagers informed medical officials and police about the family’s return. Medical teams swung into action and collected samples from the boy and sent them for testing in Hyderabad, which were confirmed positive on Wednesday night. MLA booked Meanwhile, the Bhadrachalam police booked 28 persons including Bhadrachalam MLA Podem Veeraiah for allegedly taking part in a “large gathering” in “violation” of social distancing regulations in the temple town on Wednesday. Acting on a complaint filed by the Revenue staff concerned, the temple town police registered a case against the MLA and 27 others under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, on charges of participating in a mass gathering held to distribute essential commodities to more than 300 persons at Jagadeesh Colony in breach of the norms on Wednesday afternoon, police sources said. (With inputs from our correspondents in Nalgonda, Karimnagar and Khammam)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-cases-surge-in-suryapet/article31361401.ece
17 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Gautam Buddha Nagar reports 12 fresh cases of COVID-19||Twelve fresh cases of COVID-19 have been reported in Gautam Buddha Nagar on Thursday, an official release said. The 12 people include a doctor, it said. The total number of cases in the district has gone up to 92. Of these, 26 people have recovered. Among those found positive on Thursday, there is a gastroenterologist from Sector 20 of Noida. “He is admitted to a hospital in Delhi and his sample was tested at a private lab,” said a health department official. The new cases also include a three-year-old whose parents are undergoing treatment for COVID-19. “The others are contacts of people who have been tested positive earlier,” the official said. After a doctor tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday night, Gyan Khand I of Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram was sealed and declared a hotspot, officials said. The district now has 16 hotspots and 32 positive cases out of which 17 have recovered. This is the second doctor from Ghaziabad to be infected by COVID-19. A Health Ministry official said that the postgraduation student worked in the oncology department of the super speciality hospital in Ghaziabad’s Vaishali and had been admitted to its branch in Delhi’s Saket. Later, he was shifted to Lok Nayak Hospital in Delhi. Denying reports that the hospital has been sealed, Chief Medical Officer N.K. Gupta told The Hindu said no such action had been taken as of now. “It has been deferred. We are tracing his contact history. He might have received the infection from a patient. His wife, also a doctor, has also been quarantined,” said Dr. Gupta. A senior official of the hospital said that all necessary guidelines were being followed at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gautam-buddha-nagar-reports-12-fresh-cases-of-covid-19/article31361329.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||Capital reports 6 deaths, 62 fresh COVID-19 cases||Six deaths and 62 new cases of COVID-19 were reported in Delhi on Thursday, taking the total number of deaths to 38 and cases to 1,640, according to the Delhi government. Also, the Delhi government on Thursday declared three more areas as “containment zones”, taking the total number of such zones in the city to 60. A containment zone has a stricter form of lockdown and entry and exit of people are not allowed in such zones. Of the total COVID-19 cases reported in the city, 1,080 are connected to a religious gathering held in March in Nizamuddin, which was evacuated by the authorities, the Delhi government said. Though a large number of people who attended the religious gathering have already tested positive for COVID-19, the ones reported in the Capital on Wednesday and Thursday include no such cases. Out of the total 1,640 cases reported so far, 51 people have been discharged and 1,550 are still under treatment at various hospitals. A total of 18,784 samples have been tested for the virus so far in the city. Also, 2,571 people are at different quarantine facilities and 12,261 people are under home quarantine. “House-to-house surveillance activities are being carried out in identified cluster containment zones. A total of 1,825 samples have been collected from different clusters and sent for testing,” an official statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-reports-6-deaths-62-fresh-covid-19-cases/article31361340.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||Dilemma after delivery boy tests positive||Reports of a food delivery boy contracting COVID-19 here have drawn mixed reactions from Delhiites. Some said they would take additional precautions while others admitted they would continue to order due to a lack of alternatives. A 19-year-old pizza-delivery boy, who operated in south Delhi, tested positive for COVID-19 earlier this week, prompting the authorities to quarantine a total of 72 houses in the areas he had delivered food. All these houses are within a five-kilometre radius of Malviya Nagar, said B.M. Mishra, District Magistrate (south Delhi). “A total of 17 people, including the owner of the shop, the delivery boy and other delivery boys, have been put under institutional quarantine. The shop has been shut,” he added. Mr. Mishra said the delivery man, a migrant worker from Uttar Pradesh, used a mask and a pair of gloves while working and was currently under treatment in Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital. “We are yet to ascertain how he got infected with the virus,” he said. Not anymore “When I heard about this, I didn’t really feel anything…with everything that is going on these days, this is just another drop in the ocean,” said Meenal Manolika, a resident of Malviya Nagar, where the delivery person was reportedly operating. Ms. Manolika and her roommates have, however, decided to stop getting things delivered home. “We have just ordered from BigBasket twice till now, but we won’t do that anymore,” she said. For Arunima Tara, a resident of Saket, the development was unlikely to change her ordering patterns. While she only cooks food at home and orders groceries online, she said that whether she went to the store or ordered them online, the risk of catching the virus was the same. Added precautions Akshath Dharmadheeran, who stays in Indirapuram, said that some groceries were being delivered home almost every other day. While Mr. Dharmadheeran expressed shock at the news of 72 houses being quarantined after coming in contact with the delivery person, he said he would continue availing the service with added precautions. “There are options for contact-less delivery. I never meet the delivery person. And I go with a mask and wash my hands immediately,” he said. Sam Solomon, who lives in Gadipur, said he had been avoiding food delivery though he had been tempted. Now it is best to cook. “I had been concerned about this, and the current case only validates that,” he said, informing that he would not be ordering from outside anymore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dilemma-after-delivery-boy-tests-positive/article31361345.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi govt. gets Centre’s nod to start plasma enrichment technique trial||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced that the Delhi government has been given permission by the Centre to start clinical trial of plasma enrichment technique on COVID-19 patients who are critically ill. Mr. Kejriwal said that the results of these trials would be out in three-four days from now and hoped that the technique would work and that live of critical patients would be saved. “The condition of several COVID-19 patients, who were admitted to hospitals in the last week of March and the first week of April, is improving now and many of them will be discharged in the next three-four days. It is those who are already suffering from heart or respiratory diseases who continue to be at a higher risk of losing their lives. If plasma technology is used in such cases, it can save lives,” the CM said. The plasma transfusion technology involves taking the blood of a person who has recovered from COVID-19 that has anti-bodies that helped the person recover in the first place. Plasma is then extracted from the blood, is enriched, and is then injected into an infected person. The antibodies from the recovered person then enter the body of the infected patient and help them recover. The CM said that the government has marked around 57 areas as containment zones under operation SHIELD to stop the spread of the virus and was ensuring that all essential services were being provided to the residents as people within the containment area cannot leave the area. “No residents, excluding essential workers, are allowed to enter or exit these areas. Healthcare workers will conduct door-to-door screening of the area’s residents for COVID-19 and only those residents who say that they are suffering from some of the symptoms of the virus during the door-to-door screening will be tested,” the CM said. He added that operation SHIELD has been successful in not letting the virus spread in areas like Dilshad Garden and Vasundra Enclave. The CM asked for the help of the media and others to highlight issues being faced by people in the city, especially those who are hungry so that the government could reach out and direct them to shelters or centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-gets-centres-nod-to-start-plasma-enrichment-technique-trial/article31361334.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||Second cancer patient dies after testing positive||A 49-year-old cancer patient, who was admitted to the Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI) and later tested positive for novel coronavirus, has died, intimated DSCI officials on Thursday. This is the second cancer patient from DSCI, who has died after being tested positive for COVID-19. A total of 31 people connected to the hospital has tested positive for the virus so far, including staff, patients, and a two-year-old child of a nurse. “The patient from Deoria in Uttar Pradesh suffering from brain tumour died on Wednesday at Rajiv Gandhi hospital,” a DSCI official told The Hindu . Though DSCI is not a COVID-19 treatment facility, on April 1, it was first shut for sanitation after a doctor working at the institute tested positive for COVID-19. The doctor’s brother had a travel history to the U.K., Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said. Later, a total of four patients from the hospital had tested positive for the virus and they were eventually moved to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital. Pregnant woman dies Meanwhile, 68 staff of Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital (BMH), including doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, have been quarantined as a precautionary measure, after a pregnant woman admitted at the hospital allegedly did not disclose that she was under home quarantine, said hospital officials on Thursday. The woman died at the Delhi government-run hospital on Wednesday night. “The woman’s samples have been sent for testing and we will get the results only on Friday. If she tests negative then the staff will join duty. This is just a precautionary measure,” an official at BMH told The Hindu . Under quarantine “Her family members disclosed to the hospital on Wednesday that four members of the house, including the woman, were quarantined from April 10 – April 24. There was sticker outside their house about it,” the official said.  The woman’s samples have been sent for testing and we will get the results only on Friday. If she tests negative then the staff will join duty. This is just a precautionary measure A BMH official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/second-cancer-patient-dies-after-testing-positive/article31361342.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||Guard suspected of infecting family tests negative||A security guard, against whom an FIR was filed after he was accused by a family in Defence Colony of infecting them with COVID-19, has tested negative, according to Delhi government officials. “The guard who was accused has tested negative, but I am yet to receive the report,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu on Thursday. An official at the RML Hospital too confirmed that the guard has tested negative. One person of the family, who had tested positive, died at a private hospital in the city on Wednesday. The FIR was filed earlier this month. On Thursday, police maintained that they are unaware of the report. A senior police officer from south district said: “No report of the security guard’s test results has been shared with us. The FIR was registered based on the family’s allegations and also, the security guards in the neighborhood told us that he was unwell and had visited the suspected places,” he said. The officer also said that the investigation is still on and legal action will be taken according to law after the probe. On April 3, three members of the family went to a hospital after they developed COVID-19 symptoms and were later tested positive, according to police. The family used to stay on the ground floor and the guard was the only outsider who used to visit the house to deliver grocery and other food items. The residents on other floors are fine, the family had told the police. After the family tested positive, they suspected the security guard because the entire family claimed that they were following lockdown guidelines seriously and no one had stepped out. During investigation, when he was questioned over the places he visit frequently, it is suspected that he had visited a religious gathering in Nizamuddin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/guard-suspected-of-infecting-family-tests-negative/article31361341.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi:,||HC declines urgent hearing of petition on school fees||The Delhi High Court has declined to give an urgent hearing to a petition seeking direction to all schools in the Cpital not to charge school fees from children from April 2020 till the institutions become operational,in the wake of novel coronavirus. The petition filed by advocate and social activist Amit Sahni also urged the court to provide sufficient funds to the schools to bear its liabilities such as salary to staff or other expenses in order to strike a balance in the larger public interest. Mr. Sahni argued that most people are working in unorganised sector such as shops, small manufacturing units/factories etc. and everyone does not have a secured job. “Therefore, parents are facing difficulties as they are also paying salaries for persons whose services they were availing before [the] lockdown,” he argued. Mr. Sahni also pointed out that unlike other State governments, the Delhi government has not issued any circular to schools under its jurisdiction “so as to prohibit all private/unaided schools to pressurise its students or their parents to deposit fees immediately”. The petition said that the schools cannot be given preferential treatment above industry/business houses etc., that are also paying its employees even as their operations are shut due to COVID-19. “Therefore, to say that school fees must be paid as school has to fulfill its obligations in terms of salary to its staff is not justified,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-declines-urgent-hearing-of-petition-on-school-fees/article31361332.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Stop targeting community over religious meet: DMC||Delhi Minorities Commission chairman Zafarul Islam in a letter to Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday said that due to insensitive briefing by government officials and sensational media coverage every “Tablighi person” in the country became a suspect. They were being hunted down and placed under quarantine amid propaganda that they were “hiding” and “evading”, it said. “Mere past relationship of someone with the religious congregation in New Delhi does not make him a suspect. Instead, only those who were inside the centre or visited it or came in contact with such persons outside the centre after the epidemic was discovered should be searched and quarantined,” the DMC said. “In many places in the country, members of the group are being hunted only because they belong to the Tablighi Jamaat with no proof that they were in the religious gathering at the said time or came in contact with anyone who was there at the time,” it said. Issue instructions The commission requested the Home Minister to issue instructions to the police and health officers not to harass the members of the group who were not part of the religious gathering at the given time or had no contact with those who were stranded there when the lockdown was declared. “While every Tablighi is a Muslim, not every Muslim is a Tablighi. This has caused harassment of Muslims in both urban and rural areas across the country. A clear instruction may be issued to all concerned to avoid usage of vague words and descriptions about Tablighi Jamaat which has put millions of Muslims to inconvenience,” the DMC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/stop-targeting-community-over-religious-meet-dmc/article31361335.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Activists write to CM over foodgrain distribution||Activists from the Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan on Thursday wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal pointing out that despite the Union Finance Minister announcing that as part of the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana, the Centre would provide an additional 5 kg foodgrains per person for free under the PDS from April to June, the distribution of additional food grains and pulses had not taken place here. The letter read, “1.09 lakh MT grains has been allocated for Delhi but according to a press release dated April 9 issued by the Government of India, the Delhi government had not even lifted the additional earmarked stock in Delhi. Therefore, each person with a ration card has to be provided 12.5 kg foodgrains for April and each family has to be given 1 kg pulses for free.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/activists-write-to-cm-over-foodgrain-distribution/article31361336.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||Police colony sealed as ASI, son test positive||Three blocks of a Delhi police residential colony was sealed after a Delhi Police Assistant Sub-Inspector and his son tested positive for COVID-19 in North-West district’s Model Town on Thursday. The ASI, his wife and their son are admitted at Lok Nayak hospital. The ASI is a resident of Model Town police colony, confirmed Vijayanta Arya, Deputy Commissioner of Police (North-West). Wife got infected The ASI’s wife works as a nurse at Lok Nayak Hospital and it is suspected that she got infected a few days ago after which the ASI and their son were quarantined, she said. Both of them were tested positive on Thursday, she added. As a precautionary measure, G, H and I block of Model Town have been sealed to contain the spread of COVID-19 On Wednesday, two constables posted at Chandni Mahal police station tested positive for COVID-19. The policeman were deployed at a picket outside the mosque in the Capital from where several people were evacuated and many among them later tested positive for the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-colony-sealed-as-asi-son-test-positive/article31361343.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||Brief||The Delhi unit of the Bhartiya Janta Party on Thursday launched a helpline number, 9625799844, to help needy people in need get food through call or message. Meanwhile, the party claimed that it had distributed food and ration to over 30 lakh people so far. In this effort, collective kitchens had been organised at nearly 100 places in Delhi from which food was being served to nearly two lakh people every day, the party claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/brief/article31361330.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hemani- brief||The District Magistrate (Shahdara) on Thursday called for a meeting with several Resident Welfare Associations to address their concern after they raised questions over screening of 15,000 persons in the area. The Hindu had reported that members of the joint Resident Welfare Association in Dilshad Garden raised doubts over screening in their respective areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hemani-brief/article31361333.ece
17 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Total number of virus cases stays at 60 in Odisha||With one more COVID-19 patient recovering from the disease in Odisha, the number of persons discharged from hospital increased to 19 even as the total number of cases continued to remain at 60 in the State on Thursday. A total of 40 COVID-19 patients, including 15 women, are undergoing treatment at different hospitals while one person had died earlier, the government said. Briefing the media through videoconferencing, State government’s chief spokesperson for COVID-19 Subrat Bagchi informed that the highest number of 1,197 samples was tested on a single day on Wednesday and no new case was found. A total of 6,734 samples had been tested till midnight on Wednesday. He also appealed to the people not to take medicines like hydroxychloroquine without the doctor's advice. Mr. Bagchi informed that in order to keep a watch on cases of domestic violence during the lockdown period, the Women & Child Development Department has started a WhatsApp No. 7205006039 to help women in distress. Department helpline Stating that the department’s helpline 181 was also operational, Mr. Bagchi urged the victims of domestic violence to take the help of WhatsApp and the helpline. Similarly, the State Women Commission has introduced a WhatsApp No.8763543013 in this respect, he added. When testing is being ramped up, the State government is emphasising on development of health infrastructure and special training of doctors and other medical staff to fight COVID-19 strongly, said Mr. Bagchi. Training is being given to doctors of various districts at the SCB Medical College Hospital in Cuttack on how to treat suspected COVID-19 patients those require ICU, he added. State Development Commissioner Suresh Chandra Mahapatra informed that as many as 24 COVID-19 hospitals have become operational in 21 districts within a short span of time. These hospitals have 3951 beds and 293 ICU beds, he said.  More hospitals More than 10 such hospitals with adequate facilities are being set up covering all the 30 districts of the State to treat COVID-19 patients in their respective districts, Mr. Mahapatra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/total-number-of-virus-cases-stays-at-60-in-odisha/article31361323.ece
17 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab records one more COVID-19 death, 11 new cases||Punjab on Thursday reported one more COVID-19 related death, taking the total tally to 14 so far in the State, according to an official statement. The State health department said the patient who died was from Gurdaspur and was under treatment at a hospital in Amritsar. The State also reported 11 fresh cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of positive cases to 197 in the State. Twenty-nine COVID-19 patients have so far recovered in Punjab, it added. Meanwhile, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said that four districts in the State have been declared as hotspots by the Centre based on number of cases. These districts are SAS Nagar, SBS Nagar, Jalandhar and Pathankot. These are districts where more than 15 cases of COVID-19 have been reported so far. “Now, Punjab is in second stage and to deal with unprecedented circumstances, the front-line teams of the health department is constantly working on a war footing to trace all the contacts of the affected patient, which is the single way to curb the spread of this highly contagious disease,” he said. Mr. Sidhu added, “We have one of the foremost examples of SBS Nagar where the State government has successfully broken the chain of coronavirus and the number of patients freezed at 19 since March 26. Of the 19 patients, 17 patients have recovered.” Separately, an official government statement said that with the State staring at revenue losses to the tune of Rs. 22,000 crore for the financial year 2020-21, in view of the COVID-19 crisis, all Punjab Ministers have decided not to take their salaries for the next three months. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Finance Sub-Committee, constituted recently under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to take stock of the fiscal implications of the pandemic and the lockdown-curfew triggered by it, and find ways of generating review to compensate for the losses and meet the costs resulting from the current crisis, said the statement. Finance Minister Manpreet Badal infrmed the meeting that of the Rs. 88,000 crore revenue receipts estimated to be raised by the State for the financial year 2020-21, only Rs. 66,000 crore would now be generated in the light of the curfew-lockdown, which had brought all business and tax receipts to a standstill. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-records-one-more-covid-19-death-11-new-cases/article31361328.ece
17 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Farmer outfits seek financial incentive||As wheat harvesting is gradually picking up in Punjab, farmer outfits have urged the BJP-led government at the Centre to immediately announce financial incentive for farmers in the wake of staggered procurement. Punjab Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee spokesperson Baljit Singh Talwandi said the KMSC in a recently held meeting had passed a resolution demanding Rs. 200 bonus to farmers on the wheat purchased in the wake of the coronavirus threat. Also, governments should pay Rs. 10,000 per month to the unemployed youth. “We have also demanded regular and timely payments to farmers. Also, farmers should be allowed to bring more than 50 quintals of wheat for sale to the market yards,” he said. Sarvan Singh, general secretary of KMSC, said farmers were also facing problems with the ongoing mechanism established for issuing coupon to a farmer for transporting his produce to the market. “We want that the e-passes and coupons should be valid for at least 48 hours, besides a minimum of two persons should be allowed to travel on the trolley ferrying the grain,” said Mr. Sarvan. “We have submitted a memorandum to the government. If our demands are not considered then we will stage a protest on April 28 till April 30 across villages in the State,” he said. Punjab Food Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, meanwhile, said that the farmers should not panic as he was personally monitoring the entire procurement process himself. Mr. Ashu said a token system has been introduced in the mandis of State so as to enable the farmers to systematically bring their wheat. He added that labourers have been provided with masks by the contractor of transportation in order to protect them from COVID-19. He assured that payments to all farmers would be made within 48 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmer-outfits-seek-financial-incentive/article31361326.ece
17 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Online route for AMU teachers||In the wake of the extended nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of COVID-19 outbreak, teachers at Aligarh Muslim University are exploring online methods of teaching. Known to be a conservative space as far as the use of social media through the university server is concerned, the lockdown has come as an opportunity to the teachers to reach out to not only their students but also to those in other universities. Asim Siddiqui, professor in English Department who conducts classes on Zoom, said it had been a rejuvenating experience for him. “I have discovered that in online classes students don’t get distracted and the teacher can maintain eye contact with most of them. It is not always possible in a physical class.” Prof. Siddiqui keeps his classes open to students of other universities, something which is not possible with physical classes. “I also invite teachers of other universities to join the class to have a more comprehensive discussion. It has been one of the most satisfying experiences of my entire career.” He felt the mode was better suited to teachers who are good speakers and are ready to communicate with students. “Those who read out from notes would make the experience dreary.” Ali Nadeem Rezavi, a professor in the Department of History, gives his lectures on medieval history on YouTube and keeps them open to students of different universities. His series of lectures on religion and medieval rulers has generated a lot of interest. “On an average, 150 students turn up to listen to these lectures and many respond later with questions,” he said. Prof. Rezavi also has a Facebook page called ‘The History Learner’ where he and other scholars upload teaching and archive material for students. Recently, AMU Vice-Chancellor Professor Tariq Mansoor said that the university was exploring various other modes of conducting examinations, including online tests, if possible, particularly for final-year students. Prof. Rezavi said it looked good on paper but it was essentially an “elitist approach”. “Many of our students have only 2G and 3G phones. It is not just true for AMU, 80% of Indian universities will struggle to implement this idea.” For students, it has been a difficult session as they lost at least two months to anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests. A student of engineering faculty said, “The exam of one of our papers of the fifth semester, which was supposed to finish in December 2019, is pending. Only two of our 12 teachers are well-versed with online classes. For the rest, the idea of online teaching is sharing PDF notes on Whatsapp and ask students to send their doubts.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/online-route-for-amu-teachers/article31361319.ece
17 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||7-day deadline for Assam police||The Gauhati High Court has given the Border wing of the Assam police seven days to comply with its April 15 order to release on bail ‘declared foreigners’ (DFs) who have completed two years in detention camps. The court, hearing a petition on Wednesday with reference to the Supreme Court’s April 13 order for releasing the DFs in view of the global coronavirus outbreak, also asked the Special Director-General of Police (Border) to submit the number of people released when the matter is taken up after 10 days. The Border wing is tasked with detection of suspected “illegal immigrants” and refer them to any of the 100 existing quasi-judicial Foreigners’ Tribunals that decide on the status of the person detected to be sent to a detention centre. The duo of Justice Ajit Barthakur and Justice Manojit Bhuyan observed that the apex court had modified its May 10, 2019 order to reduce the detention period of DFs from three to two years and release them with two sureties of Rs. 5,000 each instead of Rs. 1 lakh each. The apex court’s order was for decongesting prisons toward preventing the virus from spreading. “...we now make a general direction for compliance by the respective Superintendents of Police (Border) of all the present 33 districts...,” the Justice duo said in the order, asking them to first take stock of the names and period of detention of the detainees and ensuring their release on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/7-day-deadline-for-assam-police/article31361324.ece
17 April 2020||Srinagar,||Policemen quarantined in J&K||Scores of policemen were quarantined in Kashmir on Thursday, after a policeman and the son of a Sub-Inspector tested positive for COVID-19 in central and north Kashmir. Meanwhile, 14 new positive cases of the virus spiked the total number of cases in J&K to 314. An official said the policeman, posted at the India Reserve Police (IRP) 3rd Battalion at Bemina, Srinagar, has tested positive. Preliminary reports suggest that the policeman, who is from Budgam’s Rathsuna, may have contracted the virus after him coming in contact with Tableeg-i-Jamat in a Srinagar mosque.  Contact tracing “The contact tracing has been started. Many policemen will be quarantined,” an officer said, on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/policemen-quarantined-in-jk/article31361320.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Unorganised labourers need union and legal cover: labour expert||Professor Shyam Sundar is an eminent l abour e conomist teaching at the Xavier Labour Relations Institute (now called Xavier Institute of Management, Jamshedpur) and is on the e ditorial b oard of the Indian Journal of Labour Economics . In an e-mail interview, he speaks in detail about the impact of the COVID-19 lockdown and on migrant and organised labour. Edited excer p ts:   How do you see this extended lockdown affecting labourers across the country considering the majority of them hail from the unorganised sector?  The national lockdown now is potentially for 40 days and this means loss of income for more than a month for 400 million informal workers which, according to the ILO, will push them into deeper recesses of poverty. The informal workers are reported to be not able to avail even the additional free foodgrains and pulses since they do not have necessary documents such as the ration card. The issue of employment security will be a limited privilege to the labour aristocrats, i.e. permanent and skilled workers, and unemployment will be much higher than around 24% estimated by the CMIE. The absence of decent income flow, inaccessibility of foodgrains, etc., and absence of any social protection mean starvation and livelihood threats for these millions of unorganised workers.  What steps can be undertaken, within the lockdown period itself, to take care of migrant labour?  One, in each State a multi-partite special task force or a board should be constituted to take stock of stranded migrant workers, constitute more relief/settlement centres, ensure compliance of basic needs, provide psychological counselling, etc. Two, establish helplines through social media, FM and other radio channels, etc. to connect with the unidentified migrant workers. Three, empower the tehsildars to issue temporary ration cards valid for 2-3 months. Four, information regarding the origin States of migrant workers could be built. Five, most importantly, they should be tested if they have travelled and/or living in congested places. Six, welfare of construction workers can be taken care of from the Construction Cess Fund. Seven, strictly implement the orders of the Supreme Court and High Courts.  Employers are worried about the absent labour. What is the way out once the lockdown ends?  If long-distance migration is weakened, then there could be changes in the geographical composition of migrant workers in the sense that “neighbourhood migration” might replace “long distance and indiscriminate migration” as a solution which, if it succeeds, could change long-term migration effects. Post-lockdown, the market wage is likely to be revised downwards till recovery and then revival phases which are going to take some time and hence the naturally migrant workers who are used to under-bidding will be even more needed. But what will surely happen is the strengthening of legal and institutional frameworks concerning them, including portable ration cards and EPF accounts, etc.  How can one use this as an opportunity to organise the hitherto unorganised labour?  If there is any powerful lesson from this entire dreadful COVID-19 context, it is that unorganised labourers need two kinds of cover, viz. union organisation cover and legal cover. In a sense the “market” for unionism is quite high in India as 85-90% of the 470 million workers are not organised by any trade union. Mainstream trade unions will have to adopt unconventional organising strategies and adopt sector-specific employment relations strategies to organise the workers, though some work has already begun in this direction and hence India has witnessed rising unionisation unlike in the Western countries. Trade unions need to work hard and persistently to ensure large-scale registrations of unorganised workers under the Unorganised Workers’ Social Security Act, 2008 and pressurise the government to issue smart portable electronic chip-based registration-cum-identification cards as envisaged in the said Act. Direct benefit transfer (DBT) to these millions of workers would have been easier. If the union coverage is larger then trade unions could not have been ignored by the government in the design and delivery of relief measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/unorganised-labourers-need-union-and-legal-cover-labour-expert/article31361318.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Jumping for joy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jumping-for-joy/article31361322.ece
17 April 2020||Washington,||Trump pushes for reopening economy||U.S. President Donald Trump plans to announce new guidelines to reopen the economy after a monthlong shutdown over the coronavirus outbreak, despite concerns from health experts, Governors and business leaders about a resurgence in cases without more testing and protocols in place. Mr. Trump announced his decision to push States to lift stay-at-home and other restrictions that were imposed last month to halt the spread of the highly contagious disease as the number of deaths in the U.S. approached 31,000 on Wednesday — more than any other nation. States’ orders have also crushed the nation’s economy to levels not seen since the Great Depression nearly a century ago as a record more than 20 million Americans have sought unemployment benefits amid shuttered stores and restaurants, including another 5.2 million who filed for aid in the past week, pushing the U.S. unemployment rate to 8.2%. The Republican President is scheduled to hold a call with the nation's Governors at 3 p.m. local time and said he would announce his plan at a news conference later on Thursday. Thursday’s unemployment data comes on the heels of retail data one day earlier showing a record drop in sales and the lowest factory output since the end of Second World War, further pressuring Mr. Trump, who had staked his reelection in November on the strength of the U.S. economy. On Wednesday, Mr. Trump said data suggested new cases have peaked and that industry leaders in a round of calls offered him good insights into how to safely restart the economy. But the head of a major union warned the President not to reopen unless worker safety can be ensured, and chief executives from some of the biggest firms told Mr. Trump more testing was needed to guarantee safety, according to media reports. Strong place “We’re in a strong place, and I can assure you that the guidance being put out today is in line with what the experts are saying, it's in line with what the data is showing and it's a plan to put this economy back on track,” White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany told Fox News on Thursday. More than 6,35,000 total U.S. cases have been reported across all 50 States. But not all States have been struck equally, as New York and others have been hit particularly hard. Even within States disparities are being seen in more urban and poorer areas. That divide has inflamed political divisions as political leaders debate how and when to begin unwinding unprecedented lockdowns and prompting protests organised by conservative and pro-Trump groups against some State leaders who opted to keep residents at home. States, meanwhile, are seeking $500 billion more in e fiscal relief from Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-pushes-for-reopening-economy/article31361021.ece
17 April 2020||BEIJING,||China says no plans to limit export of anti-virus supplies||China will not restrict exports of medical goods needed to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, a government spokesman said on Thursday, amid global tension over scarce masks and ventilators. China, the biggest maker of surgical masks and other products, announced last week it would start inspecting exports to make sure they meet quality standards following Western complaints some test kits and other products were faulty. “China has not and will not restrict the export of epidemic prevention materials,” said a Commerce Ministry spokesman, Gao Feng. The government hasn’t responded to questions about whether inspections might increase the time required to fill foreign orders, but Mr. Gao said Beijing has taken steps to “speed up customs clearance” while “ensuring the export quality of epidemic prevention materials.” U.S. President Donald Trump said this month he would try to block manufacturing giant 3M Co. from exporting N95 masks. 3M warned other governments might retaliate and said later an agreement was reached to allow foreign sales. The Chinese customs agency said last week it would start treating masks, ventilators, surgical gowns, goggles and other supplies as medical goods. That requires exporters to submit proof that their products are approved by regulators in destination countries. The government said goods will be inspected to confirm they meet quality standards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-says-no-plans-to-limit-export-of-anti-virus-supplies/article31361012.ece
17 April 2020||London,||Minorities are hit hardest in U.K.||When Amer Awan’s father died of COVID-19, mourners congregated with little thought of social distancing. But cultural practices alone do not explain why Britain’s ethnic minorities have been hardest hit by the outbreak. “Visitors to the house... were not wearing any masks or gloves. They wanted to hug me,” the 44-year-old property developer from Birmingham, said. “And I said, no, I’m sorry, I’m not gonna hug you. You know, you need to understand I’ve just lost my dad because of coronavirus and you are not taking this seriously.” Britain’s black and minority ethnic communities appear to have been hardest hit by the virus sweeping the country — an issue that public health authorities are now looking into. Despite only making up 14% of the population of England and Wales, they represent a third of the patients in intensive care with coronavirus, according to the Intensive Care National Audit and Research Centre (ICNARC). Chaand Nagpaul, head of the British Medical Association, said this was “extremely disturbing and worrying”. First victims The first ten doctors who died with coronavirus in Britain were from ethnic minorities, including Alfa Sa’adu, Jitendra Rathod, Mohamed Sami Shousha and Syed Haider. In a letter to the government, several opposition Labour MPs said deaths represented “serious concerns” and called for an urgent investigation. Sunder Katwala, the head of thinktank British Future, also said that a large number of Filippino nurses, hospital porters and other staff had been affected by COVID-19. “Tragically, a disproportionate number of those in the NHS who died are people who came to make their lives here and to work in the NHS,” Health Secretary Matt Hancock said recently. Non-British staff make up 12% of the U.K. healthcare workforce, according to the Office for National Statistics (ONS). In London, the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak in Britain, this rises to 23%. ‘Unequal treatment’ Two nurses hailed by Prime Minister Boris Johnson following his admission to a London hospital with coronavirus were from overseas — one from New Zealand, the other from Portugal. But the letter from the Labour MPs suggested that “ethnic minority doctors have too often struggled for equal treatment” — and says the fact that they were among the first NHS deaths is simply “not a coincidence”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/minorities-are-hit-hardest-in-uk/article31361015.ece
17 April 2020||Wuhan,||Wuhan’s ‘wet markets’ reopen, face heat||At a large food market in the Chinese city of Wuhan, signs forbid the selling of wild animals and live fowl, while announcements calling for “victory” over COVID-19 play on a loop from speakers. China’s “wet markets” have been slammed internationally as the coronavirus roils the world, with the disease having seemingly emerged from stalls selling live animals in Wuhan late last year. The government has since banned the sale of wildlife for food, but the reopening of markets has drawn criticism from around the world as the death toll from the pandemic continues to mount. Shut down during the lengthy quarantine that sealed off Wuhan until April 8, the city’s markets are now fighting for survival as customers have not been rushing back. “There’s no question, we’re doomed this year,” spice seller Yang, who runs a stall at the massive Baishazhou wholesale market, told AFP. “There have never been so few people at our market.” Mr. Yang, whose sales have fallen by a third from before the lockdown, dismissed criticism of markets as virus hotbeds as “unnecessary panic”. One market remains closed: The Huanan Seafood Market that sold a range of exotic wildlife and is suspected to be the cradle of the virus that jumped from animals to humans. Wet markets are popular venues to buy fresh meat, vegetables and fish across Asia -- most selling common, everyday produce to locals at affordable prices. Most don’t sell live animals, although some do. During visits to three Wuhan markets this week, AFP saw live turtles, frogs, fish and crustaceans for sale, but no fowl or mammals blamed for past diseases. Workers at Baishazhou said they were now required to disinfect their stalls several times a day. Yang keeps multiple bottles of disinfectant in her small office, alongside a box of masks. ‘Decision unfathomable’ Nevertheless, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said this week the decision to reopen wet markets was “unfathomable”. “We need to protect the world against potential sources of outbreaks of these types of viruses,” he told Australian TV. The top medical specialist for the U.S. government, Anthony Fauci, told Fox News earlier this month that wet markets should be shut down “right away.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/wuhans-wet-markets-reopen-face-heat/article31361023.ece
17 April 2020||London,||Europe still ‘in eye of the storm’||Parts of Europe moved cautiously to reopen their streets and economies on Thursday but the pandemic was far from beaten and the World Health Organization warned the continent was still in the “eye of the storm”.  “We remain in the eye of the storm,” the WHO’s regional director for Europe, Hans Kluge, said. Positive signs in Spain, Italy, Germany, France and Switzerland were overshadowed by sustained or increased levels of infections in other countries, such as Britain, Turkey, Ukraine and Russia, he said. “It is imperative that we do not let down our guard.” More than two million people have been infected with the virus around the world and 1,37,000, including 90,000 in Europe, have died. Hard-hit parts of Europe have seen a slowdown in infections and deaths in recent days, with Spain recording 551 new deaths on Thursday, almost half of the daily toll at its peak. After weeks on strict lockdowns, Spain and Italy have begun to ease restrictions, allowing some businesses to reopen. Germany on Wednesday also announced initial steps to reopen some shops and gradually restart schools, Denmark began reopening schools for younger children after a month-long closure and Finland lifted a blockade of Helsinki.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/europe-still-in-eye-of-the-storm/article31361013.ece
17 April 2020||JERUSALEM,||Israeli President asks Parliament to pick PM||Israel’s President on Thursday asked the Knesset to choose a new Prime Minister, giving Parliament three weeks to agree upon a leader or plunge the country into an unprecedented fourth consecutive election in just over a year. President Reuven Rivlin made the move after his Prime Minister-designate, former military chief Benny Gantz, and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu failed to reach a power-sharing deal by a midnight deadline. The bitter rivals had pledged to form an “emergency” government to steer the country through the coronavirus crisis, which has ravaged the economy and sent unemployment to record highs. But after weeks of talks, including a final 48-hour extension granted by Mr. Rivlin, the President said he had lost confidence in their chances of striking a deal. “I am informing you that I do not see the possibility of forming a government and I entrust the formation of a government to the Knesset,” he wrote in a letter to parliament. “I hope that the Knesset members will be able to form a majority in such a way that a government can be formed as soon as possible and to prevent a fourth round of elections.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israeli-president-asks-parliament-to-pick-pm/article31361016.ece
17 April 2020||Seoul,||South Korea’s ruling party scores a landslide victory||South Korea’s left-leaning ruling party won a landslide election victory, results showed on Thursday, after the pandemic turned the political tide in President Moon Jae-in’s favour. His Democratic party secured the largest absolute majority in the National Assembly since the advent of democracy in 1987, on a turnout of 66.2% — the highest at a parliamentary election for 28 years. Just a few months ago Mr. Moon was threatened by scandals over power abuse and sluggish economic growth, while critics called his dovish approach towards North Korea unrealistic. But the South’s relatively quick and effective handling of the epidemic — it has also exported test kits to at least 20 countries — was a boon for Mr. Moon and his party ahead of the polls, largely seen as a referendum on his performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/south-koreas-ruling-party-scores-a-landslide-victory/article31361010.ece
17 April 2020||Moscow,||‘U.S., Russia can join forces’||Russian President Vladimir Putin believes the global pandemic is an opportunity for his country to work together with the U.S., the Kremlin has said. “President Putin believes this pandemic is the time to help each other,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said after U.S. President Donald Trump offered to send ventilators to Russia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-russia-can-join-forces/article31361019.ece
17 April 2020||Athens,||Athens, April 16, 2020 (AFP) -||Greece will this month begin moving hundreds of elderly and ailing asylum seekers out of congested island camps to protect them from COVID-19, the Migration Ministry said on Thursday. The ministry said 2,380 “vulnerable persons” will be moved out of camps on Aegean islands.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/athens-april-16-2020-afp/article31361014.ece
17 April 2020||Seoul,||Seoul, April 16, 2020 (AFP) -||North Korean leader Kim Jong-un’s conspicuous absence from celebrations for his grandfather Kim Il-sung’s birth anniversary, which fell on April 15, suggests he could be looking to emphasise his own authority over his family’s legacy, analysts pointed out. The North’s founder’s birthday is the most important celebration in the country’s political calendar.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/seoul-april-16-2020-afp/article31361018.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||A blueprint to revive the economy||“We have no food, no home, no income. My children are starving,” cried Prachi to a TV anchor on April 14. Prachi, a migrant worker from Bihar, is one of the roughly 400 million workers in India who are dependent on daily wages for their survival. She has lost her source of livelihood because we are under a lockdown and economic activity has stopped. A lockdown is necessary to prevent the spread of COVID-19. But we need not make a choice between saving lives and protecting livelihoods. We can achieve both through a ‘smart’ lockdown and careful economic management. The phrase ‘Greater Depression’, which has entered the vocabulary of economists, highlights the gravity of the humanitarian and economic crisis confronting us today. Every sector of the economy in every nation has come to a screeching halt. We extend our sympathies and wishes to all the leaders of the world, including our Prime Minister, for the enormous responsibility of steering their respective nations through this pandemic. In the spirit of non-partisanship, here is a carefully crafted economic proposal for consideration of the Indian government to help our fellow citizens. Demand, supply challenges First, it is important to diagnose the scale of the economic crisis accurately. Prachi has lost her job because her employer has been forced to stop commercial activity. It is important for the government to feed Prachi and help her employer to restart activities so that he can re-employ her soon. The economic crisis needs a demand side and a supply side response. It is morally imperative that we immediately address the miseries of the poor and vulnerable by providing money as well as food. The bottom half of all households (13 crore out of 26 crore families) must be given Rs. 5,000 per family in their bank account within a week. The list of households and the bank details (largely Aadhaar-seeded) are available in the government’s various schemes such as PMJAY and MGNREGA. Besides, the States have their ‘below poverty line’ lists. This will cost a maximum of Rs. 65,000 crore. Further, depending on the need, for the month of May, these families can be given Rs. 3,000 each. This will cost an additional Rs. 39,000 crore. More than cash, scholars like Jean Dreze have observed that it is food that people need most urgently. India has far in excess of the buffer stock requirement. The Central government has already announced distribution of free food, but reports suggest that there is either lack of food supplies at the local ration shop or identity requirements of ration cards are proving to be a roadblock. The government must universalise food distribution immediately, to remove identity requirements, and work with State governments to rush supplies to every ration shop so that every family gets free grain. Next, the April 15 guidelines allow MGNREGA work, which was stopped due to the lockdown, to be restarted while observing social distancing norms. District collectors should be given the freedom to start and expand works under MGNREGA. If work cannot be given for some reason, 10 days’ wages every month should be paid to the registered MGNREGA workers in the panchayat/block until the scheme is resumed. This will ensure some livelihood support. Economists Amartya Sen, Raghuram Rajan and Abhijit Banerjee have also called for urgent implementation of these measures. The next step is to help Prachi’s employer to resume commercial activities, which can be done by re-opening the economy gradually. The key to reopening is our ability to identify sensitive COVID-19 hotspot areas and containment zones. The Central and State governments must work in tandem to identify hotspots, preferably at the level of the block/mandal and not just at the district level. This can be done with the help of public health experts and epidemiologists through strategic testing. Planning ahead Starting May 4, the new guidelines must be expanded to permit all economic activity (with a few exceptions) in non-hotspot areas. Economic activity requires labour and capital, which are significantly diminished due to the lockdown. Continuous testing and monitoring will be needed as new areas may turn into hotspots and hotspots may become non-hotspots. Let small shops, service establishments and the self-employed start commercial activity in their areas. Three-quarters of the 80 million enterprises are establishments that operate in local areas. As long as they observe the usual precautions, they will not add to the risks. This will boost local economic activity. The new guidelines permit agricultural activity during the rabi harvest season. This is a step in the right direction. However, the constraint for all these commercial and agricultural activities will be the availability of labour for which re-opening of travel and transport is crucial. But it is also the riskiest. Mass rapid transit as well as private transport must be gradually opened in non-hotspot areas. It is necessary to open up rail and bus transport with adequate precautions such as temperature checks and social distancing norms inside buses and trains. One strategy could be to reduce the number of passengers in each bus and train by increasing the frequency of the vehicles or by running them at half-capacity. There will be trade-offs, but each local transport authority can choose the right policy and tweak it from time to time. Funding the revival The other essential ingredient for resumption of economic activity is access to capital, especially working capital. A majority of the small and medium enterprises (SMEs) would have run out of cash and lost significant revenues. No bank is likely to lend to them. The government must step in to provide credit guarantees that can incentivise banks to SMEs. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has already instructed banks to issue a moratorium on loan obligations for three months. If needed, this can be extended by another three months. For the formal sector, we can take a leaf out of the U.S.’s Paycheque Protection Program. The idea is for the government to help formal sector businesses to keep workers on their payroll without resorting to retrenchment or lay-offs. The 2017-18 Economic Survey estimated, using the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) data set, that there are 40 million employees earning less than Rs. 15,000 per month who are employed in firms registered under the Goods and Services Tax (GST). It is likely that they are vulnerable to retrenchment. The government could ‘protect their pay cheques’ by funding their employers to pay them for one or two months. This can be implemented using data from the EPFO and GST databases. The RBI, and through it the banks, should be encouraged to make capital available liberally to sectors such as tourism and manufacturing, which need specific interventions. External trade will continue to be tepid. India must do whatever it takes through export incentives and strategic use of foreign exchange reserves to capitalise on the export opportunity arising out of this crisis and stimulate exports dramatically over the next few years. Exports can be the key to jobs for hundreds of millions of skilled and unskilled workers, as it was during the boom years 2004-2010. Fiscal stimulus measures on the demand and supply side must be supplemented by monetary stimulus from the RBI with re-designed measures such as moratorium, loan forgiveness, regulatory forbearance, revised NPA regulations and easing the cycle of credit flow. Money versus myth Do we have the money to indulge in such a revival and recovery package? It is our estimate that the total fiscal package will cost Rs. 5-6 lakh crore. That amount is  available. The Centre and the States have a total expenditure budget of over Rs. 70 lakh crore for 2020-21. The Centre alone has budgeted to spend Rs. 4 lakh crore on capital expenditure this fiscal year. In a crisis, much of the capital expenditure may not be possible at all, and even if it is, must be deferred to the next fiscal year. Besides, more savings can be identified by axing wasteful expenditure. Further, the Centre can borrow money during times like this without crowding out private investment or pushing up interest rates. As a final resort, the government can monetise part of additional deficit, otherwise known as ‘printing money’. A microorganism has brought humankind to its knees. As health scientists have said, we must learn to live with the virus. We need to act now to ensure that Prachi and millions like her can live through this and experience the new normal. P. Chidambaram is former Finance Minister of India and a sitting Member of Parliament; Praveen Chakravarty is a political economist and a senior office bearer of the Congress party||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-blueprint-to-revive-the-economy/article31360992.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Will the aviation industry recover from the pandemic?||The aviation industry, like several other sectors, is facing a crisis in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. With travel restrictions, grounded fleets, benched staff, schedule uncertainties, ticket liabilities and cash burn, questions are being raised on whether the civil aviation sector can survive the epidemic. Aviation experts Mohan Ranganathan and Jitender Bhargava weigh in on the steps needed for a recovery, in a conversation moderated by Murali N. Krishnaswamy . Edited excerpts:  The International Air Transport Association (IATA)’s Director General and CEO has said that the association, which represents some 290 airlines, or about 82% of global air traffic, is working on a scenario of severe travel restrictions lasting a few months. This could cut industry revenues by a projected $252 billion in 2020. In terms of the bottom line, this is expected to translate into a $39 billion net loss in the second quarter. The industry will also burn about $61 billion in money in the second quarter. This is a dimension beyond anything that the industry has experienced. Mohan Ranganathan:Even though IATA has projected this only for one year, I would go more by what Singapore Airlines had announced, like when they announced the grounding of 96% of their fleet. You have Changi Airport shutting down one complete terminal for a year, where they have said they don’t expect traffic to grow for a year. And it may extend to the end of the second year. For us in India, it is going to definitely take more than a month even to start. And then it is going to take at least a couple of years to come back to at least 50% of what we were. And that depends on how many airlines survive. Jitender Bhargava:The crisis confronting the aviation industry is not only unprecedented but also that no one who is working in the industry has any clue on how to put the industry back on track. If you recall the previous instance of 9/11 and what happened subsequent to that, it took a lot of time for the aviation industry to come back. Captain Ranganathan is very right about the time to recover. It’s not a question of only restrictions, visas not being allowed, travel not being allowed, airlines not being allowed. Even after all these are allowed, there will be apprehension. The first is the economic aspect. Will people travel, either for leisure or on business? The answer is clearly no. It will take a long time for this to happen. Then the question is of people going out to destinations and being apprehensive. So, the first casualty will be the airline industry. How many flights will you operate? The fact is that a plane on the ground costs the airline enormously. In India, for example, out of the 650 planes you have with all the airlines, 50% of them have been taken on lease. So even while they’re on the ground the lease rentals are being paid. It is not only employees who are being unproductive but also the machines. So both men and machines are taking a heavy toll on the aviation industry. Now when you look at just the revenue loss, which was mentioned in the introductory comments, this was on a certain presumption that the grounding of the fleet or airline would last only a maximum of three months. If it lasts much longer, the revenue loss will be higher and, subsequently, the losses will be higher. In the meantime, if certain airlines are not able to sustain their operations, there will be a question mark on the airline’s future. There is also another IATA statement which projects 25 million people losing their jobs. Imagine a scenario when you have a large chunk of airline employees losing jobs, including pilots, who are otherwise difficult to get. So the future is bleak. It is very difficult for anyone to visualise how the situation will unfold. A point mentioned is on aviation’s recovery being linked to the willingness to travel. So how can governments and airlines facilitate this process to be smooth? JB:If you’ve been reading the newspapers and the recent statements of the DGCA [Directorate General of Civil Aviation], even when the flights are put back into operation, the concept of social distancing will be imposed on the airlines. If you are only going to be flying one-third of your capacity, look at the kind of fares that an airline will have to charge to sustain its operations. And as we have seen, India is a price-sensitive market. We are perhaps getting back to the era of the 1940s and the 1950s where only the elite could afford to travel. So, it’s a difficult situation. But let me also make one significant point. Indian industry is in a unique position. Also, most of the airlines that came up 10-15 years ago have only seen the good times. Otherwise, we’ve always seen that in the aviation industry, it’s a cyclical thing. You have a boom period followed by a trough period. So, they have placed orders for a large number of planes. They haven’t built cash reserves, barring Indigo. Once you are chasing market share at the cost of profitability, how are they, airlines, going to sustain it? It is basically a very scary scenario. MR:Apart from what Mr. Bhargava said, now what the government forgets is that apart from the fares, which will have to be phenomenal, the days of family travel are finished in India. I am talking about domestic travel. If you're going to be charging Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 20,000, you can forget about any holiday for a family. Rail travel is what is going to gain. The second thing is that there are a lot of other areas which are connected with aviation. Most of them are going to become bankrupt. Can the government pump in money to push up an elite industry at the cost of others? It will result in a political boomerang. And the first thing that Indian aviation has to give up is ego. In a time like this, you need professionals with a clear mind, not bureaucrats who know nothing about aviation. The U.S.’s $2-trillion package has provision for a few billions for airlines and staff. Australia, China and Singapore have undertaken specific relief measures. Aviation research agency CAPA predicts that airlines will need three stages of relief. How would you relate this to an Indian context?  JB:The question that begs an answer is: can the government of India with its limited finances only concentrate on the revival of the aviation industry at the expense of other sectors? It cannot do so. They may come forward and give some kind of financial aid. But to expect large-scale aid to put the airline industry back on track is an impossibility. Certain countries may do it because they may have plenty of money. CAPA has also said that 250 aircraft will be surplus to our needs. My estimate is that we will not need even 50% of the 650 planes that all our airlines currently have. MR:If the government wants to pump in, they have to nationalise all the airlines, and they will just be committing hara-kiri if they do that. Also, look at the UDAN airlines. They are not sustainable. They are subsidising them and none of them is making money. So how many ventures are you going to support? Business models are sure to have to undergo a radical change. How would you see this affecting established carriers? What about the low-cost carriers? JB:The business model that our Indian carriers followed is this: garner market share at the expense of profitability, which in other words was no business model at all. They were looking at today, not looking at tomorrow. You rightly said there is a low-cost airline and there is a high-cost airline, the legacy carriers. Now the unfortunate part is that in India, there is really no low-cost airline. The fact remains as long as the airlines are driven by promoters and by their personal egos, you will not have a good chapter for the aviation industry. Perhaps the first thing the government can do is to put the Aviation Turbine Fuel, or ATF, in GST. My suggestion is to let the government have a hands-off policy on the aviation industry. Let the aviation industry learn the lessons and they will come out much better after this pandemic is over. MR:We have to rebuild aviation. The only way we can do it is to move slowly, understand where the flights are essential and move away from fixing the schedules based on a Delhi-centric focus and politicians. You must understand that it is the public which makes the airline and not the freeloaders. As far as manufacturers are concerned, that is another major area in this whole pandemic story. So, what happens to manufacturer programmes? MR:Post-pandemic, you are going to have more use of the 350 and the 787 categories. Manufacturers are going to face a big problem for the next 10 years. I am not talking about one or two years. It’s 10 years because for finances to build up, for airlines to place the orders… the industry is not going to start reviving before five years. You will not be going to have business travel. You are going to have more and more people online because they don’t want to get stuck somewhere. Airlines, if they want to fill up aircraft will have to sell cheap tickets which will see them going deeper in the red. It’s a Catch-22 situation. So as far as manufacturers are concerned, you can forget about trying to sell a craft for the next five years. And the final picture? JB:One can only wish that airlines come out of the current situation faster and without much damage, but that will be wishful thinking. The realistic picture is dismal. We know about it. We also know it will take a very, very long time for the industry to get back the traffic. Another thing that has come out is that in this lockdown condition, a lot of people have found alternative means of working, especially with video-conferencing. So it’s going to be a major change that we will see not only for the aviation industry, but for the way we’ve looked at the world and the way we have worked so far. MR:My advice, as my English professor said, is ‘hasten slowly’. I don’t think that at a drop of a hat we can get back to the pre-pandemic situation. Right now,we are in quicksand. So, it requires clear thinking, you need professionals. And the most important thing is that if you have made an error, admit that you’ve made an error and learn from it. Whether it is aviation, or all travel-related, tourism-related industries, it is going to be in a shambles for the next two years. So they have to plan on how to mitigate the suffering. And pull out of the rut two years from now. If you think that you’re going to be back to normal in six months, you’re making a mistake again. They have to move very, very slowly to try and revive the industry.   As long as the airlines are driven by promoters and by their personal egos, you will not have a good chapter for the industry Jitender Bhargava Aviation expert||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/will-the-aviation-industry-recover-from-the-pandemic/article31361006.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||A case to use JEE-Main instead of JEE-Advanced this year||The pandemic has thrown the world, including academic institutions, into turmoil. College admissions, a stressful process even in normal circumstances, will be affected everywhere. Unfortunately, the virus struck India before many Class 12 board examinations were completed. National entrance examinations like the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Main, JEE-Advanced and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test have not yet been held. While all college admissions are affected, I focus on admissions to engineering institutions. The JEE-Advanced exam is the sole prerequisite for admission into the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). Students spend two years or more being coached for entrance examinations. Two advantages My suggestion to the IITs for admitting B.Tech students this year is that they use the JEE-Main to admit students and cancel the JEE-Advanced in the light of the pandemic. This would not only reduce stress for a large number of applicants as they would not be required to write one more high-pressure exam, but would also enable college admissions to the IITs and other institutions to take place 6-7 weeks earlier. Since the IITs are among the most sought-after institutions in the country, admissions to the next level of institutions — the National Institutes of Technology (NITs), Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs) and others — effectively happen only after the IIT list is published. The chain of dependency extends to other institutions, naturally. Let us look at the history of admissions to the national-level engineering institutions, starting with the IITs. The IITs admitted undergraduate students through the IIT-JEE for decades. From 2002, other national institutions selected students based on their performance in the All India Engineering Entrance Examination (AIEEE). The JEE and AIEEE were conducted in parallel, independent of each other. In 2013, the AIEEE was effectively renamed as the JEE-Main. All national-level institutions, except the IITs, and some State institutions, admit students to the B. Tech course  based on their rank in the JEE-Main. Another new examination called JEE-Advanced, a modified version of the old IIT-JEE, was created for the IITs and a few other institutions. However, a high rank in the JEE-Main became the criterion to even register for the JEE-Advanced. Thus, under the current scheme, a student has to perform well in the JEE-Main and the JEE-Advanced to secure a seat in an IIT. Impacting schedules What was most inconvenient was that this scheme impacted the schedules of admissions into all the engineering institutions. In 2012, the IIT-JEE was held early in April and the AIEEE was held towards the end of April, independent of each other. The rank lists of both were available by mid-May. Seat allotments began in early June and were completed by end-June. But in the present scheme, which started in 2013, the JEE-Main is held in early April and the JEE-Advanced, now available to those with high JEE-Main ranks, in late May. The JEE-Advanced results are published in the third week of June and seat allocations start only in early July. By design, the JEE-Advanced can be held only 6-7 weeks after the JEE-Main. Consequently, classes in the IITs and other institutions can start only 14-16 weeks after the JEE-Main is held. Everything has turned topsy-turvy this year. Some of the Class 12 board exams are yet to be completed. The JEE-Main has been delayed at least till early June. Classes cannot start earlier than end-September. Further delays are possible based on the spread of the virus. We can’t conduct national entrance exams until all regions of the country are reasonably safe. Let us come back to my proposal of using JEE-Main ranks instead of JEE-Advanced ranks to admit students this year. The JEE-Advanced need not be held. Imagine facing the uncertainties imposed by the pandemic, then writing the remaining board exams, then the JEE-Main and then the JEE-Advanced! Without the JEE-Advanced, classes in all institutions can also start 6-7 weeks earlier than usual, as seat allocations can start 4-5 weeks after the JEE-Main. The JEE-Main and JEE-Advanced test different skills, we are told. I contend that the performance of students in JEE-M and JEE-A are very similar statistically. The IITs have the data from at least 2013 to analyse this. For instance, one can study the difference in the ranks of individual students in the JEE-Main and JEE-Advanced. Some will get better JEE-Main ranks and others, better JEE-Advanced ranks. Statistics on the fraction of students with a big rank difference will help us understand the impact of writing the JEE-Main in the place of the JEE-Advanced. My estimate is that over 90% of the students have a rank difference of less than 100 places. If we announce now that JEE-Main ranks will be used for IIT admissions, students awaiting the JEE-Main and JEE-Advanced will get 6-7 weeks to prepare for it. We would also be able to answer their doubts and questions better. I request those in charge of the JEE-Advanced and IIT admissions to consider this proposal. To be clear, IIIT-Hyderabad admits about 50% of its undergraduates through the JEE-Main and the rest through other means. Our admissions calendar is very closely aligned to the IITs/The Joint Seat Allocation Authority by necessity. The proposed change will enable an early start of classes in the IITs, NITs, IIITs, etc. Let us reduce the pain of those aspiring to go to these colleges by reducing one entrance exam they have to write and by enabling admissions much earlier. P.J. Narayanan is Director, IIIT Hyderabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-case-to-use-jee-main-instead-of-jee-advanced-this-year/article31360998.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Optimism was a duty for him||Ashok Desai was one of the country’s most highly regarded and much-loved lawyers. He held the offices of Solicitor General and Attorney General, and was later called upon to advise Presidents and Prime Ministers. He appeared in major constitutional, tax and company matters of the times. Mr. Desai was at the forefront of the fight for civil liberties and public causes. Among the earliest PILs was the Bombay Backbay reclamation scam and the allotment of cement by A.R. Antulay, Chief Minister of Maharashtra. One wonders how public interest would have taken root if it had not been for leaders of the Bar like him to espouse these causes. Over the years, he continued to appear in PILs. Among these were the fodder scam involving Lalu Prasad and the arming of private militia Salwa Judum by the State of Chhattisgarh. There are many such cases but that would take up several columns. I have seen few lawyers prepare for their case as well as him. He listened carefully to the instructing lawyer and pored over his briefs to achieve mastery over facts. Assessing the judge he was to appear before was part of the preparation. In court, he brought in a larger perspective and a focus which went far beyond what the instructing lawyer had presented to him. Appearing with him, you would think you knew all there was to know and could be said in the case, and yet watch in admiration as he gave it a further dimension. He was indeed a lawyer par excellence. Convincing the Lordship Each great lawyer has a distinctive style. Mr. Desai was sweet reasonableness, having a mellifluous voice and low-pitched presentation, never taking or giving offence. He had this knack of turning the judge around. His Lordship would express strong disagreement with the proposition, and Mr. Desai would bring on his special skills, and sure enough the judge would be lulled not just in accepting the proposition but sometimes also treating it as his own. Mr. Desai was a genius in the art of living. With his deep and abiding faith in Buddhism, he had cultivated the quality of equanimity and a perfectly drawn line of detachment. There was an inner core which would not be ruffled at all. For sage advice, you could do no better than to go to him. He would give you clear and unclouded advice, tell you where you went wrong, and then would come the remedy and balm. I think in all things he managed to hold the balance even. He was the ever-welcoming host. “Come along in the evening but don’t make it late,” was the standard invitation and injunction. Those evenings with him are among the best memories of my life. Often we would be joined by his graceful wife Suvarnabehn. Warmth, wit and wisdom flowed from him. He never put his erudition on display but you couldn’t miss it. He was amazingly well read in literature, history and politics among other fields; he enjoyed music, both Hindustani and Western classical, and the opera. Yoga he would do regularly, and in his later years saw to it that he never missed the daily swim. One must be religious about it, he would say. He was perhaps overpitching the point, but achieved the desired result. He could hold strong opinions, but avoided harshness in language. “I think he is an undesirable element,” was sufficient to indicate disapproval. The man’s nature and spiritualism made him forgiving of human frailty, instead looking to see where it could be mended and improved. He was deeply concerned about the grim realities in the country’s politics, economic and social fabric; he yet never gave up hope of change and improvement. I once asked him if his optimism was misplaced. His answer stunned me. “Sriram, optimism is not an option; it is a duty.” Sriram Panchu is a senior advocate at the Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/optimism-was-a-duty-for-him/article31361008.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Across the gulf||Around eight million people in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries constitute a unique cohort among Indian diaspora communities around the world. Around 50% of them are unskilled and another 30% are semi-skilled. Only a small minority of 20% of them are skilled and lucratively employed, but all these migrant workers together form the backbone of India’s ties with the region. Their contribution of nearly 40% of the total foreign exchange remittances to India is critical to its economy. Their labour is vital for the GCC economy. With no option of assimilation into their host countries, their link to the home country remains intact, unlike Indian immigrants to the West. The vast majority of them who are on subsistence wages are facing a tough situation in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. From the little information available, it appears that Indians are badly hit by the disease. Living and working conditions make it extremely difficult for them to practise social distancing or get treatment if infected. Many of them suffer from preexisting medical conditions and are used to procuring medicines from India, which is now impossible. Vast sectors of the economy are shut, rendering many of them jobless. Thousands are without documentation. Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Doha being important transits for international travel, thousands of Indian travellers are also stuck in the region. India cannot abandon them to their helpless fate. It must work closely with governments of the region to bring them succour. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has nurtured good relations with all rulers of the region but the ongoing crisis is testing the endurance of India’s ties with some of the GCC countries. The UAE government has said it might revise current partnerships concerning labour relations with nations refusing to cooperate with measures to repatriate private sector expatriates who wish to return home. The country’s ambassador to India Ahmed Al Banna has promised only those who are tested negative for the virus would be repatriated. Some of these migrants want to be evacuated, while many might want to remain where they are. Pinarayi Vijayan, the Chief Minister of Kerala which is home to more than two million Indian immigrants in the Gulf, has said the State is prepared to receive returnees and provide them care. Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Punjab have a significant number of people in the Gulf. The Centre must take the initiative to bring together State governments, and work out arrangements with national governments in the region in a manner acceptable to all. It will certainly take some effort to arrive at what is doable and desirable at this juncture, but there is no excuse for not doing that. That is the least India can do for these people whose search for a livelihood has done the country so much good.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/across-the-gulf/article31360993.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Virtual reality||The world has very few devices left to fight COVID-19 with, but technology remains one of them. Whether it is the employ of state-of-the-art technology in the discovery of cures or vaccines, or traditional technology services to enhance health care and consultations, or even tools that keep people at home occupied/productive, it is clear that technology will serve humanity at one of its darkest moments. The pandemic has contributed, in no small measure, to the understanding of the myriad ways in which available technologies have not been put to better use, and presented people with multiple opportunities to harness these devices, techniques and methods to get on with life in the time of lockdown. Among the primary uses is telemedicine, rendered inexorable now, by the temporary paralysis brought on by a freeze on movement. The Centre’s recent guidelines allowing for widespread use of telemedicine services came as a shot in the arm for telehealth crusaders in the country, among them the Telemedicine Society of India that has long been battling to use the technology in its complete arc to reach remote areas in India. This move finds consonance with the rest of the world where several nations, also deeply impacted by the pandemic, have deployed telemedicine to reach people who have been unable to come to hospital, to reduce footfalls in hospitals, and to even provide medical and mental health counselling to countless people. It was way back in 2000 that telemedicine was first employed in India, but the progress has been excruciatingly slow, until the pandemic. However, it does seem as if the medical community was only held back by the lack of legislation to enable tele consultations. For no sooner was the policy announced, than hospitals and clinicians hurried to jump onto the bandwagon, advertising contact information for patients. The advantages are peculiar in the current context, when putting distance between people is paramount, as tele consultations are not barred even when health care professionals and patients may have to be quarantined. The advancement of telecommunication capabilities over the years has made the transmission of images and sound files (heart and lung sounds, coughs) faster and simpler. Pilot telemedicine experiments in ophthalmology and psychiatry have proven to be of immense benefit to the communities. Telemedicine’s time is here, finally. While unleashing the full potential of telemedicine to help people, experts and government agencies must be mindful of the possible inadequacies of the medium, and securing sensitive medical information; such cognisance should guide the use of the technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/virtual-reality/article31360999.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Data-driven reporting during COVID-19||The chief scientist of the World Health Organization, Dr. Soumya Swaminathan, said in an interview to The Hindu that “data is key to the control of this pandemic”. Indeed, in the weeks since the COVID-19 outbreak, the use of the terms, “exponential growth”, “flattening the curve”, “testing rates”, etc. have risen exponentially in the public domain, thanks largely to robust data-driven reporting. Daily graphs of the novel coronavirus spread across countries in terms of the number of cases, the fatalities caused and testing rates, based on data diligently collected and provided in an open source format by Johns Hopkins University (and the WHO of course) have helped us understand the comparative effects of the strategies used by different countries. In The Hindu , we have tried to mirror some of the work done by other data journalists in newspapers such as Financial Times by trying to understand the spread of the virus and its effect in India’s States. Unlike national data, provincial and State data is not easy to come by. The Indian Council of Medical Research provides us with nationwide data, and the Ministry of Health’s daily totals seem to lag the actual number of cases.  Updates from States  The Hindu (apart from volunteer-run trackers such as covid19india.org) has tried to address this by relying on our reporter network, who provide updates from various States (and their health departments), which have been recorded daily in a spreadsheet maintained by our Internet desk. The spreadsheet has acted as the basis of two online live stories — one featuring a map that shows the State-wise cumulative number of cases, active infections, recoveries and deaths; and the other, a State-wise tracker that shows case progression, increase in fatalities over time, besides comparing testing rates and positive rates for the States. Except for Telangana, this information is available for all major States and Union Territories on a regular basis. The article featuring the interactive map is the most-read article on the paper’s website in the last three months with nearly 2.9 million page views, showing how readers have valued this information. These two web-based “live” articles, besides a number of data-driven visualisation stories featured on the Op-Ed page (as Datapoint) have helped us understand the Indian story of the COVID-19 spread. One area where we could do better is in covering the economic impact of the COVID-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown in India, besides trying to understand whether our test protocols and systems are indeed able to identify, isolate and treat those infected by COVID-19. Unlike more developed countries such as the U.S., where data on unemployment claims have been a strong resource to understand the direct economic effect, we have to use only limited surveys (such as the CMIE’s unemployment survey). India has a relatively robust statistical infrastructure among developing countries, but we could do much better in allowing for availability of data in easy machine-readable formats, besides regular releases of national sample surveys. The importance of data journalism in a world suffering from an “infodemic” has never been lost to me, but its vitality has been reaffirmed during this pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/data-driven-reporting-during-covid-19/article31361002.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||What Went Wrong with Apollo-13?||The malfunction, which forced the Apollo-13 astronauts to abandon their moon landing plans and head back home, occurred in their spacecraft’s electric generating system. The system is known as a “fuel cell.” It manufactures electric energy by chemical reactions between hydrogen and oxygen. These reactions simultaneously produce water and heat. In the spacecraft, this water replenishes the astronauts’ reservoir for drinking. The astronauts said they heard a “bang” just before two of their fuel cells stopped furnishing electricity. Though the cause of this malfunction is not known, it is believed to have been a rupture in a pressure tank containing oxygen or hydrogen, or in a connecting line or in tone of the associated valves, switches or other plumbing fixtures of that system. This, in turn, could have been caused by a hit by a micro-meteorite. Unmanned spacecraft have recorded numerous such hits, but there has been no record of any manned spacecraft being damaged or otherwise affected by meteorites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/what-went-wrong-with-apollo-13/article31361001.ece
17 April 2020||MUMBAI,||It’s official — no IPL this summer||A day after informing the eight franchises of the Indian Premier League’s indefinite postponement due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has “suspended IPL 2020 till further notice”. While confirming the deferment, BCCI secretary Jay Shah said in a statement released on Thursday the decision had been taken in consultation with franchise owners, broadcaster, sponsors and all stakeholders, adding “the IPL 2020 season will only commence when it is safe and appropriate to do so”. Three possibilities While resumption of sporting events cannot be predicted, here are the three possible windows being floated vis-a-vis staging IPL 2020:  July-August: Assuming that the pandemic is brought under control by June-end and international airspace is cleared, a window may open to stage the IPL in Sri Lanka in July-August. Since it will be the monsoon season in India, Colombo emerges as a viable option. While Colombo’s three international venues is a logistical boon, Sri Lanka Cricket president Shammi Silva has expressed interest in staging the IPL. But, given the evolving scenario, the IPL in this window appears to be a long shot, indeed!  September-October: At the moment, India is scheduled to participate in the Asia Cup, to be hosted by the Pakistan Cricket Board, in the United Arab Emirates in September. But with the IPL being the BCCI’s cash cow, it wouldn’t be surprising if the BCCI attempts to pull out of the Asia Cup and instead stage the T20 extravaganza. PCB chief Ehsan Mani has vehemently opposed rescheduling the Asia Cup to accommodate the IPL, but considering BCCI’s clout, don’t be surprised if the IPL is the first major cricketing event upon resumption of sporting action.  October-November: A five-week window opens up should the T20 World Cup — in Australia from October 18 — be postponed. The ICC is expected to present a clearer picture on the T20 World Cup in June. Whatever the option chosen, a good chunk of India’s international assignments as well as domestic season will be severely affected. Meanwhile, until the pandemic subsides, BCCI can only wait and watch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-official-no-ipl-this-summer/article31361141.ece
17 April 2020||KOCHI,||Sayana hoping to do a Vismaya||Three years ago, V.K. Vismaya produced a stunning performance in the National varsities championship at Guntur which carried her to the national camp and Indian team. She was an unknown name then but a few months later, she went on to anchor the Indian 4x400m relay team to gold at the 2018 Jakarta Asian Games and is now a crucial member of the side. P.O. Sayana is dreaming of such a run. With under-20 World champion Hima Das suffering a strange injury that allows her to run the 200m but troubles her in 400m, and another regular Saritaben Gayakwad out with a mysterious problem and Prachi Chaudhary failing a dope test, there could be a vacancy or two in the Indian team with many majors, including the 2021 Olympics, lined up in the next two years. Opportunity Sensing a wonderful opportunity, Sayana has now decided to get serious about the quartermile. “I was only a 400m hurdler before but this year I decided to take the 400m very seriously,” said Sayana from Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday. “In the 400m, there is a good chance of getting into the Indian team which is sure of winning Asian Games and Asian medals.” With the coronavirus pandemic messing up the athletics season, Sayana strangely finds herself in the second spot in the Asian women’s 400m chart this year thanks to her 53.99s effort at the Khelo India University Games in Bhubaneswar in February. CRPF’s 27-year-old Ayana Thomas, who produces impressive timings in Olympic years (2016 best 53.90s), is on top of the list with 53.34s (All-India Police meet, Panchkula, March). Sayana is now waiting for the Athletics Federation of India’s call to join the national camp in Patiala. “Earlier, whenever somebody runs 54 secs, they are immediately invited to the camp, I have done better but I have not got a call yet,” said Sayana, who is coached by Kerala Sports Council’s Avinash Kumar. “They said my varsities Nationals gold performance would not be counted as there was no dope-testing there, but I was tested after I won the Khelo India University Games gold.” Close fight Vismaya, Jisna Mathew and M.R. Poovamma appear to be the favourites to take the first three relay team berths and it will be interesting to see how the others fight their way through. The National Anti-Doping Agency should also raise the bar with many out-of-competition tests when training resumes in national camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sayana-hoping-to-do-a-vismaya/article31361417.ece
17 April 2020||Coimbatore,||TNCA secretary confident of TNPL going ahead||After the BCCI postponed the Indian Premier League (IPL) indefinitely, there are question marks over the fifth Tamil Nadu Premier League (TNPL), the State’s biggest and most attractive T20 league, meeting the same fate. However, R.S. Ramasaamy, the TNCA secretary, is confident of the tournament going ahead. “We strongly believe it will happen as per the original schedule in June. After the lockdown period is over on May 3, we plan to have series of meetings and then take a call,” he said. “We are in touch with our franchises and we all hope the league will happen,” he added. In case of extended lockdowns, he said the State body is even prepared for that. “In such a scenario, we will look at June-end or a July start. The same Caravan model of four centres — Coimbatore, Salem, Natham in Dindigul and Tirunelveli — and seven league matches each will be followed. Building interest “The idea behind the Caravan model is to make it easier for the players, the television crew and for all those involved in the game. Seven matches on the trot can help in building interest and, the home team also gets to play more games,” he added. Ramasaamy also pointed out that all the four centres are as good as ready to host the matches. Interestingly, Coimbatore and Salem are the two new additions this year. For the former, it has been a year’s wait, while the latter’s venue was inaugurated by the Chief Minister of the State in February. The TNPL has grown in popularity and stature in both Natham and Tirunelveli over the past four years. The entertainment-starved fans of Coimbatore and Salem are as eager as the TNCA for the league to start on time and, with it, build a strong base for the future.  After the lockdown period is over on May 3, we plan to have a series of meetings and then take a call||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tnca-secretary-confident-of-tnpl-going-ahead/article31361199.ece
17 April 2020||Chennai,||Washington keen to do justice to his batting skills||At the beginning of last season, Washington Sundar worked on something that would enhance his bowling. “I wanted to increase the revs I impart on the ball without decreasing my speed,” he told The Hindu here on Thursday. Simple logic This involved endless hours of training. Washington’s logic was simple. He did not want to decrease ball speed as that would enable the batsmen get under it for the big hits. “Speed is my strength. I wanted to bowl at around 92-93 kmph and then get the ball to dip on the batsman because of the revs. He would be surprised.” Just 20, the off-spinning allrounder has already figured in 23 T20Is, picking up 19 wickets at a creditable economy rate of 6.93. And he has bowled in difficult stages of the innings. The lanky bowler uses the crease, alters angles and varies his pace. He can achieve bounce and also get the ball to skid around. Washington has been guided by India coach Ravi Shastri and bowling coach B. Arun. “After every match we discuss what I had done right, and more importantly, where I could have been better. Shastri sir and Arun sir have been a big help to me,” he said. Here he recalls two dismissals he had planned with Arun. “I was bowling to Evin Lewis. Generally I get the ball to skid into him. “For this game in Thiruvananthapuram, Arun sir asked me to bowl round the wicket to that explosive left-hander Lewis and spin the ball away from him. “I did just that, he jumped out and was stumped. The plan worked.” Washington added, “Then, in New Zealand, Arun sir, asked me to bowl over the wicket to the left-handed Colin Munro, cramp him for room and attack the stumps. Munro was bowled.” A fluent, natural southpaw with loads of time and a compelling range of shots — he averages 31.29 in First Class cricket — Washington wants to do justice to his batting ability. Washington is a smart lad with a mind to match his skills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/washington-keen-to-do-justice-to-his-batting-skills/article31361201.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||Lara pips Sachin in McGrath’s book; Cummins best of the lot now||Australia’s Pat Cummins is the most complete pacer among the current crop, says the legendary Glenn McGrath, who feels fast bowlers, in general, are “better blokes” and more hard-working than batsmen. McGrath was answering 25 rapid-fire questions from ESPNCricinfo on a range of subjects, including who he would like to see as himself in a biopic. Asked to name the most complete bowler in world cricket now, McGrath replied: “Pat Cummins. I like the way he goes by.” Cummins is currently No. 1 in ICC Test rankings and fourth in the ODI list. One of the best fast bowlers through the ’90s till late 2000s, McGrath also addressed the big debate of his era — who was harder to bowl at, Sachin Tendulkar or Brian Lara? “Tough,” he said when asked to pick between the two icons. “I would go with Lara just from my experience. The hat-trick wish-list would be Brian Lara, Sachin Tendulkar and Rahul Dravid.” Asked if there was any delivery missing from his armoury, he replied: “the 100miles per hour delivery.” According to him, bowlers work a lot harder than batsmen. “Fast bowlers are better blokes, work harder while batsmen expect everything,” he opined. Asked if he would indulge in ‘Mankading’ a batsman in a World Cup final where he has to get the last wicket but with only two runs to defend, the legendary pacer said he would never do it. He also feels that after watching Jim Carrey’s performance in ‘Dumb and Dumber’, he would like the iconic funny-man to play his role if a biopic is ever made on him. “Brad Pitt or Hugh Jackman,” are his other choices. Away from cricket, the sporting legends he has felt privileged to meet include Jamaican sprint king Usain Bolt, tennis icon Roger Federer and five-time Olympic champion rower Steve Redgrave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lara-pips-sachin-in-mcgraths-book-cummins-best-of-the-lot-now/article31361134.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||Played 2015 WC semifinal with broken knee: Shami||A serious knee injury had left Mohammed Shami virtually immobile prior to India’s 2015 World Cup semifinal against Australia but skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s assertion that he “can’t be replaced” in a big game spurred the pacer to take the field with painkillers. The injury with which he was forced to play that day in Sydney could have been career-threatening as he had to undergo a surgery and after March 26, 2015, the next international he played was a Test in July, 2016. “Before the semifinal I had told my teammates that I couldn’t take it any longer. On the day of the match, I was in a lot of pain. I discussed it with the management but they said it would be alright,” Shami told former India pacer Irfan Pathan in an Instagram chat. “Mahi bhai , the team management gave me so much confidence. They said it’s the semifinal we cannot go for a new bowler,” Shami recalled. In fact, Shami carrying an injury was the worst kept secret during India’s World Cup campaign in Australia. He would land up at training sessions with a heavily bandaged knee and play matches after taking pain-killing injections and fluid removed from the knee. “I couldn’t walk after the matches I played throughout the tournament. I played the 2015 WC because of Nitin Patel’s confidence,” Shami said. “The knee broke in the first match. My thighs and knees were the same size, doctors used to take out fluid from them everyday. I used to take 3 painkillers,” Shami told Pathan. Dhoni kept telling him he could overcome the pain barrier, Shami said. The target he was given was not more than 60 runs in 10 overs and he finished wicket-less for 68 runs in his quota of overs.  The knee broke in the first match. My thighs and knees were the same size, doctors used to take out fluid from them everyday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/played-2015-wc-semifinal-with-broken-knee-shami/article31361136.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||Sheetal hopes action resumes soon||They play a key role in the conduct of tennis around the world. Efficiency is silent and rarely noticed. The Indian tennis officials, who have turned their passion and hobby into a full time profession in recent years, stay united and away from the spotlight. Thankless job Officiating is a thankless job, but a rewarding one. The Indians officiate in the Grand Slams and other major events around the world. Sheetal Iyer, Asia’s only gold badge woman referee, spoke about the impact of the lockdown on the tennis fraternity. “Travelling and work keeps you busy, doing something you love. Now, it is like a vacuum. You are doing nothing,” said Sheethal, whose last assignment was being referee in the Davis Cup World Group-II play-off tie between Greece and Philippines in Manila, on March 6 and 7. Sheetal has been assistant referee in three Asian Games, apart from being referee in many WTA events, including the premier event in Wuhan. “It is a strange feeling. I have been home this long at a stretch after many years. Travelling, though not so welcome for me, had become a habit and integral part of life. I do miss it,” admitted Sheetal. Of course, Sheetal is happy to spend time with husband Sunder Iyer and son Atharva, who has finished his education in London. “It has helped me understand and prepare myself for what is important in life, and how to face the future,” Sheetal said. Acknowledging the uncertainty created by the coronavirus pandemic on the tennis calendar for the rest of the season, Sheetal said that it was important to stay optimistic. “There is uncertainty about when action will resume as this lockdown has not only affected the players, but the entire tennis fraternity. I hope things will resume soon and we will be back doing what we love,” she said. Sheetal believes that the international events would resume by September or October, and they could be preceded by the national events. “I am looking at the scenario like a bump, and hopefully it will go off soon. Tennis has provided employment to so many youngsters in officiating, and I hope it will resume at the earliest,” Sheetal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sheetal-hopes-action-resumes-soon/article31361295.ece
17 April 2020||Tokyo,||Olympic Games will ‘kickstart’ Japan economy, says IOC official||The postponed Tokyo 2020 Olympics will provide a welcome boost to the coronavirus-hit Japanese economy next year, a senior International Olympic Committee (IOC) official claimed on Thursday. The IOC and Japan last month took the historic decision to delay the Olympics by one year, with an Opening Ceremony planned for July 23, 2021. IOC official John Coates told reporters holding the Games in 2021 could be a “very positive opportunity for an economic stimulus” that could “kickstart the economy again.”  Economists at the SMBC Nikko Securities have estimated postponing the Games would reduce Japan’s GDP this year by some $6 billion — to be recouped next year if the Olympic Games actually take place. Coates claimed Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe “may well have had in mind that your country may be in a recession then and this would be an opportunity for a great economic stimulus.” In terms of the budget, organisers have already recognised there will be “massive” additional costs from the $12.6 billion the Games were supposed to cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympic-games-will-kickstart-japan-economy-says-ioc-official/article31361139.ece
17 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Stephen Paul on a mission||Hyderabad’s Stephen Paul missed qualifying for track speed skating events at the 2018 Winter Olympics by a whisker — 0.02 seconds in 1000m (clocking 1:11.92 against the qualifying mark of 1:11:90) and 0.26 seconds in 500 m (clocking 36.46 sec against 36.20). And, he happens to be the only Indian to have gone that close in qualifying for that event. Now, after 18 years in the sport, which saw him qualify for a World Cup long track skating in 2018, Stephen is on a mission — to groom India hopefuls for the next edition in 2020. As part of his efforts, Stephen has tied up with Olympics medallists Chad Hedrick and Brittany Bowe, the fastest female skater in the world, to conduct online video, interactive sessions for the India aspirants. In the first session, which saw about 1300 skaters take part, the Olympic medallists gave some inspirational talk and an idea of what it means ‘to be there’. “My target is simple. See an Indian skater in the Winter Games, a feat which I dared to dream but failed to realise,” said Stephen. “National champion Akash Aradhya of Karnataka, rated to be the strongest contender for a slot in the next Games, was among those who attended the session, He was pretty impressed with the interaction and hopes to be a much better skater,” said Stephen, adding Nayana, a young skater from Telangana, was a talent to look out for because her natural skills. Stephen, who trained for six years at Salt Lake City in USA with the ambition of making it to the Winter Olympics, called it quits to address some personal issues. “There is abundance of talent which needs proper guidance and exposure. That’s why I am trying to involve Olympic medallists, an initiative which has never been attempted before,” said Stephen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stephen-paul-on-a-mission/article31361366.ece
17 April 2020||KOLKATA,||Mental toughness the key at Olympics||Eminent coach Sanjeeva Singh, while emphasising that less than 10 per cent archers train on the mental aspect, said being tough mentally was essential to succeed at the Olympics. Speaking at the inaugural session of the first-ever online ‘Train the Trainers’ programme, organised by the Archery Association of India (AAI) and SAI, he said an archer needed to be confident while performing on the biggest stage. Citing examples of Roger Federer, Michael Jordan and World and Olympic medallist archer Brady Ellison, Sanjeeva said setting goals, being positive, relaxing, practising visualisation and using simulations on a daily basis would help an archer become mentally tougher. He emphasised on developing an eco-system of support staff, including psychologist, mental trainers, physical trainers, physiotherapist, nutritionist and masseurs, to back the teams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mental-toughness-the-key-at-olympics/article31361293.ece
17 April 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Gokulam Kerala’s move to beat lockdown blues||Can you teach football online? Gokulam Kerala thinks so. The city-based I-League team has come up with an online training programme for under-14 kids. Gokulam’s technical director Bino George is in charge of the programme. Helping him implement the project are coaches Michael Matricciani (Australia), James McAloon (England), Simone Quintieri (Italy) and George Lopez (Spain) along with Brazilian fitness trainer Miranda Garcia Djair. “Several kids have already signed up the programme and they have been given a few sessions by our coaches from various countries,” Bino told The Hindu on Thursday. Glad to be part of project “I know these coaches personally and they were glad to be part of the project, as they, like us here in India, are forced to stay indoors following the outbreak of the coronavirus.” Bino said he thought of the online sessions because the lockdown threatened to be a prolonged one. “We don’t know when we could resume playing football on the ground,” he said. “This was actually supposed to be the time for Gokulam to start its academies in all the 14 districts of Kerala under foreign coaches.” “The coaches show the kids various skills from their computers and then ask them to do it at home and show the video.” He said there were many aspects of football that could be explained online. “The trainees are also given various tasks, which they can accomplish at home,” he said. “We also tell them the importance of having a proper diet.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gokulam-keralas-move-to-beat-lockdown-blues/article31361419.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||Sports Ministry, 11 NSFs discuss future plans||Continuing its dialogue with various stakeholders, the Sports Ministry on Thursday held a virtual meeting with 11 more National Sports Federations (NSFs) and discussed their future plans, keeping in mind the Tokyo Olympics and beyond. The meeting was the most recent of a series of dialogues planned by the ministry with various NSFs amid the coronavirus-forced national lockdown. The ministry had already interacted through a video conference with officials of Hockey India, National Rifle Association of India and Wrestling Federation of India, among others. “These are routine meetings between the ministry and the NSFs which are now held via video conference because of the pandemic. “We already had the first series of meeting with some federations last week and today’s one is a continuation of this initiative,” a ministry official told PTI . “We will continue to hold such meetings with other federations as well.” During Thursday’s meeting, Sports Secretary Radhey Shyam Julaniya held discussions with two officials each from the national federations of handball, tennis, squash, basketball, Special Olympics Bharat, volleyball, wushu, yachting, kayaking and canoeing, kabaddi and All India University (AIU). An NSF representative, who attended the meeting with Julaniya, said the ministry took stock of their future planning, including those for 2024 and 2028 Olympics. “It was a routine affair and we discussed about how to restart things once the situation becomes normal,” the NSF official said. “Every NSF was also asked about their expectations from the next Asian Games besides preparations and target for 2024 and 2028 Olympics also came up for discussion.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sports-ministry-11-nsfs-discuss-future-plans/article31361137.ece
17 April 2020||Kolkata,||AIFF mulls options||The current football season in the country is incomplete and the AIFF is contemplating different possibilities to tailor-make tournaments for a shortened calendar next season. “Due to the pandemic there is every possibility that we would not be able to start the leagues till late this year. That effectively would be consuming half of the new season,” said AIFF senior vice-president Subrata Dutta. “We are figuring out the possibility of temporarily changing the formats to incorporate the tournaments in a shortened calendar next season,” Dutta added. The AIFF’s League Committee is likely to meet by the weekend to decide the fate of all the inconclusive tournaments. Mohun Bagan has won the I-League with four rounds to spare while the remaining positions in the tournament are undecided. There are 23 matches left. The current season ends on May 31 and with all leagues remaining incomplete, the AIFF is left with no other options but to forego the season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aiff-mulls-options/article31361138.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||‘He lived the enigma’||Film, television and theatre actor Ranjit Chowdhry passed away in Mumbai on Wednesday at the age of 65. Hindi film viewers will remember him for the eternally boyish charm that he exuded in the middle-of-the-road films of the late 1970s and early 1980s. Chowdhry was much loved as the confused, oddball, nonchalant but cheerful and likeable youngster in the heartwarming family films of Basu Chatterjee — Khatta Meetha (1978) and Baton Baton Mein (1979), and Hrishikesh Mukherjee — Khubsoorat (1980). Expatriate actor Son of well-known theatre artiste Pearl Padamsee, Chowdhry had theatre and ad world stalwart Alyque Padamsee for his step-father. After a short stint in Hindi cinema, Chowdhry moved to the United States in the mid-1980s, which marked a new phase in his life and career. He went on to become a familiar presence in many South Asian-American diaspora films and can be counted as one of the pioneering expatriate actors. He formed a close professional and personal bond with filmmakers Mira Nair and Deepa Mehta. Mira Nair on a phone call with The Hindu recollected meeting him for the first time in 1974 at an intercollegiate theatre competition at IIT Kanpur. “I was totally impressed by his blazing performance,” she said. She then saw him in Siraj Ayesha Sayani’s Hungama Bombay Ishtyle (1978), a film and performance she regards as unforgettable. She thought of him while penning the script of Salaam Bombay (1988) with Sooni Taraporevala — for the role of Chillum, played by Raghuvir Yadav — and eventually got to work with him on Mississippi Masala (1991), The Perez Family (1995) and Kama Sutra: A Tale of Love (1996). ‘Creativity and charm’ “Ranjit rang the bell in Toronto years ago and entered our home and my life with an irascibility that was such a huge part of his nature, creativity and charm. He ended up writing the script of my first feature film and starring in it as well,” said Deepa Mehta, in an email to The Hindu . That was Sam and Me (1991) based on the lives of Indian immigrants in Canada, in which he drew a lot from his own experiences. She also worked with him in Fire (1996) and Bollywood Hollywood (2002) .  Wrote Ms. Mehta: “He was unpredictable, brilliant, and yet had a restlessness that’s somehow evaded his desire to find a creative home… It’s hard to believe that the irrepressible Ranjit Chowdhry is dead. His life as I knew it was Shakespearean in its scope. The other aspect of dark comedy was tragedy in his case. And that’s what made him unique. He lived the enigma.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/he-lived-the-enigma/article31361150.ece
17 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Pit viper in Arunachal has Harry Potter link||A new species of green pit viper found in Arunachal Pradesh has a Harry Potter link. The scientific name Trimeresurus salazar has been inspired by Salazar Slytherin, co-founder of J.K. Rowling’s fictional Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. The discovery by Zeeshan A. Ayaz Mirza of Bengaluru’s National Centre for Biological Sciences, Harshal S. Bhosale of Bombay Natural History Society and four others was published in the April issue of Zoosystematics and Evolution . The new species is the fifth variety of reptile to have been discovered in the State in a little more than year, beginning with the crying keelback followed by the impressive tortoise, so named because of the striking pattern on its back. The other two species are the Arunachal pit viper, India’s fifth brown pit viper but with a reddish tinge, and a natricid burrowing snake similar to the shieldtail snake found in the Western Ghats. According to the researchers, Salazar’s pit viper belongs to the genus Trimeresurus Lacépède comprising “charismatic venomous serpents with morphologically as well as ecologically diverse species”. At least 48 species are known to be distributed across east and southeast Asia, of which at least 15 occur in India. Of the species recorded from India, seven had been found in the northeast before the Salazar’s pit viper, collected from the Pakke Tiger Reserve in Pakke-Kessang district, was identified as a separate species.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/pit-viper-in-arunachal-has-harry-potter-link/article31361148.ece
17 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Forest fires rage in Odisha||Large tracts of forests in Odisha have been engulfed in raging fire, making it the most affected State on Thursday. In the last seven days since April 9, Odisha has recorded 3,531 fire spots pushing Maharashtra with 3,203 spots to the second position. The other States affected are Madhya Pradesh (2,472 fire spots), Telangana (2,339) and Chhattisgarh (2,163). According to an alert issued on the basis of satellite imageries of SNPP (Suomi National Polar-orbiting Partnership)-VIIRS (Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite) sensor, till April 14, Odisha was fourth as far as fire spots were concerned. As many as 861 and 936 spots had been traced on Tuesday and Wednesday followed by 676 on Thursday. The State had recorded 139 fire spots in January, 326 in February and 1,122 in March. In the first week of April, it witnessed a sudden spurt with 1,151 spots. The Forest Survey of India (FSI) study points out that 2.82% of Odisha’s forest cover has been categorised as “extremely fire prone”, 7.73% as “very highly fire prone”, 13.32% as “highly fire prone”, 19.96% as “moderately fire prone” and 56.17% as “less fire prone”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/forest-fires-rage-in-odisha/article31361132.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 09:48 IST,||Sudoku - April 17, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-17-2020/article31362072.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Story of success Down Under||The pandemic has brought everything to a standstill on the art front, including theatre. Tamil drama troupes, which were planning a celebration on March 27, World Theatre Day, were a disappointed lot, when the lockdown dashed all their dreams. Amidst all this, T.V. Varadharajen of United Visuals is thanking his stars for making the troupe’s tour of Australia a success. What is more they were able to land in Chennai and reach their respective homes after The troupe toured three cities of Australia presenting Sri Thyagarajar and a few of his social plays. It all started in September last year when the troupe wanted to celebrate its silver jubilee in Chennai. A call from Varadharajen’s friend, Srirama in Adelaide set the ball rolling. He invited United Visuals to visit Adelaide in March 2020 to stage the troupe’s super hit play, 'Sri Thyagarajar.’ Another friend in Sydney called with the same request. “It was a surprising coincidence, which we could not ignore,” says Varadharajen. Describing the sequence, he says that he came to know through a friend, Ramanath, that Sridhar Chari of InConcert Music, another music-based cultural organisation in Melbourne wanted a show there. The tour plan was finalised and shows were firmed up for February 22, 2020 at Adelaide, March 1 at Sydney and March 7 at Melbourne. The Adelaide Tamil Sangam requested for any social play, on March 23. Did they all travel to Australia? “Our team comprised seven artistes, including a female actor Lakshmi, and three on the technical side — sets and lights, make-up and music. Besides we roped in artistes from the local troupes — Sydney Natakapriya and Melbourne Talkies. In the absence of an outfit in Adelaide, actors were chosen after an audition. The script and videos of the scenes were passed to them so that they could be ready when we landed,” says TVV. In Adelaide, apart from Thyagarajar, the troupe was staging ‘Plastic Kadavul.’ ‘Sri Thyagarajar’ was staged to a packed house of mixed audience — Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and few Malayalam people too. Local artistes extended a wonderful performance. Member of the Legislative Council and Assistant Minister to Premier of South Australia, Ms. Jing Lee, was the chief guest at the silver jubilee event of Shruthi, a cultural organisation in Aelaide. “She witnessed our play, paid a rich tribute to our team. She said that she could appreciate the emotional performances of the artistes although she did not understand the language,” recalls Varadharajen. He has warm memories of Sydney, where they stayed for eight days. The March 1 show at Sydney was Sri Tyagarajar’s 145th. The spontaneous response of the audience who broke into a long ovation after the show made it memorable for the team. “Also they rushed backstage to greet us. All this caused some tense moments for the organisers because they had to vacate at the designated hour and hand over the hall as clean as it was given to them. I saw members of the organiser’ s family, including children, cleaning the hall and consigning the garbage to dustbins. Cooler climate with rain greeted the troupe in Melbourne and the tour had reached the final leg. The enthusiastic Melbourne Talkies team of Maniskanthan, impressed with their performance on March 7, in the 146th show of Thyagarajar. Varadharajen has a special word of praise for Sridhar Chari, who had organised the trip. It was with a heavy heart that the team left Australia, blissfully unaware of the pandemic that was going to explode on a global scale. “We landed in India on March 9. From March 12, quarantine restrictions came into force in Australia. If our departure had been a week later, we would have been stranded there. There was no issue of cough or fever in our team but we went into self-quarantine after reaching home. I realised the magnitude of the crisis when friends in India underlined how lucky we were to complete the circuit abroad and return unscathed,” says Varadharajen. He, however, makes an amendment. “It was not just luck, which made this possible. It was the grace of Tyagarajaswamy, who travelled with us virtually as an invisible passenger, which protected us and brought us home safe,” he says.  The troupe went to Adelaide, Sydney and Melbourne||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/story-of-success-down-under/article31360943.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Play it forward||Ever since the lockdown began, I have been devising ways to stay productive. It started with a set of routines designed to fill the hours — online teaching being a faculty at Krea University (this semester I taught two courses — “Design Thinking” and “The Business of Creative Industries”); thinking of ways to keep my team and the lakhs of children we reach out to at Rhapsody diverted, my venture with schools and of course, helping in the household with skills I did not know I possessed. All through these various endeavours, there was a niggling pain at the back of my head. It wasn’t helped by the non-stop social media feeds highlighting the plight of daily wage earners, migrant labourers, the elderly without help, the job-stranded and retrenched, the furloughed and many of India’s various communities that are far more vulnerable than I am. Among these voices were also those of my peers and colleagues within the music fraternity, who have suffered a setback due to cancellation of performances. The voices got louder so much so that on the day of the Janata Curfew, I decided to call out to fellow artistes, art makers and learners to keep us all sane, creative and at home. The “Janata Curfew Online Festival” started as a single, unheeded post on my social media handles for a few hours until a friend picked it up, and then another — within a day we had received close to 181 artistes from 18 countries or so, all of them singing, playing, composing, reading, painting, cooking and making sense of the new world order in their own myriad ways. Creative Collaboration at its best I thought, and in a small way, a reminder that the human spirit could triumph. How terribly wrong I was. In the days following, and as we endured the three-week compulsory lockdown, I realised that sharing Art, while noble and beautiful, did not help the “ringing in the ears.” I spoke to Subha J Rao, my dear friend, writer and partner-in-crime on various crisis missions (we worked together during the Chennai Floods and again during the Kerala floods) and I came upon the idea of #PlayItForward, one way in which a fund could be created for vulnerable communities, if artistes could reach out to their fans and followers on a consistent basis. We set ourselves a target of Rs 10 lakhs, which seemed about right, and chose Bhoomika Trust, an NGO working towards elderly care and providing food and medical supplies (including PPEs) to migrant workers. The idea (like the concept of ‘pay it forward’) was that each performing artiste would nominate another for the next day, and thus keep the chain going. I started it. Soon it became a multi-media collaboration with actor Andrea, lyricist Madhan Karky, actors Prasanna and Arya, fellow pianist Stephen Devassy, collaborator and vocalist Sikkil Gurucharan, Vedanth Bharadwaj, singer Shaktishree, storytellers Janaki Sabesh and Vikram Sridhar. In about 12 days, we collected over Rs 9.8 lakh. And while it felt good to do this, especially during a lockdown, I do not believe this means I would not hear those voices ringing in my ears anymore. Useful platform My own musical family is in trouble. My friends in the media fraternity will suffer severe cutbacks in the months to come. Middle-class entitlement means that many maids and domestic helpers are still on the move and some are being treated shoddily. There has been no dent in domestic abuse, sexual predators are on the rise and so are miscreants or lawbreakers. Using my privilege as an artiste with a platform that is clearly now of some use means that I could direct my attention to all of these and more. But my students at Krea University reminded me of the limits — the extent to which I can stretch myself. While it is a noble thought to keep wanting to do more, we also need to attend to ourselves and to those close to us. It is equally important to gather our thoughts at this rather bizarre time, when the world is about to change, perhaps forever. My own experience with people tells me that things will change, but we as a race don’t give up easily on habits. I fear that people will forget all that they have learnt during this enforced lockdown, go back to exploitative and unfair ways of one-upmanship and land the world in another crisis..  Lessons learnt Meanwhile, this is what I have learnt. I did share some of these insights on social media, but I reprise them for the benefit of a larger readership: A. Stay safe, stay connected and stay home. This is the perfect opportunity to understand yourself better. B. Each crisis teaches you skills and survival tricks. Embrace the possibilities. C. Try to help one person, other than your immediate family member, everyday. Start with your neighbour. Call that elderly aunt and just listen to her describe her day. D. Believe in the best, and prepare to face any adversity that may come your way. Perhaps a great time to keep our heads down thumbs up, learn to be manifold useful by expanding skill sets. E. Grow in compassion. Grow in love. Love is all we need. The writer is a well-known pianist andmusic educator based in Chennai  Among the protesting voices were also those of many of my peers and colleagues within the music fraternity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/play-it-forward/article31360965.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Artisans — indispensable part of ancient society||The Rig Veda says that Tvasta made Indra’s thunderbolt. Sanskrit scholar Arthur Anthony Macdonell said that in Vedic literature, those who fashioned the world were various gods, but “where special professional skill seemed to be required in details, Tvasta, the divine carpenter is mentioned.” Every building site is believed to be presided over by the deity Vastospati, and in the Rig Veda, Vastospati is identified with Tvasta, wrote scholar Tarapada Bhattacharya, who also pointed out that the rituals followed in building operations, measurements, and rules for site selection were described in it. Sayanacharya, the 14th century commentator on the Rig Veda, explains a verse as referring to the method of making a piece of land slope towards the East. According to Bhattacharya, these Vedic concepts formed the nucleus of the later Vastuvidya texts. Vivekanand Jha, in his paper presented at the Indian History Congress in 1973, said that Maitrayani Samhita of the Krishna Yajur Veda, has it that rathakaras are considered “high functionaries of the state called ratnins,” whose houses kings visited during Rajasuya yaga, held “to perform the ceremony of offering jewels to gods.” Indian silpa texts talk of Tvasta, Viswakarma and rathakara. In Kadamba, Rashtrakuta and Ganga inscriptions, artisans are referred to as Viswakarmas, or Viswakarmacharyas, writes historian and archaeologist Dr. S. Settar. In the Alangudi inscription (1264 CE) in Tamil Nadu, artisans are referred to as rathakaras. The artisan community included goldsmiths, brass smiths, blacksmiths, carpenters and architects. Based on this five-fold classification, the artisan community is referred to as panchalas and panchanamuvaru, in Hoysala and Andhra inscriptions respectively. Because the artisan community was thus involved in every aspect of life, their presence in a village was essential. An inscription in Kanagaanapalle, in Andhra, says that when artisans departed from 32 villages, because of an increase in taxes during the reign of Timmappa Nayaka (1533 CE), they were given a tax exemption, to bring them back. Architects included four categories — the chief among them called sthapati, sutragrahin — who took care of measurements, vardhaki — the designer and takshaka, the carpenter. The architectural text Manasara says that all of them were well-versed in Vedic literature. “In Karnataka, manchi, upadhyaya and voja suffixes were added to the names of sculptors as a mark of honour for their skills and learning,” says Dr. Sheelakant Pattar, who has studied Chalukyan inscriptions in detail. “The architect of the seventh century CE, Malegitti Sivalaya temple in Badami, was known as Aryamanchi Upadhyaya. So he has two suffixes of honour — manchi and upadhyaya. There is an inscription about Narasobba, architect of the Aihole temple:  Swasti jambudvipantare kaschit   Vaastu prasada tadgatah   Narasobba samo vidwan   Na bhuto na bhavishyati.  This inscription says that in Jambudvipa, none has equalled or can equal Narasobba in the art of temple construction! There were women sculptors too in Karnataka. “There is an 11th century Uma Maheswara sculpture from Gadag, where the inscription on the pedestal says that the sculpture was made by Revakkabarasi, wife of Vavanarasa,” points out Dr. Rohitha Shastry of Mysore University. Viswakarmas were also engravers of inscriptions on walls and copper plates. Kelleson Collyer writes that the style used by Hoysala artistes developed from the early Chalukyan script used in Badami, Aihole and Pattadakkal. “The letters were kutila, bent or crooked, since it made possible a decorative script, which could be intertwined with ornate designs and floral patterns,” writes Collyer. The engravers took pride in their calligraphy. Collyer cites the example of Mahakalabrahma, who inscribed for the Chalukya king Vikramaditya VI, in 1067 CE. Mahakalabrahma challenges other scribes thus — when he (Mahakalabrahma) can entwine the forms of elephants, lions and parrots with letters, a man must be insane to compete with him! In the Tiruvalangadu copper plates of Rajendra Chola, sculptors have penned a Sanskrit verse about their family. The inscription says: “Four sculptors born at Kanchipura, ornaments of the race of Hovya, wrote this eulogy (prasasti): the high-minded Aravamurta, who was born of Krishna, but was not of dark (Krishna) conduct; his two younger brothers, who bore the names Ranga and Damodara; and (his) son, the famous Purushottama, who was the bee at the lotus feet of (god) Purushottama (i.e., Vishnu). By these four persons, who were well-versed in the various forms of mechanical art, who had their birth at the great (city of) Kanchipura, who were wise and who were born in the Ovi family, this edict was clearly engraved.” The punning on the names Krishna and Purushottama shows that these Viswakarma engravers had knowledge of Sanskrit alankara Sastra. (Aravamurta is Aravamudu in Tamil). There are portrait sculptures of artisans in temples, which they built. “Sembian Madevi converted the Konerirajapuram brick temple to stone, in memory of her husband Gandaraditya Chola (950-957 C.E). She gave the title Rajakesari Moovenda Velan to the sthapati Alathur Sathan Gunabhattan alias Arasana Sekaran, whose image is sculpted in the temple. The names of the artistes responsible for paintings in temples are rarely available. But in the Tiruvarur temple, we find the name of the painter — Oviyan Singaadanam, and his image,” says archaeologist K. Sridharan. Dr. Vasudev Badiger,of Kannada University, Hampi, says: “The Malaguru inscription gives details about the extended family of architect Hoysalacharya, who did metal work, gold work, and was good at iconography and calligraphy. He was also a part of an artisan guild.” A goldsmith’s touchstone with an inscription in Tamil Brahmi (3rd or 4th century C.E) has been found in Thailand. The inscription reads: “Perumpatankal, and Noboru Karashima said that Perumpatan was perhaps the title or name of the goldsmith who owned the touchstone (kal).” Artisan families seem to have had hereditary rights in temples, which extended to adopted sons too. Archaeologist Dr. L. Thyagarajan discovered an inscription in Valikandapuram, which says that Vali Achari, the blacksmith attached to the Siva temple, had no children. He adopted Chinaan Achari, son of Karuppan Achari, and the temple authorities transferred Vali Achari’s right to serve in the temple, to his adopted son. The artisan who made the asva (horse) vahana for the Tirupputkuzhi temple, vowed never to make a similar one for any other temple. To honour him, even today, during the festival, the processional deity is taken out on the horse mount to the street where he lived. Artisans figure as donors to temples too. A Mackenzie manuscript talks of the donations of goldsmiths to the Viswanatha temple in Kalpathi, Palghat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/artisans-indispensable-part-of-ancient-society/article31360986.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Halls are closed — open up the mind space’||“After many years, I wake up not to ear-shattering honking, but to the sound of birds. In their chirping, I hear the rhythm of ghungroos. I am delighted by their sudden presence in my backyard. Having turned our living spaces into a concrete jungle, we have got alienated from Mother Nature. It’s time to rebuild that bond,” says Pt. Birju Maharaj. In the silence of the lockdown, the Kathak maestro suggests that we think about those beautiful and forgotten aspects of life. “In the absence of regular classes, workshops and performances, my mind constantly travels back to the time spent with my father Acchan Maharaj and uncles Shambhu Maharaj and Lachhu Maharaj. With their amazing understanding of laya, sur, taal and poetry, they redefined the technique and aesthetics of the art form. Sitting by the window of my room, I recall the spontaneity with which they would create magnificent footwork patterns — energetic spins and delicate moves seamlessly woven into them. During these inspired moments, I add to my own movement vocabulary. These days, I often feel like a student engrossed in his homework,” says the renowned guru and performer. Art is an escape, a much-needed one to remain calm, especially during such a crisis. “Over the past few days, I have gone back to playing the sarod, sitar and the tabla. My gurus inculcated in me as much passion for music as for dance. Growing up, I had just ghungroos and instruments for company. And I consider myself fortunate. Art strengthens the mind. I have experienced it. I was nine when my father passed away. It wasn’t easy to pursue my dreams, yet I never gave up. Sing, dance, draw or write. You will realise how it heals you from within,” he recommends. Explaining how every emotion finds expression in art, the 82-year-old maestro begins to sing one of his favourite thumris, ‘Jaago ho kahin raain re haan re, alsaane naina ratnare, chaal latpati, aaye ho hoth bhor…’ “Radha is angry with Krishna for being away from her. The play of words conveys her irritation even while cloaking her deep love for Him. The song is not just about their relationship; it conveys the strong connect with the Supreme. Our culture gives us the spiritual energy to cope with every kind of situation in life,” says the veteran. Once the lockdown is lifted, he plans to resume work on a 300-page book of his compositions. He writes under the pen name ‘Brijshyam’. Like his earlier works, Brijshyam Kahe and Anubhuti , this book will also feature thumris, dadras, padhs, kavitas and bhajans. “These books are an attempt to tell the next generation of artistes that they need not look elsewhere for inspiration, our history, literature and the art are the best source,” he points out. Moving on to another thumri, ‘Main na manu, main na manungi tori bara-jori mori pakari kalayi, panghat jaat gagriya phodi, sari bhijoyi gayi choodiyan karkayi…,’ he explains how the piece talks about the close rapport between Krishna and the gopis. “He keeps playing pranks on them but they all know He is their sole protector. This is the kind of trust one needs to develop for a positive approach,” he says. Dance is not only about performance. When the auditoriums are closed, it is time to open up the mind space. “Think of ways to reach out to the self and the world. Kathak practitioners are basically kathakars (storytellers). Tales that you can listen to when happy or sad. Mime and movement have a purpose. They communicate, connect and help deal with emotional and physical conflicts,” sums up Pt. Birju Maharaj  Besides creating some new pieces during the lockdown, I have gone back to playing the sarod, sitar and tabla||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/halls-are-closed-open-up-the-mind-space/article31360957.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Epitome of devotion||It was on Chitirai Sathayam (falls tomorrow, Saturday this Tamil year) that the Saivite saint poet Thirunavukarasar (addressed as Appar by Tirugnana Sambandar) attained Mukti at the Agneeswarar temple in Thiru Pugalur. Every year, a grand 10 day-festival is held in celebration of Appar at the Veerataneswarar temple in Thiruvathigai, near Panruti, where his devotional transformation began. The events include an episode from his life re-enacted each day invoking the devotion of Appar and the selfless service he rendered to the deity and his worshippers. Born as Marul Neekiyar (the one who dispels darkness) in Tirumavur, about 10 km west of Thiru Vathigai on the Panruti-Tirunavalur (birth place of Sundarar) Highway, he encountered tragedy early in life. The wedding of his elder sister Thilagavathy, who would become his mentor, was postponed when the bridegroom, Kalipagayanar, a chieftain had to go to war against the marauding forces from the west. Heartbroken, his father died and his mother jumped into the pyre. When she heard that her bridegroom-to-be was killed in the skirmish, Thilagavathy too wanted to follow in her mother’s footsteps. She was stopped by Marul Neekiyar, who pleaded with her to take care of him in the absence of their parents. With Jainism gaining a strangle hold in the region, Marul Neekiyar embraced that faith much to the disappointment of his sister. Assuming the name of Dharmasena, he remained faithful to Jainism while a frustrated Thilagavathi moved away from Thirumavur and settled down in Thiru Vathigai. However, Lord Veerataneswarar decided to intervene and bring him back to the the fold. Struck with acute stomach pain and unable to find relief anywhere, he finally knocked on the doors of his sister. As he made his way into the temple through the Raja Gopuram, a devotional wave swept through him seeing the Kolam drawn by his caring sister. He presented his first Thevaram verse in front of Lord Veerateswarar – ‘Kootraayina Vaaru Vilakagaleer..’ If relieved from the pain, he promised to dedicate the rest of his life in selfless service to Lord Siva. Such was his devotional rendition that by the time he finished his song, the stomach pain had vanished and he was called out as Thirunavukarasar, the one with the golden devotional voice. Angered at this sudden devotional transformation, the Jains tortured him repeatedly in many different ways, each of which is enacted during the 10-day Utsavam at Thiru Vathigai. He was set aflame but in his verse he says that with the Lord having saved him from the excruciating stomach pain, he does not fear anything in life and that no flame could consume him. The king’s elephant meant to kill him, instead trampled the Mahout to death. Thrown into the sea, he came floating up. This episode is now celebrated as the Theppotsavam. Tirunavukkarasar visited several temples singing verses in praise of Lord Siva. It was at the Pralaya Kaleswarar temple in Pennadam that he inscribed his hands with the Trishul and smeared himself with the sacred ash ( vibhuti ). He met Thiru Gnana Sambandar in Sirkazhi, where his young contemporary addressed him as ‘Appa.’ Ever since, he has come to be referred as Appar.  A special encounter At Thingalur, 2 km east of Tiruvaiyaru on the northern banks of Cauvery, he encountered something truly special. Every location inside this ancient temple town was attributed to Thirunavukarasar. And he found that this was the work of Appoothi Adigal, a great follower of Appar who had named everything and everyone, including his two sons, after Thirunavukarasarar. Adigal was so devoted that he went ahead to serve Appar food even as his beloved son lay dead. Appar appealed to his deity, who brought the boy back to life. At Thiruveezhimizhalai, near Kudavasal, he found the Lord’s devotees in dire straits struggling to meet even their daily needs. He sang songs, which caused a shower of gold on the town, Craving for Siva’s Kailash darshan, Appar started walking. When his legs gave way, he crawled and pushed himself with his chest. A man appeared and asked him to take a dip in the pond nearby. When he emerged, he was in Tiruvaiyaru from where he had Kailaya Darshan. Appar spent the final days of his life at the Agneeswarar temple in Thiru Pugalur, a town near Nannilam on the banks of Mudikondan. There, he attained Mukti, but not before convincing the Lord — who thus showcased Appar’s unswerving devotion. The episode of Thirunavukarasar attaining Mukthi at Thiru Pugalur is played out at the Agneeswarar temple on Chitrai-Sathayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/epitome-of-devotion/article31360981.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Calling upon the Goddess||Seven years after Nirbhaya was gang-raped and tortured on a bus in Delhi, four of her killers were hanged at 5.30 a.m. at Tihar Jail on March 20, 2020. Millions in India and around the globe celebrated. The judiciary may have delivered a just verdict but are mere legal remedies enough? Despite the initial shock and horror that the Nirbhaya incident evoked, violence against women continues. The question still remains whether women are free to walk the streets of any village, town, or major city in the world at any time of day or night? Anthropologist and dancer, Saskia Kersenboom writes in her article, “Bhoga-Sakti: The Silent Witness to the Life of Devadasis,” the word bhoga refers to delight, enjoyment and sensuous experience and that Telugu speaking communities referred to devadasis as bhogam. In addition, a devadasi functioned as a proxy to the goddess both in the temple and outside for the well being of society. She learned dance and music and was the repository of artistic knowledge. Perhaps for centuries, India had a balanced perspective on the erotic, as evidenced in early devadasi practices, but partly because of colonialism, there was a shift in thinking by the nineteenth and early twentieth century which led to the abolition of devadasi practices. As a result of the adoption of Victorian era moral codes, among other factors, erotic poetry that had been previously acceptable was now censored and considered a moral depravity. Art historian and curator Naman Ahuja in his article, “The Responsibility for Protecting Erotica,” points out, the more we censor and repress erotica, the worse the offences against women will get. Collaborative approach ‘S3: Sthree: Woman’ is a multi-year, multidisciplinary, inter-cultural work in development that deals with violence against women. The collaborative work between us (Priyadarsini Govind and Dr. Priya Srinivasan) with Lalgudi Vijayalakshmi (violinist/composer), Uthra Vijay (Carnatic singer/composer), Ching Ching Ho (Director/dramaturgy), Dr. Philipa Rothfield (philosopher and dance writer) and Arun Munoz (photography), suggests why the classical arts contain possibilities to uphold social justice issues in this work. Bringing together Ching Ching, who works as a translator and director, and Philipa, who is trained in contemporary movement and feminist philosophical thought enables the sharing of the work to diverse audiences. The performance pares down the classical dance music ensemble to a solo voice and instrument. The unique addition is a Carnatic music choir (Keerthana Women’s Choir) which represents the collective female voice and is an important physical and aural theatrical presence in the production. Using the device of interruption, the experimental work toggles in time between excerpts of the 3rd century epic poem, The Devi Mahatmyam , and police reports of the Nirbhaya and Jill Meagher incidents in Delhi and Melbourne in 2012.  Priya: The idea came after the Nirbhaya protests were sparked. I wanted to find out how the classical forms I was trained in could speak about this issue. Around this time I saw Priyadarsini perform her famous ‘Devi’ piece and was deeply moved by its beauty and power. The advertising campaign in India on “Abused Goddesses” which came out in 2013 also had a deep impact on me. I began thinking about how to weave the power, beauty and raw energy of the Goddess killing asuras with the demons of the 21st century. Earlier iterations of this work included collaborations with Uthra Vijay in Barcelona and flamenco artistes such as Alba Guerrero in 2018 and with Hari Sivanesan (veena artiste) and Jay Dabgar (tabla player) in Melbourne in 2017/2019 asking what would happen if musicians moved to become characters in the piece, and dancers spoke, to ask how we can call upon the goddess now? I wanted to use the beauty of the classical forms including ancient Sanskrit texts and harness them to the raw power of contemporary incidents of violence from police reports to see what it could create.  Priyadarsini: As a performing artiste, my goal is to understand the beauty of a text and then to visualise and capture it in my interpretation for the experience of the viewer. The composition has a latent power in and of itself and the training I have received is to go deep inside it. I harness my training to visualise the meaning within the text and remain faithful to the composer’s intent. When I ventured into a production like S3 that is experimental, both theatre and dance and not a traditional dance piece, that uses different texts, I had to strike a balance between my training and how to communicate social issues. I had to re-learn my medium and adapt my style to communicate the violence of the Sthree text through my art that is at once powerful and moving without losing the intrinsic beauty of the medium of dance. I had to find my voice within the text. What I have received from this work is the raw emotion and the power of a story that needs to be told. Choir chanting Both the Nirbhaya and Jill Meagher rape and murder incidents in 2012 gave rise to protest movements in Delhi, Melbourne and around the world. The performance production of S3 explores the female voice calling upon the Goddess when the human female body is subject to complete annihilation. Can the power of the collective female voice through the choir chanting of ancient hymns to the Goddess call her into existence? The intention of the production is to catalyse thoughts and responses in people and question why violence against women keeps occurring? Can the performance trigger the audience to feel their anguish and rage in a safe way inside the theatre space? How can performing this work enable artistes to reach audiences so they can tap into their emotions and move them into action? Priyadarsini Govind is a national and international award winning Bharatanatyam dancer and artiste based in Chennai. Dr. Priya Srinivasan is a dancer, curator and author of the book Sweating Saris: Indian Dance as Transnational Labour ,” based in Melbourne, Australia. (Part 1 of the series appeared on march 19:https://www.thehindu.com/ entertainment/dance/relevance- of-a-devadasis-work/ article31107081.ece)  In ‘Sthree,’ Priyadarsini Govind had to strike a balance between her training and communicating social issues through the medium of dance||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/calling-upon-the-goddess/article31360971.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Karaoke – a blessing for amateur singers||(First in a series of three articles on its origin and evolution, guide to Karaoke Singing and current trends)  Karaoke is a Japanese word that refers to a performance in which a person sings along with recorded music. The term, Karaoke, is derived from a shortened form of the word Karappo which means 'empty' and a shortened form of the word Okesutura meaning ‘Orchestra’. So, the word can be taken to literally mean ‘empty orchestra’ or, again in terms we understand, music that has the lead melody missing. The world’s first karaoke machine, the Juke-8, was built by Japanese inventor and musician Daisuke Inoue in 1971. But it is Filipino inventor Roberto del Rosario who holds the machine’s patent. He developed the Karaoke Sing-Along System in 1975. Traditionally, film music would be presented, rather reproduced, on stage for public consumption, with the help of a regular orchestra. An orchestra would comprise brass, percussion, woodwind, string and rhythm sections. Typically, these are represented by instruments such as saxophone, trumpet, clarionet, tabla, dholak, bongos, tripe congo, drums and octapad, cymbals, flute, harmonica, accordion, harmonium, banjo, violin, mandolin, cello, guitar (string acoustic, electric, Spanish, Hawaiian), piano, keyboard and other devices and gadgets to produce special effects. Speaking about Light Music Orchestra, in Chennai, I fondly recall A.V. Ramanan’s Musiano and Sridhar’s Navraags in the 1980s, Balaji’s Mazhalai Pattalam, and more lately Lakshman-Sruthi, UK Murali, Mouna Ragam Murali, and others. Having spent all my student days in Mumbai, I cannot help mentioning Babla and his orchestra whose shows were immensely popular. Singing with an orchestra requires proficiency, preparation and practice. Interestingly, this was an entry barrier and restraining factor for budding and aspiring lay singers. It was almost impossible for those with some talent and aspiration to reach the stage, literally! One had to have a voice that would resemble closely with that of the original singer and sing well. Only then he/she could sing in an orchestra. Then came Karaoke with its more popular description in the early days of its arrival – Sing Along. Thanks to technology and emergence of multi-track recording, and the arrival of Karaoke, it was now possible to remove the vocals from a recorded song! Thus the stage was truly set, for lesser mortals (like me !) to take. BGMs without voice track These soundtracks with the complete Background Music (BGM), minus the Voice, came to be referred in professional music circles as Minus One tracks. In today’s parlance, we refer to these as Karaoke Tracks, which can be either audio or video. Video tracks are more user friendly, in that, one can sing along with the visual prompt that appears on the screen. Singing with audio Karaoke tracks requires heightened familiarity with the BGM, nuances and cues in the song which the singer will have to reproduce and keep in sync. Using Open Source, Free software and apps now available, one can alter the scale and/or tempo as well of the track. Besides, software per se, with which one can alter these key parameters to suit one’s requirements, there are studios and on-line portals where one can sing and record their performance. On-line portals like Smule and Star Singer are popular and it is a blessing for the aspiring singer to use these facilities to showcase talent. There are also YouTube channels, owned by individuals, who are rendering yeoman service by providing free Karaoke tracks, mostly video tracks. Some of them are particularly very high quality — their reproduction is very near the original. It is a particularly satisfying experience to sing using such hi-quality, hi-fidelity tracks. Thanks to the free availability of such Karaoke tracks, thousands of individuals have emerged from their bathrooms and bedrooms onto the stage! We see a variety of Karaoke-based shows by groups and individuals, both in private get-togethers and in public. For these individuals and groups, it is a cost-effective proposition to hold an open programme, since all that is required is audio equipment, which can be hired for a reasonable fee. So Karaoke has opened up avenues for all those with some talent to get on to the stage. In my next article, I shall offer some practical and useful tips for singing with Karaoke. Until then, Happy Singing…. (The Chennai-based author is the founder and lead singer of his troupe, Geet Gaata Chal. He can be reached at geetgaatachalchennai@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/karaoke-a-blessing-for-amateur-singers/article31360952.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||What is creativity...||Creativity and improvisation are two words frequently associated with Indian classical music. In fact, these two are often highlighted as the distinct, if not unique, features. It would be interesting to analyse these concepts and see how they are different or similar in the context of Carnatic music. Creativity is of two kinds — primary and secondary. Primary creativity is ‘creating something out of one’s imagination.’ Secondary creativity is ‘creating something out of what is already given.’ (In management parlance, this is called innovation). This in fact is the dictionary meaning of improvisation. In the Carnatic music context, ‘given’ would mean ‘the musical material given in the kriti.’ The similarity is that in both unpremeditated singing is the crux. Let us now consider one by one the different aesthetic components of the performance of a Carnatic kriti — alapana, tanam, kriti, niraval , chittaiswaram and kalpanaswaram.  In alapana, there is nothing given ab initio and everything has to be created out of the musician’s imagination. In fact, when alapana is begun, the musician may not even have made up his mind as to what kriti he is going to sing. In addition, at any moment the musician himself may not know what phrase will occur to him next. It is this suspense, unpredictability and spontaneity that makes alapana so exciting. It is, of course, possible to argue that what is given are the arohanam and avarohanam and the raga swarupa is improvised out of this. But this would be a far-fetched interpretation of improvisation. The internalisation of the phrases of a raga by learning several kritis in that raga would certainly influence the outcome of any alapana but this would be subconscious. Moreover, the musician may go beyond what has been internalised from the kritis learnt if he is sufficiently creative. In alapana, however, the musician is bound by the rules covering the raga lakshana like ascent and decent, vaadi-samvaadi, alpatva-bahutva, etc., whereas jazz, the only Western system which allows some improvisation, has no such constraints. But these rules are so deeply internalised by the Carnatic musician that they do not appear to him as constraints at all. Tanam, an extension “Tanyate iti taanah” — tanam is that which can be elaborated. Tanam is, therefore, nothing but an extension and elaboration of the raga swarupa delineated in the alapana, through a loosely structured rhythmic singing. It is, therefore, like the alapana, creativity and not improvisation. However, it is maximally effective only if sung in madhyama kaala and loses its special charm and functionality if sung fast. In the Kerala tradition, tanam is sometimes accompanied by mridangam to make it sound more interesting to the audience. In my view, tanam must have been originally designed in order to exploit the unique potential of the veena. By a skilful combination of the two plucking fingers and the little finger, limitless rhythmic and melodic combinations can be produced on the veena. This effect must have been attracted and mimicked by vocalists and other instrumentalists. But neither the human voice nor any bowed or wind instrument can fully match the veena in this respect. It must also be mentioned that musicians who play the veena according the traditional technique and fingering system seem to be better at tanam than some modern vainikas who specialise in speed and pulling the string. The main rendering of a kriti does not involve much creativity except for any new sangatis the musician may introduce. While Tyagaraja’s kritis give some scope for sangatis, those of Muthuswamy Dikshithar give little such scope. (We owe the rare case of ‘Vatapi Ganapatim’ to the genius of Maha Vaidyanatha Iyer ). Kriti singing is, therefore, called kalpitha sangeetham. Niraval is a classic example of improvisation. True to the real meaning of the word, it bases itself on the melodic and rhythmic material given in the kriti and builds on them. If the kriti is an example of the composer’s creativity, niraval uses the composer’s creativity to display the musician’s creativity. ‘Niraval’ literally means ‘levelling.’ What it actually does is to cover areas of raga bhava left uncovered by the kriti and ‘levels’ the plateau of raga bhava. This must be done within the tala structure of the rithi, without mangling the lyric and keeping the singing melodious. In practice, many musicians convert niraval into an exercise in rhythmic manipulation and sing it at a fast pace treating the lyric as incidental. Musiri and KVN were past masters of this art. Their style was always unhurried and one can almost feel the musician savouring the lyric while emphasising the raga and preserving the sowkhyam in singing. Chittaiswarams are sometimes that of the kriti composer (as in ‘Brochevarevarura’) or added by a musician later to the kriti (like the chittaiswaram in ‘Swara raga laya’ or ‘Nenarunchinanu’ both added by GNB). They could be dripping with raga bhava (as in ‘Saraguna palimpa’) or racy and brisk as in Swara raga laya. They are a product of pure creativity when they are rendered the first time but thereafter become kalpitha sangitham. But creating a catchy chittaiswaram to uncommon ragas such as Chenchukhambodi or Malavi requires a deep understanding and mastery of the raga. Kalpanaswaram, as its name indicates, is an act of kalpana or imagination. It is an area where ragam and rhythm are seamlessly integrated. The present day fashion is to have a long korvai (which is obviously practised) ending with a makuta swaram. This is obviously borrowed from percussionists, who do this during the tani avartanam. But old time stalwarts, including Madurai Mani or Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer never resorted to such complicated korvais but relied on raga-expressive swara phrases. Modern musicians think that sarva laghu is for beginners, but Madurai Mani’s swarams were mostly in sarva laghu, the combinations limitless and never tiresome. Finally, creativity and improvisation shine best in madhyama kalam and chauka kalam. Speed and briga may make the music superficially creative but one without the nuances and the raga bhava.  Tanam must have been originally designed for the veena. Neither the human voice nor any bowed or wind instrument can fully match the veena in this respect||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/what-is-creativity/article31360976.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||A ray of hope for the needy||In this overwhelming situation of lockdown and social distancing, artistes have been keeping up the spirits with live performances on social media and conducting online classes. Amidst all this, they have not forgotten their social responsibility. A look at some of the fundraising initiatives taken up by artistes. “Through a network of artistes and organisations engaged in performing art fields across Tamil Nadu, we identified people from about 20 different art forms, who are facing an economic impact,” says T.M. Krishna, who web-streamed the #ShutInConcert, to raise funds in association with the Sumanasa Foundation. He says that they have been able to support about 550 families. While mainstream or popular art forms have shifted course to a digital platform for the time being, he mentions how art performances in small towns, villages and temples have completely stopped. “There is no online audience for them, let alone market,” he exclaims. Adding that within the socio-culturally privileged art forms there are many, who live on the margins (for example, nagaswaram and thavil artistes in the Carnatic world) who do not have this online stage. “Let us focus on these people,” he says. Trance Effect, the Indie Pop Rock Band from Nagaland, brings together the seventh edition of Kerplunk, which will be live streamed along with 50 artistes from across the country. Qrated, in association with The Indian Music Diaries and SkillBox, is collaborating on the ‘Kerplunk 7 — Live Stream — Pledge for Music’ to raise funds for artistes from local circuits around the country who have lost income due to the cancellation of scheduled gigs or performances. “This crowdfunding campaign is one of the ways in which we plan to provide a platform to these artistes from where they can derive revenue. We will continue to find ways to help them sustain themselves , and will work towards providing them platforms to keep independent music alive,” says Kaushik Jai Barua, Qrated founder. He adds, “We urge you to pay for the art you consume online, even if it is a live stream, just as you would have paid to attend a live show. Every contribution goes a long way towards sustaining the live music industry at this point. All proceeds go directly to the artistes.” Plates for a purpose  Chitresh founded ‘The Plated Project’ as a way of using innovation to create societal impact. An attempt to use art to end hunger, the outfit works with global artistes and creates limited edition art-plates with them. “We launched ‘21 Days Of Hope’ to coincide with the 21-day nationwide lockdown to spread positivity and hope. Over the 21 days, we shared heart-warming acts of kindness every single day along with an artiste’s creation that depicts the gesture,” he says. Utilising art as a face for fund-raising causes, he adds, “We are also focussing on one charity a day and directing people to contribute to it. Usually we sell plates and the profits generated are donated to a charity, linked to the theme. We have collaborated with organisations such as ‘Save the children India,’ ‘Kranti,’ ‘Le5,’ ‘Marriott International,’ ‘Le15’ and more. In the case of ‘21 Days of Hope,’ we asked people to directly contribute to the charity.” In an attempt to ease the state of anxiety and restlessness, Samarpana for Art and Wellbeing launched the ‘Art Heals’ campaign. A curated series of dance, music and live art sessions, hosted on their Instagram page (@samarpanaforartsandwellbeing), serves as the face of the fund-raising campaign.“With the lockdown in place, a couple of our dancer peers suggested trying fundraisers with donation links. It was actually quite overwhelming to see so many people coming forward and donating. The funds collected are split between us and the Ananya Trust (Bengaluru),” says founder, Gayathri Suryanarayanan. She explains how through the funds collected in Bengaluru they have given Rs. 10,000 to 40 artistes. Along with a team of five volunteers, the team in Chennai reaches out to autorickshaw drivers, launderers (dhobi), plumbers, house maids, security personnel, cooks, tender coconut sellers, etc. After identifying 50 people who have health issues with limited access to medicines, funds between Rs. 2,500 and Rs. 7,500 have been transferred. This is said to have been of a great help to many. “We’ve also been trying to go through our contacts and reach out to 50 local folk artistes. Essential food supplies for 200 migrant daily wage labourers, who don’t have ration cards or provisions that may be extended by the government, have also been taken up,” she says. Varshini Ramakrishnan reminisces how she created a novel series of illustrations last year. “It shows the life of daily workers and how they contribute to the smooth functioning of our society. Giving them visibility has been the focus of her art,” says Mahima Poddar, the woman behind The Kindness Foundation, which in association with the Chennai Task Force and Aram Porul have also set up donation links. Positive aspects of life Varshini emphasises on the need to depict a positive image rather than their miserable plight. Those contributing above Rs. 200 also get a print of her illustrations. “We help the Chennai Corporation feed the migrant workers and beggars in shelters, and extend provisions via NGOs to old age homes. We’re also helping families in the slums and other settlements, who are low on supplies or have inadequate access to provisions,” says Mahima. “The response to Varshini’s artwork has been heartening, with many coming forward to contribute. That confirms my belief that art does play a role in being motivated to be a part of a cause. In the process, it feels therapeutic for all those involved,” she says. All these initiatives not only bolster the efforts of the organised sector but also highlight some lacunae. For instance, the lack of a database of artistes and associations/institutions. This poses fund-raisers a huge challenge. Most of the daily wage workers connected to the arts sector or local artistes are reached through contacts and NGOs. “What we need are associations for these art forms that give the artistes collective strength to demand changes. We should remember that this digital platform as an economic model only benefits the socio-cultural and economically privileged. Probably 98 per cent of art forms do not come within this ambit and those artistes do not have the luxury of even having this discussion,” T.M. Krishna weighs in, adding, “It upsets me that we have these conversations only at times of crises. We need to help artistes (especially of marginalised art forms) come together and organise themselves so that they can demand what is rightfully theirs from the Government.” Also a number of artistes live in economic distress and do not have access to digital technology or social media platforms. These are anomalies to be addressed. Perhaps, the crisis underlines the importance of young artistes being aware of the ecosystem they choose to be part of, to rise to the occasion when needed.  Play it forward: Page 2   While mainstream artistes have shifted to the digital platform, the folks artistes have nowhere to go T.M. Krishna   All these initiatives not only bolster the efforts of the organised sector but also highlight some lacunae||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-ray-of-hope-for-the-needy/article31360963.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||An inspirational story of a footballer||@PriveHD will premiere the inspirational story of an American High School footballer, Brian Banks, tomorrow at 1 p.m. Encore: 9 p.m. The movie, based on true events occurred in the life of this American high school footballer, takes the viewers to the other side of a broken judicial system turning the life of the upcoming football star as he struggles to achieve his dream. Brian Banks was 16 years old when he was accused of a crime that he didn’t commit. Despite the lack of evidence, Banks gets pushed through a broken justice system and sentenced to a decade of prison and probation. Years later, with the support of Justin Brooks and the California Innocence Project, he fights to reclaim his life and fulfil his dreams of playing in the NFL.Directed by Tom Shadyac, the movie stars Aldis Hodge as Brian Banks, Greg Kinnear as Justin Brooks and Melanie Liburd as Karina Cooper. Witness an usual story of an upcoming NFL star, this Saturday,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/an-inspirational-story-of-a-footballer/article31360945.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Festival highlights||Highlights of Tiruvathigai festival Day 1 Marul Neekiyar becomes Thirunavukarasar Day 3 Theppotsavam – Appar thrown into the sea episode Day 5 Appar revives Appoothi Adigal’s son Day 6 Appar meets Gnanasambandar Day 7 Thiruveezhi Mizhalai Episode Day 10 Mukti at Tirupugalur on Chitrai Sathaya||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/festival-highlights/article31360977.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Stage veterans join hands on digital platform||Restrictions have made leading Tamil theatre artistes to use the digital medium to connect to their fans. Not only to entertain but to underscore a message. Two videos — ‘The Drama’ and the other, a story told by various artistes with an introduction by S.Ve. Shekher — have been released online. Both carry the message — “Be safe, maintain social distance and be aware.” The six-minute visual of ‘The Drama’ shows troupe leaders — as many as 13, from Kathadi Ramamurthi, YGM, T.V. Varadharajen and Bombay Gnanam to ‘Madhu’ Balaji, Dharini Komal and Navabharath Rathnam — preparing to leave for the performance hall. In this lockdown? No. They are eager to resume their work but the priority at the moment is safety, viewers are told. In his storytelling video, S.Ve. Shekher starts a jungle tale, in his characteristic style of humour. This is taken forward by other artistes, including Madhuvanti, Prema Sadasivam, Karthik Bhat, Mappillai Ganesh and Malathi Sampath. “We have to be brave, positive and patient at this challenging hour to defeat the common enemy, the pandemic,” says Shekher in conclusion. The inspiration for this venture is said to be ‘Family’ released online. The success of the video featuring Amitabh Bachchan and other top Bollywood actors encouraged the theatre fraternity to think on similar lines. They came together to create the two videos and release them. After all, Art has a responsibility. The video series was helmed by Suraj Raaja, Karthik Gowrishankar and Elango Kumanan. Editing was done by the father-son duo Charath Mohan and Dhiraj Mohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/stage-veterans-join-hands-on-digital-platform/article31360939.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Aid for priests and vaidikas||With temples closed for public worship, the priests are facing the brunt of the financial crunch caused by the lockdown (see ‘Once upon a time when temples were under a lockdown’ https://www.thehindu.com/ society/history-and-culture/ once-upon-a-time-when- temples-were-under-a- lockdown/article31237418.ece). While individuals have come forward to support a few families during the crisis, Sri Pratyaksha Charitable Trust has been collecting contributions from devotees, which is being disbursed. So far, two instalments of Rs. 1,000 each have been given with the blessings of Sri Sankara Vijayendra Saraswati, 70th head of Sri Kanchi Kamakoti Pitam. About 500 archakas belonging to North Arcot, South Arcot, Chengalpattu, Kanchipuram, Pondicherry, Tiruvarur and Kumbakonam, Nagapattinam, Ramanathapuram districts of Tamil Nadu. state. The first list of about 350 archakas was collected and money disbursed last week. With news percolating to the grassroots, among the beneficiaries are priests from the rural areas and remote hamlets. And the alumnae of Sri Kanchi Kamakoti Pitam Saiva Agama Patasala in Kanchipuram and Sirkazhi serving in temples in the State. The Trust, is planning to extend this support for the next month too. Those who wish to support the Trust may send the money to Sri Pratyaksha Charitable Trust, A/c 049001000645148, IFSC CIUB0000049, CUB Anna Salai Branch, Chennai. Sri Kanchi Kamakoti Peeta Vaidika Dharma Rakshana Sabha has disbursed Rs. 3,000 each to 144 Vaidikas facing financial crunch. The Sabha is doing this with the blessings of the Kanchi Acharya and the support of Veda vidwans and philanthropists. A similar disbursement was made early this month to 225 indigent Vaidikas. Aid was also extended to those assisting Vaidikas. Besides, units of the Kanchi Math in various parts of the country are reaching essential items to those in need in their neighbourhoods.  Message from Pontiff In his message for the Tamil New Year, the Kanchi Acharya exhorted people to pray for the welfare of mankind. “Stay where you are and observe the rituals appropriate for the occasion. On New Year, it is considered a good augury to wake up to the sight of auspicious things, which denote prosperity. It is done with the hope that the rest of the year also will be pleasant. Worship of the cow, elephant and horse takes place at many temples during dawn. This is to spread positive vibrations. Let’s pray for mankind to emerge from this health crisis stronger. Unity, compassion and social awareness are absolutely essential to overcome this situation. Pujas and rituals are conducted in all temples for global welfare, which should be our collective prayer too,” said the Acharya, from the Sri Matam camp in Thenambakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/aid-for-priests-and-vaidikas/article31360982.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||Online Swati festival||With the lockdown period getting extended, ‘stay home and stay safe’ have become the current mantra. Artistes are taking to social media platforms to reach out to rasikas. For the musically inclined here is a chance to showcase your talent. Swathi Thirunal Sangeetha Sabha, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, U.S., is celebrating the composer’s 207th birthday with a seven-day online music and dance series from May 1 to 7 in seven categories. Those interested can sing, play an instrument or dance to the compositions of Maharaja Swati Tirunal. They should record their rendition or presentation and post it to the Facebook group ‘Gems of Swathi Thirunal Krithis.’ The Sabha, affiliated to Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi, launched the Facebook group in 2019 coinciding with the Maharaja’s birthday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/online-swati-festival/article31360988.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||New show on epidemics||Pudhiya Thalaimurai has launched a new informative show ‘ Ippadikku Kaalam ,’ to be aired on weekends, 9.30 p.m . The first segment will deal with various epidemics that have challenged mankind and how the human race has emerged successful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/new-show-on-epidemics/article31360946.ece
17 April 2020||April 17 2020 00:00 IST,||17fr_tubewatch||Sony PIX Jurassic Park 3 After being persuaded by a wealthy businessman to conduct an aerial tour of Isla Sorna, InGen’s second site for a failed Jurassic Park experiment, Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill) discovers the true reason for his invitation. A tragic accident maroons the party of seven, and they must attempt to escape with their lives. Today, 9 p.m. Harry Potter and The Chamber of Secrets  This is the second instalment of boy wizard Harry Potter's adventures at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, based on the novel by JK Rowling. A mysterious elf tells Harry to expect trouble during his second year at Hogwarts, but nothing can prepare him for trees that fight back, flying cars, spiders that talk and deadly warnings written in blood on the walls of the school. Saturday, 11 p.m. Cold Pursuit   Nels Coxman’s quiet life as a driver comes crashing down when his beloved son dies under mysterious circumstances. His search for the truth soon becomes a quest for revenge against a psychotic drug lord named Viking and his sleazy henchmen. Transformed from upstanding citizen to cold blooded vigilante, Coxman unwittingly sets off a chain of events that includes a kidnapping, a series of deadly misunderstandings and a turf war between Viking and a rival boss. The action thriller will be aired on April 19. Sunday, 1 p.m. and 9 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/17frtubewatch/article31360950.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi riots: ‘25-30 arrests from north-east since lockdown’||Firoz Khan, who works as a driver in Delhi, was arrested during the lockdown on April 2 in connection to the riots that broke out in north-east Delhi in February this year. His wife Afsana (38) has visited the Mandoli jail twice since then but has not been able to meet him so far. The police said the arrests were being made regularly despite the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A senior officer said over 800 arrests have been made so far. Advocates dealing with the riot cases said around 25 to 30 arrests have been made from the area since March 22. Ms. Afsana from Mustafabad said she and her husband had gone to her mother’s residence in Noor-e-Ilahi while her sons — 16 and 14 — were at home. “The police entered our house and took one of my sons to Dayalpur police station, which I found out from my neighbours. I went to the police station with a few other women and the policemen said they would release my son only if my husband reached the police station,” she said. Firoz eventually arrived and that was the last time Ms. Afasana saw him. ‘No clothes to change’ She said: “He doesn’t even have clothes to change and in times like these, hygiene is of utmost importance. He is the only earning member of the family. I don’t even know what to do and who to ask for help. I can’t even go out. I have visited the Mandoli jail twice but they didn’t let me meet him. I haven’t even received a call from him.” In a similar incident, Anas (20), a resident of Mustafabad, was arrested on April 7. His brother Israr said: “The policemen from Dayalpur called and said they just want to a few questions but when we went, there were other boys too. They took him into a room and that was the last we heard from him. The next day, he was produced before the court and my father saw him but we could not talk to him.” He added that the family is clueless in which jail he is lodged because of the lockdown. A senior officer said the lockdown has not hampered the investigation. “The investigation in the cases is ongoing. There is a Standard Operating Procedure, which is being adhered to by officers during the lockdown,” he said. Advocate Abdul Gaffar, along with his associates, who is representing many of those arrested in connection to the riots, said: “According to the information we have, around 25-30 arrests have been made from north-east Delhi ever since the lockdown started.” Mr. Gaffar also said advocates who are dealing with the riot cases are facing issues because of lack of information. He said, “…an official enters the house, makes an arrest, and sometimes takes the accused straight to jail where a duty magistrate is already operating from nowadays. Advocates don’t even get to know if a person has been arrested and on what charges.” He added that often, they don’t get to know whether the person has only been detained for interrogation or has been formally arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-riots-25-30-arrests-from-north-east-since-lockdown/article31361305.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||City hospital sacks doctor||A doctor, identified as Piyush Pushkar Singh, at Hindu Rao Hospital was terminated from duty on Wednesday for “bringing disrepute to the institution”. Calling it baseless, the doctor said to challenge the decision in court. North Delhi Municipal Commissioner Varsha Joshi, under whose jurisdiction the hospital falls, alleged that Dr. Singh had intercepted stocks of protective gear meant for the hospital store room, donated by an NGO to distribute to hospital staff. “Dr. Piyush Pushkar Singh, DNB student in Orthopaedics Department is terminated from his services with immediate effect for bringing disrepute to the institution,” an order issued on Wednesday said. The medical superintendent of the hospital was in touch with the NGO regarding the equipment which included face masks. However, Dr. Singh allegedly portrayed himself as an authorised person from the RDA [Resident Doctors Association] and distributed the equipment himself, said Ms. Joshi. “Thus, he not only misled the donor, defied the MS, and diverted the material, but also gave it away to people who didn’t need it, taking decisions which were nowhere in his purview,” she said. Being a DNB student in the orthopaedics department, his termination would not effect the hospital’s capacity to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic, she added. Rejected allegations Singh, however, rejected the allegation, stating that the NGO got in touch with him on its own accord, desiring to distribute protective gear to the RDA instead of the hospital administration, he said. He also said that the NGO had informed the hospital authorities regarding the same. “If an NGO donates some equipment in my name, won’t I give it to whoever I choose to,” he said, adding “I’ve always raised my voice over issues at the hospital.” While the commissioner said that the protective gear should have been sent to the hospital store to be distributed according to protocol, Dr. Singh said that resident doctors here had asked him not to do so. Donated gear being deposited to the hospital store was not being appropriately distributed to staff and was lying in waste, he said. Show-cause notice Dr. Singh was also issued a show-cause notice last month for putting up a video on Facebook highlighting issues at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-hospital-sacks-doctor/article31361310.ece
17 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||17 held for ferrying migrants in ambulances||A manager of a private hospital and 16 other people were arrested for allegedly facilitating transportation of migrant workers to Bihar in two ambulances in the guise of patients and their attendants violating the lockdown guidelines. Both ambulances have been impounded. Those arrested included 10 migrant workers belonging to East and West Champaran districts of Bihar. Fake documents The workers had paid Rs. 7,000 each to Suresh, the manager of Vedic Hospital, to prepare fake documents to help them transport to their hometowns. Staying on rent in Khandsa village, the workers were employed with a private firm in Gurugram and were without jobs due to lockdown. The incident came to light when a team of Badshahpur police station, on routine check at Vatika Chowk on Sohna Road, grew suspicious on seeing a large number of occupants in the two ambulances approaching them and flagged them down. On being enquired, the ambulance drivers presented papers of one Hazson Hospital in Gurugram. The police called up the contacts given on the papers and found that one of them belonged to a State outside Haryana and the other number was switched off. It raised further suspicion. When the police further enquired, the drivers spilled the beans. They revealed that the owner of the ambulances, Sanjay, in connivance with Suresh had prepared the fake documents to transport the workers to their villages. The workers told the police that Suresh contacted them and offered to transport them to their villages in return for cash. While two of the workers, Akhilesh Pandey and Prabhu Ram, impersonated as patients with bandages and drips, the rest disguised as their relatives. Badshahpur Station House Officer, Inspector Mukesh Kumar said the ambulance drivers and owners had no previous involvement. He, however, added that Suresh was being interrogated to find out whether he had facilitated more people to return to their homes in a similar manner. A case has been registered against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/17-held-for-ferrying-migrants-in-ambulances/article31361300.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||AC, inverter service industry feels the lockdown heat, suffers losses||Small businesses and electricians who service and repair air conditioners and inverters in the National Capital Region say they are missing out on their most productive months at the onset of summer due to the ongoing lockdown. No profit While businesses across the board are suffering due to the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown from March 25 till May 3, those relying on the seasonal business of servicing, repairing and installing ACs, air coolers and power inverters say they may have to wait till spring 2021 for business to bounce back. Pawan Sharma, who runs SR Engineers in Dilshad Garden, an AC and inverter servicing business with customers in Delhi, Gurugram and Ghaziabad, says he usually starts getting calls for AC servicing at the end of February and by the end of March, these service requests are completed. In April, he says, business mostly comes from installing new ACs. The early months of summer usually net him Rs. 60,000 to Rs. 1 lakh in profit, he said. “This year, income is zero. We don’t know if the lockdown will be extended, but even if we are allowed to start work in May or June, we will have trouble getting workers. I’ve been getting calls from regular customers. One customer called saying he wanted to instal an inverter because he is working from home and can’t afford to have power cuts, but I had to tell him to wait till May 3,” said Mr. Sharma. Satpal Singh, a Ghaziabad resident who runs an AC repair business with his brother in Noida, says he is staring at an uncertain future as his shop has been shut since March 20. Those selling and servicing inverter batteries have also been hit by the lockdown at a time that usually accounts for the bulk of their annual business. Kapil Ahuja, who runs Sunita Auto-Electrical Batteries in Noida Sector-9, says about 50% of his annual turnover would have been done by now, if not for the lockdown. Sales and service requests for inverter and car batteries as well as voltage stabilisers for ACs peak in March and April, he said.  We don’t know if the lockdown will be extended, but even if we are allowed to start work in May or June, we will have trouble getting workers  Pawan Sharma  AC and inverter servicing businessman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ac-inverter-service-industry-feels-the-lockdown-heat-suffers-losses/article31361303.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Discontinue operation of chartered flights’||A petition filed in the Delhi High Court has sought directions to the Centre and Air India to discontinue chartered flights being operated to repatriate foreign nationals to their respective countries during the COVID-19 pandemic. The petition also contended that these chartered flights were returning empty after dropping foreign nationals and were not bringing back Indians stranded abroad. The plea was heard on Wednesday through videoconferencing but the order was yet to be uploaded on the court’s website. The petition also claimed that pilots and cabin crew of these flights were not being provided personal protection equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/discontinue-operation-of-chartered-flights/article31361297.ece
17 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||RK Puram police staff shifted to hotel||Police personnel were accommodated at Hotel Hyatt Regency in order to decongest barracks at RK Puram police station, on Thursday RK Puram police station SHO Rajesh Sharma said that police personnel have been restricted to go out of Delhi as borders are sealed due to lockdown. Around 20 police personnel who lives in NCR have been accommodated in the hotel. “We requested the hotel with the proposal and they agreed. Arrangements have been made for around 20 police personnel. It is a kind of reserve force in case of any COVID-19 infection in barracks at the police station where the movement of visitors is frequent,” said the SHO. He added that the hotel has provided 13 rooms and are maintaining hygiene and social distancing. It is the first police station in the city to felicitate their staff by providing them with accommodation in a five-star hotel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rk-puram-police-staff-shifted-to-hotel/article31361306.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||3 held in hit-and-run case||Three people were arrested on Thursday in connection with a hit-and-run case in which a doctor was killed in Saket, the police said. The accused — Sandeep, Ajay and Vijay — were on their way to Vasant Kunj to donate blood to an acquaintance when their car allegedly hit Dr. J.P. Yadav’s bicycle, they said. Yadav, who was posted at a civic body dispensary in Mehrauli, was returning home after work when the accident took place on April 13. “On the basis CCTV footage analysis, the offending vehicle was identified,” said DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur. The vehicle was registered in the name of Sonu from Haryana. A team was sent to his house on Wednesday when he told the police that he had given his car to his friend Vicky. On enquiry, Vicky said the car was being used by his friend Sandeep Pal Singh, Mr. Thakur said. Sandeep told police that he and his friends —Ajay and Vijay —were in the car at the time of the accident. Vijay was driving the car, the DCP said, adding that the car has been seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/3-held-in-hit-and-run-case/article31361307.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||HC plea seeks measures for domestic violence victims||The Delhi High Court is likely to hear on Friday a plea seeking to implement immediate and effective measures for victims of domestic violence and child abuse amidst COVID-19 lockdown. The petition has been filed by NGO — All India Council of Human Rights, Liberties & Social Justice (AICHLS) — seeking direction to all authorities “to adopt and implement immediate and effective measures to help victims of domestic violence and child abuse during the lockdown”. The plea highlighted that there was a “horrific surge in domestic violence cases since the COVID-19 outbreak and lockdowns”. “Helpline numbers across the country have received about 92,000 calls based on domestic abuse and violence in the first 11 days of the lockdown alone,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-plea-seeks-measures-for-domestic-violence-victims/article31361298.ece
17 April 2020||New Delhi,||HC dismisses bail plea of rape accused||The Delhi High Court rejected the plea filed by a rape accused, seeking interim bail to perform his father’s last rites, noting that the bail application was totally silent on various aspects, including record of recovery of the body of his father who allegedly died by drowning, papers of cremation and details of other ceremonies. Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar noted that it would be dangerous to release him in the current COVID-19 pandemic situation as he will get in touch with people outside, increasing the risk of infection. The accused had sought a two-month interim bail to perform the last rites and to settle family affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-rape-accused/article31361296.ece
17 April 2020||GURURAM,||Ashok- portal||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority has developed a head portal — a joint initiative of GMDA, MCG and Gurugram District Administration — which aims to connect all stakeholders like government, hospitals, doctors, testing labs and patients to strengthen the workforce fighting to save lives affected by COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ashok-portal/article31361301.ece
