18 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Post-lockdown, India’s infection growth rate has slowed down||The Union Health Ministry on Friday said the doubling rate of positive COVID-19 cases was now down to 6.2 days, compared to 3 before the nationwide lockdown that began on March 25. India reported 1,076 new cases and 32 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 13,835 and 452 deaths. As many as 1,749 persons have been cured/discharged after recovery. The active cases now are 11,616. However, according to reports from the State Health Departments, the total number of positive cases are 14,250, of which 11,853 are active cases. As many as 493 persons have died of the disease. The ICMR said there was no evidence suggesting that novel coronavirus is showing any signs of mutation. Doubling rate Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal, addressing the daily press briefing, said: “Before the lockdown, the doubling rate was about 3 days, but according to data in the past seven days, it stands at 6.2 days. Also, India has registered an average growth factor of 1.2 % since April 1, compared to 2.1 in the two weeks preceding that [March 15 to March 31] which is about a 40% decline.” Nineteen States/UTs (Kerala, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Puducherry, Bihar, Odisha, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, J&K, Punjab, Assam and Tripura) have shown a lower rate of increase of cases to some extent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/post-lockdown-indias-infection-growth-rate-has-slowed-down/article31371614.ece
18 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Curbs to ease in 10 districts||At least 10 districts in the State could expect partial relaxation of COVID-19 restrictions soon. Alappuzha, Thiruvananthapuram, Palakkad, Wayanad and Thrissur, classified as Orange B category regions, can dial down the intensity of the curfew from April 20. The districts of Pathanamthitta, Ernakulam and Kollam, categorised as Orange A regions, will follow suit from April 24. Hotels can open Restaurants and hotels in both the orange zones can open for business. The government has allowed dining-in service till 7 p.m. and takeaways till 8 p.m. The establishments can begin at 7 a.m. The government has so far not included retail of legal liquor in the services permitted under the guidelines published on Friday. It has also not included bars, clubs, malls and beer and wine parlours in the list of allowed hospitality and retail amenities. Life is expected to return to normalcy in Kottayam and Idukki districts, both categorised as green zones due to zero COVID-19 positive cases, quicker than other localities. The districts of Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode and Malappuram districts, categorised as the red zone, would remain under total lockdown until May 3. The government will allow movement of private vehicles in orange zones on alternate days for registration plates ending odd and even numbers. Citizens travelling for urgent matters and women driving alone have been exempted from the scheme. Stage carriage services will be allowed to operate on fixed routes. However, they cannot allow more than one passenger on a seat. Only those who are close family can ride pillion on two-wheelers. The ban on gatherings, social events, group worship, and funeral groupies will continue. Handymen such as plumbers, electricians and self-employed service providers, and domestic helpers are exempted from the curfew in orange zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/curbs-to-ease-in-10-districts/article31371939.ece
18 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana reports 66 new cases of COVID-19||The significant rise in the number of COVID-19 positive cases continued for the second day on Friday with 66 more cases reported. The total number of COVID positive cases touched 766 on Friday with active cases undergoing treatment in different hospitals increasing to 562. The number of people discharged after being treated/cured remained at 186 and no new death was reported during the day, thus maintaining the number of casualties at 18. The GHMC area continued to witness significant rise in number of new cases with the total positive cases reaching 286, up 46 from 240 cases on Thursday. After Nizamabad (42 cases at present) which showed spike in cases, it is now Suryapet which is showing significant rise in the number of cases. The district reported 44 COVID-19 positive cases cumulatively, with 21 cases being reported on Friday alone. The non-GHMC area of Rangareddy district reported 18 cases and the total number of cases in Vikarabad was 33 with one new case reported on Friday. According to the bulletin released by the Public Health and Family Welfare department, containment activities were taken up in 209 clusters spread over 13 districts. The department has surveyed 4.39 lakh people in 1.09 lakh households in different parts of the State till date. In case of flu-like symptoms being observed irrespective of travel/contact history, the department has requested people to report to the nearest government health facility. People were requested to adhere to the lockdown guidelines and stay indoors. They had been requested to report to the nearest government health facility in case they had travelled to Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi or contacted any person who travelled to Markaz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telangana-reports-66-new-cases-of-covid-19/article31371884.ece
18 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Frantic Odia migrants call home for help||Packed into a 150-sq.-ft. room in Bengaluru, Amulya Mallick, a plumber, along with nine others from Odisha, said they had been skipping dinner for the last five days in order to stretch their depleting food stocks. Back in Talapada village in Odisha’s Balasore district, his worried wife Saraswati has borrowed money twice from close relatives and transferred it to husband’s account. In Tamil Nadu’s Tiruppur, Swapneswar Sai (28), along with his wife and 30-month-old son, is desperate to take the first train back to their village in Mayurbhanj. Their immediate concern is their inability to pay rent of Rs. 2,000. He has been frantically calling friends in Odisha to send money to his account. As many as 120 labourers from Mayurbhanj district, who were employed in a garment manufacturing unit before the lockdown began, have a similar tale to share. The extension of the lockdown has left hundreds of migrant workers from Odisha stranded in Mumbai, Hyderabad, Aurangabad, Goa, Bengaluru and Tiruppur anxious and desperate. Supplies dry up Many have received offers of help. Several have got rations. But the food supplies dry up after two or three instalments. Back in Odisha, resource-scarce family members don’t know how to bring their loved ones back. “I urge governments both in Karnataka and Odisha to ensure safe return of my husband and his friends. Till they board trains, the government must ensure they get two squares meals a day,” pleaded Ms. Mallick. Scores of videos of migrant workers pleading to governments with folded hand are circulating on social media. “We have been trying to link Odia migrant workers either with the State government or the local administration where they are stranded. As we cannot move, we keep prodding authorities with our phone calls. But beyond a point, everything comes to standstill,” said Saroj Barik, who is part of a virtual volunteers’ group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/frantic-odia-migrants-call-home-for-help/article31371831.ece
18 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Woman delivers baby in police vehicle||The wife of a 25-year-old factory worker went into labour on Thursday night and delivered her baby inside a police vehicle. Grateful for the timely help of the policemen, the couple has decided to name the newborn after the area Station House Officer. No vehicle in sight Sushil, who hails from Jharkhand and resides in a rented accommodation in Raghubir Nagar, said his wife Mini went into labour around 9 p.m. on Thursday but there was no vehicle to rush them to hospital. “She was in pain and we had no vehicle around us. We walked till the police post five minutes away, went inside and asked for help,” he said. At the police post, they ran into a woman constable later identified as Suman. She informed others and soon a police vehicle was arranged to take the couple to a private nursing home in Paschim Vihar. “Head constable Dharambeer and constable Kuldeep started driving the couple to the nursing home but before they could reach, the baby was delivered,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Deepak Purohit.  Brought doctor to spot Mr. Sushil said that the police staff stepped out of the vehicle and went on a motorcycle to the nursing home. “They brought back four-five persons, including a doctor, who gave my wife and son the immediate help they required. After the situation got better, we were taken by the policemen to the nursing home. Both my son and wife are in good health,” he said. The next day, Mr. Sushil made it a point to meet the Station House Officer of Khyala police station and thank him for the help. Overwhelmed, he also decided to name the boy after Mr. Kundan. “I have named him Kundan because Kundan sahib and other officers helped us so much. I am really thankful to them. Maybe even my son will become a policeman like him when he grows up,” the father said. “I have also heard he is doing this [naming the son after him]. We were only doing our duty,” said the SHO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/woman-delivers-baby-in-police-vehicle/article31371834.ece
18 April 2020||Mumbai,||Salaried borrowers continue EMIs, ignore moratorium offer||The option of a moratorium on loan repayments announced by the Reserve Bank of India last month has mostly been availed of by micro, small and medium enterprises while salaried class borrowers have, till now, largely refrained from it, bankers have said. Last month, the RBI announced that banks and other financial institutions would give an option to borrowers of term loans for deferring payment of instalments falling due between March 1 and May 31, 2020. The move was aimed at addressing the liquidity crunch faced by businesses and individuals due to the economic lockdown imposed to help contain the COVID-19 pandemic. “About 85-90% of businesses in the MSME sector have availed of the loan moratorium,” the chief executive officer of a public sector bank told The Hindu, speaking on condition of anonymity. “This was expected as their business is down and [they] are facing a liquidity crunch,” the banker added. “At the same time, we have not seen many individuals, who are salaried, availing themselves of the option,” the official said. The bank CEO explained that the moratorium was imposed on repayment for all borrowers, except those borrowers who had availed of the standing instruction facility to pay the equated monthly instalment (EMI). Such borrowers were required to inform the bank if they wanted to opt for the moratorium. “We have not seen many such individuals opting for the moratorium, which is understandable as their income flow has not been impacted,” the official said. “The government employees for example... why should they opt for moratorium since their salaries have not stopped?” the banker added. Borrowers opting for the moratorium would have to incur a cost as the interest not paid in these three months would be added to the principal component.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/salaried-borrowers-continue-emis-ignore-moratorium-offer/article31371617.ece
18 April 2020||Mumbai,||RBI to pump in Rs. 1 lakh crore||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday announced a slew of liquidity measures to ease financial stress and increase credit flows, while indicating that more room was likely to emerge for reduction in interest rates as inflation softens. Among the measures announced was liquidity infusion of Rs. 1 lakh crore, of which Rs. 50,000 crore is exclusively for non-banking finance companies (NBFCs), via banks. The NBFCs have experienced liquidity shortage since banks have not offered them any moratorium for repayment, while these entities have had to extend the moratorium option to their customers. The RBI will extend another Rs. 50,000 crore to refinancing agencies like Nabard, Sidbi and National Housing Bank. Help for States Separately, RBI also said it has increased the ways and means advances (WMA) limits of States by 60%, over and above the level as on March 31, 2020. The move was aimed at providing greater comfort to the States for undertaking containment and mitigation efforts, and to plan market borrowing programmes better, the RBI said. On April 1, the RBI increased the limit by 30%. The increased limit will be available till September 30, 2020.  Citing the retail inflation numbers of March, which was at 5.9%, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said inflation could be on a declining trajectory. “...Early developments suggest that inflation is on a declining trajectory, having fallen by 170 basis points from its January 2020 peak,” Mr. Das said, while announcing the liquidity measures. He said recent data showed a softening of food inflation by around 160 bps though in other categories of the CPI, inflation pressures remained firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rbi-to-pump-in-rs-1-lakh-crore/article31371619.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,||44 new cases in State on Friday||Forty-four new positive cases were detected on Friday, the highest number recorded in one day in the State so far. The total number of cases has touched 359. As many as six people, including a 78-year-old patient, were discharged on Friday. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said of the cases reported on Friday, the most are from Mysuru which has 12 [10 from the Nanjangud pharma company]. Bengaluru Urban reported 10, Ballari seven, and Belagavi had five cases. Barring two, all cases have a contact history with previous positive patients. “Of the total 1,705 persons quarantined from Nanjangud pharma company, 1,225 have been tested. While 73 have tested positive , the results of 480 samples are awaited,” he said, pointing out that investigation is on about the visit of foreigners to the company. On complaints that PPE kits were of a poor quality, Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), said procurement process has now been modified and only kits with 16603 ISO mark are being bought. The government has capped the price of tests in private labs for samples sent by the government at Rs. 2,250. For all samples sent by the government, private labs cannot charge more than this amount, he said. Stating that the State has placed an order for 1 lakh more kits from China, the official said the Chinese government had received complaints over poor quality and hence were setting new standards. He added that kits will be received by Sunday or Monday. Meanwhile, the Department has issued a circular stating that all beds which have been earmarked for treatment of both moderate and severe COVID-19 patients in dedicated hospitals and healthcare centres of districts should have the facilities of delivering high pressure oxygen, compressed air for ICU beds and central suction facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/44-new-cases-in-state-on-friday/article31371661.ece
18 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Testing to pick up as Jagan launches one lakh imported kits||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday launched one lakh rapid testing kits which were despatched from Seoul in South Korea in a chartered flight. The kits would display results in about 10 minutes and they would be despatched to all districts in four to five days. Sander Medicaids Pvt. Ltd. Managing director Rajiv Sindhi and director Muralidhar handed over the kits to Mr. Jagan. The Chief Minister said COVID-19 testing would gain momentum with the arrival of the new kits. The rapid kits will have two strips — IgG and IgM. The government placed an order for 10 lakh kits. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given approval to use the kits manufactured by South Korean company SD Biosensor, said the company authorities. Government officials said that the kits would be used in community testing. New cases Meanwhile, the State reported 38 new COVID positive cases in the last 24 hours and the death toll stood at 14. The total number of cases reached 572 (523 active) from 534 (500 active) on April 16, according to a bulletin issued by the Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department at 10 a.m. on Friday. Of the 38 new cases, 13 are from Kurnool, six from Nellore, five each from Anantapur and Chittoor, four each from Guntur and Krishna and one from Kadapa. 35 patients discharged A total of 523 persons are undergoing treatment and 35 have been discharged. Guntur and Kurnool districts have 126 cases each, followed by Nellore (64), Krishna (52), Prakasam (42), Kadapa (37), West Godavari (34), Chittoor (28), Anantapur (26), Visakhapatnam (20) and East Godavari (17).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/testing-to-pick-up-as-jagan-launches-one-lakh-imported-kits/article31371615.ece
18 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Curbs in 388 ‘containment zones’ set to continue beyond May 3||On a day when Tamil Nadu recorded 56 new cases of COVID-19, taking the tally to 1,323, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam indicated that the ‘containment zones’, numbering 388 across 34 districts, might stay in place even beyond May 3, when the extended lockdown is scheduled to end. Mr. Shanmugam on Friday said that as per the guidelines of the Central government, any such zone would have to continue as it is till the “last reported positive case” of COVID-19 was cleared. There was, therefore, no link between the duration of the lockdown and the continuance of containment zones. Of the containment zones in the State, rural areas account for 239 of them and urban areas 149, according to data available with the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. For a person who has tested positive to be discharged from hospital, the protocol is that he should have no symptoms, test negative twice and undergo 14 days’ hospitalisation, after which he will have another 14 days of home quarantine, said Health Secretary Beela Rajesh. Explaining the Centre’s norms, Mr. Shanmugam said that if a ‘red’ area (a hotspot) does not report a fresh case for 14 days, it will turn ‘orange’. If the trend continues for a further 14 days, it will be turn ‘green’. In other words, it will take 28 days for a hotspot to turn green, he clarified. As far as Chennai is concerned, a substantial number of the containment zones are in northern parts of the city such as Roypauram and Tondiarpet. Approximately three lakh people reside there, pointed out G. Prakash, Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation. In Coimbatore district, there are 18 containment zones, of which 10 fall under the limits of municipal corporation, while the rest are in rural areas of the district, said K. Rajamani, Coimbatore Collector. Across the State, around 86 lakh people live in such zones, noted K. Kolandaswamy, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, adding that they are getting screened on a daily basis. Pointing out that the authorities are carrying out both active and passive surveillance in the zones, Dr. Rajesh said that an active case search is also being done door-to-door. On an average, a designated health worker covers 50 households a day. Such a health worker may be an accredited social health activist, an auxiliary nurse midwife or an anganwadi worker. It is for the authorities to attend to the requirements of residents in the zones, both medical and non-medical. After blocking access to the areas, officials of local bodies, police, health and revenue man the entry and exit points. For the purchase of groceries or other essentials, the residents come to the perimeter of the zones where there are either temporary stalls or mobile units, invariably between 6 a.m. and noon. During hours other than the prescribed period, the people can call helpline numbers or get in touch with the district control rooms. “We have one counsellor in each district control room,” added Dr. Rajesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/curbs-in-388-containment-zones-set-to-continue-beyond-may-3/article31371705.ece
18 April 2020||Pune,||Pune zilla parishad plans tough action to check violence||To counter the increasing cases of domestic violence during the current COVID-19 lockdown, the Pune Zilla Parishad has borrowed a leaf from the virus prevention handbook. Abusive husbands and wife-beaters across Pune district now face institutional quarantine if there is a complaint of domestic violence.  Surge in cases “Globally, there has been a sharp surge in domestic violence cases during the pandemic. So, we have taken this proactive step to preclude similar cases from occurring in the Pune rural region. The definition of a particular case is as given by the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act 2005 and the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013 (Nirbhaya Act),” said Ayush Prasad, Chief Executive Officer, Pune Zilla Parishad, while speaking to The Hindu . Mr. Prasad said as there was a prohibition on selling liquor during the lockdown, there was a strong possibility of alcoholics getting restive and turning violent as a result of denial. “Along with the COVID-19 pandemic outside, there is a ‘shadow pandemic’ raging inside homes. The lockdown means that a woman cannot step out of the house to escape her abusive spouse. So, by this order, the tormentors would be transferred to an institutional quarantine facility, which could mean a town hall or a village lodge or any other facility,” the official said, observing that this would also ensure that the woman would continue to be safe at home. A vigilance committee, consisting of women from three agencies — the Women and Child Department, anganwadi workers from self-help groups (SHGs) and panchayat samitis — will visit houses in each ward of a gram panchayat. These women would conduct an anti-domestic violence campaign on the lines of the UN’s ‘Ring the bell campaign’, Mr. Prasad said.  Keeping track “Whilst adhering to the lockdown regulations, their duty would be to reach out to all homes and keep a track of domestic violence in their areas. We have also provided a helpline number 18002334130 at the district level and a psychologist has been hired for counselling,” Mr. Prasad said. After a case of domestic violence is registered, members of the vigilance panel will try counselling the offending husband. If the violence or harassment does not abate even after counselling, then the husband would be dispatched to institutional quarantine. “We have tied up with rural police stations and a DSP rank officer will coordinate with the vigilance committee members,” he said. The panel has also been tasked with enquiring about the needs of pregnant and lactating women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pune-zilla-parishad-plans-tough-action-to-check-violence/article31371612.ece
18 April 2020||Wuhan,||Wuhan admits to errors, hikes toll by 50%||China’s coronavirus ground-zero city of Wuhan on Friday admitted missteps in tallying its death toll as it abruptly raised the count by 50% following growing world doubts about Chinese transparency. The U.S. has led the charge in questioning China’s handling of the pandemic and how much information it has really shared with the international community since the virus emerged late last year. Authorities in Wuhan initially tried to cover up the outbreak, punishing doctors who raised the alarm online in December. Wuhan’s epidemic control headquarters said in a social media posting on Friday that it had added 1,290 deaths to the tally in the city. That brings the total deaths in the city to 3,869. But the city government only added 325 cases, raising the city’s total number of cases to 50,333. The change also pushes the nationwide death toll up by nearly 39% to 4,632. The official toll in the country of 1.4 billion people, however, remains well below the number of fatalities in smaller nations such as Italy and Spain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wuhan-admits-to-errors-hikes-toll-by-50/article31371610.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||What Centre gave won’t do: Pinarayi||The financial package announced by the Centre to tackle the COVID-19 crisis is inadequate, says Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan. States with their limited resources will have to shoulder the greater burden of economic crisis that will follow. Altogether just Rs. 7,000 crore had been allotted additionally to the States, he said.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/what-centre-gave-wont-do-pinarayi/article31371622.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||None will go hungry, says Adityanath||The Uttar Pradesh government is standing firm with its citizens, irrespective of the section of society they belong to, said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. “We are taking care that nobody in the State goes hungry. We will make the same arrangements for those who have come from other places.”page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/none-will-go-hungry-says-adityanath/article31371623.ece
18 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Minor forest produce in exemption list||In the latest set of lockdown relaxations, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has added the collection, harvest and process of minor forest produce to the list of activities that will be permitted. The additional directives were issued on Thursday. Minor forest produce include non-timber items such as bamboo, roots, seeds, fruits, flowers and plants. A number of people from the Scheduled Tribes and other forest dwelling communities depend on the collection and sale of such items for their livelihood. Reports show that police have been preventing forest dwellers from leaving their homes to collect minor forest produce due to the restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minor-forest-produce-in-exemption-list/article31371624.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Home ahoy!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/home-ahoy/article31371626.ece
18 April 2020||GUNTUR,||Migrant worker dies of exhaustion||The death of a 45-year-old migrant worker Motti Rangadu hailing from Gudamaralla village in Devanakonda mandal of Kurnool district at the Karempudi check-post in Atchampet mandal of Guntur district on Thursday led to tension in the area. The worker and his family were part of a large worker group heading back to their native place on foot, when they were stopped by the police at the check-post and asked to go back. Accordingly, the group started its return journey, and to its horror, Rangadu died a few hours later of exhaustion and heatstroke. Senior police officers visited Atchampet. About 200 families of migrant workers were provided with dry ration and fruits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/migrant-worker-dies-of-exhaustion/article31371620.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,||State to start testing even in non-affected districts||In the wake of several patients without any contact or travel history testing positive, Deputy Commissioners of 10 districts that have not recorded cases of COVID-19 have been told to start random testing of patients from Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-start-testing-even-in-non-affected-districts/article31371862.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru/Kalaburagi,||Social distancing goes for a toss twice||Social distancing went for a toss on two successive days in the State. On Friday, at the wedding of Nikhil Kumaraswamy near Bidadi, people were seen in close proximity, and many were seen not even wearing masks. This invited widespread criticism. On Thursday in Kalaburagi district, a car festival was witnessed by a big crowd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-twice/article31371664.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,||State govt. revives Akrama-Sakrama||The cash-strapped State government has revived Akrama-Sakrama, a scheme to regularise illegal buildings, to generate additional revenue in light of the economic crisis created by the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-govt-revives-akrama-sakrama/article31371665.ece
18 April 2020||Lucknow,||U.P. buses to bring students stuck in Kota||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday said it had sent 300 buses, including 200 from Agra, to bring back students of the State stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota. A government official in Agra said 200 buses were sent from the district while another 100 were dispatched from Jhansi in Bundelkhand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-buses-to-bring-students-stuck-in-kota/article31371827.ece
18 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 67 new cases, 4 deaths||Delhi reported 67 new COVID-19 cases and four deaths on Friday, taking the toll to 42 and the total number of cases to 1,707. Twenty-one patients were also discharged, taking the total to 72.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-reports-67-new-cases-4-deaths/article31371829.ece
18 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Close to 6 lakh labourers from Jharkhand stranded||The Jharkhand government on Friday said close to six lakh migrant labourers are  stranded at over 12,000 locations across the country. The information was said to  have been gathered with the help of ‘Chief Minister Special Assistance Scheme Mobile App’ launched recently by Chief Minister Hemant Soren.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/close-to-6-lakh-labourers-from-jharkhand-stranded/article31371832.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Half of IT, BT staff can start work after April 20’||The State government has said that half of the employees in the Information Technology and Biotechnology sectors in Karnataka can return to work from April 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/half-of-it-bt-staff-can-start-work-after-april-20/article31371663.ece
18 April 2020||Chennai,||Tamil Nadu receives 24,000 rapid test kits||The State has received 24,000 rapid test kits as part of an order placed by the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation. Officials of the Health Department said that the Centre may also give the State a share from its consignment of test kits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-receives-24000-rapid-test-kits/article31371706.ece
18 April 2020||Salem,||Report on reopening of industries on Monday||The S. Krishnan Committee, constituted to frame guidelines for opening of select industries and for the way forward after lockdown, will submit its report to the State government on Monday, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said in Salem on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/report-on-reopening-of-industries-on-monday/article31371708.ece
18 April 2020||Chennai,||127 pilgrims stranded in Varanasi return||As many as 127 persons, most of them senior citizens, who went on a pilgrimage to Uttar Pradesh and got stranded in Varanasi, were transported by road to Tamil Nadu on Friday. They have been quarantined in a defunct medical college in Tiruvallur district. Samples have been collected for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/127-pilgrims-stranded-in-varanasi-return/article31371709.ece
18 April 2020||Bhopal,||Indore registers eight deaths in a day||Indore on Thursday registered eight deaths in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and 256 new cases, the most for the city in a day. On Wednesday, the count in the city stood at 586. With reports from New Delhi detecting 218 new cases and from the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College, Indore, 26, the number of cases grew by 43% to 842. Among the eight deaths, five patients died on Thursday, while the rest died previously and their samples tested positive on the day. The toll in the city has climbed to 47, which constitutes 5.5% of the patients in Indore so far. On Thursday, men aged 52, 63, 52 and 80, and a woman aged 63 died of the illness. For them, the duration of the illness ranged between three and five days and none had any comorbidity. On April 15, a 56-year-old man died of the illness with comorbidities of diabetes and deep vein thrombosis. The 55-year-old man who died on April 10 did not have a comorbidity. A 70-year-old man who died on April 8 succumbed to the illness, without comorbidity, the day he contracted it. Dr. Pravin Jadia, Indore’s Chief Medical and Health Officer, said the figures for Indore included patients from other States too. “Since they tested positive in Indore, we are treating them here,” he said. So far, 1,299 COVID-19 cases and 75 deaths have been reported in Madhya Pradesh. Meanwhile, a bunch of 3,896 samples from Madhya Pradesh were tested for COVID-19 on Thursday, a 41% jump from the previous day, according to the State government. The claim, however, is raising questions, given the State’s limited infrastructure, testing patterns nationwide and discrepancy with data received from the testing centres. On Thursday, nine of the 10 laboratories tested the samples. Going by the number of samples claimed to be tested, each lab in the State, which has reported the third highest number of cases in the country, tested on an average 361 samples. The number is extraordinarily high, as 263 laboratories across the country tested 103 samples on an average on Thursday, according to data from the Indian Council of Medical Research. In New Delhi, boasting the second highest number of cases among the States, 2,179 samples were tested by 18 labs on Thursday, with each lab testing 121 samples on an average. Whereas, laboratories in Kerala tested 665 cumulatively, and 54 samples on an average each. Since the outbreak, laboratories in Rajasthan have tested 125 cases on an average, while those in Maharashtra, which has most cases, have tested 45. ‘Working full time’ “This only means our testing capacity is increasing and we are working full time. Our full focus is on that...,” Additional chief secretary (health) Mohammed Suleman told The Hindu on Friday. There was a spike, he explained, as the government was receiving results of samples it had sent to New Delhi two days ago. However, even excluding the 642 sample results of Indore residents that were received from the National Institute of Biologicals, Noida, on the day, the jump is beyond the State’s capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indore-registers-eight-deaths-in-a-day/article31371562.ece
18 April 2020||Bindu Shajan Perappadan,||Emotional support helped win battle, say COVID-19 survivors||High fever, mind numbing tiredness and constant emotional support from the medical staff — that is what most COVID-19 survivors across India remember of their battle against the virus, which first emerged in China and now has infected over 2 lakh people worldwide and killed over a lakh in under five months. “We can overcome, that is the spirit with which I fought this virus this past month,” says Bengaluru-based professional Venkat Raghav, 50, who believes that he may have picked up the virus while on a business trip to the U.S. in March. “I developed high fever and by then the news about the virus was available and the Indian government too was disseminating information. So I decided it was best not to take chances and I isolated myself from the family on my return. Later, at the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD), it was confirmed that I had high virus load, following which I got admitted to the hospital and a day later, I was found COVID-19 positive,’’ he says. Now cured and at home, Mr. Venkat claims his greatest achievement through it all was that he was able to keep his immediate family – wife and two teenage children uninfected. Recalling his treatment and the support he got from the hospital staff, he notes that while the virus takes a heavy toll on the body, mental well-being is the key to fighting the disease. “I was in isolation, the fever rarely comes below 101.4° F and the weakness and pain is unexplainable. I pulled through because everyone around me stayed very positive,’’ he says. Delhi patient The COVID-19 fever doesn’t kill you but the guilt can, confides Rohit Dutta, who was among Delhi’s-NCR first COVID-19 patients in early March. “I had come back from a trip abroad and had also organised a small get-together of close family and friends. Later, I got to know that I was positive. I was admitted to Safdarjug Hospital and believe me the guilt that I could have infected children….never really left me. It is under this frame of mind that one day while during treatment I got a call from a lady who abused me for bringing in COVID-19 to north India. I was shaken. I refused to take calls from unknown numbers after that,” he says. Now a month after the ordeal, Mr. Dutta, a businessman, is back with his family and says that he is relaxing. “COVID-19 forces you to rethink and take a relook at life. Industries are closed and we feel that things may take a while to come back to normal. But what this virus has taught me is to stay positive. The body may give up, but the mind has to stay strong. The Safdarjung Hospital staff became my family. Each staff there cared for me as if I was their family member,” he observes.  Seven infected in family Robin Thomas, from Kottayam, Kerala, a medical staff himself, says the fight against the pandemic is also about staying positive. “Seven persons in my immediate family, including me, were infected. The only silver lining was that my 4-year-old has tested negative so far. The 21-day hospital stay were the best and worst days of my life,’’ he says. “The first week in quarantine with my wife and child, I thought we would have to say goodbye to our child. We were looking for jobs [both he and his wife are medical professionals] in Italy and never thought that we would hit such a huge roadblock.’’ Mr. Thomas and wife Reena tested positive after her parents and brother came to Kerala from Italy in March and tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/emotional-support-helped-win-battle-say-covid-19-survivors/article31371589.ece
18 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||RBI sops will not help common people: Cong.||The measures announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to mitigate the effects of the ongoing lockdown because of the coronavirus [COVID-19] pandemic are disappointing and do not provide ‘any actual benefit’ to the common people, the Congress said on Friday. Addressing the media through video-conferencing, senior Congress leader Ajay Maken said the announcements have no meaning at a time when the economy has come to a halt. “The problem before the people is that when they have no work or business. What will they do with a loan and how will they repay? The announcements made by the RBI have no meaning. The Congress and the people are disappointed with the announcements. The government should take more measures to mitigate the problems of the poor and the vulnerable,” Mr. Maken said. ‘Aid for daily wagers’ The former chief of the Congress in Delhi also put out a 10-point programme for the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government to help migrants and daily wagers who have lost their incomes during the nationwide lockdown. Mr. Maken asked the Delhi government to waive school fees; dispense with the fixed power charges for shopkeepers and pay 75% salaries of schoolteachers and offer micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) 75% of their employees’ salaries for the next three months. Delhi Education Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday said that no private school in the national capital can hike fees. However, he said that schools can charge a one-month tuition fee at this time instead of the quarterly fees that is usually taken. In his charter, Mr. Maken also demanded a Rs. 7,500 cash incentive to migrants, an unemployment allowance, advance payment of pension to senior citizens and widows and risk allowance to sanitation and frontline health workers. Making a point about ramping up testing facilities, the Congress leader alleged that the pizza delivery boy who tested positive in south Delhi on Thursday was initially refused testing by a government hospital as he didn’t have foreign travel history. Strict precautions The Congress leader also wanted to know whether Delhi had entered the community transmission stage (stage-3) as 135 people have been kept “under investigation”. “We suggest that standard operating procedures for delivery boys be prepared and notified as regulations so that they are binding on everyone. Protection gear, including sanitisers, masks, and gloves, should be provided by employers,” he said. Mr. Maken also cited the example of the Rajasthan and Punjab governments, both Congress-ruled States, where many of these proposals have been announced. On Twitter, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi also praised the Congress-ruled States. “Rajasthan, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Puducherry are putting up a strong fight against COVID-19. New, special hospitals are being readied, like in Chhattisgarh, this 200-bedded hospital especially for coronavirus treatment has been readied in merely 20 days. Where there is a will, there is a way,” Mr. Gandhi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rbi-sops-will-not-help-common-people-cong/article31371540.ece
18 April 2020||Mumbai/Pune,||More healthcare workers test positive in Mumbai||With seven deaths and at least 118 new COVID-19 cases reported on Friday, Maharashtra’s death toll touched 201, with 3,320 cases so far. The number of cases in Mumbai rose 2,120 with 77 new cases, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The number in the Dharavi area reached 101. Among the new cases, 23 were reported from Pune, four from Malegaon in Nashik and one from Thane district, said officials. Till date, 300 patients across the State have been discharged after a complete recovery. Even as more frontline warriors such as doctors and nurses tested positive in Mumbai, two large hospitals that had been declared containment zones after numerous staff and doctors had been infected, are likely to resume their services soon. Sion Hospital on Friday confirmed seven resident doctors and seven nurses — including a staff nurse, an assistant matron and five nursing students — had tested positive for the coronavirus. While two nurses have been discharged, the rest are undergoing treatment at SevenHills Hospital in Marol. Under quarantine Two asymptomatic resident doctors are quarantined in a bungalow, while the rest are in quarantine in the hospital. An official at Sion hospital said, “We have demanded individual rooms for the doctors so that they do not mingle with each other and stay segregated.” Two more junior resident doctors at Bombay Hospital tested positive on Friday, taking the tally of infected staff at the hospital to six. Consultant physician Dr. Gautam Bhansali said the two doctors, who are attached to surgery and oncology departments, are asymptomatic. At the civic-run KEM Hospital, the tally of coronavirus cases rose to 10 after two resident doctors tested positive on Thursday. Dean Dr. Hemant Deshmukh said most of the positive staffers were not on COVID-19 duty. Wockhardt and Jaslok hospitals, which were declared containment zones, are on their way to resume full-fledged services. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the hospitals are sanitising their equipment and premises. “They will reopen as general hospitals. We have asked them to also cater to COVID-19 patients and provide separate entry and exit for them. We have asked them to ensure restricted entry to COVID-19 patient areas. For example, if the facility is on the seventh floor, the elevator while moving from the ground floor to the seventh floor should not stop anywhere in between,” said Mr. Kakani. In Pune, 400-odd resident doctors in Sassoon and BJ Medical College and Hospital, affiliated to the Medical Association of Resident Doctors, along with workers of Sassoon Hospital, undertook a symbolic protest against the government’s decision to transfer its dean Dr. Ajay Chandanwale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-healthcare-workers-test-positive-in-mumbai/article31371571.ece
18 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Centre’s financial package, amounting to just 0.7% of GDP, is inadequate’||States with their limited resources will have to shoulder the greater burden of economic crisis that will follow COVID-19, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in an e-mail interview, adding that Kerala plans to open up the construction sector in the non-hotspot areas to help migrant workers earn a living during the lockdown.  Kerala has managed to flatten the COVID-19 curve, which other States are still struggling to do. What is it that it got right ? The State administration, socio-political and voluntary organisations and the general public at large are jointly taking on this menace. I feel that the flattening of the curve has happened because of this united resolve. At the same time, we are guarded against any complacency that can creep in at any time and any juncture. As you may recall, we had to undertake a tedious path of observation, detection, prevention, chasing the contacts, isolation and treatment as part of the strict regime we adopted right from the beginning. The country’s first COVID-19 case was detected in Kerala on January 30 after a student who returned from Wuhan in China was tested positive. Two more Wuhan returnee students later tested positive. Following the detection of cases, we declared a ‘State calamity warning’ and over 3,000 contacts of these patients were placed under surveillance. We managed to do contact tracing well. Till date (as on April 16), there have been a total of 387 confirmed cases of COVID-19 infection in Kerala and 167 patients are currently under treatment in various hospitals across the State. 264 of the confirmed cases were people who had come to Kerala from outside the State and from abroad, eight were foreign nationals and 114 were cases of local transmission. Kerala’s inalienable strength is our excellent social infrastructure built over an extended period of time. When this government assumed office in 2016, we constituted four missions to address Kerala’s new generation problems. One of the four, “Aardram” mission, is to improve our public health sector to global standards. We already converted 170 primary health centres to Family Health Centres, with more facilities. We provided more doctors, nurses and technicians to facilitate this. In the second phase, we are converting 504 PHCs to Family Health Centres. And finally, we make it a point to have maximum possible testing done on a daily basis to ensure that our protocols are in position. During the Prime Minister’s meeting with the Chief Ministers, you had suggested that post April 14, when the first round of lockdown was to end, the migrant workers should be allowed to return home in special trains. The Union Government doesn’t seem to be heeding to your advice. First of all, I differ with the coinage of ‘migrant’ workers. For us, they are guest workers. We treat them at par with our own people and ensure that every welfare measure initiated by our government should reach them too. We have extended full assistance in the form of food, proper shelter and healthcare to them. It is quite natural that they want to join their families in this hour of crisis. The biggest hardship these workers face is transport lockdown, which prevents them from reaching home. We have been seeing frightening visuals and scenes with regard to the movement of workers in other places. I do hope that the Central government as well as respective States take appropriate measures to cater to these people. I have requested the PM for special non-stop trains, if possible, so that the guest workers can reach their home and help their families. As part of our relaxation, we are going to permit construction activities in non-hotspot zones with appropriate safeguards. This should ensure that most of the guest workers are engaged and provided means for livelihood. The government also has decided that guest workers should be engaged in cleaning up the public places and waterbodies like wells, ponds etc. We need to instill confidence in them and make them feel that they are part of our society. What is the long term impact of the lockdown on the economy that you foresee ? This is an unprecedented situation and it is difficult to gauge the exact nature of the impact at this juncture. The economy will be crippled, millions of job losses and crores of people adversely affected. States with their limited resources will have to shoulder the greater burden of economic crisis that will follow the COVID-19 pandemic. The financial package announced by the Centre is inadequate. Altogether just Rs. 7,000 crore has been allotted additionally to the States. Many countries, including the U.S.A., the U.K., and Japan have announced financial stimulus packages ranging between 12%-20% of their GDP. In some of the packages, there are special schemes for protecting jobs in the private sector through employment subsidies to the job providers. Our stimulus package is just 0.7% of the GDP. I do hope that the Union Government comes out with a large and substantive package to support the States, who are the primary responders. All states, including Kerala, have criticised the Union government for not releasing GST payouts to the States and financial aid. Has GST specifically curtailed State governments’ financial freedom? As you may be aware, we had our own reservation on GST roll out. However, we went along with it expecting justice and fairness from the Centre. I am sorry to say that even the promised and committed amounts have not been disbursed to States. Kerala has to get more than Rs. 3,000 crore as GST compensation, which has been withheld by the Centre. Along with this, there has been complete reluctance on the part of the Centre in supporting the States in dealing with the pandemic. Let me tell you that a State like Kerala, which has created elaborate paraphernalia to fight this menace got only Rs. 159 crore. The suspension of the MP’s Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) for two years would further hit us as these funds become essential for funding COVID-19 related activities and development works. Few of our MPs had announced their intention in procuring PPE, testing kits and other medical equipment using their MPLADS but now we stand to lose them. The MPLADS fund is for the people of the MP’s constituency and not for the Central Government’s fundraising. All States are in financial distress as revenues have stopped and the public healthcare expenditure has increased manifold to contain the outbreak. In this difficult scenario, we will have to borrow from the open market to continue the work and also to ensure that there is no break in our efforts due to lack of funds. Therefore, permission may be granted to State Governments to issue special Pandemic Relief Bonds. We have also requested the Prime Minister to increase our borrowing limit to 5%. Similarly, loans from external agencies for epidemic control measures and reconstruction activities may be exempted from the State’s borrowing limit. The government is expecting a favourable response in this regard.  (Full interview at: https://bit.ly/CovidPinarayi)   Kerala’s inalienable strength is our excellent social infrastructure, built over a period of time||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centres-financial-package-amounting-to-just-07-of-gdp-is-inadequate/article31371584.ece
18 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘We are taking care that nobody in Uttar Pradesh goes hungry’||At the helm of India’s most populous State, Uttar Pradesh, Chief Minister  Yogi Adityanath details his government’s strategy to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and ensure the revival of the economy post the lockdown in an email interview.    Uttar Pradesh is one of the most populous States in India. What has been your strategy in combating the challenge of COVID-19 so far?  There is no doubt that Uttar Pradesh is the largest state in the country in terms of population and in such a situation the battle with COVID-19 becomes even more challenging. We worked hard to turn every challenge into an opportunity. As soon as alarm about the coronavirus was sounded, our government started taking some rapid measures. In the first week of March, on the call of Hon'ble Prime Minister, we started the proceedings for prevention of corona. Special programmes for training of physicians, paramedical and nursing staff etc. were ensured. The Panchayati Raj, Rural Development and Urban Development Departments were directed to conduct comprehensive awareness programmes. We formed 11 committees. For the citizens of Uttar Pradesh residing in other States, 32 nodal officers were deployed (16 IAS, 16 IPS). Through the CM Helpline 1076, we asked the village heads to communicate and make people aware of the virus in the villages. On March 24 itself, we took action to send an amount of Rs. 1,000 through RTGS to the accounts of more than 21 lakh construction workers under the Workers' Maintenance Scheme. Thus, we were the first to provide relief to the people who depend on their daily wages. Secondly, starting from a single testing lab, today there are 14, and we are doing 2,500 tests daily. With this, Uttar Pradesh is the first State to do pool testing. We are manufacturing PPE kits, masks, and sanitizers in U.P.. This is the reason that the situation in the State is very much under control today. Our 27 districts are already corona free, including Pilibhit. Two cases were found there but today there is not a single case of corona there. This would not have been possible without the support of corona warriors and the public.  Can you explain the Agra Model in detail and how it was designed?  The first cluster of coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh was reported in Agra after which the State government took full caution and started working with better strategy. We identified all the hotspots in the district, and deployed rapid response team, started sampling in bulk, installed call centre, ensured doorstep delivery and all the houses were sanitised. We made necessary arrangements here and prevented the corona from spreading by creating a containment zone. Contact tracing of infected persons was done through Rapid Response Team (RRP). Information was gathered about their visits and who did they came in contact with. The hotspots and 38 epicentres were then identified, and shown on the map out of which 10 epicentres have been completely closed now. Along with this, a 3-km containment zone and 5-km buffer zone were made. A micro plan was created for each area to reduce the outbreak of corona. 1,248 special teams were formed which included the people of Municipal Corporation and Health Department. These teams surveyed about 9.3 lakh people from house-to-house and screened 1.65 lakh homes. Of these, 25 hundred people were identified with symptoms like cough, cold, fever and 36 people had a travel history. Everyone was investigated. This brought the situation under control.  Migrants from Uttar Pradesh made their way back home from various parts of the country. How do you see its impact, both in terms of disease surveill-ance and the economy?  See, the whole country is fighting to save humanity right now. In such a situation, the Government of Uttar Pradesh also stands firm with every citizen irrespective of which section of the society they belong to. The State government is providing all possible help to those citizens who are returning. They all are being monitored by the medical team and administration. The government is arranging for their food. About four lakh people are in shelter homes or quarantine centres. They are being transported home with food grains after completing the period. We are taking care that nobody in the State goes hungry. Secondly, for those who have come to Uttar Pradesh from other places, the government will make the same arrangements for them, too. Naturally, the world economy is falling apart due to lockdown. The situation is very challenging for Uttar Pradesh too. But it is equally important for the State government to take care of the 23 crore people as much as the State’s economy. This is why Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji has also spoken about ‘ Jaan bhi, Jahaan bhi’ . During this lockdown, the government has directly and indirectly connected about one-and-a-half lakh people in the State with jobs. After the lockdown is over, Uttar Pradesh’s economy will grow faster. I can say this with certainty. If people from outside do not want to return, they can work in their respective districts under the One District One Product (ODOP) programme or they can be absorbed in the industries.  You have talked of imposing the National Security Act (NSA) on people violating the terms of the lockdown. Some people consider that harsh. Can you explain the logic behind it?  See, I have repeatedly said that in Uttar Pradesh, we will not let anyone break the law. Secondly, we are taking the harshest action against those who are trying to convert this infection into a community infection during lockdown. If someone assaults our health workers, police personnel, then action against them is necessary. The attack on the medical team in Moradabad is an unforgivable crime and we are strictly dealing with this situation. The message to all these people is that they should behave according to the needs of the country and society.  (Full interview at https://bit.ly/CovidYogi)   The State government is working on a long-term strategy to give momentum to the economy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-are-taking-care-that-nobody-in-uttar-pradesh-goes-hungry/article31371556.ece
18 April 2020||Srinagar,||Four militants killed in J&K||Four militants, including two who had snatched weapons from policemen, were killed in separate operations in Jammu and Kashmir. Two terrorists, who had snatched two service rifles and killed a policeman in Kishtwar’s Dachan on April 13 using axes, were killed in an encounter in Chenab Valley’s Kishtwar, the police said on Friday. “The two terrorists were killed in an encounter in Dachan area of Kishtwar. The police, the Army and the CRPF were deployed in a difficult terrain after a tip-off. The two weapons have been recovered,” the Inspector General of Police, Jammu, said. An official said the two locals were chased by a joint team of security forces in the upper reaches of Dachan for the past two days. The police identified them as Basharat Hussain and Ashiq Hussain, both residents of village Tander, Dachan. Hussain was released 24 days ago from jail. He was earlier arrested under Sections 363 and 376 (kidnapping and rape) of the Ranbir Penal Code.  Gunfight in Shopian Two Hizb-ul-Mujahideen militants were killed in a gunfight with security forces in south Kashmir’s Shopian on Friday. An official said the gunfight took place at Dairoo, Keegam of south Kashmir’s Shopian district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-militants-killed-in-jk/article31371549.ece
18 April 2020||New Delhi,||Screen Rohingya for COVID-19: MHA to States||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has informed States that “Rohingya Muslims” and their contacts may need to be screened for COVID-19 infection as some of them in Telengana, Delhi, Punjab and Jammu attended the Tablighi Jamaat event at Nizamuddin in March. The Centre has reiterated that those affected by the coronavirus should not be identified by their religion and has cautioned against religious polarisation. In a letter dated April 15, MHA wrote to all States and Union Territories,stating that “It has been reported that Rohingya Muslims attended iltejamas (congregations) and other religious congregations of Tablighi Jamaat and there is a possibility of their contracting COVID-19.” It said Rohingya residing in camps in Hyderabad had attended Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Mewat in Haryana and had visited Nizamuddin markaz (centre) in Delhi. It further said Rohingya living in Shram Vihar near Shaheen Bagh in Delhi had also gone for Tablighi activities and have not returned to their camps. “Also, presence of Rohingya Muslims after attending Tablighi Jamaat work has also been presently reported from Derabassi in Punjab and Jammu area,” the letter said. The letter, however, did not specify the period when the Rohingya visited the Nizamuddin markaz. After alerts were sent by Telengana and J&K, MHA wrote to all States on March 21 to “identify, screen and quarantine” foreign Tablighi Jamaat members who were travelling to different parts of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/screen-rohingya-for-covid-19-mha-to-states/article31371558.ece
18 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat death toll touches 41; 170 new cases in a single day||Gujarat saw a sharp rise in the number of COVID-19 cases on Friday with 170 new cases and five deaths, taking the death toll to 41 and the total number of cases to 1,099 and 41 deaths as on Friday evening. Thirteen people were discharged after treatment and complete recovery from the infection. City clusters Three main clusters in the State so far are in Ahmedabad with 622 cases out of which 21 have died while 24 have recovered, Vadodara with 142 cases, six deaths and seven recoveries, and Surat with 140 cases, five deaths and 10 recoveries. After bringing major hotspots in Ahmedabad and Surat under curfew, the government also imposed curfew in a hotspot in Rajkot from where more than 20 cases have been reported. With cases being reported new areas, the State government announced that all COVID-19 infected persons will be provided free treatment in all designated hospitals across the State. The government has set up one 100-bed designated COVID-19 hospital in every district besides multiple hospitals including a 1,200-bed civil hospital and a 2,000 bed COVID-19 care centre in Ahmedabad. There are 963 infected persons undergoing treatment at various hospitals; nine others are critical and on ventilator support. The State has so far tested 23,438 samples. The government also announced that state government offices will reopen from April 20 with limited staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-death-toll-touches-41-170-new-cases-in-a-single-day/article31371567.ece
18 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Defence medical corps to join fight||The Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) has stepped up efforts to assist the civil administration in fighting COVID-19. As part of this, orders have been issued notifying 50 AFMS hospitals as dedicated COVID hospitals and mixed COVID hospitals for isolation and treatment, the Defence Ministry said on Friday after a review meeting on the Ministry’s efforts by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. “These hospitals have a combined bed capacity of 9,038 patients. Civilian COVID-19 cases would also be admitted in these hospitals as a surge capacity to augment the state healthcare facilities,” the Ministry said in a statement. Lt. Gen. Anup Banerjee, Director General of AFMS, informed Mr. Singh that following emergency financial powers granted to DGs MS and further down the hierarchy, procurement of essential health equipment such as face masks, sanitisers, Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) and ventilators was on smoothly at a fast pace, the Ministry stated. In addition, training activities have been suspended at the Army Medical Corps (AMC) Centre and College, Lucknow, and Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC), Pune, and approximately 650 medical officers undergoing post-graduate training at the AFMC would be reverted to units for providing medical cover depending on the situation. A list of retired AMC officers and paramedical staff had been readied and they may be requested to volunteer for working in AFMS hospitals at their current home stations if the need arose. Forty-three officers and 990 paramedics have volunteered till date, it stated. Six viral testing labs had been established with the help of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) at various AFMS hospitals. DRDO’s new products The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) said in a statement that it had introduced new products to aid in the fight against COVID-19 — an automatic mist-based sanitiser dispensing unit and an Ultraviolet-C Light-based sanitisation box and hand-held UV-C device.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/defence-medical-corps-to-join-fight/article31371575.ece
18 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||A 2,700 km trip to meet son||A 50-year-old woman travelled 2,700 km in a car across six States in three days to meet her critically ill son, a BSF jawan in Jodhpur, despite strict lockdown due to COVID-19. Sheelamma Vasan said the condition of her son, Arun Kumar, 29, suffering from myositis (inflamation of muscles), was improving. “Due to God’s grace, we have reached here without any problems,” she said. The family was informed by a doctor at AIIMS in Jodhpur about Mr. Kumar’s condition, following which they undertook the journey from Kerala through Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Gujarat to reach Rajasthan. Union Minister V. Muraleedharan, office of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Congress leader Oommen Chandy helped the family get necessary travel passes. Volunteers of Hindu help line, a VHP organisation, also helped in arranging a cab and two drivers free of cost to take them to Jodhpur. After getting the necessary passes, Ms. Vasan, accompanied by her daughter-in-law Parvathy, set off on the journey from Panackachira village in Koruthodu panchayat in Kottayam on April 11 and reached Jodhpur on 14th, ‘Vishu’ (Malayalam new year). The jawan, who had come to his village in February, had expressed a desire to meet his mother and wife.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-2700-km-trip-to-meet-son/article31371580.ece
18 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Some trains should be run to take migrant workers home’||Some passenger trains should be run to take migrant workers home, former Railway Minister and Trinamool Congress’s Rajya Sabha MP Dinesh Trivedi told The Hindu . A country, he said, is judged by the way it treats its poor. “When the government arranged special planes to go to China, to Russia, to Europe and other parts of the world, how could they have not thought of people who needed [transport] the most, who have no means?” Mr. Trivedi asked. “Suspending passenger trains is like stopping the flow of blood in your body,” he said. The government could have developed a ‘Mazdoor Suvidha App’ for information on the running of trains and their schedule, Mr. Trivedi added. “The trains could have carried passengers in a limited capacity to ensure adherence to social distancing norms. Special trains running from point to point could have helped avoid stampede-like situations seen in the first few days of the lockdown or the belligerent crowds of migrant workers recently seen in Bandra in Mumbai and Surat in Gujarat. Food is not the only thing a migrant worker would need. So many of them have been crying, asking the government for help. It’s their right to reach their families at such a precarious hour,” he added. “The government should start special trains at the earliest,” Mr. Trivedi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/some-trains-should-be-run-to-take-migrant-workers-home/article31371544.ece
18 April 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal Governor says BJP MPs’ relief work being hindered||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Friday alleged that the State administration was impeding the relief work being undertaken by BJP MPs. In a series of tweets, where he mentioned four MPs representing the BJP, the Governor said he was concerned over the “politically motivated actions” meted out to the MPs by police and administration. He said he had raised the issue with the Lok Sabha Speaker. “Concerned at politically motivated actions meted out to MPs @Drsubhassarkar @johnbarlabjp @ArjunsinghWB @RajuBistaBJP by police and administration @MamataOfficial in over zealous mode. Flagged issue @loksabhaspeaker,” a tweet by the Governor said. Mr. Dhankhar described the action by State officials as “major misconduct”. “MPs have a pivotal role, particularly in our fight #Covid19. Impeding their activities by district administration is serious,” he wrote. The Governor made the remarks after the MPs whom he mentioned in his tweet alleged that the State government officials were not allowing them to distribute food and other materials. Bankura BJP MP Subhas Sarkar said the State government had lodged a criminal case against him for raising questions on social media over the “hasty cremation” of two deceased in Bankura. While she did not directly take the name of the Governor, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that the administration in the State was doing good work. “There are some who do not appreciate any good work done by us,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-governor-says-bjp-mps-relief-work-being-hindered/article31371550.ece
18 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||COVID-19 patient from Nagaland in limbo||His COVID-19 positive status seems to have made a 33-year-old man from Nagaland’s commercial hub Dimapur “stateless”. The man belongs to a major trading family that was one of the first Hindi-speaking settlers in Nagaland, which was part of Assam until December 1, 1963. He tested positive at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on April 12, hours after he was shifted from a private hospital in Dimapur in a critical condition. The ambulance driver and those who had accompanied the patient tested negative but were quarantined at the GMCH. Dimapur is about 280 km east of Guwahati. Nagaland’s Department of Health and Family Welfare has, however, has been maintaining the State has no positive case. Its periodic updates say: “The positive case of Nagaland have (sic) been added to the tally of Assam State as sampling was done in Assam...” “Yes, since he has tested positive there (GMCH), his case is not included,” Nagaland’s Home Commissioner Abhijit Sinha told The Hindu . But the Dimapur man finds no mention in the Assam government’s update on the number of COVID-19 positive cases. Assam Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma declined to comment on the transfer of the Dimapur man’s case to Assam, virtually putting him in limbo. “I stand by my tweets,” he said. None of his tweeted updates includes the Nagaland man in Assam. One of those tweets specified that a private hospital in Nagaland referred the Dimapur man to GMCH after he showed symptoms of COVID-19. “It is obvious that the man was infected in Nagaland but was sent to us because they could not handle such a case. If the Nagaland government wants to keep its slate clean, we cannot do anything about it,” an Assam health official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-patient-from-nagaland-in-limbo/article31371565.ece
18 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kisan Rath will link farmers to transport options||In a bid to ease the disruption of agricultural supply chains, especially for perishable produce, the Agriculture Ministry has launched a Kisan Rath mobile application, which will connect farmers and traders to a network of more than 5 lakh trucks and 20,000 tractors. The application, developed by the National Informatics Centre, is meant to help farmers and traders who are searching for vehicles to move produce. This includes primary transport from the farm to the mandis, local warehouses or the collection centres of farmer producer organisations, as well as the secondary transport from the local mandis to intra-and inter-State mandis, processing units, railway stations, warehouses or wholesalers. The application will lead to on-boarding of over 5 lakh trucks through transport aggregators as well as 20,000 tractors from the custom hiring centres run by farmer groups. Refrigerated vehicles will also be available. “It will be a stepping stone towards provision of timely transportation service at competitive rates for farmers and traders, besides achieving a reduction in food wastage,” said a Ministry statement. The application can be downloaded from Google Play Store.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kisan-rath-will-link-farmers-to-transport-options/article31371569.ece
18 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pakistan is exporting terror, says Army chief||It is very unfortunate that at a time when India and the whole world are fighting the COVID-19 menace, Pakistan continues to foment trouble and resorts to firing heavy calibre artillery, killing innocent Kashmiris, Army chief Gen. Manoj Naravane said in Kashmir on Friday. He asserted that all terror launch pads across the Line of Control (LoC) were active. “While we are busy not only helping our own citizens but the rest of the world by sending medical teams and exporting medicines, Pakistan is only exporting terror. This doesn’t auger well,” he told news agency ANI . “Even in hinterland, Pakistan backed terrorists are resorting to targeting innocent civilians with the aim of coercing them into following their azadi narrative,” he stated. Kashmir visit Gen. Naravane is on a two-day visit to Kashmir to review the security situation following the recent escalation in infiltration attempts and cease fire violations (CFV), including exchange of heavy artillery fire, that has resulted in civilian causalities on the Indian side. Gen. Naravane said local formation commanders were implementing the summer strategy based on various assessments. “Options short of war are available to us to provide befitting response to our adversaries,” he noted. On COVID-19 cases in the over Army, which has 1.3 million personnel, he said that so far, there have been only eight positive cases — two doctors and a nursing assistant. “Four others are responding well to treatment and we had one case in Ladakh. He is now free of the coronavirus and has rejoined duty,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pakistan-is-exporting-terror-says-army-chief/article31371537.ece
18 April 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra seeks Rs. 10,000 cr. for 5 months||Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging the Centre to rescue Maharashtra from an economic mess as a result of the lockdown. The Centre should provide an economic subsidy of Rs. 10,000 crore each for the next five months, increase the cap on fiscal deficit to 5%, and clear the pending compensation on account of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) to the tune of Rs. 15,558 crore, he said. “Maharashtra is putting up a good fight against the virus on all fronts and will surely win it, but for it to be successful, the Centre must cooperate with it on the economic front,” the letter said. “Maharashtra has the power to overcome the COVID-19 crisis on its own but due to the lockdown announced by the Central government from March 24 to May 3, the economy of the State is stagnated. Maharashtra’s reported GST income was down by Rs. 27,000 crore in March.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-seeks-rs-10000-cr-for-5-months/article31371573.ece
18 April 2020||Kolkata,||Situation is grim in Howrah, says Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday said that the COVID-19 outbreak in parts of Howrah district was very severe and asked that armed police be deployed in some of the areas of the district. The Chief Minister said that similar measures should be tried in a few zones in Kolkata to ensure people stayed at home and maintained social distancing in markets.  Ms. Banerjee, who held a video conference meeting from the State Secretariat with senior officials of the State government, District Magistrates and Police Superintendents, said a number of areas in several districts in the State had been designated “very sensitive, and sensitive”. The Chief Minister, whose government has been shying away from publicly announcing COVID-19 “hotspots,” for the first time mentioned Red, Orange and Green Zones — demarcations announced by the Central government to identify areas based on the number of cases of infections recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/situation-is-grim-in-howrah-says-mamata/article31371582.ece
18 April 2020||New Delhi,||Consider not charging quarterly fees: Nishank||Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank has urged private schools to not hike their annual fees this year. They should also consider not demanding upfront quarterly fees during this time of lockdown, he said in a series of tweets on Friday. “It has been brought to my notice by many parents from across the country that even in times of crisis, many schools are increasing their annual fees and collecting fees for three months at a time,” he said. He then requested schools to consider not doing so given that this is a time of global crisis. Acknowledging that schools need to be able to pay timely salaries to their teachers and other staff, he asked the State Education Departments to work out solutions which would protect the interests of both parents and schools. Several States have issued directions on this issue already. On Friday morning, the Delhi government directed private schools not to hike fees and not to charge anything more than a month’s tuition fee at this time. Even if parents are not able to pay fees, students cannot be removed from classes, it said. The Odisha and Maharashtra governments have also taken similar steps. “I am happy that some States have taken positive steps on this,” tweeted Mr. Nishank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/consider-not-charging-quarterly-fees-nishank/article31371542.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||To ease situation, RBI to pump in Rs. 1 lakh crore||Mr. Das also said onion prices have continued to decline while PDS kerosene prices have slumped by 24% in the first fortnight of April and domestic LPG prices declined by 8%. “In the period ahead, inflation could recede even further, barring supply disruption shocks and may even settle well below the target of 4% by the second half of 2020-21,” he said. He added that such an outlook would make policy space available to address the intensification of risks to growth and financial stability brought on by COVID-19. “This space needs to be used effectively and in time,” Mr. Das commented. The RBI had reduced the repo rate by 75 bps to 4.4% on March 27. The central bank has also reduced the reserve repo rate — while keeping the repo rate unchanged — by 25 bps to 3.5%. This was to discourage banks from parking their excess liquidity with RBI at the reverse repo rate. Observing that the surplus liquidity in the banking system has risen significantly in the wake of government spending and the various liquidity enhancing measures by RBI, Mr. Das said banks parked Rs. 6.9 lakh crore on April 15 through the reverse repo window.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/to-ease-situation-rbi-to-pump-in-rs-1-lakh-crore/article31371545.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Salaried borrowers continue to pay EMIs||“Some borrowers from the micro and medium enterprises have opted [for it],” said the managing director of another public sector bank. “But personal loans, term loans like housing loadns and vehicle loans, credit card loans, which carry higher rate of interest... many people have not opted [for a moratorium]. “In any case, the interest meter is running,” the official added, indicating that those who are in a position to repay ha not opted for the moratorium since they were aware of the cost. Some private sector lenders, including housing finance companies, however, are still entertaining requests from their customers on the moratorium issue. “A clear picture on how many of the salaried borrowers have availed themselves of the moratorium will emerge after some time, as customers still have some more days to indicate their choice,” an official from a private sector lender said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/salaried-borrowers-continue-to-pay-emis/article31371546.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Minor forest produce in exemption list||The new MHA guidelines have also expanded the types of plantations that will be permitted to resume activities with half their workforce from April 20 onwards. Earlier, tea, coffee and rubber plantations were given exemptions from the lockdown. Now, bamboo, cocoa, arecanut, and spices plantations — most of which are clustered in the southern States — will be added to the list, along with their harvesting, processing, packaging, sale and marketing. Cooperative credit societies, which are crucial to provide crop loans to farmers, will be exempted. Non- banking financial institutions, including housing finance companies and microfinance institutions, will also be allowed to function with a bare minimum of staff, the guidelines said. The Home Ministry has also added to the list construction activities in rural areas. They will be exempted from the lockdown from April 20. They include construction projects related to water supply and sanitation, as well as the installation of power transmission lines and telecom optic fibre and cable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minor-forest-produce-in-exemption-list/article31371552.ece
18 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Call to declare spinal cord injury patients ‘high-risk’||People with spinal cord injury want the Union Health Ministry to declare them “high-risk” category patients for COVID-19 infections. In a letter to the Ministries of Social Justice and Empowerment, and Health and Family Welfare, The Spinal Foundation, a self-help group for persons with spinal cord injuries patients, has pointed out that they are a vulnerable segment who need immediate hospital admission, and need to be put on oxygen support as the window period for healing is short. ‘Self-quarantine’ Komal Kamra, co-founder and director (development) of the Foundation, said that within two weeks of the first case of coronavirus infection in the country, the group had networked with its members, numbering around 25,000, to self-quarantine, as that was their only chance of survival. “We did this long before the PM declared it,” she added.  “We have been working in the last two months on prevention, reaching out to all in our network. We do have a deficient lung capacity and don’t have the window period that patients with other conditions might have,” Dr. Kamra, who is also a microbiologist, said. The members were not looking for freebies from the government but just that they be admitted to the hospital and provided the required support immediately, she said. S. Vaidyanathan, co-founder, said persons with spine injuries do not have control over their bladder and bowel movement. They are also vulnerable to UTI (urinary tract infections) and bed sores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/call-to-declare-spinal-cord-injury-patients-high-risk/article31371554.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Infection growth rate has slowed down: Centre||Mr. Agarwal said the recovery rate (number of people discharged) too had improved, standing now at nearly 13 %, while the ratio between the recovered positive cases and fatalities was at 80:20, which was much higher than several other countries. Indigenous manufacture of RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) kits had started and 10 lakh units a month would be produced from May. “Rapid antibody detection kits’ manufacture, with a capacity of 10 lakh kits a month, will also be started. Five lakh kits are distributed to districts on the basis of high case burden,’’ he said. The Ministry had shared forecasting tools with States/district administrators for better planning of infrastructure across COVID facilities based on the assessment of case loads. Cumulatively, 1,919 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals have been identified at both the Central and State levels, Mr. Agarwal noted. ICMR spokesperson R.R. Gangakhedkar said that while scientists would take some time to know which quasi-species of COVID-19 was predominant in the country, mutation (which is currently not seen), if any, will not likely make potential drugs and vaccine ineffective. “The ICMR is going to conduct a study in order to find out the potential effect of BCG vaccine in the fight against COVID-19,” he stated, noting that the vaccine would not be recommended even to health workers till the results of the study are obtained. On Friday, the 12th meeting of the Group of Ministers (GoM) on COVID-19 discussed the impact of the extended lockdown. Mr. Agarwal said, “The GoM discussed the creation of new rapid and accurate diagnostics that may give results within 30 minutes; augmentation of the testing capacity through 30 labs; development of innovative pooling strategies to boost the number of people who can be tested; indigenous synthesis of critical components that are limiting domestic test kit production; and increased viral sequencing, which can help in epidemiology and to identify potentially important mutations.” Progress was reported on vaccines development spanning inactivated virus, antibodies to major antigens, monoclonal, and RNA based vaccines. Convalescent plasma therapy had also been initiated on some sites, he pointed out. The ICMR said Union government was now working with global partners to ensure that effective vaccines were developed and made available as soon as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/infection-growth-rate-has-slowed-down-centre/article31371551.ece
18 April 2020||New Delhi,||Priyanka seeks task force for economic revival in U.P.||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has urged Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to set up a task force for the economic reconstruction of the State, the party said on Friday. In an April 16 letter, released by the party a day later, Ms. Vadra highlighted the problems faced by different sections of people because of the lockdown. “Corona pandemic has brought with it economic destruction. U.P.’s glass industry, brass industry, carpet industry, weaving, furniture making, leather industry, hosiery, clay pottery, fishery and other household industries have received a big jolt. Lakhs of weavers in the State are facing immense hardship as the economy of the State and the entire country has come to a standstill,” Ms. Vadra said.  Shortage of food “I request you that, for the reconstruction of the economy of the State, please constitute a task force with well-known experts on economy and planning.” Ms. Vadra pointed out that many unregistered workers were facing shortage of food and money. “Unregistered workers should also be given guarantee of economic relief. There are also reports of ration not being available. Kindly ensure that ration is being given to people even without ration card. Also I would request you to give pulses, edible oil, salt and spices along with wheat in the ration,” she said. In the two-page letter, she also requested the Chief Minister to announce an economic package for the MGNREGA workers and farmers who had been hit by unseasonal hailstorm, clear the past dues and an assurance to buy the crop of cane farmers and facilitate the use of combine harvester machines for the Rabi crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-seeks-task-force-for-economic-revival-in-up/article31371560.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Showcasing human traits||Rama’s display of equanimity when He is deprived of the coronation and is informed of the fourteen year banishment order by Kaikeyi has been eulogised as exemplary by Valmiki, Kamban and other poets. Undoubtedly, it has inspired and impressed posterity in many ways, but it has also appeared baffling and even exaggerated to many. It is perhaps to resolve such mixed responses that Valmiki takes the reader into the inner feelings of Rama when He opens out His heart to Lakshmana and Sita on the third night of the vana vasa, pointed out Swami Paramasukananda in a discourse. On the first night, the people of Ayodhya are with Him; on the second, Guha and Sumantra are present. It is on the third night that the three of them are alone for the first time. When they are to sleep on a bed of straw, Rama thinks of Dasaratha, Kaikeyi, Kausalya, Ayodhya and Bharata. He cannot avoid comparing the comforts of royal living with the life in the forest. Has not Dasaratha abandoned a good and worthy son like Him for the sake of Kaikeyi, his favourite wife? How unfortunate is Kausalya to be separated from her virtuous son? How easily has Kaikeyi accomplished her desired object? As Rama talks in this vein, anger and disappointment overtake Him. He even says He can vanquish Ayodhya singlehandedly and reverse the situation. But He immediately states that show of anger or valour in such a situation is against dharma, and He will not do so. Valmiki shows that when adversities strike irrevocably, even an avatara purusha cannot escape the play of emotions such as anger, fear and jealousy. Rama too faces the powerful force of human emotions and feelings but shows how these have to be handled by all with extreme care and with the focus on righteousness and dharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/showcasing-human-traits/article31371578.ece
18 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan initiates rapid testing||Rajasthan became the first State to carry out rapid testing for COVID-19 on Friday. Beginning at 5 p.m., 52 persons were tested at the Urban Primary Health Centre in Jaipur’s Topkhana Desh locality, also known as the Jaju Government Dispensary. All the 52 persons tested negative. Though the rapid test is not a confirmatory diagnosis for the SARS-CoV-2 infection, it helps in quickly isolating a person who tests positive in order to contain the spread of the virus. Additional Chief Secretary (Medical & Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said the tests would be conducted on a large scale in the hotspots. “The tests will be done at designated points on people with symptoms and on super spreaders... such as vegetable-vendors, shopkeepers and grocery store persons.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-initiates-rapid-testing/article31371563.ece
18 April 2020||Mumbai,||15 new cases take Dharavi’s tally to 101||The number of COVID-19 positive cases in Dharavi went up to 101, with 15 new cases reported on Friday. It also reported its tenth death, of a 62 year-old man. Asia’s largest slum reported its first case on April 1, a 56-year-old man from Dr. Baliga Nagar. He died soon after he tested positive. Of the 15 new cases, three each are from Muslim Nagar, the Matunga labour camp and Indira Nagar. Janata society and Social Nagar also reported fresh cases. Laxmi chawl, which reported its first case and death on Thursday, reported another case. Muslim Nagar and Mukund Nagar still make up the bulk of the cases in Dharavi. The tenth person to die in Dharavi is a 62-year-old man from the labour camp who died at Sion Hospital. He also had co-morbidities. “So far, we have screened 37,000 Dharavi residents for fever. Our testing is targeted: we look for symptomatic close contacts or symptomatic people in fever camps. That is why, our number of positive cases is high. Yesterday, of the 26 new cases reported, we found around 210 close contacts who were put under quarantine,” said Kiran Dighavkar, Assistant Municipal Commissioner of the G North ward. In order to tackle the rising number of cases, the BMC is in need of trained health staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/15-new-cases-take-dharavis-tally-to-101/article31371572.ece
18 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Test tribals in Godavari valley area’||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court for a direction to the government to conduct COVID-19 tests among the tribal population living along the Godavari river valley area. The petition, filed by Pentapati Pulla Rao, said the river belt, where the tribal people live, was close to the Polavaram irrigation project area. A large number of migrant workers was still on the project site and they did not have sanitisers and masks. These workers lived in close proximity to the tribal population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/test-tribals-in-godavari-valley-area/article31371581.ece
18 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC says bail to Goyal only after probe||The Supreme Court on Thursday did not grant immediate bail to Sandeep Goyal, accused in a GST fraud case, even as it directed the investigation into the case to be completed in three months. Mr. Goyal is accused of creating about 555 fake firms across the country to evade GST payments. The firms were used to issue invoices to the tune of Rs. 74 crore. The Rajasthan High Court had denied him bail in the case in February. A Bench led by Justice Mohan M. Shantanagoudar recorded in the order that Mr. Goyal should be released on bail if the probe into the case is not completed in three months. On the other hand, if the investigation is completed, a report shall be filed before the court concerned. “In case, the investigation is completed and the report is filed within three months from today, it is open for the petitioner to move the trial court for bail, if he so chooses. If such an application is filed, the same shall be considered on its own merits by the trial court,” the apex court order said. The Centre, through Additional Solicitor General K.M. Natraj, submitted that the investigation was still pending. He submitted that more fake firms created by the petitioner were being detected, and so, this was not the right time for allowing him bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-says-bail-to-goyal-only-after-probe/article31371538.ece
18 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||IAF attack chopper lands in Punjab field||An AH-64E Apache attack helicopter of the Indian Air Force (IAF) made a precautionary landing in a field in Hoshiarpur district of Punjab near Pathankot on Friday. The crew and the helicopter are safe, the IAF said. The Apaches are the latest induction into the IAF. “The helicopter, after approximately one hour of flying, had indications of a critical failure and carried out a safe landing west of Indora, Punjab. The captain of the aircraft took correct and prompt actions to recover the helicopter safely,” the IAF said in a statement. “The aircraft will be recovered after necessary rectification,” it added. India got 22 Apaches from Boeing under a Rs. 13,951.57-crore deal in September 2015. The first batch was formally inducted in September 2019. On Thursday, an IAF Cheetah utility helicopter made a precautionary landing on the Outer Ring Road after developing a technical snag shortly after take-off from the Hindon air base.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iaf-attack-chopper-lands-in-punjab-field/article31371547.ece
18 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. buses to shift students stuck in Kota||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday said it had sent 300 buses, including 200 from Agra, to bring back students of the State stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota, a hub of coaching centres for competitive examinations. A government official in Agra said 200 buses were sent from the district while another 100 were dispatched from Jhansi in Bundelkhand. Additional District Magistrate (City) Agra Prabha Kant Awasthi said that though the number of students of U.P. stranded in Kota was not known, each bus would carry 25 students. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said the move by U.P. could be followed by other States. “Students in Kota can be sent to their home states on the consent of the concerned State government so that these young boys & girls do not pani,” Mr. Gehlot said on Twitter. Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, however, expressed his reservations over the move, and called it an injustice and against the principle of lockdown. ( Inputs from Patna and Jaipur )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-buses-to-shift-students-stuck-in-kota/article31371557.ece
18 April 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Give Rs. 35,000 to PM-CARES for bail: HC||The Jharkhand High Court has granted bail to a former Member of Parliament and five others on condition of contributing Rs. 35,000 each to the PM-CARES Fund and downloading the Aarogya Setu mobile application. Six petitioners — including former BJP MP Som Marandi — were convicted in a case pertaining to their involvement in a rail roko agitation in Pakur district in 2012. They were in judicial custody since February. All the convicts had moved the High Court, seeking quashing of the sentence, and the case was pending before the court. The accused, however, sought bail. Justice Anubha Rawat Choudhary said the petitioners would have to deposit Rs. 35,000 each in the PM-CARES Fund as part of the bail conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/give-rs-35000-to-pm-cares-for-bail-hc/article31371553.ece
18 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||103 persons discharged from hospitals after treatment||Tamil Nadu reported 56 more COVID-19 cases on Friday even as 103 patients were discharged after treatment. With this, a total of 283 persons, who had tested positive for COVID-19, have returned home after treatment in the State. The State’s count of COVID-19 cases stood at 1,323. Of the new cases, Thanjavur accounted for 17 patients, while 11 more persons tested positive in Chennai. The city continued to top the tally with a total of 228 patients. A majority of the 56 patients who had tested positive were contacts of COVID-19 patients. Apart from Thanjavur and Chennai, 10 more districts have reported new cases. There were five patients each in Tenkasi and Tiruvallur, four from Tiruvarur, three each from Tiruchi and Vellore, two each from Theni, Villupuram and Nagapattinam, and one each from Dindigul and Karur, said a bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. Of the 103 discharged on Friday, 30 patients were from the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, a designated COVID-19 facility. R. Narayana Babu, dean of Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, said that the patients were advised to stay home for two weeks and follow a healthy diet. They were discharged after two consecutive samples returned negative for COVID-19. “They should be under home quarantine and not go out. Some of them are aged above 70 and have co-morbid conditions. They were dropped to their houses in ambulances, with three persons in one vehicle,” he said. Till now, 51 patients have been discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital in Karur; 33 from K.A.P.V. Medical College Hospital, Tiruchi; 27 from Coimbatore ESI Medical College Hospital; 19 from Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital; and 17 from the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Among the remaining patients, 12 have been discharged from various private hospitals. Consent for therapy Doctors of the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, said that they had addresses and phone numbers of patients and had informed them about convalescent plasma therapy. “We are expecting approval for the therapy. If they are willing, they can come forward and donate plasma to help other patients,” Dr. Babu said. Till now, a total of 29,673 samples have been lifted and sent for testing in the State. Of this, 21,628 samples have returned negative. Testing of 2,023 samples are under process . A total of 1,891 persons suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19 have been admitted to isolation wards. A higher number of persons have completed the 28-day home quarantine. Presently, 23,934 persons are under home quarantine, while another 34 are in government quarantine facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/103-persons-discharged-from-hospitals-after-treatment/article31371758.ece
18 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Residents’ entry into Koyambedu wholesale market banned||Chennai Corporation and Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority have decided to prevent residents from visiting Koyambedu wholesale market. At least one lakh visitors, including a number of traders and residents gather in the market every day, increasing the risk of spreading COVID-19. A meeting of senior officials of CMDA, Police and Chennai Corporation was held in Ripon Buildings on Friday in the presence of monitoring officers to contain the spread of COVID-19. At the meeting, civic officials decided to permit all traders till 7.30 a.m. every day. "Small traders can come till 7.30 a.m. Residents will not be allowed," said CMDA Member Secretary D.Karthikeyan. Representatives of traders associations, who participated in the meeting, said the civic officials should collect fine from residents who visit the Koyambedu wholesale market. But civic officials rejected the idea . Instead the officials have appealed to residents not to visit Koyambedu wholesale market to prevent crowding. Officials have issued over 8,000 passes for workers in Koyambedu wholesale market. Traders will not be issued passes. They will be identified by the kind of vehicles they use. The number of visitors to Koyambedu wholesale market is expected to reduce by more than 50% because of the restrictions to entry of residents, said officials. Street vendors and traders, who use tricycles and mini lorries, will be allowed into the market. On Friday, many retail traders complained that the restrictions by the police had caused traffic congestion. Police prevented traders from taking their vehicles inside the market on Friday. Supply of essential commodities was also disrupted in many areas. Relief for tenants In another meeting on Friday, Chennai Corporation Commissioner G.Prakash directed revenue officers to prevent landlords from harassing tenants, demanding rent. "The records of Chennai Corporation shows more than 30% of building occupied by tenants," said an official of Chennai Corporation. But estimates by housing and urban development department has found that 49% of residents in the city live in rental accommodations. The city has 20 lakh households and 12 lakh properties in the property tax net.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-entry-into-koyambedu-wholesale-market-banned/article31371717.ece
18 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||People throw caution to the wind, throng market||Despite the appeal to people not to visit markets and to avoid crowding, thousands flocked to the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC) on Friday to buy vegetables, fruits and flowers. Roads leading to the market were choked with vehicles. Two days ago, individuals and retail sellers gathered in large numbers with little regard to physical distancing norms and other restrictions put in place in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. On seeing the uncontrollable surge in the crowd, the Market Management Committee, which maintains the market, appealed to the public not to throng the market and advised them to buy vegetables over mobile apps. On Friday, there was a huge rush again. Roads were choked with two-wheelers, goods carriers and auto rickshaws as police refused to allow many vehicles to enter on grounds of restrictions. They allowed vehicles of bulk buyers and retailers who had the required passes. All entry points were sealed and notifications were affixed on walls of the market. Tough time for police Police personnel had a tough time regulating the crowd, as many individuals who came to market entered into arguments with the personnel. A police officer said, “A large number of people gathered here to buy vegetables and fruits and did not bother to maintain personal distancing. Some of them said they came all the way from Manali to buying coriander or a couple of brinjals. The market committee has appealed repeatedly to the public not to visit the market and to utilise mobile apps and the door delivery system created by the CMDA. Notifications were affixed at all entrances of the market and only pass-holders are allowed.” Sales in Koyambedu wholesale market were heavily hit on Thursday as many retailers were turned away too. Vehicles were stopped even a few km away on Kaliamman Koil Street, Koyambedu, as the police discouraged entry into the market without a pass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-throw-caution-to-the-wind-throng-market/article31371713.ece
18 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Crime rate in city down 71%||The threat of COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown has led to a dip in the crime rate by 71% in the city. In the last 22 days of the lockdown period, only five murders have been reported while it was eight during the corresponding period last year. No case of ‘murder for gain’ or ‘grave major theft’ has been reported. Only one case of robbery and four cases of dacoity have been reported. The number of house trespass and burglary which was 29 last year has reduced to 12 in these 22 days. Thefts have reduced to 49 from 257 and only seven chain snatching incidents were reported. “From an average of eight chain snatchings per day, it has come down to one. No grave theft was reported and a big drop was seen in house break-in cases,” said Additional Commissioner of Police, North R.Dhinakaran. Commissioner of Police A.K.Viswanathan told The Hindu , “Public are staying indoors day and night. There is restriction on movement of people on roads. Intensified patrolling is on and check points have been installed in 150 places. Outsiders can't come as transport services have been stopped due to lockdown.” Accident rate too has reduced considerably in the city. The number of fatal accidents reduced to 13 from 53. It is 75% lower, the police said. Likewise, traffic accidents have also come down by 81% with only 56 cases during the lockdown. Additional Commissioner of Police, South Prem Anand Sinha said, “When there is no movement, the crimes have to reduce. People are at home. The criminals are afraid of getting caught during vehicle checks.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crime-rate-in-city-down-71/article31371719.ece
18 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State receives 24,000 rapid test kits||The State has received 24,000 rapid test kits as part of an order placed by the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC). Officials of the Health Department said that the Government of India may also give the State a share from its consignment of test kits. The antibody-based testing kits are meant for testing in the community Earlier, TNMSC had placed an order for 4 lakh rapid test kits and was expecting part of the order to arrive. The Government of India had also placed orders for the kits with China. However, all supplies from China were diverted to the United States, resulting in a delay in getting the test kits. “With the kits reaching Chennai, we will issue a protocol for their use in the community. We will start using the kits in a day or two,” an official said. Confirming the arrival of the rapid test kits, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami told journalists in Salem that the Centre had also said that it would provide 12,000 kits. “We have informed them that this is inadequate and have requested for 50,000 kits. The Chief Secretary and the Health Minister spoke with the Union Health Minister in this regard and they have informed us that they would consider our request,” he said. Health Department officials have been maintaining that rapid test kits are only a surveillance tool to check if persons in the community — especially containment zones — have been exposed to the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-receives-24000-rapid-test-kits/article31371741.ece
18 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||127 pilgrims stranded in Varanasi return, quarantined||As many as 127 persons, most of them senior citizens, who went on a pilgrimage to Uttar Pradesh and got stranded in Varanasi, were transported by road to Tamil Nadu on Friday. They were quarantined in a defunct medical college near Tiruttani in Tiruvallur district and health workers collected samples from them for testing for COVID-19. According to police sources, the pilgrims, belonging to nine districts, including Chennai, Madurai, Tiruchi and Salem, had gone to Uttar Pradesh on a pilgrimage, in February. When they were about to commence their journey back, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the Janata Curfew on March 22. A couple of days later, the first phase of the nationwide lockdown was announced, confining them to Varanasi. Local authorities advised them not to move out of their halting place. After the lockdown was extended till May 3, they made an appeal to local authorities to assist them in reaching home. There were hundreds of pilgrims from all over the country who came on a pilgrimage and were stranded in Varanasi due to COVID-19. The Uttar Pradesh government arranged 22 special buses to transport them to their respective States. A total of 127 pilgrims belonging to Tamil Nadu arrived in three buses. “Though the pilgrims have no history of foreign travel, we have decided to quarantine them for at least 14 days. Health workers conducted a preliminary health screening and collected samples from those having pre-existing conditions,” a senior police official said. Tiruvallur Superintendent of Police P. Aravindan said a special team was deployed to ensure the safety of the pilgrims quarantined in the erstwhile medical college on the Chennai-Tirupati Highway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/127-pilgrims-stranded-in-varanasi-return-quarantined/article31371754.ece
18 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Power bills take precedence over safety in this containment zone||Unaware of the consequences, people have been entering the containment zone at MGR Nagar in Arumbakkam to pay their electricity bills fearing that their power connection may be cut. The Chennai Corporation has identified containment zones in 56 divisions. Inside the containment zones, movement is strictly prohibited with police posted at the entry points that are fully barricaded. At MGR Nagar in Arumbakkam, a containment zone, people have been visiting the Tangedco collection office. A policeman took down the name and numbers of the consumers while others looked on. Asked how could so many people enter the containment zone, one of them said they have been told to let the consumers go to pay power bills. The consumers, unaware of the risks of getting infected with COVID-19, keep going down the road to pay the power bills. Except for a few electricity offices in Arumbakkam, Santhome and Lakshmipuram in Kolathur that are in the containment zones, a majority of the sub-stations and section offices are located outside, Tangedco officials said. Directions have already been given to shift collection offices in the containment zones to nearby sub-stations or section offices, they added. Local officials have also been instructed to have limited staff and restricted timing to collect electricity bills from consumers in the section offices. Asked about consumers visiting containment zones, officials said the domestic consumers need not visit the local offices for paying the electricity bills. They can pay either online or pay after the lockdown ends, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-bills-take-precedence-over-safety-in-this-containment-zone/article31371711.ece
18 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Don’t click on suspicious links, warn police||“You have been booked for curfew violation. To report misuse call police department" – this was the message received by a 66-year-old Kumaresan, a resident of Madipakkam, on Thursday along with the link - TVM20200041739124. The cyber cell of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) has warned the public not to believe in such messages and click on such links as it may be a phishing attempt. They said that cyber criminals are using even CM relief fund mails to cheat people during the lockdown period. “My father had gone to the grocery shop a few days back on his bike during the permitted hours. When he got the message, we thought that the police were tracking through CCTV cameras. Then it struck me that the vehicle was registered in my mother’s name. So there is no way he could get the message and I warned him not to click the link,” said K. Harish, Kumaresan's son. A senior police officer said they were not sending any such message. “We fine violators on the spot and we don’t send messages. As of now we are not using CCTV cameras to fine motorists who step out during lockdown period.” An officer from the cyber cell said fraudsters would exploit the present situation and send phishing SMS messages and mails. “It may be a mail or message asking you to click on a link and contribute to CM relief fund. Though we did not get formal complaints about such scams, we got information that this is happening,” said an officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-click-on-suspicious-links-warn-police/article31371715.ece
18 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||RGGGH Cardiology block closed||The cardiology block of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) has been closed and disinfection measures are under way after a postgraduate doctor tested positive for COVID-19 two days ago. Apart from the PG doctor, two staff nurses of the department have also been tested for COVID-19. The result of one of the staff nurses returned positive on Friday, officials of the Health department said. According to officials, the department had skeletal staff, and a few in-patients due to the lockdown. “All the patients were shifted to another block. The cardiology services have not stopped. The department has only been relocated for disinfection measures. The entire block is being disinfected, and the work will take two to three days,” an official said. Doctors said there were already plans to fumigate the blocks one by one, for better preparation if a need for escalation arises in the future. Once sterilised and fumigated, the cardiology block would be reopened. The work was accelerated after the cardiology PG doctor tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rgggh-cardiology-block-closed/article31371722.ece
18 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu can now borrow Rs. 3,960 cr. under RBI’s loan facility||Tamil Nadu can now borrow Rs. 3,960 crore under the Ways and Means Advances (WMA) facility for State governments, after the Reserve Bank of India increased the limit by 60%. WMA is a temporary loan facility provided by the RBI to States to enable them to tide over temporary mismatches in the cash flow of their revenue receipts and expenditure. The tenure of the facility is three months, with a 21-day overdraft permitted. Tamil Nadu’s WMA limit has now increased to Rs. 3,960 crore from the earlier limit of Rs. 2,475 crore. According to ICRA Ratings, the increased limit will mean that States can borrow about Rs. 51,600 crore under the WMA facility now. The increased limit will be available till September 2020. According to data from the RBI, Tamil Nadu did not borrow under the WMA facility during 2019-2020. However, according to experts, given the current extraordinary situation when revenue collection has been hit due the lockdown and expenditure requirements have increased, Tamil Nadu might have to use the facility. The doubling of ways and means limits of States from 30% announced by the RBI earlier, was one of the demands made by Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami. “The higher WMA limit is expected to offer a short-term relief to States,” said Jayanta Roy, senior vice-president at ICRA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-can-now-borrow-rs-3960-cr-under-rbis-loan-facility/article31371755.ece
18 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Oppn. meet demands Rs. 1 cr. for victims’ kin||A multi-party meeting convened by the DMK on Thursday urged the government to give Rs. 1 crore as solatium to families of persons who died of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. At the meeting held through video-conferencing, leaders also demanded special pay and pay hike to government employees and medical professionals involved in combating the COVID-19 pandemic. “Families of government employees who die while on duty [battling the pandemic] should be given Rs. 1 crore compensation. The present compensation of Rs. 10 lakh is not adequate,” said a resolution adopted in the meeting chaired by DMK president M.K. Stalin. Contending that the 32,371 quarantine wards, 5,934 emergency wards and 3,371 ventilators were not adequate, the meeting said that it was a matter of concern that the State government had given up its rights to purchase medical equipment. “The State should procure them on a war footing and the Centre should not remain a mute spectator,” another resolution said. Those at the meeting also made a strong case for distributing Rs. 5,000 to all ration cardholders, saying that the lockdown had deprived farmers, fishermen, weavers and unorganised workers of their livelihoods. “The Centre should release Rs. 15,000 crore, demanded by the State government,” the resolution said. Leaders of parties including Congress, MDMK, CPI-M, CPI, VCK, MMK and IJK, who participated in the virtual meeting, alleged that even though the disease spread in China as early as December 2019, and the World Health Organisation (WHO) announced emergency measures, the BJP government at the Centre failed to take note of the situation seriously. “Even after the disease spread in Kerala, the Centre did not take precautionary measures,” the leaders said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oppn-meet-demands-rs-1-cr-for-victims-kin/article31371731.ece
18 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Women’s lockdown travails ignored’||A public interest litigation (PIL) petition has been filed in the Madras High Court accusing the State government of having completely neglected the travails faced by women because of significant increase in domestic violence cases during the nationwide lockdown to fight COVID-19. Advocate Sudha Ramalingam has filed the petition seeking a direction to the government to ensure that the victim women get effective access to the Protection Officers and that the latter were provided all necessary infrastructure required to rescue the victims. Justices R. Subbiah and R. Pongiappan directed the government to respond to the PIL petition next week after the petitioner’s counsel B. Poonguzhali pointed out that spurt in domestic violence cases during the lockdown had been reported even in the U.K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/womens-lockdown-travails-ignored/article31371729.ece
18 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||An initiative to help out artists in distress||Summer corresponds with the Tamil months Panguni, Chithirai and Vaikasi, and has always been a productive season for musicians and folk artists as many marriages and temple festivals, particularly in village temples in the southern districts, take place during this period. The COVID-19 pandemic, however, came in the way this year. As cancellation of marriages and temple festivals deprived the artists of their livelihood, vocalist and author T.M. Krishna and writer Lalitharam, the founders of Parivadhini which promotes nagaswaram and thavil music, have stepped in to help them by mobilising funds. “We have distributed over Rs. 23 lakh till now to around 700 artists and we still have a lot of requests for help,” said Mr. Krishna, who has set up the COVID-19 Artists Fund. The money is distributed through Sumanasa Foundation and Bhuvana Foundation. Online concert “I started with an online concert and donors have made their contributions. We directly transfer money to the accounts of the artists. We give each Rs. 3,500,” Mr. Krishna, a Magsaysay Award winner said. Nagaswaram and thavil players, instrument makers, artists involved in devotional music, karagattam, koothu, light and sound technicians, make-up artists, performers of naiyandimelam, pambai, parai, poikalkuthirai, regional theatre, silambam and tholpavaikoothu are among those provided with assistance by Mr. Krishna. “We consulted artists and experts in the field for identifying the deserving candidates and credited the money in their bank accounts. We give money to the individuals or to the troupe. We are maintaining transparency in our transactions,” Mr. Krishna explained. Mr. Lalitharam said Parivadhini was only playing the role of a facilitator linking the donors and the artists. “We have confined ourselves to nagaswaram and thavil players and we have selected artists who are above 60-years-old. Donors directly transfer the money to their accounts,” Mr. Lalitharam said. So far, Parivadhini has helped 155 nagaswaram and thavil players. “We request the donors to give Rs. 5,000 to each artist. So far, we have distributed Rs. 7,75,000,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-initiative-to-help-out-artists-in-distress/article31371737.ece
18 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Do not play with people’s lives: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday slammed Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and asked him not to play with the lives of the citizens of Tamil Nadu. He said that Mr. Palaniswami had been indulging in diversionary tactics by stating that there is no COVID-19 spread in the State, right from the beginning. In a statement on Friday, Mr. Stalin charged that it was due to the lies and deception of the State government that Tamil Nadu was facing such a crisis. “Do not hide the disease, do not give out false statistics, increase testing. Immediately purchase medical equipment, protective gear. Do not make erroneous, false promises that cannot be fulfilled. Take measures to somehow save the lives of the people of the State,” Mr. Stalin said. The DMK leader said that the Chief Minister was not only befooling himself by hiding the spread of the disease, he was also fooling the people. “I am repeatedly asking you not to play with the lives of the citizens for your political gains and agenda,” he said. Pointing to Mr. Palaniswami’s statement on Thursday at a press conference that COVID-19 cases would decline in another two to three days, Mr. Stalin wondered if he was trying to divert the issue. “The Chief Minister himself said that 17,835 persons have been tested so far. Of this, the results of 1,383 persons have not come yet. Those who know what percentage these 18,000 persons constitute out of the total population of Tamil Nadu should inform the Chief Minister about the statistic,” Mr. Stalin said. “Despite repeated warnings from everyone to buy more medical equipment and increase testing, he did not heed to this and is suddenly claiming that the spread has come down…this is like a cat closing its eyes and thinking that the whole world has become dark,” the DMK president charged. The leader of the Opposition also questioned how the Chief Minister was claiming that his government took swift action to control the spread of the disease. “When the intensity of the spread of COVID-19 came to light in January-end in Kerala, the Kerala government announced it as a disaster on February 4. But Mr. Palaniswami said that the borders of Tamil Nadu was closed on March 16. Was that swift action? Was that an action taken knowing the intensity of the disease?” Mr. Stalin said. The DMK leader further said that he kept insisting on an all-party meeting to be held so that they would be able to apprise the ruling party of the nature of the disease and the people’s expectations of the government. “But the Chief Minister, who nods to whatever the Prime Minister says, somehow forgot to speak about our request to hold an all-party meet,” he said. Mr. Stalin said that since the meeting was not held, he had sent a letter with various recommendations for the Chief Minister to consider, but Mr. Palaniswami had instead resorted to attacking him instead of implementing those recommendations or even saying that he would consider them. Seeking Centre’s help On the Chief Minister’s charge that DMK MPs should ask the Centre to help the State since the Opposition parties have 38 MPs in the Parliament, Mr. Stalin pointed out that DMK took part in the all-party meeting with the Prime Minister and the party’s representative T.R. Baalu had asked the Centre to provide the funds sought by the Tamil Nadu government to fight COVID-19. “He has also made the request in writing. Has the Chief Minister forgotten that?” Mr. Stalin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-play-with-peoples-lives-stalin/article31371728.ece
18 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man falls to death||A 33-year-old man succumbed to injuries after falling from a four-storeyed building in Ezhil Nagar, on a false alarm by one of his friends. The victim has been identified as Arumugam. He was smoking ganja and playing video games with his friends on the terrace. A friend raised a false alarm, saying police had arrived .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-falls-to-death/article31371720.ece
18 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro may resume work next week||Chennai Metro Rail is likely to resume the construction of phase I extension work in north Chennai early next week. Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) officials said they were awaiting clearance. “But we have to begin with very basic work and gradually with time, full-fledged work will follow. There will be a delay in completing this project but it is inevitable in such a situation when the whole country itself is under lockdown,” an official said. Different kinds of machinery have been lying in north Chennai for weeks now after the lockdown was imposed. Officials said they planned to put them to use only after fumigation of the sites and cleaning the machines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-may-resume-work-next-week/article31371714.ece
18 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC says no to opening liquor shops||The Madras High Court has dismissed a petition filed by an advocate seeking a direction to the Chief Secretary to open liquor shops for at least two hours a day during the lockdown, considering “the poor life of habitual drinkers”, and to operate a dedicated helpline to provide counselling to them and their families. Justices R. Subbiah and R. Pongiappan refused to entertain the case filed by S. Stalin Raja, of Choolaimedu, after observing that they do not see any infraction of Fundamental Rights guaranteed to the citizens due to the closure of liquor shops. They also feared chaos if liquor shops are opened during the lockdown. “The fact that the tipplers are yearning for liquor is not a ground for us to entertain this writ petition and issue a direction to the State government to reopen the liquor shops, even for a few hours a day,” the judges said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-says-no-to-opening-liquor-shops/article31371752.ece
18 April 2020||Chennai:,TAMIL NADU||Burglary in Virugambakkam||Unidentified persons broke into a house in Devaraj Nagar, Virugambakkam and decamped with two sovereigns of gold jewellery and Rs. 25,000 in cash. Police said Suresh, a call taxi driver, left his house after the lockdown and stayed with his parents .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burglary-in-virugambakkam/article31371725.ece
18 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna University cancels all end-semester exams||Anna University has cancelled all end-semester exams scheduled in April/May for all undergraduate and postgraduate programmes of the University departments and affiliated institutions. In a release, the registrar said the revised date of reopening and revised schedule for classes would be announced later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-university-cancels-all-end-semester-exams/article31371744.ece
18 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||17APRTRKNS1 TRK/MGNREGS/Works MGNREGS works begins in TN||Works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme have commenced in the State after a gap of three weeks. On Thursday, nearly 75,000 workers turned up in 21 districts. On Friday, the number went up to around 90,000 three districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17aprtrkns1-trkmgnregsworks-mgnregs-works-begins-in-tn/article31371742.ece
18 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||CM acting independent of cabinet: Alagiri||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri on Friday alleged that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was taking decisions on COVID-19, independent of his Cabinet. He said the Chief Minister was acting independently and his Cabinet was nowhere to be seen during the crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-acting-independent-of-cabinet-alagiri/article31371749.ece
18 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Public urged to comply with lockdown measures||Nearly 2,910 people have been tested so far for COVID-19 in the district and 127 have tested positive. Results are awaited for about 200 people, Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani told presspersons here on Friday. Those tested includes people who had returned from other States or countries, those with symptoms, and their first and second contacts. As many as 2,644 have tested negative and 127 have tested positive. With the number of positive cases second only to Chennai in the State, Coimbatore district is classified under red category. As many as 4,786 people, who returned from other States or countries and their contacts, were under home quarantine last month and only 539 are under home quarantine now. Further, 18 places, including 10 in the city, are marked as containment zones in the district, the Collector said. With the co-operation of the public, the first phase of the lockdown was completed and the current phase till May 3 is crucial for the district to come to green or no- case category. The district has seven testing equipment for COVID-19 and can do upto 800 tests a day. The district caters to the testing needs of Tiruppur and the Nilgiris districts too, he added. Coimbatore district has 9.76 lakh rice cards and 97 % of them have received the cash benefit of Rs. 1000 each and 74 % have received the relief kits. There is no shortage of provisions to be distributed through the PDS outlets, he said. In an effort to ensure that the public do not face any hassle in procuring their essential needs, grocery shops and medical shops are open and these need to ensure that the customers maintain personal distancing. Action taken against shops Apart from the vegetable markets that operate out of the bus stands, 160 vehicles are deployed to go to different parts of the city for vegetable sale. Action has been taken on nealry five shops for not maintaining personal distancing or for selling products at excess price. Stressing on the need for the public to maintain personal distancing and staying indoors, the Collector warned of action against those violating the lockdown order – action that includes slapping fines and seizing vehicles. People should avoid going out daily for buy essential commodities. They would do well to store at least a week’s needs. They should avoid roaming on two-wheelers. If they were to go out to buy essential commodities, one person in a family should take that responsibility. And, if people were to venture they must wear masks, the release said and warned that the administration would strictly deal with those found on the streets in violation of the lockdown order. Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Sumit Saran said there are nearly 1,500 personnel who are ensuring that the lockdown is not violated in the city. As many as 33 check posts have been set up, he said. So far, the police have seized 3,500 vehicles and these are released in 10 days from the date of seizure. The donations received so far for the Chief Minister’s COVID-19 relief fund is Rs. 11 crore and more are expected, Mr. Rajamani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-urged-to-comply-with-lockdown-measures/article31371781.ece
18 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||12 patients discharged in Coimbatore||Twelve patients were discharged on Thursday from the Government Medical College and the ESI Hospital after recovering from COVID-19. Health Department officials said that all the patients had attended the Delhi religious conference. Of the 12, nine were from Mettupalayam and three from Pollachi. The patients were discharged after 14 days of treatment and will be under 14 days’ house quarantine after discharge. With this, 26 patients have been discharged from the ESI Hospital so far, officials said. Apart from the 12, two women — one from Coimbatore city and one from Kinathukadavu — who were admitted with COVID-19 symptoms were also discharged on testing negative. All the patients were discharged at around 9.30 p.m. on Thursday, and were sent to their respective residences in private vehicles. As of Thursday, Coimbatore district saw the confirmation of 127 COVID-19 cases. According to G. Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of health services (Coimbatore), a COVID-19 patient has to undergo three tests before getting discharged. The swab samples of a recovering patient will be taken on the 13th and 14th day of treatment at the hospital. If both test results confirm that the patient is negative for COVID-19, an X-ray test will be done to ensure that the patient’s lungs are free of infections. Once the X-ray is clear, the patient is discharged, Dr. Kumar said. “Though 14 patients were to be discharged [from ESI Hospital on Thursday], two patients did not clear the X-ray test and were not discharged,” he said. To ensure the mental health of the discharged patients, counselling will be made available to them during home quarantine. Psychiatrists will provide counselling through phone or video calls, according to Dr. Kumar. Policemen test negative All 47 swab samples of police personnel attached to the Thudiyalur police station, who interacted with a social worker who tested positive for COVID-19, have tested negative, confirmed Health Department officials on Friday. Apart from the police, 20 more medical professionals from a primary health centre also tested negative for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-patients-discharged-in-coimbatore/article31371791.ece
18 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Centre urged to pay April wages to workers from unclaimed ESI funds||The Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) in the district have appealed to the Union Government to pay wages to workers for April from the unclaimed ESI funds with it. Heads of 19 industrial associations told press persons here on Friday that the MSMEs usually had cash flow for just one or two weeks. Most of the banks were yet to reverse the interest deducted this month though the RBI had issued moratorium guidelines to the banks for three months. This had affected the liquidity availability with the industries. Though most of the industries had paid wages to the workers for March, they need government support to pay the April wages. R. Ramamurthy, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, said the industries had paid the workers for last month. During the lockdown period of April, the units would not have the capacity to pay the entire month’s salary without running their business. Hence, they would not be able to pay the salaries and wages for the workers for the entire month. The salaries and wages should be paid by the government, he said. According to Jayakumar Ramdass, president of Coimbatore Industrial Infrastructure Association, the ESI is an insurance and it should be used in times of emergency. The unclaimed funds with ESI should be used to pay the wages. Support from banks Mr. Ramamurthy said the main requirement of the MSMEs now was support from the banks. The government should issue directions to RBI, which in turn should issue instructions to the banks. “There should be directions and not guidelines. The banks need to trust the MSMEs. We are unable to get the benefits that have been announced for the MSMEs,” he said. “While the COVID-19 curve should flatten, the GDP curve should start going up,” added G. Ezhil, president of the Institute of Indian Foundrymen, Coimbatore. Only a stimulus package could help the industries to restart activities. V. Lakshminarayanaswamy, president of the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, said the industries did not know how many workers would return to work when the factories reopened. Many migrant workers would want to return home. So, labour availability would be a problem. “The government should extend the March 31 deadline for all compliances and payments to May 31,” he said. The association presidents said they were willing to reopen only when the situation was under control. Only those industries that were into production of healthcare products and those who had export obligations were asking permission to operate now. Grant sought The industries also sought Rs. 5 lakh grant to micro units and Rs. 15 lakh grant to small-scale units from the State Government. They jointly submitted their demands to the Central and State Governments on Friday. A special package that would ensure fund availability to the industries to restart was the need of the hour, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-urged-to-pay-april-wages-to-workers-from-unclaimed-esi-funds/article31371768.ece
18 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TN Medical Council serves show cause notice on CMCH official||The Tamil Nadu Medical Council (TNMC) has served a show cause notice on T. Sadagopan, Medical Superintendent of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), for alleged inappropriate treatment of two post-graduate medical students of the institution who tested positive for COVID-19. It was alleged that Dr. Sadagopan removed the two PG students from a WhatsApp group of doctors of CMCH and Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, after one of them pleaded for hydroxychloroquine, an anti-malaria drug recommended for COVID-19 management, on Monday. The Council issued the show cause notice on the senior doctor based on an email complaint from the PG medical students, follow-up inquires by its office, and a report published on the columns of The Hindu on April 15. The notice dated April 15 termed the complaint against Dr. Sadagopan as treatment 'unbecoming of a medical practitioner' to two COVID-19 positive post graduate doctors who risked their life while posted to look after Corona Ward duty at ESI Hospital. According to Dr. Sadagopan, he removed only one PG student, not the one who asked for hydroxychloroquine in the WhatsApp group, and it was incidental as he was removing PG students from the group to make it a group of teachers. On Thursday, P. Kalidas, senior professor from the Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, was appointed to hold full additional charge of the Dean replacing B. Asokan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-medical-council-serves-show-cause-notice-on-cmch-official/article31371790.ece
18 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Constable does his bit, donates a month’s salary to CMPRF||A Grade-I constable with the District Armed Reserve on Friday donated a month’s salary to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund for the fight against COVID-19 here on Friday. S. Babu handed over a demand draft worth Rs. 25,788 to District Superintendent of Police Sujit Kumar on Friday morning. “Ever since the lockdown was announced, I wanted to contribute something,” Mr. Babu told The Hindu over phone, referring to the plights of migrant workers and others affected by the lockdown. A helping hand The 35-year-old joined the Armed Reserve in 2008, and worked in Chennai and Palani, before ending up at the Coimbatore District Armed Reserve. He was recently promoted as a Grade-I constable. “I was on duty for 15 days in Mettupalayam,” he said. There, he was deployed in COVID-19 containment zones. He returned to the city on Wednesday. “We do not know what is going to happen because of this [COVID-19]. So I decided to help the people and the government in whatever way I could,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-does-his-bit-donates-a-months-salary-to-cmprf/article31371746.ece
18 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Sale of vegetables, fruits in vehicles soon’||The Horticulture Department is taking steps to sell vegetables and fruits through direct sales points and also in vehicles at consumers’ door steps, says a release from the district administration. Most of the fruits on 11,526 ha and vegetables on 10,989 ha in the district are nearing harvest. The Department is taking steps to help the farmers sell their produce without difficulty during the lockdown period. If the farmers have difficulty in harvesting and selling their produce, they can get in touch with the block horticulture officer, the release says. The Tamil Nadu Horticulture Development Agency is taking steps to sell the fruits and vegetables through its direct sales points. Additionally, it is also taking steps through its farmers’ producers organisation to sell those using vehicles, at consumers’ door steps, the release says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sale-of-vegetables-fruits-in-vehicles-soon/article31371763.ece
18 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Cash assistance for village temple priests||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department has announced that it will provide cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 to the priests of village temples in the district. According to a release, the cash assistance will be provided to those registered with the Village Temple Priests Welfare Board at the HR&CE Coimbatore Assistant Commissioner’s office. The priests must be within 60 years of age as of March 31 and must provide the following particulars: name, mobile number, bank passbook details and identity card. To ensure personal distancing, the priests were asked not to visit the Assistant Commissioner’s office. Rather, they shall provide the details either through email ataccbe@tnhrce.comor through WhatsApp to the following numbers: 94874 24850 (Coimbatore East), 90475 35656 (Coimbatore West), 94422 05863 (Pollachi), 73737 39898 (Mettupalayam), 96004 84573 (Kinathukadavu) and 98949 60691 (Sulur), the release says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-assistance-for-village-temple-priests/article31371772.ece
18 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Leopard found dead||A two-year-old male leopard was found dead with multiple injuries inside the Thadagam Reserve Forest on Thursday. Forest Department officials said the carcass was found by a team of forest personnel during their patrolling on Thursday evening to the west of Anuvavi Subramania Swami Temple. On information, District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh inspected the spot. A team of veterinarians conducted an autopsy in the presence of Mr. Venkatesh on Friday. It was concluded that the leopard might have been injured during a fight with another leopard and that it suffered internal haemorrhages due to the injuries. Later, the carcass was burnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-found-dead/article31371771.ece
18 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||One more held in sexual assault case||The Singanallur police on Thursday arrested one more accused on charges of sexually assaulting a 15-year-old girl since 2016. The police said that the 17-year-old youth was arrested from Puliyakulam and was remanded in judicial custody. Two more accused are yet to be arrested, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-more-held-in-sexual-assault-case/article31371789.ece
18 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||58 booked for not wearing masks||Coimbatore City Police have booked 58 persons for not wearing masks while travelling on two-wheelers on Thursday, thereby allegedly allowing the spread of COVID-19. All the 58 vehicles were also seized, police said. The persons were booked under section 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/58-booked-for-not-wearing-masks/article31371787.ece
18 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Improve water distribution: MLA||Residents in many areas that fell under his Singanallur Assembly Constituency were getting water once in 8 to 12 days, MLA N. Karthik said. In a release, he urged the Coimbatore Corporation to improve water supply to such an extent that it supplied water once in four days. If the situation was so bad right at the start of the summer, the plight of the residents in the weeks to come was unimaginable, he added. Residents in Peelamedu, Avarampalayam, Siddhapudur, Pappanaickenpalayam, Peelamedu Pudur, SIHS Colony, Ondipudur, Singanallur, Upplilipalayam, Sowripalayam, Udayampalayam, G.M. Nagar and Saramedu were the worst affected. The reason for the Corporation’s poor supply of drinking water was its failure to improve drinking infrastructure in the last nine years, he said and wanted the Corporation to focus its attention on improving water supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/improve-water-distribution-mla/article31371762.ece
18 April 2020||COIMBATORE/CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Donations pour in for CM’s Public Relief Fund||G. Kuppuswamy Naidu Memorial Hospital donated Rs. 1 crore to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) for the fight against COVID-19, on April 15. Its president S. Pathy presented the cheque to Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani at the Coimbatore District Collectorate. Hand sanitisers worth Rs. 10 lakh were also donated. The hospital’s CEO, Ragupathy Veluswamy, and District Collector K. Rajamani were present. Kovai Medical Center and Hospital donated Rs. 1 crore to CMPRF. The hospital has also donated protective equipment and 1,200 litres of hand sanitiser to the Coimbatore Corporation. Hyundai Motor India on Friday handed over 500 sets of dry rations to Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash and 500 sets of dry rations to director of industrial safety and health M.V. Senthil Kumar and joint director of industrial safety and health S. Ananth. Former MP P.H. Manoj Pandian has contributed Rs. 2 lakh to CMPRF.  (With inputs from Coimbatore bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/donations-pour-in-for-cms-public-relief-fund/article31371743.ece
18 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Leopard trapped in cage, released into forest||A five-year-old female leopard was found trapped in a cage kept at a farm land near Periyakulam village in Sathyamangalam here on Friday. On Thursday, a leopard had entered the village, located near the forest area, and killed a dog, causing panic among people. On information, forest personnel inspected the spot and confirmed the animal as leopard. A team from Sathyamangalam Forest Division of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) placed a cage in the farm land. On Friday morning, the personnel found a leopard trapped in the cage. The leopard was released into a deep forest area at Bhavani Sagar Forest Range in the afternoon. Villagers said the leopard had been killing cattle in the past one month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-trapped-in-cage-released-into-forest/article31371766.ece
18 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Eggs handed over||Members of Erode District Egg Poultry Farmers Welfare Association handed over 25,000 eggs to Collector C. Kathiravan and Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan here on Friday. Mr. Kathiravan said that the association had promised to provide one lakh eggs and in first phase they had supplied 25,000 eggs that would be given to patients, doctors, nurses and workers at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. Also, eggs would be distributed to police personnel, conservancy workers and other workers involved in COVID-19 prevention activities across the district.    Collector C. Kathiravan said that grocery shops would function every day in the district. On April 15, the district administration had announced that the shops would function only on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.    Three-layer surgical masks made by inmates of Coimbatore Central Prison will be available for Rs. 10 a piece. In a release on Friday, Prison Superintendent of Police R. Krishnaraj said the masks would be available at the Freedom Fuel Station in Gandhipuram. For details, contact 0422-2303062 and 0422-2307218.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eggs-handed-over/article31371764.ece
18 April 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Begepalli declared containment zone||Begepalli in Hosur has been declared as the first containment zone in Krishnagiri district. The area has been declared containment zone after a resident of Begepalli was traced as a contact of a COVID-19 positive patient in a neighbouring district. Speaking to The Hindu , Collector S. Prabhakar said, it was pre-emptive declaration of containment area. “Swab sample of the contact has been sent for COVID testing, but even if it returns negative, it is possible the virus can show up later. The entire area has been declared a containment zone for two weeks,” Dr. Prabhakar said. However, it was unclear if it was a phone location contact or a direct contact, but authorities have stepped up pre-emptive containment. Five km of the area will be barricaded, disallowing public movement. Hosur Corporation has allocated 150 of its 700 conservancy workers exclusively for Begepalli. According to Balakrishnan, Commissioner, Hosur Corporation, the area has been barricaded and no outsiders will be allowed inside and no residents will be allowed outside. “Essential commodity movement will happen up to a check-post, where residents may collect their supplies, including milk and vegetables.” Workers allocated “We have allocated 150 workers for disinfection and all the conservancy workers are given safety gear that includes gloves, masks, boots. Similarly, another area in Hosur town is under scanner, after a possible contact traced to a COVID-19 positive patient in Erode. However, the authorities are yet to provide authoritative confirmation. “I’ve asked the Deputy Director, Health and the Tahsildar to verify and revert,” Dr. Prabhakar said. As of date, 536 samples have been lifted and all of them have returned negative, said the Deputy Director of Health V. Govindan. Similarly, only 49 people, who had returned from abroad are in home quarantine. The remaining have been released from home quarantine upon completion of 28 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/begepalli-declared-containment-zone/article31371779.ece
18 April 2020||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||VC conducts review meeting||Vice-Chancellor of Alagappa University N. Rajendran conducted a review meeting with Deans of Faculties, Heads of Departments, Directors and Principals of constituent colleges here on Friday through video conferencing. They discussed on research, completion of syllabus, project proposals and conduct of internal assessment tests. Online classes The head of departments told the VC that classes were taking place online regularly. They were also supervising research through various tools. The V-C informed that a new website - Alagappa University Online Platform (ALUOP - had been launched and online study materials could be uploaded on it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vc-conducts-review-meeting/article31372018.ece
18 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Do not gather for Chithirai festival, devotees told||Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar said that devotees should not gather for the Chithirai festival this year due to lockdown imposed in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Every year, lakhs of devotees would throng Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple, Sundararaja Perumal Temple, Tallakulam Perumal Temple and Tirupparankundram’s Subramaniyaswami Temple for festivities that would go on for two weeks. Speaking at a press conference on Friday, he said that any religious event leading to huge gathering would be strictly banned. However, he could not say whether or not rituals and pujas would take place on a small-scale in these temples. “Considering that 22 districts in the State have been declared as COVID-19 hotspots, no festival or religious event, which would lead to huge gathering, would be held. It is a nationwide strategy adopted to tackle the disease,” he said. Meenakshi Temple Joint Commissioner N. Natarajan said that a meeting was held with the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department officials and priests of temples on Friday. It was decided that all events that would usually take place at the Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple including flag hoisting and ‘pattabishekam’ would not take place this year. The celestial wedding of Lord Sundareswarar and Goddesses Meenakshi on May 4 will take place with four priests and will be webcast between 9.05 a.m. and 9.25 a.m. The ritual will be webcast onwww.maduraimeenakshi.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-gather-for-chithirai-festival-devotees-told/article31372035.ece
18 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown woes: troubled times ahead for domestic workers||Domestic workers in many parts of Madurai are yet to get paid for the month of March and several have been asked to stop coming to work from May. COVID-19 has deeply affected their livelihood, they say. Speaking to The Hindu , M. Pandiammal, a domestic worker who used to travel from Melur to Uthangudi for work everyday, says that she was yet to receive payment from some of the houses. “I work at five houses. Although two households paid my salary for March, the rest are yet to pay me. I am unable to travel to their houses due to lack of public transport. I have given them the bank account details of my son. I hope they will send the payment soon,” she says. K. Selvi, another worker who works at Tirumohur, says that she has been told not to come for work in two houses. With two young daughters who will be going to classes 9 and 12 and one daughter who is to be married later this month, she says she doesn’t know how she will afford the expenses. “It is difficult to imagine how I will manage. My husband too cannot earn as he is a laundry man and no one is undertaking his services for now,” she says. She adds that she has spent Rs. 10,000 printing invitations and distributing it to her relatives. She says that the wedding will now be postponed but the expense will continue to rise. Lily Pushpam from S. S. Colony says that her employers ask her to come twice or three times a week for doing ‘light work’. However, when she arrives, she spends at least an hour cleaning, mopping and washing. “Since all the members of the house are at home, my employer also makes me cut vegetables without any additional pay. We are being paid merely Rs. 1,500 for the entire month when we are risking our health and going to work,” she says. State Coordinator, Tamil Nadu Domestic Workers’ Union, P. Clarammal, says that even before COVID-19, domestic workers were poorly paid. Now that they are at risk of getting infected, it would only be right if employees paid them fair wages. “How long can these families survive with the ration rice and Rs. 1,000 that the State Government has provided?” she asks. She adds that the State Government has promised to disburse an additional Rs. 1,000 to workers from the unorganised sector if they have registered with the Tamil Nadu Domestic Workers Welfare Board. “However, several young and old women are yet to register with the board. They will not be able to tide through this economic crisis without help,” she says. A senior official from the Labour department says that the State government has provided instructions to collect names and bank account details of those who are part of the board. The department has joined hands with social workers like Ms. Clarammal to get the account details. “We will try to accommodate as many workers as possible. We realise that it is a difficult time,” the officer says. Ms. Clarammal says that timely aid will be beneficial to these women as the otherwise they would borrow heavily and fall into a debt trap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-woes-troubled-times-ahead-for-domestic-workers/article31372031.ece
18 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Help desk and CCTV cameras to be installed at containment zones||Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan, who inspected the containment zones in the city on Friday, ordered the officials to install CCTV cameras and set up a help desk in each containment zone. There are seven containment zones within the city - Melamadai, Narimedu, P and T Nagar, Mahaboopalayam, S.V. P. Nagar in Anaiyur, Kuppu Pillai Thoppu Street and Mathichiyam. All these containment zones, which fall within one kilometre radius from residences where COVID-19 positive cases were residing, are barricaded and completely cordoned off. A corporation official said that the decision for installing CCTV cameras was announced after the Commissioner noticed people crowding outside their homes during the inspection. “A help desk is also set up at each of the containment zones, where designated corporation officials and volunteers would be present. The residents can contact them in case they need any help. These steps were taken to ensure that residents stay indoors,” he said. The Commissioner monitored the distribution of ‘kabasura kudineer,’ a Siddha drug, at the containment zones. He inspected the functioning of a mobile ATM deployed by State Bank of India in Ansari Nagar of Mahaboopalayam, also a containment zone. He instructed officials to regularly disinfect the machine, after every time a resident withdraws cash. Corporation officials said pamphlets, which have details of shops that will deliver products at homes, have been distributed to all residents in the containment zone. Regular disinfection is also being undertaken at these zones, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/help-desk-and-cctv-cameras-to-be-installed-at-containment-zones/article31372033.ece
18 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||With no festivals to perform, folk artists stare at a bleak future||With temple and cultural festivals taking a backseat in the wake of the spread of COVID-19, folk artists, who are dependent on these events, say that their livelihood has taken a hit. They have urged the State government to look into their plight and enhance financial assistance. “Usually the season is at its peak from February to July when there are a maximum number of events. But now our livelihood has been affected. Folk artists are a depressed lot. People are suffering from hunger and the assistance provided by the government so far is not enough,” said K. Muthupandi, a folk artist. Mr. Muthupandi, who is also the secretary of Madurai Gramiya Naatupura Themmangu Isai Kalaignargal Nala Sangam, said that once the lockdown was lifted, the common man will resume his occupation. But, in the case of folk artists, the peak season would be over. “Even during normal times, we have to borrow money during off season for sustenance. But, now we are facing a difficult situation. Though the government has engaged us for many events, they should also address our need and provide us with adequate assistance,” he said. President of the association, M. Srinivasan said, “this is the time when people come to us for advance booking. But with lockdown in force, everything has come to an end.” There are over 1,000 folk artists spread across Madurai district. With no adequate assistance, folk artists are facing hardship. “We hope that the government will look into our plight and do the needful”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-no-festivals-to-perform-folk-artists-stare-at-a-bleak-future/article31372041.ece
18 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Pudhu Mandapam shopkeepers a worried lot||Every summer, Pudhu Mandapam in Madurai bustles with activity as devotees throng these shops to make their purchases for the annual Chithirai festival. During this time, it is common to notice dressmakers working on bright, colourful fabric and shops selling packages containing thaali threads, turmeric and kungumam . “It is usually during the Chithirai festival that we earn decent profits. Business is dull during the rest of the year,” says N. Ramachandran, a tailor. However, this summer has turned out to be disastrous for these shopkeepers. With the lockdown imposed as a measure to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, the district administration has announced that no crowds of devotees would be allowed to gather for this year’s Chithirai festival. This has affected the livelihood of these shopkeepers, as there are no buyers for their products. Mr. Ramachandran says that hundreds of tailors stitch various types of garments for the devotees who dress up for different roles during the festival- salladam (trousers), kachai (cloth tied around the waist) and urma (head gear). “All these costumes require detailed work and hence we all start working on them from the beginning of March. Some tailors have even stitched around 40 of these costumes. But, because of the current crisis we cannot sell them and it will be difficult for us to repay the moneylenders,” he says. L. R. T. Sanjayan, another tailor, says that they would be forced to sell these garments at a lower price during the next Chithirai festival. “The velvet fabric present in these costumes tends to appear old if the material is kept unused for a long time,” he says. Similarly, hundreds of shopkeepers selling products like anklets, sticks, umbrellas, bangles, turmeric and kungumam are also affected, says the president of Pudhu Mandapam Traders and Tailors Association, G. Muthupandi. “This is a first-of-its-kind crisis that all the shopkeepers have to face. Most of us have been involved in this business for many generations and are dependent on it for our livelihoods,” he says. One way of supporting the tailors would be to grant them permission to stitch face masks and the district administration can procure it from them, suggests Mr. Muthupandi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pudhu-mandapam-shopkeepers-a-worried-lot/article31372039.ece
18 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||No meat and fish shops on April 19||Collector T. G. Vinay stated that there will be no sale of meat and fish on April 19. In a press statement, the Collector said that since physical distancing was not followed while purchasing meat and fish in the last couple of Sundays, the administration has decided that no shops selling these products will be opened on April 19. He added that a communication has been sent to retailers and wholesalers regarding the ban on sales. For three weeks now, fish and meat shops in Madurai had seen massive crowds with disregard for social distancing on the weekends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-meat-and-fish-shops-on-april-19/article31372042.ece
18 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||2 policemen transferred||Two police personnel have been transferred from Palamedu police station to the Armed Reserve for allowing a crowd to gather and offer prayers while burying a temple bull on April 12. Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan has ordered the transfer of Sub-Inspector of Police Jayakannan and Head Constable Maniraj. The police had booked seven persons for violating the curfew order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-policemen-transferred/article31372028.ece
18 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Chinmaya Mission donates Rs. 3 cr.||Chinmaya Mission has donated Rs. 3 crore to the Prime Minister’s relief fund for measures being taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. A statement said that the organisation also assisted local administrations in distributing rations, groceries and food to needy people through volunteers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chinmaya-mission-donates-rs-3-cr/article31372027.ece
18 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bid to make liquor lands youth in soup||An attempt to make liquor illegally by some youth near Samayanallur has landed them in trouble. The police arrested six persons who had allowed some mixed fruit juice laced with yeast to ferment by burying it in a secluded place near a temple at Thenur on April 12. However, the Samayanallur police got a tip-off about the illegal activity. They rushed to the spot and pulled out the plastic container. They also arrested six persons, including, S. Ashok (27), Rajeshkumar (25) and four others. The police said that Ashok and others had attempted to make the liquor by watching a video posted on a social media platform. The accused who were booked under Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act have been remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-to-make-liquor-lands-youth-in-soup/article31372040.ece
18 April 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to open temporary Amma Canteen on Government Hospital premises||The district unit of the Communist Party of India- Marxist has appealed to the Collector to make necessary arrangements for the poorer sections to get food when they come to the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital situated a few km away from Pudukottai Town along the highway taking into account their plight during the current lockdown period. A lot of visitors and out-patients come to the government hospital every day and not many of them were in a position to buy from the canteen that was being run on contract ng inside the hospital premises due to the cost. Mobile food outlets which were functioning outside the hospital premises were not there owing to the enforcement of prohibitory orders. Taking into account the plight of the poorer sections who account for the majority coming to the hospital as visitors to see the in-patients and as out-patients, the district administration could temporarily open a Amma Canteen inside the sprawling hospital premises for their benefit, the party's district secretary S. Kavivarman said in an appeal to the Collector P. Uma Maheswari. The opening of the temporary Amma Canteen during the lockdown period would augur well for the poorer sections as they would be able to buy food. The administration could make the temporary Amma Canteen function with restricted timings and also ensure personal distancing by deploying volunteers and police personnel. If this was not possible, the district administration could permit service and voluntary organisations to provide food for the poorer coming to the hospitals and also ensure personal distancing, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-open-temporary-amma-canteen-on-government-hospital-premises/article31372058.ece
18 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Panel to list sectors cleared to operate on Monday: CM||The S. Krishnan Committee, constituted to frame guidelines for opening of select industries after April 20 and for the way forward after the lockdown ends on May 3, will submit its report to the State government on Monday, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said in Salem on Friday. Addressing journalists after a review meeting with officials on containment measures against the spread of COVID-19, he said, “The Centre has offered relaxations for operating certain industries [after April 20]. A committee headed by Finance Secretary S. Krishnan has been formed to study directions of the Centre, and it will review the industries that can be permitted to operate. It will be announced on Monday.” However, industries falling within containment zones will not be allowed to function. “Sago unit operators have petitioned, requesting to allow them to operate units. Farmers’ associations have also petitioned to allow them to harvest the crops. These requests are under the government’s consideration. These will be reviewed on April 20,” he said. “If the industry falls in the list permitted by the Centre to operate, the State government will take steps to give them permission for operations,” he added. Sugar factories have already received permission to operate, to protect sugarcane farmers. Conditional sanction The Puducherry government has given conditional sanction for industries to resume production after April 20, when partial relaxations announced by the Centre will take effect. A formal notification in this regard is expected to be issued shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-to-list-sectors-cleared-to-operate-on-monday-cm/article31371751.ece
18 April 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||DMK MP, MLA complain against CM||SALEM: DMK Lok Sabha MP S.R. Parthibhan and MLA R. Rajendran on Friday complained to Salem City Police Commissioner T. Senthilkumar seeking action against Chief Minister Edappadi.K. Palaniswami and other officials for conducting a review meeting on Friday, “defying prohibitory orders” during the COVID-19 lockdown. In their petition, they alleged that the Chief Minister held a meeting with over 28 officials at the Salem Collectorate, violating prohibitory orders and orders issued under the Disaster Management Act. They alleged that officials attended the meeting despite being fully aware that such participation would amount to violation of prohibitory orders. The petitioners also mentioned that Chennai police recently denied permission to an all-party meet convened by DMK president M K Stalin citing the prohibitory orders. Mr. Rajendran alleged that the Chief Minister misused his power and conducted the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-mp-mla-complain-against-cm/article31371769.ece
18 April 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||CM rebuts his charge||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday said there was no need to respond to criticisms levelled by DMK president M.K. Stalin over handling COVID-19 issues. He accused the Leader of Opposition of not behaving responsibly.  “There is no need to reply to his criticisms. An opposition leader should behave responsibly,” he told mediapersons. “[Stalin is]…criticising the government every day and making announcements; the entire government machinery is functioning. All the officials are working day and night, staying away from family, risking their lives and serving the public. This is the time to save lives. If some good suggestions are made (by the Opposition), the government is ready to accept and implement it,” Mr. Palaniswami added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-plays-down-criticism/article31371735.ece
18 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Drone video becomes viral||A video of drone surveillance released by the Salem City Police on its social media page has become viral and garnered mixed response. Following suit of the Tiruppur police, the city police on Friday released a video of its drone surveillance in Nagaramalai area. When police personnel from Alagapuram station used drone cameras to monitor the public movement, they noticed a few youth playing cricket in the foothills. Noticing the drone, the youth started running in various directions. While one went and hid behind a tree and tried to shoo away the drone with a cricket bat, another tried to cover his face with his T-shirt. The police released the video on its Facebook page and it garnered over 6,000 reactions by Friday evening and over 250 comments. Over 7,000 persons have shared the video. The police are using drones to monitor illegal distillation in certain hilly terrains and at the containment zones here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drone-video-becomes-viral/article31371770.ece
18 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CM reviews containment measures||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday conducted a review of COVID-19 containment measures and relief measures taken in the district. District Collector S.A. Raman and other senior officials took part in the review meeting. Talking to presspersons, Mr. Palaniswami said there were nine containment zones in Salem district, of which four were within Corporation limits and five in rural areas. “Over 85% of the people have received essential materials through ration shops here and 98% of ration card holders who are provided with rice have received the cash relief of Rs. 1,000,” he said. Officials had been advised to provide with essential materials to migrant labourers. Mr .Palaniswami said that 2,51,348 persons had benefited through 15 Amma Unavagams in the district since the beginning of the lockdown. The district administration had made arrangements with 78 large retail shops for door delivery of goods and 23,000 persons had benefited through this. He also said that 150 vehicles were being operated for delivery of vegetables at the doorstep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-reviews-containment-measures/article31371785.ece
18 April 2020||Special Correspondent,TAMIL NADU||Monitoring officer reviews precautionary measures||Out of 4,777 foreign returnees, 4,573 completed the 28-day home quarantine and the remaining 204 were continued to be under medical supervision, said Collector K Veera Raghava Rao here on Friday. Speaking at a review meeting chaired by State government-appointed Special Monitoring Officer C. Kamaraj and Inspector General of Police (south zone) K.P. Shanmuga Rajeshwaran, he said that out of 41 persons who attended the New Delhi conference, 25 were traced and as many as 737 of their family members and first contacts were screened. Ten tested positive to COVID-19, 301 tested negative and the results of the remaining 426 were awaited. Out of the 10, eight were undergoing treatment at Sivaganga Government Medical College Hospital and two were discharged two days ago. The Collector explained the steps taken in the containment zones in Paramakudi and Kilakarai. The Monitoring Officer inspected the spots at Thiruvalluvar Nagar and Chinnakadai Street in Paramakudi. Mr. Kamaraj appealed to the officials and frontline staff to take due care of themselves while visiting the containment zones and interacting with patients who tested positive. Superintendent of Police V. Vinay Kumar, Additional Collector M. Pradeep Kumar, DRO C. Muthumari, Sub-Collector N.O. Sugaputra, Joint Director of Health P. Venkatachalam, Dean M Alli, Joint Director of Agriculture S.S. Sheik Abdullah, Deputy Directors of Health Indra and Ajit participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitoring-officer-reviews-precautionary-measures/article31372022.ece
18 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Sanitary workers’ service is ‘not recognised’||There is no doubt that in the fight against the coronavirus, sanitary workers are also playing a vital role in checking the spread of the dreaded virus. But when it comes to recognition of their service, it seems that sanitary workers who sweat it out in hospitals, the main battle fields against COVID 19, remain a neglected lot. Several political parties have started distributing edible items to the families of sanitary workers engaged in the COVID-19 prevention exercises in public places. The DMK youth wing, the AIADMK representatives and voluntary organisations have distributed assistance to the sanitary workers employed in various local bodies in the district. On the other hand, hundreds of sanitary workers hired for the upkeep of the hospitals remain a neglected lot as they were made to remain content with the Rs. 1000 cash assistance, along with ‘priceless’ groceries extended to the ration cardholders through the public distribution system. A sanitary wing staff Mallika (name changed) deployed for the sanitary work at Rajah Mirasdar Government Hospital by a contractor said that she had not received any assistance other than the one extended by the government as relief. Similar was the grouse of sanitary workers attached to other Government Hospitals, upgraded Primary Health Care Centres, PHCs as wells private hospitals in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sanitary-workers-service-is-not-recognised/article31372064.ece
18 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||TU exams postponed||The Tamil University, Thanjavur, has postponed all the examinations to be conducted by this month-end and as well first week of May. In a press release,Vice-chancellor G.Balasubramanian said that the decision to postpone the examinations was taken in view of the nation-wide lockdown and the revised schedule of examinations would be announced later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tu-exams-postponed/article31372053.ece
18 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||People converge to take pledge||A group people numbering around 50 converged near the Anna Statue at Peravurani on Friday and took a pledge to fight the novel coronavirus. Officials from the Revenue Department and police, the president, R.P. Rajendran and treasurer, S. Jabahurali of Peravurani Traders’ Association assembled near the Anna Statue around noon where an image of coronavirus virus in ‘rangoli’ was drawn on the carriageway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-converge-to-take-pledge/article31372066.ece
18 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||THANJAVUR||Revenue officials led by the Peravurani Tahsildar K. Jayalakshmi sealed three shops for functioning at Peravurani on April 16. According to the tahsildar, when a team led by her was going rounds in the town to ensure compliance of lockdown regulations by the public and traders, they found two cloth merchants and a vessel merchant had kept their establishments open for business. Subsequently, the shops were sealed, she added.    Beer Mohammed Ansari of Thiruthuraipoondi, a lorry driver, was arrested on the charge of defying the lockdown regulations on April 16. According to police, he was found transporting M-sand load in his vehicle from Pattukottai to Thiruthuraipoondi. His vehicle was intercepted by the Muthupettai police at Thambikottai Kizhakadu check post on April 16 night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thanjavur/article31372065.ece
18 April 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Now, an App to get groceries||Collector M. Pallavi Baldev launched a mobile App - Theni Sandhai - through which residents can place orders for grocery. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, she said that the district administration had been taking a number of measures to ensure that residents stayed indoors. Keeping this in mind, the officials introduced select mobile numbers and publicised them so that the public could buy groceries. However, the grocers found some difficulties in processing the orders. So, the App was developed. People could download the Theni Sandhai app from Google Play Store, she said. S. Balachander, Assistant Collector (Training), said the groceries were available in three packs - for Rs. 1,999, Rs. 999 and Rs. 499. The products would be of good quality and reasonably priced and any number of packs could be ordered. The payment could be paid either online or by cash during delivery at home. The orders would be delivered from two days of ordering. Along with every order, two face masks would be given free. Besides, gold coin weighing one sovereign would be given to a winner through lucky draw. The initiative had been taken to ensure that the residents stayed indoors even while having access to quality groceries. Based on the response, vegetables, fruits and medicines would also be made available through the App.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-an-app-to-get-groceries/article31372020.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||27 persons test positive for COVID-19 in Central region||Twenty-seven patients, including 14 persons who had attended the religious conference in New Delhi early in March, tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Friday. Twenty six of the patients were men — 17 belonged to Thanjavur, four to Tiruvarur, three to Tiruchi and two to Nagapattinam. The other patient was a woman from Thogamalai in Karur district. For the first time, Thanajvur saw a sudden spike in positive cases in a single day on Friday. According to official sources, all those who tested positive on Friday were in home quarantine or were their contacts. While the major chunk of today's positive cases of seven was reported at Adhiramapattinam, four reported positive at Kumbakonam, two each at Thiruvaiyaru and Vallam and one each at Chakkarapali and Thanjavur. Out of these, 11 had travelled to the religious conference in New Delhi and the remaining were their contacts, sources said. Meanwhile, four persons in Tiruvarur district — three from Valangaiman and one from Thiruthuraipoondi — tested positive and all of them were contacts of primary positive cases with a travel history to the New Delhi conference, sources added. In Tiruchi, three men, aged 50, 58 and 60, tested positive for COVID-19 at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Friday. All three patients had travelled to New Delhi late in March to attend the conference. Sources at the MGMGH said that the patients were initially kept under institutional quarantine in Jamal Mohammed College as they did not show any symptom. However, they were shifted to the isolation ward after developing symptoms of fever and difficulty in breathing on April 14, they said. The total number of patients undergoing treatment at the GH is now 17. Around 15 patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness are also under observation. Meanwhile, 682 primary contacts and 36 family members of those patients who tested positive were traced by the Department of Health, Revenue officials and the police in the district. Throat swabs and blood samples were lifted for all and 344 have returned negative while the test results of 331 were awaited. The remaining seven had tested positive and were among those undergoing treatment at the GH, said a release from the District Collectorate. Of the 3916 people who had been home quarantined after travelling abroad or to other States, 3,911 have completed the 28-day quarantine period and can venture out if necessary. The district authorities have notified 20 containment zones, including 9 in the city.  Karur A 35-year-old woman of Thogamalai tested positive for the novel corona virus in Karur on Friday. She is a family member of a patient who had previously tested positive for the virus. The Government Medical College Hospital here has 21 patients undergoing treatment, excluding patients who were brought from Namakkal and Dindigul districts, official sources said. One patient who had recovered was discharged on Friday morning. Nagapattinam Two patients, both hailing from Nagapattinam town tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, raising the district total to 40. Both were contacts of individuals who had travelled to New Delhi and had tested positive. Both patients are undergoing treatment at Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research in Puducherry. Pudukottai A 27-year-old woman hailing from Melmangalam in Pudukottai district has been admitted with fever and cold on Friday. She is the only patient at the isolation ward here. Her samples have been lifted and sent to the K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College in Tiruchi for testing. Ariyalur A total of 137 individuals who had been home quarantined completed the 28-day-waiting period here on Friday. Including the patient who was discharged on Friday afternoon, a total of 38 patients had been discharged from the District Headquarters Hospital. Samples were lifted from eight patients and sent to K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/27-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-central-region/article31372054.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Corporation to issue colour-coded passes||The Tiruchi City Corporation has announced that colour-coded passes would be distributed to the 2.5 lakh residents within city limits to regulate the number of people who step out of their houses during the lockdown. The move, which will be enforced from April 20, came after the police department had observed that many residents had been flouting the norms and roaming the streets without valid reasons. The Corporation began issuing the cards in Srirangam zone on Friday. The four zones — Ariyamangalam, Golden Rock, K Abishekapuram and Srirangam — have been further divided by the ward numbers and residents in specified wards would be given a certain coloured pass. Only individuals with the right coloured pass on the stipulated days would be allowed outdoors. Entry into the temporary markets would also be restricted accordingly. S. Sivasubramanian, Commissioner, said that residents of the 65 wards would be allowed to venture out only once a week. “If a resident from a ward is allowed to go out on Monday, he can only go again next Monday. This will reduce overcrowding at all public places,” he said. Residents would be allowed to venture out on the specified day and wards as per the following schedule: Mondays: 7, 14, 15, 33, 28, 41, 50, 52, 1, 8, 18, 42, 44, 30 and 38. Tuesdays: 19, 20, 21, 29, 54, 51, 53, 2, 9, 17, 43, 46 and 31. Thursdays: 24, 25, 62, 55, 58, 60, 5, 13, 12, 35, 32, 48, 65. Fridays: 37, 39, 6, 11, 49, 59, 57, 26, 27, 64. At the temporary markets, only those residing within two km radius would be allowed. Mr. Sivasubramanian said that those flouting these norms, or trying to go to a different market would have their vehicles impounded, driving licence seized and should also pay a fine. Only residents above the age of 18 and below 60 will be allowed to use the pass. Along with the pass, an identity proof must also be carried. In Manapparai, a similar move has been initiated by the district administration. Residents of ward number 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 will be allowed to venture out on Monday and issued green coloured cards. On Tuesday, residents of 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 will be allowed with pink colour cards. On Wednesday residents of 12, 13, 14, 15, will be allowed to go out with red coloured cards. On Thursday residents of 16, 17, 18, 19 will be allowed with yellow colour cards. On Friday residents of 20, 21 will be allowed with blue cards and on Saturday residents of 22, 23, 24, 25, 26 and 27 will be allowed holding orange colour cards, an official release said,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-corporation-to-issue-colour-coded-passes/article31372069.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Pedal-operated handwashing system to avoid contamination||The Golden Rock Railway Workshop here has developed a pedal-operated handwashing system which does away with the need to touch taps and thereby prevent inter-person contamination. The system dispenses water and liquid soap when the user presses the pedals using his or her feet. It has been developed with in-house expertise and would be put to use at the workshop and the railway hospital in Tiruchi. The workshop, which had already modified over 100 passenger compartments into quarantine / isolation coaches for COVID-19, had designed the new system for internal requirements in the wake of the COVID 19 pandemic. “Since the new system is a pedal-operated unit, hand usage was completely avoided, which, in turn, prevents inter-person contamination,”Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram told The Hindu . It will have a wash basin connected with two pipelines one for soap and another for water. Soap and water would be kept in separate containers to facilitate faster handwashing. It was a simple and compact unit in which hand sanitising and handwashing with water could be done at one place. The new system could be duplicated easily to develop any numbers based on requirements. The plan was to provide three sets to the Divisional Railway Hospital at Golden Rock here and 10 sets for internal use in the workshop premises for use by employees, said Mr.Shyamadhar Ram. The system would prevent from touching metal surface - a potential source of virus spread - thereby preventing inter-person contamination, he further said. The workshop has also commenced work on manufacturing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) coveralls to be supplied to railway doctors and para-medical team in the wake of spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The work commenced recently upon receiving the raw materials from the Jagadhri Railway Workshop in Haryana in Northern Railway which had done the procurement for all workshops centrally for the manufacture of PPE coveralls. With the available material supplied, it was possible to make 220 PPEs. The workshop had already made about 50 PPEs and the remaining coveralls would be ready by Saturday. The design diagrams and a video of the PPEs were received from the Jagadhri Workshop based on which the coveralls were being made. The workshop had engaged tailors from outside for carrying out the work inside the workshop by ensuring precautionary measures for them in the wake of COVID-19. The Railway Board, New Delhi had asked the Golden Rock Railway Workshop and other workshops across the country to make the PPEs for the railway doctors and para-medical teams in the wake of COVID-19 spread. The authorities said the workshop had been given a target to make 1,000 PPEs by April and another 2,000 PPEs by May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pedal-operated-handwashing-system-to-avoid-contamination/article31372057.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Police personnel donate blood to overcome shortage||Police personnel and Friends of Police acted swiftly in donating blood to the bank in Ariyalur Government Hospital on Friday after learning about its shortage during the lockdown period. Information about shortage of blood came to the notice of the Ariyalur district police from the hospital circles since the donors could not venture out. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Ariyalur, P. Thirumeni, Ariyalur Traffic Reserve Inspector Mathivanan and a group of Friends of Police visited the Ariyalur Government Hospital and donated blood. About 10 units of blood was collected, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-personnel-donate-blood-to-overcome-shortage/article31372071.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Prices of cooking oil on the upswing in Tiruchi||Despite a fall in demand, prices of cooking oil have gone up in the city over the past few days. The price of popular cooking oils such as groundnut oil, sunflower oil and palm oil has risen following the enforcement of the prohibitory orders to check the spread of the novel corona virus. Traders attribute the rise in prices to problems in transportation, cost of production and labour wages during the lockdown period. Only gingelly oil, which is not in big demand, has been ruling steady, report city traders. “Sunflower and palm oil are normally in high demand. While sunflower oil is used mostly in households, palm oil is largely used by tea stalls and hotels. The prices of both have gone up,” said A.P.Krishnamoorthy of a leading oil mill in the city. Currently, sunflower oil is sold at around Rs. 100 a kg, up from Rs. 85, while the price of ground nut oil has touched Rs. 160 a kg against the pre-lockdown price of Rs. 135. The price of palm oil has risen by around Rs. 10 a kg and that of coconut oil by Rs. 5 a kg, he said. Prices of some of the products vary in the retail markets depending on the quality. Surprisingly, the price of palm oil has increased even though the demand for palm oil has dipped sharply as hotels and tea stalls remain closed. The price of the oil has increased as there are no imports now, claimed a trader. Big oil traders and mills buy sunflower oil in bulk from major oil companies and source palm oil from importers and refiners in Chennai. Coconut oil is sourced from Kangeyam and Tuticorin. The demand for sunflower oil remains high among middle income groups. “There is a tendency among people to stock up in view of the lock down. Also the average consumption of families has also gone up as people are staying at home consuming home cooked food,” said R.Vasudevan, a trader in cooking oil in the Gandhi Market area. Traders in the city, however, expect the prices to come down once the lockdown ends. Already supplies had eased, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prices-of-cooking-oil-on-the-upswing-in-tiruchi/article31372076.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Steady migration of workforce from Tiruchi||There has been steady migration of workforce out of Tiruchi over the years due to the setback faced by the heavy engineering industries that had been too dependent on BHEL for conversion orders. According to an estimate by industry sources, the downtrend has caused displacement of three-fourth of 25,000 industrial workers over the last seven to eight years, in consonance with the decline in the orderbook position of BHEL. Even among the 7,000 plus workers, only one-third get continuous employment, the sources said. A good number of the young workers with exposure to high-pressure welding have seemingly migrated to other countries for their livelihood, S. Sampath, Managing Director, Velmurugan Industries, said. “A small section of the workers have also returned to villages though eking out a livelihood from agriculture is still a tough proposition unlike the assured salaries industrial jobs,” Mr. Sampath observed. Several of the ancilliary units that have witnessed migration of workers are faced with the challenge of transitioning from heavy fabrication to making of compact and critical components. The erosion of workforce has been happening over the last six to seven years. The likelihood of the workers returning to Tiruchi any time soon seems to be bleak since the revival process will be quite time-consuming, according to the bankers. The ancilliary units are understandably exploring the scope for diversification and have sought a special package from the Reserve Bank of India for extricating the sector for the sick conditions, to begin with. The ancillaries are hopeful of a turnaround as the orderbook of the BHEL was still strong for replacement and modernisation projects, sources said. With BHEL identifying solar, aerospace defence, and metro and high speed rail projects as growth drivers, the ancillaries are hopeful of tweaking their capabilities to suit the new requirements. The problem the ancillaries now face is infusion of capital for diversification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steady-migration-of-workforce-from-tiruchi/article31372063.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Liquor bottles shifted from TASMAC outlets to safer locations||Instances of theft of liquor bottles from TASMAC outlets during the lockdown period have prompted the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation to shift the stock from the shops to godowns and other chosen locations as a safety measure. The exercise of shifting liquor bottles packed in various boxes began a few days ago across the district by the TASMAC authorities to the chosen spots where armed police personnel have been deployed. Official sources said Tiruchi district accounts for a total number of 183 TASMAC liquor outlets of which 71 were functioning under Tiruchi city corporation limits. Ever since the lockdown was announced and prohibitory were orders clamped to check the spread of COVID-19 pandemic the TASMAC liquor outlets have been shut since then. The sources said instances of theft of liquor bottles on few occasions from certain outlets prompted the TASMAC authorities to shift the consignments to chosen spots as a safety measure. Accordingly, the exercise began late last month concentrating on shops functioning in Tiruchi rural police limits. The sources said liquor bottles kept in various boxes in 127 shops had been shifted on different dates to places such as Thuvakudi godown, Thevar Hall in Tiruchi city, Musiri Warehousing Corporation besides in a wedding hall at Manapparai. Closed-circuit television units had been installed at the chosen places where the liquor bottles had been shifted from the outlets. Armed police personnel had been posted at these locations, the sources said adding that TASMAC staff in shifts had been deployed to maintain a watch. The process of shifting liquor bottles from the remaining 56 outlets functioning within the Tiruchi City Corporation limits was carried out on Friday amid police protection. The bottles from the 56 shops had been kept at the Kalaiarangam close to the central bus stand here. The 183 TASMAC outlets accounts for over 50,000 boxes of liquor bottles with its worth being around Rs. 28 crore, the sources further said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liquor-bottles-shifted-from-tasmac-outlets-to-safer-locations/article31372060.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Charitable organisations welcome relaxation||Charitable organisations have heaved a sigh of relief over the leverage provided to them by the High Court for distributing food, medicines and other essentials to the needy people during the nationwide lockdown for containment of COVID 19 virus. While expressing their readiness to comply with the safety parameters to prevent community transmission of the virus, volunteers of a welfare organisation Maruvom Maatruvom who have plans to provide provisions to 50 households in Vazhavanthankottai feel they are now in a position to reach out to the needy without any hassles. Routing of the relief materials through the government machinery is not a practical proposition, according to a senior functionary of Democratic Youth Federation of India. The High Court has now come to the support of the NGOs with its directive to the State Government that it is enough if the NGOs intimate the district administration 48 hours in advance prior to distribution of food and other materials. “There is no second thought on the genuineness of the government's stand that effective measures are required to prevent community transmission of the virus. At the same time, the initiatives of the philanthropists to reach out to the poor through proper compliance with the safety protocol must not be hampered in any way,” said S. Selvaraj, Tiruverumbur Union Secretary of Communist Party of India. There were clear indications that the first phase of lockdown for 21 days had pushed many in the unorganised sector into penury. The extension of restriction would have led to desperation of people, particularly in rural parts, Mr. Selvaraj said. There is a requirement for monitoring of the quality of food materials by the Food Safety Officer. The preparation and distribution of the food has to be effected within the zone, in respect of Corporation limits, and within the police station limits in rural areas. The charitable organisations are also prepared to complete the food distribution within the specified time, and to ensure that the place where the food is likely to be served is sanitised by the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/charitable-organisations-welcome-relaxation/article31372052.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Following medical and dietary regimen will help recover quickly from COVID-19’||Following the dietary and medical regimen recommended by doctors can help people who test positive for the novel corona virus (COVID-19) to recover soon, according to a city-based academic who was discharged after treatment on Thursday. M. Sheik Mohamed, Director of Aiman College and former Principal of Jamal Mohamed College, is currently convalescing at home in Khaja Nagar after spending a fortnight under the care of the team at the COVID-19 isolation ward of the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Puthur. The 68-year-old had tested positive for the disease upon returning from Delhi, where he was one among 100 people from Tiruchi district who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference. “We had reached Delhi by train via Chennai on March 21 for the event that was to be held until the 24th, but were asked to return home after the second day, as the Government announced the nationwide lockdown, to stem the spread of the virus,” Mr. Mohamed recalled speaking to The Hindu . The ensuing closure of rail and road traffic led the Tamil Nadu delegates to the airports, where tickets got snapped up rapidly. “We spent a long time waiting for our flight to take off because the pilots were doubtful about returning in time for the lockdown deadline the next day,” said Mr. Mohamed. The returnees were examined in Chennai on March 24, and further advised to submit themselves for medical testing in their respective home towns. “I didn’t realise the seriousness of the situation until I returned home by bus from Chennai, around 2 hours before the lock down began on March 25. Though I tested negative initially, I had already asked my wife to shift to the first floor, to be with my son and his family. I was staying in isolation just to be on the safe side,” Mr. Mohamed said. On April 1, he decided to voluntarily get re-tested at MGMGH, responding to a call by local authorities. He was among 38 people from the meeting who were declared positive, and admitted for treatment at the isolation ward. “Thirteen of us were kept in a large dormitory with cots placed at a safe distance from one another. Besides nutritious meals at regular hours, we were also allowed to have home-cooked food. The prescriptions were adjusted to accommodate each individual’s medication requirements for other disorders. Everything, from the attitude of the healthcare workers, to the motivation from the authorities, was excellent,” recalled Mr. Mohamed. Despite the widespread anxiety and nervousness about the pandemic, Mr. Mohamed said he and the other patients found solace in regular prayers and meditation. On April 16, Mr. Mohamed was among those who were found to be clear of the disease after two succesive tests and cleared to return home for a further 15 days of self-isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/following-medical-and-dietary-regimen-will-help-recover-quickly-from-covid-19/article31372055.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T makes 3D-printed face shield||The National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi (NIT-T), has developed prototypes of 3D-printed face shield and re-usable mask at its Siemens Centre of Excellence (CoE) for cost-effective protection against SARS-CoV-2. The institute has created capacity at the CoE to manufacture 200 face shields that will provide a barrier coverage to the front and the sides of the face, without hampering vision for front line workers and sanitation staff, by teaming up with Mister Bot Education, Tiruchi. Established in 2018, the Siemens Centre of Excellence in Manufacturing operates with a primary focus to create a robust technical education eco-system through its experience in industrial products and services. The main advantage of the face mask developed at the CoE is that it can be reused after washing with soap and water. Trials are also in progress to develop re-usable 3D-printed masks, NIT-T director Mini Shaji Thomas said. The Institute, she said, had released seed funding for developing an IoT (Internet of Things)-based smart ventilator at low cost, in three months, with MIT Square, Bengaluru, and Sri Sairam Engineering College, Chennai, as technology development partners. The Institute’s Department of Chemical Engineering has formulated and manufactured hand sanitisers at very nominal costs. Following WHO guidelines, the department manufactured 25 litres of hand sanitisers, and is in the process of making another 50 litres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nit-t-makes-3d-printed-face-shield/article31372062.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||In need of board aid to tide over family hardship||For A. Saroja, 65, the sole breadwinner of her family, which includes her paralysed son and three grandchildren, these are extremely challenging times. The family was pushed to penury after the son, A. Raja fell ill, which eventually ended in him losing control of the right side of his body last April. With matters already nearing a breaking point, the lockdown has only made their situation worse, Ms. Saroja rues. Since Mr. Raja’s illness, his mother decided to go to work at a local grocery shop. There, she earned Rs. 100 per day bagging groceries. Mr. Raja’s wife- R. Revathi stayed at home and took care of her husband, and her three kids. Ms. Saroja had also registered to avail welfare assistance provided by the State for senior citizens through the State Unorganised Sector Workers Welfare Board but the amount has not been sanctioned for at least eight months, she says. “I had been receiving Rs. 1000 a month. We would survive this month at least with that money.” The family has been struggling to eat at least one square meal a day and was forced to send the three children to Ms. Revathi’s parents’ house. “My brother sometimes visits us and gives us ration rice and some money. But how long must we be dependent on others?” Ms. Saroja cries. The family has been unable to afford Mr. Raja’s treatment and the rent for their house, located on the third floor of a building on Kora Street, Woraiyur. “Sometimes I’m afraid that Raja would fall down the stairs,” Ms. Revathi says. She says that they do not want any special treatment: “At least give us our pending money so we can feed ourselves during this uncertain time.” V. Vedhamanikkam, a 65-year-old man who used to earn living plucking coconuts is also unable to make ends meet. He now lives with his daughter so he can be taken care of. He was diagnosed with cancer and travels to Pondicherry for treatment once in three months. “I was receiving Rs. 1000 a month as pension regularly until December 2018. After that the disbursement was irregular,” he says. Through the Unorganised Sector Workers' Welfare Board, 150 workers in Tiruchi have written to the Chief Minister requesting that their dues be cleared. Many unorganised workers say that they have not received the cash assistance announced in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. “We hope that the welfare assistance that they deserve will be given soon,” said K. Suresh, CPI, city secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-need-of-board-aid-to-tide-over-family-hardship/article31372067.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Semester examinations rescheduled||Bharathidasan University has instructed principals of affiliated colleges that the even semester exams will be conducted at the beginning of 2020-21 academic year as and when the colleges reopen, without breaks in between. Citing a communication from the Higher Education Department, Registrar G. Gopinath said in a press release that, if necessary, the university would conduct exams in two sessions - forenoons and afternoons, and even during the weekend to compensate for the days of lockdown. Necessary arrangements are being made for publishing the results at the earliest, particularly for final-year students, the release said. The date of re-opening of the college and the schedule of examination will be announced at a later date, the Registrar said, advising the colleges to visit the university website periodically for updates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/semester-examinations-rescheduled/article31372051.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fiat to bakeries||Bakeries, which have been allowed to reopen, should thoroughly clean and sanitise their premises before resuming sales, Collector S.Sivarasu has said. Mr.Sivarasu, in a press release here on Friday, said that all old products should be destroyed and only fresh baked items should be sold, he said. The licence obtained from the Food Safety Department for the bakery should be prominently displayed on their premises. All packaged food should have labels providing all necessary details as per the specifications of the Food Safety Department. The expiry dates of the pre-packed foods items such as chips and biscuits should be checked. Only parcels would be allowed and people should not be served beverages or snacks for eating on the premises. They should be open only between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m. All employees should wear protective gear such as face masks and gloves. Personal distancing should be adopted in the outlets, Mr. Sivarasu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fiat-to-bakeries/article31372077.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Man dies as sand caves in||Singaravelan, 27, died after a mound of sand suddenly caved in and fell over him when a group of people was allegedly indulging in illegal sand mining at Chinnasalempatti near Jambunathapuram on Friday. Police said Singaravelan, along with Surendran and Ajit, proceeded on tractor to a land belonging to Swaminathan to illegally mine sand along with Prabhu who followed them on a two-wheeler. Sand had been illegally mined on earlier occasion on the land and a crater had formed. While Singaravelan died of suffocation, Surendran suffered injuries. Ajit escaped. The police arrested Prabhu and Swaminathan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-as-sand-caves-in/article31372072.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Mosques to get raw rice before Sunday||Raw rice for preparing gruel during the fasting month of Ramzan would be given before April 19, said Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish. Addressing a meeting to review measures being taken to prevent spread of COVID-19 at Cheranmahadevi near here on Friday, she appealed to the Muslims not to gather in the mosques for offering prayers so as to ensure physical distancing, the only solution for averting the novel coronavirus infection. The State government gives 5,450 tonnes of raw rice to the mosques across the State for preparing porridge to be served to the poor during the month of Ramzan every year. However, considering the COVID-19 scare and consequent nationwide lockdown, the Muslims had been appealed to avoid gatherings in the mosques, dhargahs and other places for prayer. “Since Muslims have been asked to avoid gatherings for prayer in mosques and to offer prayer at home during the month of Ramzan, there is no need for preparing the porridge in mosques, usually given to mark the breaking of the fast. As usual, the raw rice will be given to the mosques before April 19 and the mosque administrators should distribute the rice through volunteers to poor Muslim families for preparing the gruel at home,” Ms. Shilpa said. She appealed to the Muslims to cooperate with the district administration in maintaining physical distancing and follow the lockdown norms, at least for the next three weeks so that the COVID – 19 threat would vanish completely. The Collector asked the Agriculture Department officials to ensure sufficient stock of fertilizers, seeds and farm implements for the ensuring ‘kar’ paddy season that begins in June following the advent of south-west monsoon. Superintendent of Police Om Prakash Meena, Sub-Collector of Cheranmahadevi Pratik Thayal and other senior police and revenue officials participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mosques-to-get-raw-rice-before-sunday/article31372013.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Violators get back seized vehicles||The police have started returning vehicles seized from the lockdown violators following an announcement from the Director General of Police that the confiscated vehicles would be returned to the rightful owners on production of proper documents even though the case against them would be heard in the courts later. While Tirunelveli City police have registered 843 cases against the violators and seized 539 vehicles from them, the Tirunelveli district police, after registering 1,552 cases, have seized 1,158 vehicles from 2,157 violators ever since the lockdown came into force. Kanniyakumari Kanniayakumari district leads in the seizure among the four southern districts as the police there have seized 3,728 vehicles after registering 4,647 cases till Friday morning. “As we enforced the lockdown strictly and registered cases against the violators in stringent fashion, there is no fatal accident in the district since March 25. Though seven persons sustained injuries in accidents, the victims were discharged from the hospital after the treatment as the nature of the injuries were minor,” said Superintendent of Police N. Shreenath. He said the 37 cases were registered against 56 persons since March 22 for distilling illicit arrack in the wake of closure of liquor shops. “All the culprits have been arrested,” Mr. Shreenath said. Thoothukudi In Thoothukudi, 1,250 vehicles were seized from 2,478 violators. As the owners of these vehicles were asked to come to the police stations concerned for getting their vehicles back after producing proper documents, Deputy Superintendent of Police Prakash formally commenced the exercise. Since most of the vehicle owners who turned up to get back their vehicles could not submit the documents like Registration Certificate, valid driving licence and insurance premium payment certificate, they were asked to produce all the documents to receive the vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/violators-get-back-seized-vehicles/article31372017.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Feat by port||V.O. Chidambaranar Port here recently created a new record by unloading 55,105 tonnes of coal in 24 hours at berth 9 from the vessel, MV TheoderOldendroff, surpassing the previous record of 55,020 tonnes of coal handled on the same berth from the vessel, MV Agio Sostis, on February 3. An official statement said the Malta-flagged vessel from Indonesia was berthed at the port on April 9 and discharged 73,507 tonnes of coal using three harbour mobile cranes capable of discharging 56,000 Tonnes per day. The V.O.C. Port is the crucial link in the coal supply chain for power plants and other major industries in Tamil Nadu. Coal is brought from foreign countries and Indian ports such as Dhamra, Haldia and Paradip. The port handled 13.26 million tonnes of coal in the last fiscal and has emerged as a major bulk cargo port in South India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/feat-by-port/article31372014.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Tenkasi’s tally moves to 14||Four patients from Puliyangudi in Tenkasi district, who were admitted to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital in the small hours of Friday, have tested positive for COVID-19 taking the total number of patients from the neighbouring district to 14. Hospital sources said two more patients from a same family in Melapalayam, who were admitted to the hospital on Thursday, were carrying symptoms of COVID-19 while a 49-year-old man from Pothigai Nagar in Palayamkottai, who was also admitted on the same day, tested negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tenkasis-tally-moves-to-14/article31372023.ece
18 April 2020||Tirunelveli/Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Friday stood at 59.85 feet (permissible level is 143 feet). The dam had in inflow of 7.64 cusecs and 304.75 cusecs was discharged. The level of Manimuthar dam stood at 81.28 feet (118 feet). The dam had an inflow of two cusecs and there was no discharge. The water level in Periyar dam stood at 113.75 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow and a discharge of 125 cusecs each. In Vaigai dam, the level was 44.98 ft. (71 ft.), with nil inflow and a discharge of 60 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 2,091 mcft. Manjalar dam recorded a rainfall of 15 mm in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article31372037.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Food Minister distributes relief||Food Minister R.Kamaraj has launched the disbursement of COVID-19 relief assistance to the members of 17 unorganised sector welfare board and a group of workers from other States in Tiruvarur district, on Thursday. Launching the distribution at Tiruvarur, he said 8,651 families would be receiving Rs. 1000 as cash assistance along with 15 kg of rice, one kg of cereals and cooking oil. While 7,070 of them would be from the Construction Workers Welfare Board (working members 6,551 and pensioners 519), 1,560 from Drivers Welfare Board (working members 1,507 and 53 pensioners) and 21 unorganised sector workers hailing from other States apart from Rs. 1000 cash assistance to be extended to 21,030 members of other 15 unorganised sector welfare board members. In addition to this, ‘priceless ration’ and cash assistance of Rs. 1000 had already been extended to all smart cardholders in the district. Further, the ration for the month of May to be disbursed to the ration cardholders free of cost, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-minister-distributes-relief/article31372078.ece
18 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tribal residents trek over 20 km to buy essentials||While people in major towns of the district have easy access to essential commodities, those in remote tribal villages like Kolikarai near Coonoor, sometimes have to walk more than 20 km if they require milk, medicines and other essential supplies. Residents of the village, home to more than 30 Kurumba tribal families, said that they had been given rations for the month, while vegetable trucks visited the village periodically. However, in case they need to stock up on supplies, they had to walk substantial distances to purchase them. N. Nagammal of the village said that though the residents got their monthly rations, getting access to medicines and meat was almost unthinkable. “We sometimes start walking to the town early in the morning and return home only during the afternoon,” she added. “We have to walk from our village to either Coonoor, which is around 20 km away, or to Burliar to buy the essential commodities,” said Nagammal. “As only very few in our village own vehicles, we have to walk to Coonoor in case we need to buy medicines and essential supplies,” said another resident, adding that most of the shops in Burliar too had been closed. The tribal families have urged the district administration to sell essential commodities like rice, pulses, milk, medicine and biscuits also in trucks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-residents-trek-over-20-km-to-buy-essentials/article31371774.ece
18 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Eight discharged from Madurai GRH||Eight persons, who were tested positive for COVID-19 infection, were discharged after treatment from Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on Friday. Of the eight, seven were from Virudhunagar district and one was from Madurai district. Collector R. Kannan said that after the discharge of the seven persons, out of the total 17 positive cases from Virudhunagar district, eight had been cured of COVID-19 infection, as one person had already been discharged. They were discharged after the second test confirmed that they turned negative for the infection. “We have only nine positive patients from our district in the GRH now,” the Virudhunagar Collector said. Meanwhile, the district administration continued to take samples of close contacts of the positive patients with 186 persons subjected to swab tests in the last two days. - 224 samples from Virudhunagar district have tested negative so far. Government Rajaji Hospital Dean J. Sangumani said that all the men were middle-aged and had contracted the infection from a primary source. Madurai Collector T.G. Vinay said that those discharged were predominantly asymptomatic and did not show any major signs of the virus. After being in the isolation ward for 14 days, a test was taken to determine if the virus strain persisted. Since all of them tested negative, they were allowed to go home. Currently, 29 people from Madurai district were at the isolation ward of the GRH, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-discharged-from-madurai-grh/article31372026.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Railway urges farmers, traders to make use of parcel trains||Traders and farmers can make use of express parcel trains running between Chennai Egmore and Nagercoil to transport perishable and other essential commodities during the lockdown period. The Southern Railway has been operating daily parcel trains from April 13. “This is being run to transport essential commodities to different places so that there was no shortage ,” a railway official said. With the extension of the curfew period, the services of the trains have also been extended up to May 3. “As of now, the parcel train is being run with one high-capacity parcel van (VPH) and a second class luggage-cum-guard van,” said an official. The railway has been booking consignments of medicines, medical equipment, face masks, gloves, floor cleaner and sanitisers. Though the railway is operating this facility only as a service without any profit motive, the official said that people were not making full use of the service. “Media reports say that farmers in different parts of the State were unable to even harvest their produce due to lack of demand. In some places, the farmers are dumping their produce on the road as traders are willing to pay only rock bottom prices,” another railway official said. He pointed out that a particular agricultural produce that does not have a demand in the local market could have high demand in other parts of the State. And hence, they can send their produce to such places and get remunerative prices for their goods. “Parcels in small quantities or as low as 200 kg or 300 kg are also accepted for the parcel express trains,” the official said. However, the only limitation is that the produce could be taken to only those towns/cities that is served through the parcel trains. “If the traders or farmers are able to bring bulk quantity – up to 23 tonnes – one full high-capacity parcel van and book them on a particular day, the goods could sent to any destination in any of the States,” he added. The particular parcel vans could be taken to destinations as close as Kerala or as far as Nagpur, Delhi, Howrah or Mumbai through link goods train. The State Governments could also establish contacts with other States and find their demand for perishable and non-perishable goods that are available in abundance in Tamil Nadu. Helpline Meanwhile, the Southern Railways has launched a new helpline –Swift and efficient transport of utilities, SETU (SR) -- to ease the supply chain backlog during the COVID-19 lockdown. The helpline will enable customers from Tamil Nadu and Kerala to make enquiries for possible transportation of essential commodities and any other industrial items such as personal protection equipment, masks, medicines and other critical items. People can call the SETU helpline on 90253-42449. The requests collected through helpline number will be forwarded to the division concerned of Southern Railway. The divisions will in-turn check the feasibility of transporting the requested goods and commodities and will inform the helpline at the earliest. “If the transportation is feasible, the helpline team will facilitate the customers in the process. If it is not feasible, the same will be communicated to the customers,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-urges-farmers-traders-to-make-use-of-parcel-trains/article31372030.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nine recover from COVID-19 in Erode, seven discharged||Nine COVID-19 patients, including two Thailand nationals, recovered after treatment at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai on Friday. Since the foreign nationals were already arrested along with four of their colleagues, they were kept in a separate ward in the hospital and would be produced in the court on April 23. The other seven discharged persons were given a warm send-off by Collector C. Kathiravan, Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan, doctors, nurses and staff on the hospital premises in the evening and were sent to their homes in ambulances. Addressing mediapersons on the hospital premises, the Collector said that all the nine persons tested negative twice and hence, were discharged and would be continuously monitored by health officials every day. He said that 13 persons who recovered were already sent home on April 15 and currently, 48 persons were in the ward. He said of the 270 field samples taken, all tested negative and more samples would be lifted in the coming days. Mr. Ganesan said that all the six Thailand nationals were kept in a separate ward in the hospital under police custody and they would be produced in the court on April 23. Based on the court order, further course of action regarding them would be decided, he added. The Erode South Police had registered a case against the Thai nationals for violating visa norms and being involved in religious preaching that eventually led to the spread of COVID-19 in the city. Of the six, three tested positive while others tested negative. The judicial magistrate, through video conferencing, remanded all the six to custody till April 23 and permitted them to be in the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-recover-from-covid-19-in-erode-seven-discharged/article31371776.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||An artwork to raise awareness on COVID-19||Motorists, who were passing through Charring Cross in Udhagamandalam on the way to the market on Friday stopped for a few seconds to take selfies with a mural drawn by a group of district’s artists, who had spent the best part of the day drawing the mural to spread awareness about COVID-19. The team of 15 local artists started work on the mural early Friday, and worked throughout the day and into the afternoon, making sure they followed personal distancing norms to get the mural ready. Guru Krishnan, one of the 15 artists who was part of the effort, said that the mural represented how the novel coronavirus was having an impact on the people the world over. “The two components of the piece are the visual representation of the virus itself and planet earth. Through the artwork, we wanted to depict how the entire planet had been engulfed by fears over the virus,” said Mr. Krishnan, who had approached the district administration and had asked for permission for the mural to be drawn at Charring Cross. “Even though our livelihoods too have been affected by the outbreak of COVID-19, we wanted to spread awareness about the disease, so that people will stay home and follow the orders of the government to prevent the further spread of the virus,” said Mr. Krishnan. The artists said that they had painted the mural free of cost using their own supplies. They said that they had also offered to paint more murals in different parts of the town, based on the request of the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-artwork-to-raise-awareness-on-covid-19/article31371783.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Curbs in 388 ‘containment zones’ set to continue beyond May 3||As far as Chennai is concerned, a substantial number of the containment zones are in northern parts of the city such as Roypauram and Tondiarpet. Approximately three lakh people reside there, pointed out G. Prakash, Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation. In Coimbatore district, there are 18 containment zones, of which 10 fall under the limits of municipal corporation, while the rest are in rural areas of the district, said K. Rajamani, Coimbatore Collector. Daily screening Across the State, around 86 lakh people live in such zones, noted K. Kolandaswamy, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, adding that they are getting screened on a daily basis. Pointing out that the authorities are carrying out both active and passive surveillance in the zones, Dr. Rajesh said that an active case search is also being done door-to-door. On an average, a designated health worker covers 50 households a day. Such a health worker may be an accredited social health activist, an auxiliary nurse midwife or an anganwadi worker. It is for the authorities to attend to the requirements of residents in the zones, both medical and non-medical. After blocking access to the areas, officials of local bodies, police, health and revenue man the entry and exit points. For the purchase of groceries or other essentials, the residents come to the perimeter of the zones where there are either temporary stalls or mobile units, invariably between 6 a.m. and noon. During hours other than the prescribed period, the people can call helpline numbers or get in touch with the district control rooms. “We have one counsellor in each district control room,” added Dr. Rajesh.  In Coimbatore, there are 18 containment zones, of which 10 fall under limits of the municipal corporation, while the rest are in rural areas K. Rajamani Collector, Coimbatore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/curbs-in-388-containment-zones-set-to-continue-beyond-may-3/article31371748.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Six recover in Namakkal||Six persons, who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 here were discharged and sent home on Friday. Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani, District Collector K. Megraj, Superintendent of Police Ara. Arularasu and other senior officials were present and they cheered them as they boarded the ambulance. They were offered fruit kits and safety gadgets. According to officials, among the six patients, two persons were from Namakkal, two from Paramathi Vellur, one from Rasipuram and one person from Kokrayanpettai. The patients were undergoing treatment at Karur Medical College Hospital and they were brought to a step down ward set up at Kavingyar Ramalinga Pillai Arts College for Women here two days ago, officials said. The patients were discharged after their test results became negative for COVID-19. Among those discharged, three are women. Mr. Thangamani said, “six persons are being sent home today. In Namakkal, till date 2,000 samples have been collected and we have received results for 1,800. Only 50 were positive and 1,750 were negative. We are yet to receive results for 200 samples.” He added that they would have to isolate themselves at homes for 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-recover-in-namakkal/article31371784.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||8,502 cases registered for violations in Erode||The district police have, so far, registered 8,502 cases against motorists and shopkeepers for violating Section 144 in the district. Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan said that a total of 8,502 cases were registered as on Thursday evening for various violations. Cases were registered against motorists for plying on the road defying the order and also against shopkeepers for opening their shops and selling non-essential products and also selling beyond the permitted time. He said that cases were registered against 8,792 persons and 6,776 two-wheelers and four-wheelers were impounded. Mr. Ganesan asked people to ensure personal distancing while venturing out for purchasing vegetables and essential commodities and asked them not to visit the shops frequently. Since the vehicle users were asked to get back their impounded vehicles, the police on Friday started registering cases against motorists and issue challan to them. “Motorists should pay the fine online”, said a traffic police personnel at GH Roundabout. He said that despite many requests and warnings from the police personnel, many motorists ply on the road without valid reasons. Hence, fine was levied on the violators and they should pay it ionline, the SP added. Meanwhile, the Salem district police on Thursday seized 121 vehicles for violating prohibitory orders and registered 172 cases against 208 persons here. Salem city police registered 67 cases and seized 34 vehicles for violating prohibitory orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/8502-cases-registered-for-violations-in-erode/article31371778.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nothing to stop||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nothing-to-stop/article31372025.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Convalescent plasma therapy for COVID-19||Convalescent plasma treatment involves injecting the COVID-19 patient with convalescent sera of people who recovered from the infection recently. The patient cured of the disease will have antibodies that drive coronavirus away, says the report of the WHO-China Joint Mission on COVID-19. What is the meaning of convalescent sera for COVID-19 and how does it act? The serum of COVID-19 cured individuals will have virus-neutralising antibodies which will act as a passive antibody therapy. It is called convalescent sera of COVID-19. How can we collect convalescent sera? We can collect it in two ways: (i) Using routine blood withdrawal followed by centrifuge technique. Here we can collect 180 ml to 220 ml of convalescent sera and we can store it in -60 degree C up to one year. (ii) Using aphresis machine/cell separator machine, we can collect even 600 ml of convalescent sera at one time and safely store for a year. Who will be a suitable candidate to receive convalescent sera of COVID-19? Those who are suffering from SARS-CoV-2 infection with moderate/severe sepsis with or without ventilator support. What is the dose, frequency and duration of convalescent sera? At present, there is no available literature in the World. Based on our previous experience (more than 5 years in hepatitis B virus), I would recommend 180 ml to 220 ml of convalescent sera of COVID 19, once a day for a minimum three to five consecutive days. Which is the meaning of therapeutic plasma exchange? The process of removal of abnormal substances from circulation which are either present in plasma or are tightly bound to plasma proteins is known as therapeutic plasma exchange. In COVID-19 patients, their plasma will contain enormous inflammatory mediators which cause severe lung injury. What will be the better proposed model for COVID-19 sick patients? Based on previous experiences with other diseases, in COVID-19 severe cases, a combination of therapeutic plasma exchange technique using convalescent sera will reduce the “cytokine storm” which will help recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/convalescent-plasma-therapy-for-covid-19/article31371734.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Half of IT, BT staff can resume work from office after April 20’||The State government has said that half of the employees in the Information Technology and Biotechnology sectors in Karnataka can return to work from April 20. Addressing industry representatives through a video conference here on Friday, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said to facilitate the return to office for up to 50% of tech and biotech workers, the State government is currently in the process of taking key measures such as organising passes for the workforce, arranging public transport for commute, setting up more COVID-19 screening facilities, and ensuring quality access to the Internet. He said companies have put forth demand for travel passes for their employees and said the government would provide all facilities as offices of essential services would start functioning from next week. However, with the lockdown continuing till May 3, there will be no cabs, Namma Metro or public transport till further orders, and the ban on inter-State and inter-district travelling would also continue, he informed the industry. He said enterprises could rent ‘disinfected’ BMTC buses to facilitate commute for their employees after following relevant safety protocols to ensure cleanliness and social distancing as per MHA guidelines. “As soon as the restrictions are relaxed, the risk of infection spreading is high. All precautions and early efforts were taken to prevent infections. But we will have to learn to live in precaution against the new coronavirus in the coming days. Continuous screening can help detect infections and treating such persons will help bring the situation further under control,” he added. In terms of infection management, Mr. Ashwath Narayan said enterprises have expressed concerns about handling the situation in case of any employee being detected of infection post the offices resuming work and have requested for suitable guidelines for the same. “They have been promised that appropriate guidelines would be provided in consultation with the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Companies have also agreed to follow measures such as maintenance of cleanliness and hygiene, social distancing and screening facilities in their premise.”  We want to resume work from office in a calibrated manner. The tech sector is not in a hurry to bring their employees back to office. But manufacturing and R&D companies cannot do much work from home. We can afford 20% to 30% people work from home; currently we are managing with less than 50% of people.Kiran Mazumdar ShawCMD, Biocon   Passes for employees, more testing facilities, and transportation arrangements should be set up first. More focussed and pointed approach has to be followed so that if a new case occurs, the entire office need not be quarantined. Larger companies can look at setting up testing centres on their campuses.Kris GopalakrishnanChairman of Vision Group IT||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/half-of-it-bt-staff-can-resume-work-from-office-after-april-20/article31371671.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. revives Akrama-Sakrama to raise additional revenue||The cash-strapped State government has revived Akrama-Sakrama, a scheme to regularise illegal buildings, to generate additional revenue in light of the economic crisis created by the COVID-19 pandemic. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday held a meeting with his Cabinet colleagues, including Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan and Revenue Minister R. Ashok, and asked the Urban Development Department to prepare in a week new guidelines for regularisation of illegal buildings. It was decided that the laws on regularisation of unauthorised properties would be reframed by studying the laws framed in other States. According to estimates, there are 2.93 lakh unauthorised buildings in Bengaluru city, and more than 35 lakh across the State. “Unauthorised layouts/buildings/constructions in the State might have doubled now,” said a release from the Chief Minister’s Office. Government officials said that for unauthorised houses in areas other than Bengaluru, double the tax would have to be paid for regularisation. The law permits imposition of 6% penalty on buildings which have violations of up to 50%. Above that, the government has the power to levy a fine of up to 25% of the market price for regularisation of the construction. The revival of Akrama-Sakrama comes shortly after two similar proposals aimed at revenue generation — auctioning 12,000 corner sites across the State, expected to raise Rs. 15,000 crore, and the setting up of a Cabinet sub-committee to speed up finalisation of the modalities of regularising encroachments on Bengaluru Development Authority lands in 68 layouts in the city, expected to raise another Rs. 5,000 crore. “It will generate a large amount of revenue as it involves regularising several lakhs of buildings in the State, an estimate of which is tough to make at this moment. It all depends on the penalty we levy,” said a senior Minister. The scheme has been championed by the BJP since 2007, but has failed to take off because of legal challenges. Implementation However, implementing it will not be easy. Challenged by civic activists from the city, the scheme has been put on hold by the Supreme Court since January 2017. The government needs to submit the new guidelines to the apex court and get the stay order vacated. The government is confident of overcoming the legal hurdles this time. “We will frame the new guidelines is such a way that the builders and the rich do not benefit. We will fix a ceiling on the buildings that can be regularised in such a way that only the poor and the middle class will benefit. We hope there will be no objections and the apex court will clear it this time,” Mr. Ashok said. N.S. Mukunda, founder-president of Citizen’s Action Forum, one of the petitioners against Akrama-Sakrama, said apart from helping the rich, there are several other objections to the scheme on the grounds of natural justice. “The government should ensure the violator who built the building pays up, not the subsequent owners. Akrama-Sakrama will work as a one-time scheme to regularise violations, but doesn’t address the system that allows these violations to happen. We have demanded punishment for officials who let these violations occur. The scheme should not become an incentive for further violations,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-revives-akrama-sakrama-to-raise-additional-revenue/article31371698.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Street vendors struggle to stay afloat||Much as Bengaluru is famous for its pubs and restaurants, the thindi beedi of V.V. Puram, the row of items on Avenue Road, Chickpet and Majestic, and knick-knacks on the popular streets of Malleswaram, Jayanagar and Indiranagar have their own following. But the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown have left the city’s streets bereft not only of its infamous traffic, but also thousands of livelihoods. Street vendors, constantly in a battle for identity, are faced with a bigger fight for livelihood. Abdul Gaffar would sell clothes and fruits in Vijayanagar. After the lockdown began, he stopped selling clothes and assumed he could continue selling fruits for a living. But today, he sits jobless. “I have the ID card from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) but I did not get a pass to function. The police said too many people are asking for passes. Even if I want to go buy fruits and vegetables from Electronics City and Varthur, there are no vehicles. I can go on my two-wheeler, but I have no pass. And I cannot afford to pay Rs. 3,000 on transporting a large quantity of fruits and vegetables because I will have to ensure they are sold in two days. It is a vicious cycle,” he said. His landlord has given him time till the lockdown is over to pay rent. But he is unsure of how long he will continue without work, and worries about his children’s education. He would otherwise be earning Rs. 500 per day. Manju G., a food vendor, suffered a setback at least 10 days earlier, after the BBMP cracked down on street-side vendors and eateries as cholera and gastroenteritis cases were reported in the city. Mr. Manju, who is the State president of the Akhila Karnataka Raste Badi Vyaparigala Jagruti Okkoota, said he has been out of work since a month-and-a-half. He used to have a cart making omlettes, fried rice and other food items. “Many street vendors do not even have APL or BPL cards, let alone ID cards. Help is reaching slums, but there are many who live in rented houses. We are people who earn every day to make a living. There are around four-and-a-half lakh street vendors in the State. In Bengaluru, there may be 6,000 food vendors,” he said. S. Babu, president of the Bengaluru District Street Vendors’ Federation, and a roadside vendor of clothes, urged the government to step in with some form of help. “Even those who want to sell permitted items are not able to do so because of transport costs and unavailability of passes. The BBMP survey says there are 25,000 street vendors, of which half have got ID cards. If the BBMP conducts a thorough survey, there will be around 1.5 lakh. Of those identified so far, around 7,000 sell fruits and vegetables, and the rest sell other items such as food, chappals, clothes, and plastic items. Once the lockdown is lifted, street vendors will not be able to resume work easily as we are surviving on our savings now,” said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/street-vendors-struggle-to-stay-afloat/article31371667.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Unions firm on full wages||Stating that the lockdown has had a terrible impact on the lives of thousands of workers, the Joint Committee of Trade Unions (JCTU) on Friday urged the State government to ensure full wages are paid to workers during the lockdown period. “There are a large number of contract, casual and temporary workers in the industry whose jobs are at stake. The lockdown has led to a supply shock now, but without wages to labourers, it will lead to a demand shock post the lockdown period,” a memorandum jointly submitted by eight trade unions to the Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar on Friday stated. Expressing disappointment over the “unilateral decisions” made, allegedly at the behest of employers, the trade unions have urged the government to convene a tripartite meeting to resolve the issues. The memorandum stated that though they were aware of the demand from the industry to increase working hours, trade unions were opposed to such a move as it is a retrograde step that can increase the unemployment rate. With food, fertilisers, defence, processing and pharma industries allowed to work during the lockdown, the unions urged the government to ensure transport and canteen facilities, along with compliance with the social distancing norm. The JCTU also urged the State to introduce hazard pay as COVID-19 allowance and insurance for frontline workers and relief for self-employed drivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unions-firm-on-full-wages/article31371701.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to procure farm produce||In a relief to farmers, the Centre has granted permission to the State government to procure jowar and paddy in April and May. Farmers have been told to register their names for procurement of jowar yield of the rabi season from April 20 onwards in Raichur and Vijayapura districts. About one lakh tonnes of jowar will be procured, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies K. Gopalaiah said. There was a pressure on the government from legislators of these districts to commence procurement of jowar. The procurement of paddy, which had been stopped, will be resumed from April 15 to May 15 in paddy-growing districts, the Minister told presspersons. However, there is no clarity on the procurement prices. On providing ration to BPL/APL cardholders, he said the Centre has been providing ration to 1.19 crore cardholders, and the State government has released Rs. 148 crore to provide ration to an additional eight lakh cardholders. APL cardholders can get 1 kg of rice per person from PDS shops at Rs. 15 a kg, and this facility will be available from May 1. The department has been procuring rice at a rate of Rs. 25 a kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-procure-farm-produce/article31371700.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to start testing even in non-affected districts||In the wake of several patients without any contact or travel history testing positive, Deputy Commissioners of 10 districts that have not recorded cases of COVID-19 have been told to start random testing of patients with severe acute respiratory infection and influenza-like illness symptoms from Saturday. Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar issued the orders on Friday evening and said that at least 100 samples should be tested every day till April 19 and after that 50 samples per day should be tested. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who held discussions with public health experts and senior doctors from the private and government sector, told presspersons that patients have been reporting to hospitals on an average four days after developing symptoms. “Whoever develops symptoms should first go to fever clinics and if required to bigger hospitals as soon as they develop symptoms. The experts have opined that this will help in reducing morbidity and mortality,” the Chief Minister said. Two labs in every district Following Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, the government has decided to set up two laboratories in each district and one laboratory each in medical colleges of the State for swift testing and collection of samples of persons infected with the disease. Overall, the State will get 10 more labs by the end of April. “Earlier we used to do 500 tests per day. Now we are doing 2,000 tests and our testing rate is second highest after Kerala in the country,” the Chief Minister said, and added that the State was gearing up to test an increased number of patients after the lockdown gets relaxed. It was decided to issue guidelines to companies that would start working after relaxing lockdown from April 20. The Chief Minister said another meeting with experts would be held on April 21 after which the future course of action would be decided. Plasma therapy Experts at the meeting also urged the Chief Minister to expedite the process of starting plasma therapy for treating COVID-19 patients in the ICU. Under this, plasma from recovered patients can be used to treat critically ill positive patients. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said the government had written to the ICMR and Drug Controller General of India seeking their approval for starting plasma therapy in all medical colleges of the State. “The number of positive cases in the State are increasing by the day as we are testing all secondary contacts. If we detect early, we can provide them timely treatment,” he said. “Besides, we will also monitor the health of those in our database, including those having non-communicable diseases, tuberculosis, HIV and those above the age of 60,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-start-testing-even-in-non-affected-districts/article31371684.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Civic body issues SOP for contact tracing||Keeping in mind that surveillance and contact tracing play a vital role in containing the spread of COVID-19, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has issued Standard Operation Protocol (SOP) to be followed for contact tracing. In a circular issued on Friday, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar has said that contact tracing must start immediately on receipt of preliminary laboratory test, without waiting for the confirmation test. The State surveillance unit has been directed to send the land report to the BBMP’s Chief Health Officer (Public Health) and District Surveillance Officer. That apart, the police have to be informed within 30 minutes on receipt of the preliminary laboratory test to enable them to seek call details report of positive cases, the circular stated. The police, on their part, have been asked to send the list of telephone numbers contacted over the past 14 days within six hours, besides sharing the same with the State war room for ring fencing of the numbers. The circular added that the primary contacts (high risk contacts) should be tracked and quarantined within 12 hours on receipt of information of the positive case, while the low risk contacts must be tracked, stamped and quarantined within 24 hours. Home quarantine sticker must be affixed on the door of the low risk contact, and the neighbours and residents’ welfare association must be informed of the same. The circular also states that the strategy for contact tracing will be three layered. While layer one will have nine officials per zone, layer two will have nine teams per zone. Layer three will consist of the COVID surveillance team situated in each ward. Advisory has also been issued for the contact tracing team. The team members have been directed to inform the jurisdictional police about the visit to primary contacts. They have been advised to wear masks, surgical gloves, use sanitiser, maintain two-metre distance from the primary contact. The team has also been asked to ask questions from outside the house, except in cases when the primary contact is from a slum or densely populated area. In such instances, the team members may go indoors while maintaining social distance. The members have additionally been directed to not touch any surfaces or things inside the house, the circular added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-body-issues-sop-for-contact-tracing/article31371669.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||78-year-old, with comorbidities, wins battle against COVID-19||Bringing a ray of hope to the State’s fight against COVID-19, a 78-year-old man with diabetes, hypertension, and asthma, returned home on Friday after recovering in a record 14 days. He is the oldest person to recover from the disease in Karnataka so far. When the senior citizen, Hakeemuddin Johar, walked out of the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre on Victoria Hospital premises on Friday, a team of doctors and paramedical staff bid him an emotional farewell. With 12 of the 13 who succumbed to the disease so far in the State aged above 60, it was an overwhelming feeling for them to see the oldest patient walk out infection-free. Mr. Johar, a resident of Gurappanapalya, tested positive on April 3 and was admitted at the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre on the same day. Hailing from Gujarat, Mr. Johar is settled in Bengaluru for the last 10 years and the family is into hardware business. He along with his wife, Gulshan Johar, had gone to attend their grandson’s wedding in Dubai on March 12. They left Bengaluru on February 17 and returned on March 17 as the wedding got cancelled owing to the pandemic. “A few days after our return, I developed breathing problems. As I have been asthmatic for the last 10 years, I went to my regular doctor at Malathi Manipal Hospital on April 1 where my samples were collected. Subsequently, they referred me to Victoria Hospital and till I came here, I did not know I had the infection,” Mr. Johar told The Hindu after his discharge on Friday. ‘Never lost hope’ Attributing his recovery to the “dedicated” team of doctors, nurses, and other staff at the Trauma Care Centre, he said he never felt depressed or lost hope. “While my family kept me engaged through video calls, the doctors took special care of me, especially because of my age. I am grateful to the centre’s special officer Balaji Pai and nodal officer Asima Banu, who constantly monitored my progress. They kept an eye on me through other patients and never made me realise I was infected,” he said. His message to other COVID-19 patients: “Do not panic or worry that you are infected with the novel virus. Be confident and follow the doctors’ advice, take precautions, and take medications regularly.” The doctors, who were appreciative of the patient’s fighting spirit and determination to come out of the infection, said this patient’s two negative results in a span of 24 hours, has boosted the morale of other 40 patients in the COVID ward. “After two deaths in the ICU in the last two days, it was heartening to see him recover despite his comorbidities,” said Dr. Asima Banu. Although discharged, he will be in home quarantine for 14 days and monitored by doctors regularly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/78-year-old-with-comorbidities-wins-battle-against-covid-19/article31371682.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Prasanna ends fast||Gandhian activist and theatre personality Prasanna ended his indefinite fast on Friday, the eighth day since he beganfasting on April 10. Mr. Prasanna had called for a day-long national fasting on April 10, supported by several leading activists and artists, to show solidarity with migrant labourers and the poor who are going hungry because of the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. However, he did not end his fast that day and announced it would be an indefinite one, with a call to all citizens to introspect on their role in wrecking the environment and causing the pandemic. “This vow was taken with a limited purpose, which was not to protest against the current political regime, though they immensely deserve to be protested, but to introspect,” Mr. Prasanna said in a statement after breaking his fast on Friday evening. He also said he and others fighting for sustainable economy would resist any attempts against it after the lockdown is lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prasanna-ends-fast/article31371692.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||351 cases booked for overcharging on masks and sanitisers, govt. tells HC||As many 351 cases of charging in excess of the maximum retail price on masks and sanitisers have been detected during 5,086 inspections carried out in the State during the lockdown, and a total of Rs. 12.92 lakh imposed as fine on violators, the State government told the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday. In a statement submitted to the court about the measures that have been taken to check the hoarding of essential commodities and excess pricing in the State, the government said that 15 cases have been registered under provisions of the Essential Commodities Act. As many as 10 FIRs have been filed under the Essential Commodities Act, and foodgrains and goods worth Rs. 59.34 lakh confiscated from traders, the government said the statement, submitted before a special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna. The inspections were carried out by special teams comprising officials from the departments of the Food and Civil Supplies, Legal Metrology, and Drugs Control. The Food, Civil Supplies and Consumers Affairs Department has also asked its officials to inspect the books of accounts of traders to prevent hoarding, black marketing, and excess pricing. Production of PPE While stating that it believed that there were currently a sufficient number of masks and gloves in the market and that a vast majority of people were using them, the government said it was exploring domestic production of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) in coordination with the Union government. The ministries of Health and Textiles have initiated steps to ensure 22 garment manufacturing units across the country get certification for producing coveralls, the main component of PPE. Eight such units are based in Karnataka, and the State government is coordinating with them by giving authorisation for operation and passes for employees to travel, apart from support for their ancillary units. The Centre’s measures aim for the production of 1,000 PPE kits a day per unit, to achieve a daily production of 22,000 kits across the country, the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/351-cases-booked-for-overcharging-on-masks-and-sanitisers-govt-tells-hc/article31371695.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC cancels summer vacation for all courts||The four-week-long annual summer vacation for all courts for 2020 has been cancelled in view of the loss of regular working days because of the COVID-19 lockdown. This decision was taken at a full court meeting of the High Court on April 13, said a notification issued on Thursday. As per the High Court’s calender, summer vacation is from April 27 to May 23. During these four weeks, the number of court sitting days available is 19, excluding Sundays, Saturdays and other general holidays. The High Court has already lost 15regular court sitting days till April 17 owing to the lockdown imposed from March 23, as only one or two specially designated benches of the court are taking up hearings, that too on matters of extreme urgency through videoconferencing twice a week. KSAT hearings Meanwhile, the Karnataka State Administrative Tribunal (KSAT), which has been completely closed since March 24, has now restricted its summer vacation to two weeks, from April 20 to May 2. The remaining period, from May 3 to 15, has been notified as working days, excluding general holidays. Extremely urgent matters canbe filed through electronic mode by sending an email to efileksat@gmail.com, and the chairperson of the tribunal will decide on accepting the matter for hearing during the vacation period by the Bengaluru bench, as there will not be sittings of the Belagavi and Kalaburagi benches. Judicial member R.B. Sathyanaraya will hold a hearing of the Kalaburagi bench from May 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-cancels-summer-vacation-for-all-courts/article31371696.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP Budget to be presented on Monday||In a first, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s 2020-21 budget will be presented virtually on April 20. On Friday, Mayor M. Goutham Kumar, a few councillors and civic officials accompanied Minister for Revenue R. Ashok to meet Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Sources said the delegation apprised Mr. Yediyurappa of the Budget, discussed the outlay, among other things. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Goutham Kumar said the Budget will be presented post noon on Monday. “With the Cabinet meeting also scheduled on Monday, the Budget will be presented post noon, as we want city Ministers, including Mr. Ashok and others, to attend,” he said. Outlay About the outlay, he said the Budget would take into consideration the spread of novel coronavirus and that it would be a “realistic budget”. He said the Budget would be presented by L. Srinivas, chairperson of Standing Committee for Taxation and Finance, in the head office. It would be streamed live in the BBMP’s eight zonal offices. The councillors can attend the Budget meeting in their respective zones, along with the MLAs and MLCs and zonal officials. “We have been directed to strictly maintain social distancing. In that regard, apart from me, the others in the head office will be Deputy Mayor, ruling party leader, opposition leader, members of the Taxation and Finance Committee, chairpersons of the 11 other committees, BBMP Commissioner, Special Commissioner (Finance) and Chief Accounts Officer,” he said.  With the Cabinet meeting also scheduled on Monday, the Budget will be presented post noon, as we want city Ministers, including Mr. Ashok and others, to attend.M. Goutham KumarMayor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-budget-to-be-presented-on-monday/article31371670.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||School syllabus likely to be reduced for 2020-21||State syllabus textbooks for the 2020-21 academic year will be revised and the Department of Primary and Secondary Education plans to omit a few chapters and reduce the syllabus for all classes. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said officials of the department have been directed to submit a proposal on the same by conducting meetings with experts. Sources said he has asked officer to do so as per the guidelines of National Council for Education Research and Training (NCERT). This is after private school managements made a similar request to the government as the 2020-21 academic year is likely to be reduced because of the lockdown. Online classes At the meeting with officials of the department, the Minister also directed them to allow online classes only if fees are not being demanded from the students. K.G. Jagadeesha, Commissioner of Public Instruction, said that a circular would be issued in this regard and to ensure that parents were not put to hardship in the name of online classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/school-syllabus-likely-to-be-reduced-for-2020-21/article31371678.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Centre allots 12,400 rapid anitbody test strips to State||While the State had placed an order of one lakh rapid antibody testing strips from China, it is as of now getting only 12,400 strips, said Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar on Friday. Circular While the Health Department has issued guidelines on pooled samples and a circular for allocating 66,000 rapid antibody-based blood test kits for COVID-19, the Centre has allocated 12,400 strips of the 6.5 lakh consignment that it received from China on Friday. According to the circular, 34,000 strips will be allocated to green districts where no cases have been reported so far. Every district will get 3,300 kits. Totally 1,00,000 test kits have been ordered for 30 districts in the State, stated the circular.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-allots-12400-rapid-anitbody-test-strips-to-state/article31371685.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Not right to lay off’||As a word of caution to IT & BT sectors, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said it was not right for enterprises to resort to business closure or lay offs under the current circumstances. “You can’t lay off and shut shop just because new work orders and projects are getting delayed now. Instead, all of you should find better ways of dealing with the situation. Else, people who lose jobs won’t be able to find new jobs and companies too will find it tough to find new employees,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-right-to-lay-off/article31371674.ece
18 April 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||30 hotspots||According to BBMP’s COVID-19 War Room Bulletin, as on Friday, the number of hotspots in the city had come down to 30. Nine wards under South and East zones, five wards under Mahadevapura, four under West, and one each under Bommanahalli, Yelahanka and Rajarajeshwari Nagar zones are currently declared as hotspots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/30-hotspots/article31371675.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bowring Institute opens up for doctors under quarantine||Bowring Institute has opened its premises for doctors fighting on the frontline against COVID-19 pandemic and has hosted them during mandatory quarantine. “Our guest quarters has 60 rooms and have been recently renovated. We have put the entire quarters at the disposal of the Health Department and the BBMP. A first batch of 34 doctors from Victoria Hospital came on Friday. They will stay in quarantine for 14 days,” said H.S. Srikanth, honorary secretary, Bowring Institute. The club has arranged food for the doctors, opening a dedicated kitchen and dining hall, taking all required precautions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bowring-institute-opens-up-for-doctors-under-quarantine/article31371676.ece
18 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Case booked against four men for threatening policemen||A rowdy-sheeter and three other people of Arehalli in Belur taluk allegedly verbally abused two policemen on Thursday and threatened them of transfer with the help of “high contacts.” A case has been booked against them. This comes days after a sub-inspector of Arehalli faced disciplinary action after he arrested a Hindutva activist who had posted objectionable content on Facebook. Bharatha, 32, the rowdy-sheeter,and Rathnakara, Prakasha and Soma, all residents of Arehalli, are facing the charges of assaulting public servants, intentional insult to provoke breach of peace, and wrongful restraint, besides committing a negligent act likely to spread infection. The accused picked an argument with constables Jagadish E.Y. and Shivakumar H.S. while they were on the rounds in Arehalli town instructing people in front of shops to maintain social distancing. The constables warned a shopkeeper of action if he failed to ensure social distancing in front of his shop. This triggered an argument with the accused. They allegedly scolded the police in foul language. Later, Bharatha joined the argument and claimed that he could get the policemen transferred by contacting senior officials immediately “as was done in the case of PSI Balu”, the man who had arrested the Hindutva activist. Following this, senior police officers, including Additional Superintendent of Polie B.N. Nandini, visited the spot. Jagadish, a police constable, has filed a complaint. Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda on Friday said that a case has been booked against the four and that they would be arrested soon. ‘Administrative decision’ When it was pointed out that disciplinary action against the PSI of Arehalli would demoralise police personnel, the SP said that the situation warranted such an administrative decision. “The PSI has not been transferred, but he is on official duty in the SP’s office. We wanted officers to handle applications seeking travel passes during the lockdown,” he said. The SP has ordered a probe against PSI Balu and Belur CPI S. Siddarameshwara for releasing a photo of the Hindutva activist to the media. Tourism Minister C.T. Ravi had objected to the arrest of the activist and appealed to the Home Minister on Twitter to take action against the police officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-booked-against-four-men-for-threatening-policemen/article31371677.ece
18 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||On-the-spot fine on COVID-19 lockdown violators: Hassan DC||The Hassan district administration has decided to fine those bringing out vehicles unnecessarily from Saturday. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish said those riding two-wheelers would be slapped a fine of Rs. 500 and four-wheelers would have to pay Rs. 1,000 on the spot. The administration has taken this measure to avoid the spread of COVID-19. So far, no cases have been reported from the district. Similarly, shopkeepers who failed to ensure social distancing would penalised Rs. 500. Repeated offenders would lose theor license, the officer said. Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda told the media that since the lockdown was declared on April 24, the district police had seized 2,512 two-wheelers, 315 light motor vehicles and 85 other vehicles and collected Rs. 16.13 lakh penalty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/on-the-spot-fine-on-covid-19-lockdown-violators-hassan-dc/article31371879.ece
18 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||SWR transports 700 tonnes of cargo during lockdown||Operating the freight trains during lockdown to ensure supply of essential commodities, the South Western Railway has carried around 700 tonnes of freight. According to a release issued here, 15 pairs of special parcel trains were run by the SWR from Bengaluru to various parts of the country. Through these parcel trains, foodgrains, dairy products, medical equipment, fruits, vegetables, fertilizers and other items were delivered to different destinations. SWR will run Train Nos.00633 / 00634 Hubballi – KSR Bengaluru – Hubbalii Parcel Express between April 20 and 23 and the parcel train will make two trips in each direction. The train will have commercial stoppages at Gadag, Koppal, Hosapete, Ballari, Guntakal and Dharmavaram in both directions and parcels can be loaded at all these stations. Loading of parcels will be permitted at other en-route stations also depending on the demand, the release said. Facility available E-Commerce companies, traders and Railway customers are requested to avail this facility by registering their demand and join Indian Railways with India’s fight against COVID-19. Customers can contact 9731666950, 9731668950, 9731667950 for booking in next parcel special trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swr-transports-700-tonnes-of-cargo-during-lockdown/article31371868.ece
18 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||GESCOM promotes online payment of bills||In view of the lockdown to beat COVID-19, Gulbarga Electricity Supply Company (GESCOM), State-owned enterprise entrusted with the responsibility of supplying electricity in the six districts of Kalyana Karnataka region, is encouraging its consumers to switch from counter to online payment mode of their power consumption bills. The online payment option using various methods such as internet banking, debit cards and credit cards has been enabled to enable consumers to pay their bills online from their homes. In a release, the company said that online payments could be made through wallet-based apps and UPI-based payment services provided by PayTM, Gpay, Amazon Pay, Mobikwik, PayZaap, and other apps. Speaking to The Hindu , R. Ragapriya, Managing Director of GESCOM, said that the cash counters would continue to be open to facilitate payment with all precautionary measures such as maintaining social distancing and wearing masks. “I appeal to our consumers to go for an online payment instead of taking the risk of visiting our cash counter. The cash counters will, however, remain open for those who cannot make an online payment,” she said, adding that the company would not disconnect power supply of those who fail to pay the bill within the due date, considering the lockdown. Since meter reading had been suspended, the company has generated the average bill or previous month’s bill as per the direction of the Energy Department. The company, however, clarified that the difference between the power consumption mentioned in the average bill and the actual consumption of power would be adjusted in the next bill after the resumption of meter reading.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gescom-promotes-online-payment-of-bills/article31371870.ece
18 April 2020||KALABURAGI/belagavi/mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Sharp rise: Ballari sees 7 cases in a day||With seven cases of COVID-19 being reported from Hospet on Friday, the total number of cases in the district rose to 13, pushing the district to a red zone and turning Hospet town into a hotspot. It is learnt that all the seven new cases reported from Hospet – P331 (39-year old male), P332 (68-year old female), P333 (21-year old male, P334 (48-year old male), P335 (10-year old female), P336 (50-year old male), and P337 (24-year old male) – were members of one family. As per the media bulletin released by the government, all of them were the contacts of P141 (one of the first COVID-19 cases in the district). All seven people have been isolated in Ballari as they were the primary contacts of a COVID-19 patient and their throat swab samples sent to the lab. Since their first test results were negative, they were shifted to a hotel for 14-day quarantine. After they tested positive for the disease, they were again shifted to the designated COVID-19 hospital in Ballari. Five cases in Belagavi Five more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Belagavi city on Friday, taking the district total to 41. In the city, the number of positive cases has risen to six. Patient 355 is a 34-year-old male; P 356 is a 17-year-old male; P 357 is 46-year-old male; P 358 is a 37-year-old male, and P 359 is a 38-year-old male. There are two containment zones in the city and six in the district. All five of them are primary contacts of patient 127, who had a travel history to Delhi. The police have enforced strict lockdown in the containment zones since Friday morning. We are only allowing movement of essential supplies, government vehicles and medical emergencies, ACP Narayan Rao Baramani told The Hindu . Three discharged in DK While a 39-year old resident of Uppinangady with travel history of Delhi tested positive, three persons, including a 63-year-old woman, were discharged following treatment on Friday. The 39-year-old man was among the 14 persons from the district placed under institutional quarantine since April 1. Though the person did not attend the Tablighi conference, he was among those in Nizamuddin West on March 23. Three patients were discharged after getting cured on Friday. The 63-year-old woman with diabetes was placed in institutional quarantine at ESI Hospital following her return from Dubai on March 21. She tested positive on April 4 and was moved to Wenlock Hospital. A 43-year-old male, who had returned from Delhi on March 23, was in institutional quarantine since April 1. He was tested positive on April 4. A 52-year-old male, who was also under quarantine following his return from Delhi, was also tested positive on April 4. Throat swabs of all three were tested on April 15 and 16 and they showed negative for COVID-19. They are among the 12 who have been discharged so far and advised 14 days of home quarantine. While 588 persons are in home quarantine, 5,485 have completed home quarantine period and did not show symptoms as on Friday. Ten persons were quarantined while 15 were discharged from ESI Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sharp-rise-ballari-sees-7-cases-in-a-day/article31371866.ece
18 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Poor without cards will also get ration: Kota||The State government will shortly issue orders to grant ration to construction and other labourers who don’t have BPL or APL cards, said Dakshina Kannada district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary on Friday. During a review meeting on COVID-19 relief works, eight MLAs and MLC Ivan D'Souza pointed to problems faced by workmen. “While some contractors have provided ration, others have left their workmen high and dry. They need to be given ration,” said Belthangady MLA Harish Poonja. Mangaluru city south MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath and Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader said BPL cardholders, who have not taken ration for the last three months, have been sent back without ration. Moodbidri MLA Umanath Kotian said the Labour Department was not making efforts to collect information about the number of labourers in the unorganised sector who are not getting ration. Bantwal MLA Rajesh Naik U. said he initiated a survey by taluk administration to find 2,000 stranded labourers who are without BPL or APL cards. Mr. Poojary said the government will get the data of non-BPL/APL card holders in the district and pass necessary orders to provide them ration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/poor-without-cards-will-also-get-ration-kota/article31371873.ece
18 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Help comes from activists across the border for this cancer patient||Fifty-three-year-old Neeta D’Souza (name changed), in the last stage of bone cancer, was resigned to her fate when a few ayurvedic medicines which she thought had helped her feel better ran out of stock after the countrywide lockdown was declared. The medicine had to be procured from a far-off place in Palakkad district of Kerala and not just across the State boundary. None could help her since her husband is working abroad and her two children are in Bengaluru. The possibilities of travelling all the way, crossing the border, seemed impossible to her in the present condition. But help came in the form of a few activists of the Students Federation of India (SFI), Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) and the Fire and Emergency Services of Kerala and Karnataka. Her relative Jackson Vas informed her plight to his neighbour and SFI office-bearer Madhuri Bolar, who got in touch with her comrades in Kerala and soon they arranged for the medicines by contacting Sree Narayana Pharmaceuticals at Ottapalam in Palakkad district. Activists there took the help of Kerala Fire and Rescue Services, who dropped off the consignment at Talapady on the Karnataka-Kerala border on Wednesday. Ms. D’Souza received the consignment on Thursday through Karnataka Fire and Emergency Services personnel. Mr. Vas recalled that Ms. D’Souza, a resident of Kumpala on the outskirts of Mangaluru, was diagnosed to be in the final stage of bone cancer a couple of years ago and doctors did not give any assurance to her. When some of her acquaintances informed her about availability of ayurvedic medicines at Ottapalam, she saw no harm in giving it a try. Since it appeared to give her relief, she was keen to continue with it, said Mr. Vas. Now, thanks to the volunteers, she can do so lockdown notwithstanding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/help-comes-from-activists-across-the-border-for-this-cancer-patient/article31371687.ece
18 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Man booked for inflammatory post||The Mangaluru South police on Friday booked a person, identified as Vishwa Mangaluru, for allegedly posting an inflammatory message on a WhatsApp group. According to the police, the person had allegedly posted a statement against a community that promoted enmity and hatred. The social media team of the city police noticed the post and alerted the Mangaluru South Police Inspector who registered the case. He was booked under Section 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code. In a tweet, Police Commissioner P.S. Harsha said the police will not spare anyone who tried to disturb harmony. The city police have so far registered 29 cases and seized 2575 vehicles for violation of quarantine rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-booked-for-inflammatory-post/article31371881.ece
18 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||SKDRDP to donate Rs. 5 cr. to PMCARES||The Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala Rural Development Project (SKDRDP) on Friday announced contribution of Rs. 5 crore to the PMCARES fund. Project chairman and Dharmadhikari D. Veerendra Heggade made the announcement at a meeting held at Dharmasthala on Friday, said SKDRDP executive director L.H. Manjunath in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/skdrdp-to-donate-rs-5-cr-to-pmcares/article31371871.ece
18 April 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Seven poachers nabbed in Bandipur||Seven persons, including six former forest watchers, were caught red-handed with deer meat at Bandipur Tiger Reserve on Friday. Six of the accused were previously employed by the Forest Department, which periodically recruits people from local villages on a temporary basis from January through April to keep an eye on fire outbreak. Conservator of Forests T. Balachandra said that working on a tip-off, the night-beat guards, along with the special tiger protection force, lay in wait near Hosahalligudda in the Gopalaswamy Betta range of the tiger reserve. Around 5.45 a.m., they intercepted a man astride a two-wheeler and a pillion rider and questioned them about their presence in the national park in the early hours of the day. The two had a sack, which when examined was found to be filled with slaughtered deer. The two accused were identified as Rangaswamy and Alumalaiah of Haggadahalla village. The duo confessed to have laid snares in the Hirekere forest area and poached three deer to sell the meat. Soon after, three more persons reached the spot and the Forest Department staff took them into custody. It transpired that they were the customers intending to buy the deer meat. They were identified as Nanjashetty, Siddaiah, and Chinnanayaka of Lakshmipura village. Two others who were part of the conspiracy, Nagarajushetty and Madashetty, were taken into custody from their village, Koodahalli. Four more persons — Chinammalla, Krishnappa, Prabhu, and Naganna — are absconding. Mr. Balachandra suspects the involvement of a few more persons. The authorities seized 50 kg of deer meat, a motorcycle, slaughtered heads of three deer stuffed in the sack, deer skin, 15 snares, and a sharp knife from the accused. This is the third instance of poaching in Bandipur in the past couple of weeks. The authorities plan to step up patrolling and combing operations, besides redeploying the special tiger protection force and anti-poaching camp personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seven-poachers-nabbed-in-bandipur/article31371691.ece
18 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Shivamogga City Corporation donates two secured booths||The Shivamogga City Corporation donated two secured booths for collection of throat and nasal swabs of persons having symptoms of COVID-19 to McGann Hospital, a government hospital attached to Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences(SIMS). McGann Hospital has been identified as the dedicated hospital to treat COVID-19 cases in the district. Nasal and throat swabs of symptomatic persons are conducted at the Viral Diagnostic and Research Laboratory on the premises of the hospital. K.S. Eshwarappa, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, handed over the booths to the hospital authorities. The booths have aluminium and glass cabins. The shielding screen will protect the medical professional from coming in direct contact with the aerosol of the patient while collection of samples. The stethoscopes are attached to the booths for auscultation, necessary for proper diagnosis. Those inside the booth will be equipped with double-layer safety gloves to minimise the chances of exposure to the virus. Raghunandan R., district surgeon, told The Hindu that the booth is fool-proof and there will be no direct contact between the patient and the medical staff. A microphone is installed inside the booth through which the medical professional can interact with the patient. The medical professional working inside the booth also need not change personal protective equipment after each sample collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivamogga-city-corporation-donates-two-secured-booths/article31371878.ece
18 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Three more cases of monkey fever||Three persons have tested positive for Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD), also known as monkey fever, in the district since Thursday. On Thursday, a 44-year-old woman from Muppane village in the Sharavathi backwater region in Sagar taluk tested positive for KFD. She has been hospitalised and is being closely monitored. Another woman from Thorebailu village in Tirthahalli taluk who was suffering from fatigue and high fever was diagnosed for KFD on Thursday. The blood samples of a 45-year-old woman from Konandur in Tirthahalli taluk tested positive on Friday. As the woman had health complications including diabetes, she was admitted to a private multi-speciality hospital in Shivamogga city. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district since January 1 reached 156.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-more-cases-of-monkey-fever/article31371880.ece
18 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Udupi jasmine growers hit hard by lockdown||The lockdown on account of the COVID-19 has hit the growers of Udupi Mallige , also known as Shankarpura jasmine, in Udupi district hard. This jasmine, which enjoys Geographical Indication (GI) tag, is cultivated by about 7,000 growers in Shankarpura, Shirva, Bantakal, Innanje, Bantakal, and surrounding areas in Udupi district. According to the crop survey of Horticulture Department, it is grown on 116 hectares and its production is estimated at 863.55 tonnes, valued at Rs. 12.09 crore. The stoppage of festivities in temples and prohibition of large gatherings including marriages and closure of flower shops in the district have hit the jasmine growers. Sudheesh Bhandary, who cultivates this jasmine on 50 cents of land at Panjimaru village, told The Hindu that the yield of jasmine was high from March to May and there were more festivities and functions during these months. “Now I get 12 chendus of flowers, that is 9,600 flowers, daily. I cannot sell it. [A total of 800 flowers go into making one chendu). I suffer a minimum loss of Rs. 1,000 per day,” he said. According to Guruprasad, Assistant Director of Horticulture, the loss to the jasmine growers in the district was estimated at Rs. 25 lakh per day. Losses to grow “The loss will be Rs. 9 crore if the lockdown continues till the end of this month. A report on this has been sent to the Directorate of Horticulture in Bengaluru,” he said. Manjunath Patkar, another grower, said that though the growers had started supplying some flowers to the buyers from April 13, it is clearly not enough. Ramakrishna Sharma, president of Udupi Mallige Belegarara Sangha, said that the growers will suffer big losses. “We will benefit only if the lockdown is lifted,” he said. Meanwhile, the administration on Friday decided to allow flower shops to start functioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-jasmine-growers-hit-hard-by-lockdown/article31371863.ece
18 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||13 admitted in Udupi||As many as 13 persons with symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to hospitals in Udupi district on Friday. A press release issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare said that of the 13 persons, nine were suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and one from Influenza Like Illness (ILI).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/13-admitted-in-udupi/article31371875.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Selfless service||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/selfless-service/article31371673.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Licences of 10 fair price shops suspended||The Hassan Deputy Commissioner has suspended the licences of 10 fair price shops in the district following complaints of unfair practices while distributing foodgrains to beneficiaries. R. Girish, Deputy Commissioner, in a press release on Friday, said the State government had released foodgrains for April and May for distribution to the beneficiaries. There were complaints against some shopkeepers about collecting money for foodgrains, irregularities in weighing, and forcing the beneficiaries to purchase other items. Based on the complaints, licences of four shops located in Hassan city, two in Hassan taluk, three in Channarayapatna taluk, and one in Arsikere has been suspended, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/licences-of-10-fair-price-shops-suspended/article31371867.ece
18 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Mock drill tests isolation beds in 140 houseboats||The district administration on Friday conducted a mock drill as part of converting houseboats in Alappuzha into COVID-19 care centres. According to officials, 2,000 isolation beds will be set up in houseboats anchored at the Finishing Point as part of a contingency plan. In the initial phase, bedrooms in 140 houseboats have been turned into isolation rooms. The administration is expecting an inflow of people from overseas and other States after the COVID-19-induced lockdown period ends. The converted rooms in houseboats will be used only if the need arises. “COVID care centres are being set up in houseboats for the first time in the country,” said an official. The mock drill was coordinated by the District Disaster Management Authority. As part of it, readiness and coordination between government departments and medical teams, shifting of patients to hospital from vessels in compliance with COVID-19 guidelines, safety and disinfection measures to be taken before and after shifting a patient have all been put to test. Officials from the Health Department, police, Fire and Rescue Services, Kerala State Electricity Board, Kerala Water Authority and others took part in the drill. Five cases in district Earlier, the district administration had reached an agreement with houseboat owners to convert vessels into isolation units. District Collector M. Anjana, District Medical Officer L. Anitha Kumari, Deputy Collector Asha C. Abraham, National Health Mission District programme manager Radhakrishnan and various department heads were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mock-drill-tests-isolation-beds-in-140-houseboats/article31371966.ece
18 April 2020||DUBAI,KERALA||Parents in UAE attend son’s funeral in Kerala virtually||Bidding final goodbye is always a difficult thing and for an Indian family in the UAE it became more harder as they had to do it virtually due to travel restrictions amid the COVID-19 outbreak, according to a media report. The family had to watch the funeral of their cancer-stricken son on Facebook as they could not accompany his body flown to Kerala due to travel restrictions, the Gulf News reported. Born on Easter in 2004, Jeuel G Jomay lost his seven-year-long battle with cancer this Good Friday, a day before he turned 16 on April 11. A Grade X student of GEMS Millennium School in Sharjah, Jeuel breathed his last at a hospital in Dubai, where he was admitted two weeks earlier, the report said. His heartbroken family comprising his parents and two younger brothers wished to lay him to rest in their home town in Pathanamthitta. After days of struggle, the family got approval for sending the mortal remains on a cargo plane on Wednesday, with support from social workers and government officials. However, none of them could fly along. “None of the flights was getting sanctioned soon. His father wanted to fly with him. But that was not possible. Finally, we managed to send him. We are grateful to everyone who supported us,” the paper quoted Jeuel’s cousin as saying. Due to the movement restrictions and social distancing rules, she said only the family members could attend a prayer held at the embalming centre in Muhaisnah before the body was flown to Kerala on an Emirates cargo flight, the family member said.  Ceremonies on Facebook Jeuel’s family watched the ceremonies on Facebook on Thursday while the St. Mary’s church in Sharjah provided a link to the YouTube livestreaming on its website the funeral service. Tens of thousands of people watched the five-hour-long service that began with a prayer at the family’s home in Pathanamthitta. Jeuel’s cousin said the family also had to obtain special permission for holding the funeral service during the lockdown back home. She said his parents and brothers would take time to recover from the irreparable loss, but are grateful that he was laid to rest in their home town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parents-in-uae-attend-sons-funeral-in-kerala-virtually/article31371970.ece
18 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||COVID-19 care centres to be set up for NRIs||If non-resident Indians from Wayanad are brought back, enough COVID-19 care centres will be set up in the district to accommodate them, Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran has said. He added that the district administration had identified 1,960 rooms at various homestays and resorts for the purpose. MLAs C.K. Saseendran and O.R. Kelu said Malayalee farmers cultivating ginger in rented land in Karnataka were being exploited by anti-socials in the name of the pandemic. All steps would be taken to address issues facing the farmers, District Collector Adeela Abdulla said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-care-centres-to-be-set-up-for-nris/article31371950.ece
18 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Traders clueless about giving salary to workers||Traders who have put up the shutters following thelockdown remain clueless about the payment of salary and other benefits to their workers for this month. Except for shops selling essential items and a few other establishments permitted to function partially, the majority of the businesses continues to bear the brunt of the lockdown. “We are now working out a plan to provide a minimum relief of Rs. 5,000 to our workers as it would be difficult to pay the full salary in view of the current situation. The livelihood of hundreds of merchants has taken a hit. Our employees are also going through tough times. The details of the relief plan for them will be worked out soon,” said G. Karthikeyan, president of the Kerala Merchants Chamber of Commerce, here on Friday. The traders said they have requested the government to announce a relief package for them. “The stimulus would help the traders to get over what seems to be a long road for economic recovery,” said Mr. Karthikeyan. Salary expenses The traders said the salary expenses alone for a firm having at least five to 10 employees would be in the range of Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 2 lakh and above. “We are also staring at the pending stocks and worried about when the earnings will improve. The revival of business may not happen as expected even after the lockdown is lifted as people will be cautious in their spending,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-clueless-about-giving-salary-to-workers/article31371975.ece
18 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘If I earn, my family can eat’||Living in Pookattupady near Aluva, far from family and home in Kolkata, Bapirul Islam is worried and uncertain. “My wife and mother back home will not tell me if they have not been able to get food or ration. But my son tells me sometimes that he has had only one meal that day or has not eaten,” he says. He has not been able to pay the local grocer for the supplies he bought and has not been able to send money home since the lockdown. Finding work here doing odd jobs lifting loads or helping on construction sites was difficult, but he would get paid Rs. 700 daily, he says. “It’s simple – if I earn, they can eat,” he says of his family at home – his parents, wife and son. He would like to go home for now, but would eventually return to the State. “This is where the work is and I need to feed the family,” he says. Bapirul Islam lives with over 50 others in a rented space where the landlord gave them ration for a few days but that did not last and they had to try and buy their own, he says. Since they can no longer afford diesel as cooking fuel, they have to head out looking for wood. Contractors, employers and building owners are still required to provide food, says District Labour Officer (Enforcement) V.B. Biju. “If they are not able to, based on complaints, we arrange for it,” he says. On wages for workers he says, “We have not arrived at that stage yet. The question of wages will arise only after the lockdown when establishments have opened up and employees return to work.” Workers’ camps Of the 18,911 migrant worker camps that have been identified, 367 are being run by district administrations, while 13,571 are run by employers or contractors. The remaining are scattered rented buildings where workers live. A majority of camps are existing facilities where workers were living and where services are now being provided, says Benoy Peter, executive director, Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development. A few additional ones were set up to decongest the existing facilities. “After 21 days, expecting petty employers or contractors to provide food could be too much stress on them. The State should take the onus,” he says. When workers call the helpline, they are usually asked for the landlord’s or employer’s number, says Mujeeb Rahman, coordinator, Manav Welfare Foundation, an Ernakulam-based NGO. Most of them are hesitant to give the number fearing consequences, he adds. Rabiul Islam from Murshidabad, who lives in Aluva, says that the owner of the building he lives in has been providing ration regularly. “There is food but no money. When can I take a train home,” he asks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/if-i-earn-my-family-can-eat/article31371959.ece
18 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Now, a drone to combat pandemic||A start-up company at Maker Village in Kochi has developed a drone powered with artificial intelligence that can help combat COVID-19 by monitoring body temperature, supplying essential commodities and spraying disinfectants. The unmanned Garud has been designed and engineered by AI Aerial Dynamics at the Maker Village, India’s largest electronic hardware incubator and ESDM facility. The integrated solution was developed leveraging globally benchmarked labs and equipment besides product development software solutions available at Maker Village, said a communication. The indigenously made drone is said to be efficient and effective than those imported from other countries, where the applicable payload is lower than that of Garud and the option for customisation is not possible, officials said. Garud can monitor roads and bylanes besides residential pockets. Also, the aerial vehicle can collect thermal data by using an array of IR sensors and advanced digital technology called EDGE (Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution), thus working as a means to combat the pandemic. The vehicle can collect swabs and samples of people for COVID-19 test. It has the capacity to carry weight up to 60 kg, thus facilitating distribution of even essential commodities if there is an exigency. Further, Garud can feature a modern sprayer which can be used to shower disinfectants from above. It has also a loudspeaker for public announcements, according to AI Aerial Dynamics founder-CEO Vishnu V. Nath. “Besides the AI-supported engine, the fully-automated Garud has a high-resolution camera, a facility to carry weight, a micro-sprayer and thermal scanner. The visuals it generates can zoom into specifics with centimetre-level accuracy. The images it capture will be simultaneously saved in the operating unit on the ground,” Mr Nath said. “If the vehicle loses range or exhausts battery (capacity: 150 minutes), it will fly down to the point of take-off.” The UAV uses a hybrid engine for its flight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-a-drone-to-combat-pandemic/article31371949.ece
18 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Beware, paedophiles are on the prowl||Parents giving unrestricted Internet access to children to keep them entertained within the home during the lockdown may better watch out. The digital trends detected by the Countering Child Sexual Exploitation (CCSE) Cell, functioning under the Cyberdome of the Kerala Police, has warned of paedophiles exploiting the ‘perfect opportunity’ to target children spending more time online. “The CCSE team has witnessed a perceptible spike in those seeking Child Sexual Abuse Material (CSAM) on the net, especially the darknet. Action is being taken against 150 persons in the State found browsing for CSAM,” said Manoj Abraham, nodal officer of Cyberdome. The CCSE has deployed hi-tech tools to identify those downloading CSAM from the Internet. IP address is being collected using specialised software, even though many of the individuals are using TOR (free and open-source software for enabling anonymous communication) and VPN to surf the Net anonymously. The number of porn groups dealing in CSAM over WhatsApp and Telegram has increased drastically with social media and gaming sites being exploited by criminal elements to get access to children. Telegram has removed many such groups with over 200 members from the State after being reported by the State police while efforts are on to identify their admins. A special cell has been created in Cyberdome to track all such suspected telegram and WhatsApp groups. Instances of abusers installing malwares to activate webcams to steal information of children have also been reported. “Abuse of children locked up in their homes cannot be ruled out and from the pictures being uploaded, such incidents are very likely during this period,” said Mr. Abraham, while urging parents to keep a close watch on the browsing history of their children. The police have already written to major social media service providers to deploy artificial intelligence to moderate CSAM content during the pandemic. Meanwhile, the countrywide statistics published by Pornhub, one of the world’s biggest porn sites, has mirrored the Cyberdome’s finding that there has been almost a 100% spike in visits to adult sites from India during the lockdown period.  Abuse of children locked up in their homes cannot be ruled out and from the pictures being uploaded, such incidents are very likely during this period Manoj Abraham Nodal officer, Cyberdome||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beware-paedophiles-are-on-the-prowl/article31371954.ece
18 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Only modern medicine to treat COVID-19: govt.||The State government on Friday submitted before the Kerala High Court that it had decided to use only modern medicine for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. The government told the court that the AYUSH Ministry’s advisory was only with respect to the use of homoeopathy and other systems of alternative medicine for boosting immunity. The submissions were made on a petition filed by M.S. Vineeth of Kozhikode seeking a directive to the State government to allow practitioners of homoeopathy to treat COVID-19 patients in terms of the advisory issued by the Union Ministry of AYUSH. The court adjourned to next week the hearing on the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/only-modern-medicine-to-treat-covid-19-govt/article31371967.ece
18 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Indians’ evacuation not feasible: Centre to HC||The Centre on Friday informed the Kerala High Court that given the present situation in the country and the available limited resources in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak, it is not feasible to selectively evacuate Indian citizens from abroad. The submission was made when a public interest litigation seeking a directive to the Centre to evacuate the Indians stranded in the United Arab Emirates came up for hearing before a Division Bench. The petition was filed by Ibrahim Elettil, president, Kerala Muslim Cultural Centre, Dubai, and another person. The Centre submitted that bringing back Indians posed a grave risk, as most countries now had reported cases of COVID-19. The Centre had initially evacuated Indians from China, Japan, Iran and Italy when the situation was not grim. However, taking into account the present situation and the limited resources, it was not feasible to selectively evacuate Indian citizens from abroad. As for the expired tourist and transit visas of those stranded, the UAE had clarified that all people whose visas expired after March 1 would have their visas extended without any penalty till May 31 or till the resumption of international flights, whichever is earlier, the Centre said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/indians-evacuation-not-feasible-centre-to-hc/article31371976.ece
18 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Forensic audit of Sprinklr deal sought||A public interest petition was filed in the High Court on Friday seeking a directive to the Union government to conduct a forensic audit into the IT contract entered into by the State government with the U.S.-based firm Sprinklr for uploading data of persons under COVID-19 surveillance on the website of the company. In the petition, Balu Gopalakrishnan of Thiruvananthapuram said as per the contract the data of suspected and actual patients of COVID-19, collected using government machinery on a daily basis, were being uploaded. The petitioner expressed doubts if the data stored on the server of the company would be safe and if the company would use it for monetary gains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forensic-audit-of-sprinklr-deal-sought/article31371977.ece
18 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Online learning gathers pace at Cusat||Online learning seems to have picked up momentum at the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) during the lockdown. Students have registered for around 1,500 courses. Learners are also offered lab and project-based courses on the Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC) platform, said G. Santhosh Kumar, head of the department of computer science. Recorded videos of lectures by teachers, audio sessions, class notes, assignments and quiz programmes are available online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-learning-gathers-pace-at-cusat/article31371951.ece
18 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC orders release of vehicles seized during lockdown||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Friday ordered that all vehicles seized by the police on the charge of violating lockdown guidelines be released to its owners subject to certain conditions. The Bench of Justices Raja Vijayaraghavan and T.R. Ravi directed that the vehicles could be released to the owners on them executing a personal bond and depositing cash security ranging from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 5,000. They should also furnish copies of the licence, RC book, and insurance certificate before the station house officer concerned. The owners should also furnish an undertaking that the vehicle would be produced as and when required. The court made it clear that the order would not be applicable to repeat offenders. The court passed the directive in a suo motu case initiated by the court in the wake of the lockdown. The vehicle owners had been slapped with offence under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (disobedience of government order).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-orders-release-of-vehicles-seized-during-lockdown/article31371968.ece
18 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Kundannoor flyover work resumes||Work on Kundannoor flyover resumed on Friday after a month’s gap in connection with the lockdown. Over a dozen workers resumed work on building the retention wall on the Aroor side of the flyover, where a minor change of design was made by PWD (NH Wing). The deadline to complete the flyover had been extended by a month early in March, following an inspection done by Additional Chief Secretary (PWD) T.K. Jose. With the work at a standstill for a month following the lockdown, it may be ready for commissioning only by May-end. The approach road on the Aroor side has to get ready, following which the flyover has to be tar-coated, sources said. Similarly, the deadline for the Vyttila flyover had been rescheduled to June. Although work resumed a week ago, PWD officials are doubtful of the structure getting ready by then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kundannoor-flyover-work-resumes/article31371946.ece
18 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Infusing new life into a lake||While the world is busy making Dalgona coffee to beat lockdown blues, a group of youngsters from Kunnathur are on a different mission. For the past two weeks they have been diligently weeding Sasthamcotta Lake, removing huge chunks of an aquatic fern locally called ‘mullan payal’ from it. “Since many of us were left with time to spare, we wanted to invest it in something meaningful. Several residents and volunteers have been part of this and we were very active before the lockdown. Now we take turns and only four or five people venture into the lake at a time. We keep a safe distance from each other and wear masks while in water,” says Ullas Kovoor, who coordinates the drive. Decaying biomass Currently, weeds abound in areas near the Filter House junction and parts of Kerala’s largest freshwater lake are choking under the spread. With summer reaching its peak, most weed patches are wilting and the entire surrounding is filled with the stink of decaying biomass. “Currently, large stretches of the lake are covered in this, except for a handful of bathing ghats. It is a major concern for those residing in the area and the only option is to get rid of the weed.” And it turned out to be no easy task, as the volunteers had to sweat for long hours, gathering and hauling the weeds to the shore. “At the outset it felt like an easy job, but as we started ripping the weed, we realised it required a lot of effort. First, we collect a sizeable bulk and then pull it to the shore using ropes. Then, we spread it there for a couple of days to dry and then burn it,” he adds. No proper system According to experts, the presence of the fern will easily sabotage the the aquatic ecosystem just like other invasive species. It is also a threat to the water quality, leading to long-term complications. “Despite being a Ramsar site, no proper system is in place to conserve the waterbody. Due to the inflow of nutrients, the flora and fauna of the ecosystem are changing. Since eradication is practically impossible, we should focus on the conservation of the ecosystem,” says V.K. Madhusoodan, environmentalist and a member of the Kerala Sastra Sahitya Parishad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/infusing-new-life-into-a-lake/article31372009.ece
18 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Nod to resume operations a relief to cashew exporters||The government nod to resume operations at cashew processing units has brought a big relief to exporters who are holding huge volumes of unprocessed stock. According to the Cashew Export Promotion Council of India (CEPCI), cashew processing units across the country are holding around 1,50,000 tonnes of cashew kernels worth Rs. 9,000 crore in different stages of processing. Since the partly processed kernels are prone to damage by infestation, reopening the factories to complete processing is the only way left for saving the stock. Colour change “Further, the colour changes of the kernels will make it unacceptable for the export market. All these have caused heavy damage to the cashew sector. In Kerala alone, the stock of cashew kernels exposed in different stages of processing is estimated at 17,000 tonnes worth Rs. 1,020 crore,” said a CEPCI official.  COVID-19 has hit the sector hard with dwindling shipments in the past couple of months with April registering almost zero export. Competitiors “This has also helped countries such as Vietnam and new comers of the African region to grab the Indian share in a big way. The industry is afraid of far-reaching adverse effects in the days ahead as the overseas market once lost is hard to recapture. It is the relationship with overseas buyers built up over years that got spoiled due to the non-perfomance,” he said. While all stakeholders in the industry welcome the decision permitting processing units to operate with 50% workforce, they will have to strive hard in their efforts to recapture the lost export markets. Smooth sail unlikely They point out that though the present decision of the Central government has brought in a huge respite, there will not be any smooth sailing. Due to the long exposure, the recovery rates of kernels are expected to be 50% only, causing heavy financial losses to the sector. “The cashew sector was on the path to recovery from a big financial crisis. Further, a number of exporters had to suffer heavy losses in the forward forex booking due to depreciation of rupee against dollar, which could have been avoided if the export orders could be fulfilled,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-to-resume-operations-a-relief-to-cashew-exporters/article31371997.ece
18 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode has lone COVID-19 case in State||Strict restrictions were imposed in a few wards in 13 local bodies of Kozhikode in view of the reporting of COVID-19 cases there even as the only person who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the State on Friday was from the district. According to District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, the infected patient, a 31-year-old resident of Azhiyoor, had been in contact with another man from the same place, who was tested positive earlier. They both work in the same shop. The new patient was admitted to a corona care centre at Vadakara on April 14 after the first case was reported. His body fluid samples were sent for lab tests too. He was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital after they tested positive. His condition is stable now, Dr. Jayasree said. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases in the district reached 19, nine of whom have recovered. Two persons each from Kannur and Kasaragod too were tested positive for the virus. Those from Kasaragod have been discharged. As many as 11,586 persons are under surveillance now, with 1,309 completing their observation cycle on Friday. Thirty-one are at the government medical college hospital, and four were discharged. According to sources, the restrictions will be in place in Kizhakkoth (ward number 12), Velam (ward number 16), Ayancheri (ward number 2), Unnikulam and Madavoor (ward number 6), Azhiyoor (wards 4 and 5), Chekkiyad (ward number 10), Thiruvalloor (ward number 14), Nadapuram (ward number 15), Changaroth (ward number 3), Kayakkodi (wards 6,7, and 8) and Edachery (ward number 16) grama panchayats. They will be in force also in ward numbers 42, 43, 44, 45, 54, 55, and 56 of the Kozhikode Corporation. Vehicular movement will not be allowed in these places though the restrictions will not be applicable to those carrying essential commodities. Residents of these wards should not venture out for anything other than seeking emergency medical services, and people from outside should not enter these places. Shops selling essential goods can remain open between 8 a.m. and 11 a.m., and public distribution outlets can remain open between 8 a.m. and 2 p.m. Gathering of people outside their homes will not be allowed. The District Police Chiefs have been asked to step up surveillance, and the Health Department too should keep a watch on these places. Violators will be dealt with under Sections 188 and 269 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-has-lone-covid-19-case-in-state/article31371944.ece
18 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Job offerings of NIT-C students stand||When companies across the sector are resorting to lay-offs and pay cuts, the National Institute of Technology, Calicut, (NIT-C), appears to have defied the COVID-19 gloom with 600 of its students heading to fresh pastures. However, owing to the lockdown, they will join only by September. “Probably this is to ensure onboarding of all selected students across India via placements in one batch as many institutions have different course completion plan now,” S.M. Sameer, Professor and Head, Centre for Training and Placement, NIT-C, told The Hindu on Friday.  In fact, NIT-C Director Sivaji Chakravorti had personally written to all companies to honour the offers given to the students at the time of placements. As such, the recruiters have maintained the full-time job offers extended to the students.  Aggressive approach Mr. Sameer said the aggressive approach done right from beginning of the placement season in August last had helped to achieve the placement record. “Our target was to allow recruiters to hire about 750 students this session. In the last lap during March-April, more companies would have recruited the students, especially in the core segments such as civil, mechanical and electrical. Now that has been affected,” he said. The students have received job offers from leading companies with annual packages ranging from Rs. 5 lakh to Rs. 50 lakh. The average compensation is also higher than last year’s. The NIT-C is ranked number one among the engineering colleges in Kerala by the Ministry of Human Resource Development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/job-offerings-of-nit-c-students-stand/article31371964.ece
18 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Observe your shadows disappear today||On Saturday, at 12.26 p.m., all shadows will disappear from Kozhikode. It is not magic, but a rare astronomical event wherein the sun is directly above us. On the Zero Shadow Day, at the designated time, any vertical object, including our own body, will not cast a shadow. For Kozhikode, the phenomenon will be most visible at 12.26 p.m. on Saturday. To view it, one just needs to be in a location where the sky is visible clearly, a terrace or open garden if possible. Get positioned 10 minutes early and observe one’s own shadow getting shorter by the second and vanishing completely by the designated time. It reappears as soon as the moment passes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/observe-your-shadows-disappear-today/article31371956.ece
18 April 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||MLA goes back to teaching, this time online||Like his fellow legislators, T.V. Ibrahim, MLA of Kondotty, too has been busy with various welfare activities during the COVID-19 lockdown. In addition, he has returned to his teaching profession. Mr. Ibrahim recently gave an online tutorial for thousands of students whose exams had been disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The Muslim Students Federation (MSF) district unit provided the online classroom platform called ‘Stay at home, study at home’. Mr. Ibrahim took political science classes for higher secondary students, invoking his political experience as a young leader of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML). The MLA found that his session was well-received, with many students coming up with positive comments about his style of teaching. Teacher on leave A teacher on leave from EMEA Higher Secondary School, Mr. Ibrahim won many a heart through his motivational style of delivery. “I am very happy the MLA launched online classes during the lockdown. He could inspire my child who had lost touch with books during this lockdown,” said K.A. Abdul Jaleel, a parent from Pulikkal. Mr. Ibrahim gave his telephone number to the students so that they could call him any time to clear doubts. “You are free to call me any time. Please do not hesitate,” he told them. Three lakh students Other teachers are handling subjects like mathematics, botany, zoology, computer science, business studies, psychology, history and statistics. “Three lakh students viewed our online study programme on the first day. Like students, we too are very happy,” said K.M. Ismail, programme coordinator. Classes are held daily from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. The organisers have set up a help desk as well to provide special aid for students. “We are managing this online programme by sticking to the lockdown guidelines imposed by the authorities,” said Mr. Ismail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mla-goes-back-to-teaching-this-time-online/article31371993.ece
18 April 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||27 booked for gathering at temple||The police on Friday registered a case against 27 people for gathering at a temple in violation of lockdown norms at Varode near Ottapalam on Friday. Among them were temple officials too. Eighteen men were arrested and eight vehicles seized from them. Sub Collector Arjun Pandian and Assistant Superintendent of Police Swapnil M. Mahajan led the action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/27-booked-for-gathering-at-temple/article31371955.ece
18 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||237 samples test negative in Pathanamthitta||The nasal and throat swabs of 237 quarantined persons in the district tested negative for COVID-19 on Friday. Sixteen persons were in isolation wards at various hospitals in the district as on Friday. As per the medical bulletin released by District Collector P.B. Noohu, no new COVID-19 case had been reported in the district for the fifth consecutive day on Friday. Results awaited District Medical Officer A.L. Sheeja said results of 242 samples were awaited as on Friday. As many as 4,052 persons are in home quarantine in the district. As many as 235 persons are the primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons in the district. A total of 11 among the 17 COVID-19 patients in the district have been cured of the disease so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/237-samples-test-negative-in-pathanamthitta/article31371998.ece
18 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vigil against monsoon-time diseases||With the COVID-19 threat showing signs of receding, the State government on Friday turned its attention to pre-monsoon cleaning and epidemic prevention activities. Addressing a high-level meeting here, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan stressed the need to clean up houses and public places. Pointing out that fever and communicable diseases tend to rear up during the monsoon period, he called on local bodies to redouble the sanitation activities and encourage families to clean up their houses, especially in areas classified as COVID-19 hotspots.  Preventive activities The meeting decided to set aside one day to clean up public places, buildings and offices, engaging not more than five persons at a time. Preventing stagnation of water and accumulation of garbage in drains and gutters, and proper and timely disposal of waste would be given priority. The Green Task Force and Volunteer Corps would be pressed into service for cleaning of ponds and canals. The Chief Minister mooted the idea of using the services of migrant workers in the effort. “Doing so would ensure restoration of their livelihood,” he said. Local bodies were directed to take up vector control activities, repair damaged roads, ensure drinking water supply and carry out maintenance of school buildings. Focus on vector control Health Minister K.K. Shylaja stressed the need to maintain vigil against dengue fever, leptospirosis, H1N1, cholera and hepatitis. She also urged officials to focus vector control efforts on buildings under construction. Forest Minister K. Raju said the department had taken measures to ensure the supply of drinking water for wild animals in forest areas. Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan, Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma, Education Minister C. Ravindranath, Chief Secretary Tom Jose and other officials participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vigil-against-monsoon-time-diseases/article31371972.ece
18 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. gets ready to host returnees from abroad||The government will make elaborate arrangements to host Keralites stranded in various countries on their return to the State after the resumption of international flights, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. A high-level meeting chaired by the Chief Minister here on Friday decided to make arrangements at the four international airports in Kerala through which the returnees were expected to arrive. Facilities would be made for the screening and quarantine of the air travellers. Hospital support would also be provided. Locations The Health Department would examine the details of the passengers and identify quarantine locations while the Transport Department would arrange their travel. The departments of Local Self-Government and Public Works had been tasked with setting up the quarantine facilities near the airports. Symptomatic cases would be quarantined and those testing negative would be under observation at home. The meeting decided to set up a supervisory mechanism to monitor the process. It assessed that adequate number of houses and rooms had been arranged to host the returnees. Efforts were on to identify more buildings for the purpose. The government would request the Ministries of External Affairs and Civil Aviation to accord priority for senior citizens, those on visiting visa, pregnant women, children and citizens with diseases other than COVID-19 to return to Kerala. Second preference Overseas Keralites who had lost their jobs or with expired visa, those released from prison and students who have completed their course would be given second preference while the rest would be brought back later. The Chief Minister said officials would hold discussions with airlines and request reduced airfare for the expatriates.  Highlights of meeting Stranded Keralites to be brought back in 3 phases Screening and quarantine facilities at airports Move to seek reduced airfare||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-gets-ready-to-host-returnees-from-abroad/article31371988.ece
18 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Hard time for those running ‘thattukadas’||Manoharan’s four-wheeled cart, which served as a popular ‘thattukada’, has been lying untouched for weeks now. The only source of income for a five-member family, the cart located at Sasthamangalam in the capital, used to be a much sought-after wayside eatery. But, even days before the lockdown, as the COVID-19 scare slowly began taking effect, the number of visitors had come down to a trickle. Now, with no way to run his eatery, he has been sitting idle at home, like many others like him across the State. Even as restaurants are able to function at least in a limited manner, by selling food parcels, those running wayside eateries have no such option. “My family of five has been surviving through these hard times only because of my mother’s welfare pension and the free ration from the government. But, we do not know how long we can survive with that. My mother is 80 years old and some of this money has to be set aside for her medicines. Two of my children have completed their studies, but have no employment. Since we own this house, we will not have to live on the streets for now. Most of us who run such wayside eateries do not have much of savings, as we survive with the daily earnings,” says Manoharan. Welfare funds Some of those running wayside eateries are part of the Kerala Shops And Commercial Establishment Workers Welfare Board’s fund, thanks to which they have got Rs. 1,000 from the government during the lockdown. But, many are still out of the net. “The wayside vendors can join either the welfare fund for shops or the unorganised sector social security board. But, the trade unions have been trying to push for a separate welfare fund for wayside vendors, which might not happen, and owing to which many have not joined these existing ones. The vendors can pay Rs. 40 per month and join these. But even the Rs. 1,000 that they will get now will not be enough for them to survive. These are hard times for them,” says Sonia George, Self Employed Women's Association (SEWA) Union secretary, who has been actively working with some vendors’ groups. Waiting for help These days, every evening Manoharan sits in front of the television with his family, to watch Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s press conference, waiting for him to make a comment on wayside vendors like him, who are not part of any welfare fund. “Although he has touched upon most sectors, no one seems to have brought our issues to his attention till now. We just hope someone would,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hard-time-for-those-running-thattukadas/article31372005.ece
18 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Only one positive case, 10 recover||Kerala’s COVID-19 graph continued to flatline, with just one person newly testing positive for COVID 19 and 10 others recovering from the disease on Friday. Of 395 cases of COVID-19 reported in Kerala so far, just 138 are now under treatment in hospitals. Except for two, the remaining 255 have completely recovered. The lone case reported on Friday is from Kozhikode, who had apparently contracted the disease through contact with another imported case of infection. The number of persons under surveillance in the State is 78,980, of whom 526 are isolated in hospitals and the remaining 78,454 in home quarantine. The State has so far tested samples from 18,029 persons for COVID-19, of which, 17,279 have yielded a negative result. Public health experts point out that unlike other States, surveillance and tracking for COVID-19 has been an easier task for the State as almost 70% of its reported cases had a history of foreign travel “Our focus is now on managing the post-lockdown period, when we expect an influx of lakhs of Malayalis into the State, all of whom will have to complete a quarantine period in government facilities, before they can be allowed home. We are prepared, but the challenge would be huge,” a senior health official said. Directive to private labs Meanwhile, the government has issued orders allowing private sector laboratories to conduct COVID-19 antibody testing (IgG and IgM) and framing guidelines regarding the selection of labs, antibody test kits to be used, selection criteria of the testing population, timing of the tests, sample collection and declaration of results. NABL-accredited labs will be given permission for COVID-19 testing using body fluids. Only labs with Indian Council Medical Research’s accreditation will be allowed to do antibody testing for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/only-one-positive-case-10-recover/article31371991.ece
18 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Committee to salvage academic year||In a bid to salvage the academic year amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the government has constituted a committee to evolve a strategy to resume academic activities and complete the remainder of the examination process in State universities following the withdrawal of the lockdown. State Planning Board member B. Ekbal will chair the six-member committee that has been entrusted with preparing guidelines for the purpose within a week. The panel also comprises Mahatma Gandhi University Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas, Kerala University Pro Vice Chancellor P.P. Ajayakumar, Kannur University Syndicate member A. Nisanth, Calicut University Controller of Examinations Babu C.C., and APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University Dean (Research) and Registrar in-charge Vrinda V. Nair. The decision to form the committee was taken at a videoconference Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel held with the university Vice Chancellors on Wednesday. Behind schedule The move has been prompted by the inability of the government to meet its target of commencing the next academic year on June 1 under the prevailing circumstances. The committee has been mandated with streamlining the remaining activities of this academic year and to plan for next year. The panel will explore the possibilities of conducting classes online to complete any pending portions in order to circumvent the suspension of classes until May 3. Sources say the possibility of launching next academic year on July 1 is being actively pursued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/committee-to-salvage-academic-year/article31371983.ece
18 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. nod to prosecute Jacob Thomas ahead of retirement||The Home Department on Thursday accorded sanction to prosecute Director General of Police Jacob Thomas on the charge of committing criminal misconduct by wilfully concealing the acquisition of 50 acres of farmland in Tamil Nadu from the government. A preliminary inquiry by the Crime Branch found that Mr. Thomas had mentioned about the purchase in his service story published in 2017. However, the investment did not reflect in his annual property statement. Violation The agency concluded that Mr. Thomas had parked his "ill-gotten" wealth in the property. He had violated the provisions of the Prohibition of Benami Property Transaction Act. Moreover, Mr. Thomas was liable for criminal misconduct under Section 13 (1) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. If found guilty, Mr. Thomas would face up to seven years of imprisonment and fine. Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Vishwas Mehta said in his order that the government had examined the matter in detail. He accorded sanction to Director General, Crime Branch, to register a case against Mr. Thomas and entrust the investigation to the Director, Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB). Sources close to Mr. Thomas described the move as an act of political vengeance. They said the Crime Branch had overstepped its jurisdiction. It had no right to investigate a property transaction in Tamil Nadu. Moreover, the Income Tax Department had probed the matter and found no foul play. Furthermore, the government was irked by Mr. Thomas's candid observations about its shortfalls. Mr. Thomas is the senior-most ranking IPS officer in Kerala. He is currently Chairman and Managing Director, Metal Industries Ltd., Shoranur. Once reckoned a blue-eyed boy of the government, Mr. Thomas was shunted out of the VACB and later passed over for the post of State Police Chief. He is due for retirement in May.  Sources close to the senior police officer describe the move an act of political vengeance||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-nod-to-prosecute-jacob-thomas-ahead-of-retirement/article31371960.ece
18 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Books by Bicycle to the aid of bibliophiles||Want a book straight off the shelves? All one needs to do is contact Books by Bicycle, an initiative of bicycle lovers in the city, and they will deliver the books on the doorstep. The lockdown has prevented book lovers from visiting their favourite book stores, browsing titles, and making purchases. Discounts The Books By Bicycle, under the umbrella of the Indus Cycling Embassy, will deliver English and Malayalam books, including children’s literature, on readers’ doorstep, and at attractive discounts. DC Books, Mathrubhoomi Books, Poorna Publications, Chintha Publishers, Green Books, Modern Books, Maithri Books are collaborating with Books By Bicycle. Payment can be made by cash, Google Pay, or Paytm, bicycle mayor Prakash Gopinath said. Writer Johny M.L. is guiding the initiative. Information on the latest books and those in stock will be available on the Books by Bicycle Facebook page and group and WhatsApp group too. For details, call 7356694005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/books-by-bicycle-to-the-aid-of-bibliophiles/article31371999.ece
18 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||150 people newly put under observation in capital district||As many as 150 people were newly put under observation in the district on Friday as part of steps to contain the spread of COVID-19. A total of 1,991 people are under isolation in their houses, while 354 people completed their isolation period without any symptoms. In various hospitals across the district, 113 people are under treatment.  87 tested negative Sixty four samples were sent for tests on Friday. The results of all the 87 samples received on Friday were negative. Screening tests were conducted on 9,162 people in 5,535 vehicles at the various check-posts. At the Collectorate control room, 138 calls were received while 71 calls were received at the Disha call centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/150-people-newly-put-under-observation-in-capital-district/article31372006.ece
18 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NoRKs stranded in State to get aid||Financial aid will be disbursed from Saturday to COVID-19-affected Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) who had returned to the State and NoRKs who got stranded here because of the infection-induced travel restrictions. The assistance will be distributed through NoRKA-Roots and the Kerala Pravasi Welfare Fund. The government is extending Rs. 5,000 as emergency financial assistance to all those who had returned to Kerala after January 1 and could not return due to the ban on international flights. The emergency relief will also be given to NoRKs whose visas expired during the lockdown that commenced on March 25. 15,000 beneficiaries The NoRKs can apply online on the NoRKA-Roots official websitewww.norkaroots.org. The government expects 15,000 NoRKs to benefit from the scheme that is estimated to cost Rs. 8 crore, according to Harikrishnan Namboothiri K., Chief Executive Officer, NoRKA-Roots. All COVID-19 patients who are members of the NoRKA welfare fund will be provided with Rs. 10,000 by the government as a one-time financial assistance. COVID-19 has been included in Santhwana, a scheme launched for returned NoRKs in distress. Those who had been infected abroad and had returned to the State will be eligible for Rs. 10,000. The Santhwana scheme is applicable to those who had not returned from the State after working abroad for two or more years and who had not completed 10 years, the CEO said. Application process The NoRKs should upload their name, address, mobile number, passport number, address pages, travel information page, passport, invoice document, visa page and bank details for processing the application. The deadline for applying online for assistance is April 30. NoRKA-Roots has started extending legal aid to the NoRKs in the United Arab Emirates through help desks set up with local participation. The NoRKs can approach the help desks for legal assistance on labour issues. The requests will be handed over to the legal consultants to provide assistance, he said. The CEO said the help desks set up in the Gulf Cooperation Council countries, West Asia, Europe, Africa, and Indonesia have been receiving overwhelming response from the NoRKs.  NoRKA-Roots, Pravasi welfare fund to disburse assistance Apply online on the NoRKA-Roots official website||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/norks-stranded-in-state-to-get-aid/article31371979.ece
18 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||VACB files corruption case against K.M. Shaji||The government has accorded sanction to prosecute Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) legislator K.M. Shaji for corruption. The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) has registered a case against the MLA on the charge of having accepted a bribe of Rs. 25 lakh from the management of a higher secondary school in his constituency at Azhikode in Kannur for sanctioning commence Plus Two course in 2014. The IUML had held the Education portfolio at that time. A VACB official said the case was not a knee-jerk response instigated by the MLA’s criticism of the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund. It had its provenance in a complaint filed by an IUML worker against Mr. Shaji in 2017. The agency had conducted a preliminary inquiry and found merit in the allegations. In 2019, the agency had sought the permission of Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan to prosecute Mr. Shaji on the charge. The Speaker had given his approval early March. ‘With fight’ Reacting to the case in Kozhikode, Mr. Shaji said he could not be cowed down even if the government foisted a thousand cases on him out of vengeance. “I will fight the case legally and politically.” He said P. Noushad, who was expelled from the IUML for secretly campaigning for Left Democratic Front candidature M.V. Nikesh Kumar during the Assembly election, had first raised this allegation in 2017. Later the CPI (M) local leadership took up the issue and through block panchayat president K. Padmanabhan registered a complaint. School manager P.V. Padmanabhan testified before the Vigilance that neither the MLA nor any IUML leaders had sought or taken money for the purpose. An assemblage of United Democratic Front leaders rushed to the defence of Mr. Shaji. IUML general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty said the MLA was the victim of a cruel political vendetta. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran, and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy echoed a similar sentiment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacb-files-corruption-case-against-km-shaji/article31371982.ece
18 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||On a mission to nurture reading habit during lockdown||Every evening for the past two weeks, Biju Balakrishnan has been setting forth in his Maruthi Alto, with its trunk loaded with books. Avid readers, young and old, in around seven panchayats in Parassala — located near the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border — wait eagerly for his mobile library to arrive on their doorstep. With libraries downing shutters and people forced to stay indoors during the lockdown, the college professor is taking his home library to people. Mr. Balakrishnan’s collection boasts of around 6,000 books, some of it from the collection started by his father, a teacher and a participant in the library movement. Out of these, 2,500 books have already gone out into circulation in these two weeks. “Since our house is located near a school at Karakkonam, children used to borrow books from us during vacations. But now, with the lockdown, they are unable to move around. Initially, some parents used to call us up and collect books from our home. That is when I struck upon the idea of distributing the books in my car. I leave home every day around 3.30 p.m. with a few hundred books and spend around 2 hours travelling around to distribute books,” says Mr. Balakrishnan who teaches at Sree Krishna College, Guruvayur. Good variety As a former employee of the Kerala State Institute of Languages, he has in his collection a number of the research books from the institution. Owing to his stint as a teacher in Kanyakumari, he also has a good grasp on Tamil and thus a collection of Tamil books, which are also in demand in the bordering villages. “People associated with the local libraries in each place have been helping me by passing on the list of books needed and keeping a tab on the borrowers. I have begun digging into my old collections as almost all the new ones are in circulation. It is important that we use this period for nurturing reading,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-a-mission-to-nurture-reading-habit-during-lockdown/article31372002.ece
18 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Antibody test guidelines for private labs issued||The government has issued orders allowing private-sector laboratories to conduct COVID-19 antibody testing (IgG and IgM) and framing guidelines regarding the selection of labs, antibody test kits to be used, selection criteria of the testing population, timing of the tests, sample collection, and declaration of results. NABL-accredited labs will be given permission for testing using body fluids. Those labs which have secured Indian Council Medical Research (ICMR)’s accreditation alone will be allowed to do antibody testing. The labs will have to register on a portal of ICMR and the State government and send relevant documents to covidpnsodedme@gmail.com for government registration. The labs will have to sign a non-disclosure agreement and hand over the results to the State Health Department through online portal. The results may not be directly informed to clients. Current guidelines say that antibody testing may be done in those who are clinically suspected of having COVID-19 but who tested negative in RT-PCR ( Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) tests, besides symptomatic high-risk contacts of confirmed cases. Health workers who are treating COVID-19 patients and those with severe acute respiratory infection will also be tested for antibodies. Cost of test Only ICMR-approved test kits may be used. The list of ICMR-approved antibody test kits are available onwww.icmr.nic.in/content/ covid-19. The State Drugs Controller has been asked to inspect the test kits used by labs. Testing will be done free of cost for the vulnerable sections identified by the government. For others, the test will be charged Rs. 800. BPL (below the poverty line) patients covered by the Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhati (KASP) may be offered the tests free of cost. The labs will be reimbursed under KASP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/antibody-test-guidelines-for-private-labs-issued/article31372007.ece
18 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KITE’s customised videoconference system||The General Education Department has rolled out a free and open source software (FOSS)-based videoconferencing system. The conferencing system was launched prior to the Union government’s security warning on use of the Zoom videoconferencing application that has been widely used during the lockdown. The Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) has customised the free software application called BigBlueButton for online classes and meetings. In addition to videoconferencing, the BigBlueButton app features screen sharing, multiuser whiteboard, public chat, shared notes, and so on. The application is a perfect web conferencing software for teachers since it is fully customised for online learning activities. It enables teachers to share their slides, videos, and audios along with their computer screen (screen sharing) with their students in a live interaction mode. The presentation area in the application can also be used as a white board. KITE has integrated this application with its KOOL (KITE’s open online learning) management system for online training. The server customisation activities using the freely available source code are in the last stage. This facility will be extended to all teachers through the Samagra resource portal developed by KITE. “Proprietary videoconferencing applications such as Zoom often threaten the privacy of users and in such a context, the BigBlueButton application is a unique web conferencing system for official purposes,” KITE CEO K. Anvar Sadath said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kites-customised-videoconference-system/article31371961.ece
18 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Water shortage unlikely this summer||The way things stand, the State can expect to sail through summer 2020 without facing drinking water shortage. Following the summer showers, reservoirs have adequate storage to see the State through till June 15, a senior official of the Water Resources Department said on Friday. Only five of the dams managed by the Irrigation Department and the Kerala State Electricity Board have less than 20% storage at the moment, said B. Ashok, Secretary (Water Resources), and Managing Director, Kerala Water Authority (KWA). Summer rain helps He attributed the encouraging scenario to the ample summer rain received by the State. The assessment was presented at a meeting on pre-monsoon preparations convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Friday. Statistics on seasonal rainfall published by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) show that the State has averaged 84.7 mm rainfall between March 1 and April 17, which is normal for the period. Supply stats The KWA supplies approximately 2,800 million litres a day (mld) through pipelines across the State. Of this, urban supply accounts for 1,500 mld and rural, 1,300 mld. In addition to this, 161 mld is supplied through tankers from 260 vending points in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-shortage-unlikely-this-summer/article31371971.ece
18 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online classes launched||Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan opened online classes by ABVP and Unnatha Vidyabhasa Adhyapaka Sangham for University of Kerala students on ABVP Kerala’s Facebook page.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-classes-launched/article31372000.ece
18 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vaccine||District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan has said that PHCs will resume vaccine administration to children from next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccine/article31372010.ece
18 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||COVID-19 to ramp up growth in digital technologies: expert||Post COVID-19, the education and career sectors will undergo sea changes to be able to tide over the challenges posed by the lockdown being imposed to contain the pandemic. Demand-supply mismatch will become the biggest issue after the lockdown. Unemployment will be high and India will have to face increased inflow of jobless non-resident Indians. Micro, small, and medium enterprises will be heavily affected, says T.P. Sethumadhavan, education and career consultant.  Job opportunities However, post lockdown, there would be more job opportunities in sectors involving digital technologies, automation, health care, and skill development, Dr. Sethumadhavan, also a consultant to World Bank, adds. “e-commerce, e-learning, data analytics, augmented reality, machine learning, cybersecurity, process automation, and self-service capabilities will exhibit spectacular growth. Annually, skill institutes across the country train 10 million youth. These centres are trying to reduce the skill gap between the available and required skills,” he says. Framework for collaboration with industries, edu-tech companies, skill councils, and the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) would pave the way for offering short-term to medium-level courses. Apprenticeship based on an online mode/blended approach could be effectively delivered by the training providers. Mitigatory measures The pandemic’s impact on the career market could be reduced through a series of mitigatory measures, Dr. Sethumadhavan says. “Students or educated youth require appropriate technical, domain, and communication skills. Students need to look for potential courses during their undergraduate period to augment skills. Recruitment and campus placements will be based on skills acquired rather than academic merit. The National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) level will emerge as the benchmark-level qualifications for skill assessment.” Engineering graduates and other graduates could join managerial programmes whereas diploma and ITI holders could join supervisory programmes. Those finishing Class 12 or Class 10 could opt for appropriate technician-level courses. Courses from NSDC-partnered institutions would be preferred, he says. For those who lost jobs during the recession period, programmes on upskilling or reskilling could be helpful. Construction, infrastructure, manufacturing, management, banking, finance, tourism, hospitality sectors, automobile technology, etc., would need appropriate skilling in tune with technology.  Unemployment will be high and India will have to face increased inflow of jobless non-resident Indians. T.P. Sethumadhavan Education and career consultant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-to-ramp-up-growth-in-digital-technologies-expert/article31371962.ece
18 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Students make sample collection kiosk||Students of Thrissur Government Engineering College have come up with an invention to support the fight against COVID-19. They have prepared a COVID WISK (Walk-in Sample Kiosk) for safe collection of samples from symptomatic people. Led by Ajay James, Assistant Professor of the Computer Science Department, Pranav Balachandran, Aswin Kumar, V.S. Sourav, students of the mechanical engineering department, designed the WISK. The WISK costs around Rs. 30,000. The service will be available at Thrissur Medical College Hospital, Mulangunnathukavu. District Collector S. Shanavas inaugurated it. The WISK will help collect samples of symptomatic people without contact between the person and the doctor. It will be useful especially at a time the State is expecting return of large number of Pravasis after the lockdown period, the students said. The doctor can sit inside the WISK. There are two holes through which the doctor can extend the hands to take samples of the patient. The doctor will use double-layered disposable gloves. There is an automatic sanitiser unit which can be operated with the doctor’s leg.  WISK has an automatic sanitiser unit which can be operated with the doctor’s leg. A disinfecting mist will be sprayed after the patient’s exit||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-make-sample-collection-kiosk/article31371958.ece
18 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Library comes up with digital catalogue||In a rare achievement for a village library in the State, the Mohammed Abdurahiman Sahib Library and Club (MALC) at Eriyad has digitised its catalogue. The digital catalogue will help readers select books easily. Readers may download the catalogue at http:yqyqsayahna.org.ml.pdf.malc-catalog.pdf. Readers may choose books from the catalogue and a team of volunteers will bring the books to their doorsteps. The service of volunteers may be availed over phone (9946413588, 9946148385, 9744815856). The digitisation effort began a year ago under the leadership of library president Karukappadath Mohammed. However, he could not witness the successful implementation of the project as he died on April 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/library-comes-up-with-digital-catalogue/article31371963.ece
18 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Abkari contractor held||The police on Friday arrested an abkari contractor in an incident in which two youths consumed spirit at Vellankallur. Bijoy Pothezhath, the contractor who was arrested by the police from Konathukunnu, was remanded in judicial custody. Two youths, who consumed spirit two days ago, were admitted to a hospital in a critical condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abkari-contractor-held/article31371978.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Livelihood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/livelihood/article31371974.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In quiet contemplation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-quiet-contemplation/article31371995.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||World of letters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/world-of-letters/article31371953.ece
18 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||600 sanitation workers get reusable PPEs||A 600-strong posse of sanitation workers of Anantapur Municipal Corporation was equipped with Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) gear, thanks to the Greenko Group which purchased the suits and handed them over to the civic body on Friday. These PPEs can be reused after washing them and disinfecting them properly, officials said. The alternative energy giant said it was a small contribution on its part to the fight against COVID-19. “Sanitation workers are at the forefront of the battle against the pandemic. It is they who work even in the red zones, cleaning garbage and lifting silt from open drains,” Greenko representative Vasudeva Rao said. Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy said the State government was with the people working on the ground in these difficult times, and congratulated Municipal Commissioner Ravindra for getting help for the sanitation staff by persuading his friend Mr. Vasudeva Rao. The Municipal Commissioner said the city of three lakh people was divided into six zones, and all these 600 public health staff were working in three shifts. The PPEs would be very handy for them, he said. The Vivekananda Yoga Kendra too handed over 600 gloves to the sanitation workers and also gave a cheque for Rs. 25,000 to the Commissioner for any other expenses in the fight against the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/600-sanitation-workers-get-reusable-ppes/article31372082.ece
18 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trainee IFS officer joins fight against coronavirus||A trainee officer of the Indian Forest Service, Chinta Chaitanya Kumar Reddy, has offered to work at the forefront of the fight against COVID-19. Acknowledging his request, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu appointed Mr. Chaitanya to assist District Forest Officer R. Jagannath Singh in containment activity at Hindupur, which has been declared a COVID-19 hotspot in the district. A trainee officer at the Indira Gandhi National Forest Academy in Dehradun, Mr. Chaitanya was stuck in Anantapur following the lockdown and was keen on lending his hand to the district administration’s campaign against COVID-19. Mr. Chaitanya said that he had taken part in relief operations during the Godavari floods in the past. Meanwhile, Mr. Chandrudu, Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu, Penukonda Sub-Collector T. Nishnathi and COVID-19 Special Officer Vijayanand reviewed the situation in Hindupur after five new positive cases were reported from the district. Of the five cases, two were from Hindupur who had come for a voluntary COVID-19 test. The three others were from Kalyandurg and contacts of Patient 13 of Manirevu in that mandal. This patient had tested positive after his death on April 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trainee-ifs-officer-joins-fight-against-coronavirus/article31372084.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kumaraswamy’s son ties the knot, flouting lockdown norms||Actor-politician Nikhil Kumaraswamy, son of the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, got married on Friday at a simple ceremony amid allegation that norms on social distancing and wearing of masks were not followed to a T. While the Ramanagaram district administration is now set to probe if the COVID-19 guidelines were violated during the wedding, photographs released by the family of the wedding that took place at the farmhouse of Mr. Kumaraswamy at Kethuganahalli, near Bidadi, suggests that social distancing had not been maintained during the ceremonies. However, as criticism grew, the family later in the day released pictures showing guests sitting apart wearing masks and being given hand sanitisers. ‘Adhered to guidelines’ Taking to Twitter after the wedding, Mr. Kumaraswamy claimed, “At a time when COVID-19 pandemic has caused crisis worldwide, the marriage was performed well by adhering to the government guidelines of social distancing and adequate precaution.” About 200 close relatives of bride and bridegroom attended the wedding on Friday morning, and by late afternoon most of them had left the farmhouse, Janata Dal (Secular) sources said, and added that “some were wearing masks”. Sources said that farmhouse had been barricaded and no one except the family members were allowed to get in. Mr. Nikhil, who lost his electoral debut from the Mandya Lok Sabha constituency in May 2019 on the JD(S) ticket, married Revathi, the grandniece of Congress leader and former Minister M. Krishnappa. Among those who witnessed the wedding were the bridegroom’s grandfather and former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda. Probe into charges Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said he had asked the Ramanagaram district Deputy Commissioner and the Superintendent of Police to inquire into allegations of violation of lockdown norms. Dr. Ashwath Narayan told reporters that permission was given for the wedding but with the condition that guidelines had to be followed by all those attending the marriage ceremony. “If any violation has taken place, we need to find out and suitable action will be taken against the people concerned,” said Dr. Ashwath Narayan, adding that lawmakers should set an example rather than violate norms. Initially, the family had zeroed in on a place between Ramanagaram and Chennapatna for a grand wedding, with voters of Chennapatna and Ramanagaram Assembly constituencies, represented by Mr. Kumaraswamy and his wife Anitha, respectively, in attendance. That was, however, changed following the outbreak of the pandemic. Earlier in the week, Mr. Kumaraswamy, while appealing to his fans and party workers, had said that the family had taken permission from the Chief Secretary to perform the wedding, and to maintain social distance the function had been kept low profile. He had counted at least 60 people as his first family, including his parents, siblings and their family members, and had expected a similar number from the bride’s side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kumaraswamys-son-ties-the-knot-flouting-lockdown-norms/article31371598.ece
18 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP in-charge of Kuppam dead||Retired IAS officer and YSR Congress Party in-charge of Kuppam Assembly Constituency K. Chandramouli (65) died at his residence in Hyderabad on Friday night after a prolonged illness. He is survived by wife and a son. Chandramouli unsuccessfully contested against the former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu in Kuppam in 2014.and 2019. He had given a tough fight to Mr. Chandrababu Naidu in the last elections, drastically reducing his majority compared to the previous elections. After the YSR Congress Party came to power, Mr. Chandramouli played a crucial role in augmenting several development works in the constituency. Ministers P. Ramachandra Reddy and K. Narayanaswamy expressed grief over the demise of Mr. Chandramouli and termed it as a loss to the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-in-charge-of-kuppam-dead/article31372107.ece
18 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||9 held with 2,000 litres of ID liquor||The Kuppam rural police raided illicitly distilled liquor dens at the forest fringe areas close to PMK Thanda of Ramakuppam mandal, and seized about 2,000 litres of ID liquor, 500 liters of fermented jaggery wash and the raw material and equipment used in the illicit brewing of liquor, before destroying the stocks, here early on Friday morning. According to information, a team of 30 police personnel from Ramakuppam, Gudupalle and Shantipuram conducted the flash raids. Nine persons were arrested and sent on remand. The police also seized several two-wheelers with no valid documents in the hamlet and surrounding areas. Circle Inspector Krishna Mohan said that flash raids would continue to be conducted at all vulnerable places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/9-held-with-2000-litres-of-id-liquor/article31372085.ece
18 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily wagers stare at uncertain future as lockdown leaves them without income||The outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic has thrown thousands of workers in unorganised sectors out of work and has put them on the verge of starvation. Waste-pickers, construction workers, daily wage labourers including many migrants, and sanitation workers are staring at an uncertain future. Whether they will find work with the norms of social distancing set to get extended is a moot question. Dependent on dole In major towns like Guntur, about 50,000 are employed directly or indirectly in the burgeoning construction industry, chilli yard, ginning and spinning mills. In this February-May peak season, hundreds of migrant workers come here in search of work. The COVID-19 lockdown this time has forced them to stay in temporary shelters depending on three meals provided there. Fighting against odds “The lockdown has rendered thousands of workers jobless. They are fighting coronavirus and hunger at the same time. Most of them do not possess government identification cards, and are finding it increasingly difficult to avail themselves of any of government-sponsored relief schemes,’’ says executive secretary of Dalit Bahujan Resource Centre Alladi Deva Kumar. In order to bridge the gap between the government and the unorganised workers, the DBRC has begun sensitising the communities about the severity of coronavirus, its mode of transmission, precautionary measures, and dos and don’ts. A dry ration kit consisting of rice, dal, oil, onions, chilli powder, turmeric powder, tamarind and salt and hygiene kits consisting of sanitisers, soaps, sanitary pads and masks have been provided to around 1,700 workers. “We have also prepared a list of 234 waste-pickers who do not possess a ration card in Vijayawada and submitted it to the Municipal Commissioner there and he has immediately provided ration to them. We have also represented to the Collector of Kurnool to provide ration and supplementary nutrition to the children who were not enrolled in Anganwadi Centres,’’ said Mr. Deva Kumar. In Kurnool, the Child Development Project Office has distributed ration and eggs to 40 children, seven pregnant and lactating mothers in the city. Hurdles “Most of the daily wagers are not able to access ration as they do not have a white ration card. They usually migrate to a different district in search of work,” Mr. Deva Kumar said. “Though there are mechanisms to provide essential rations for the socially poor, not having an identity card is hindering them from getting support,” Mr. Deva Kumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/daily-wagers-stare-at-uncertain-future-as-lockdown-leaves-them-without-income/article31371628.ece
18 April 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police show human face, cremate cancer patient||In a humane gesture, the police came forward to perform the cremation of an elderly woman who died of cancer on Friday. Lakshmi Devi (60), a daily wage earner dwelling alone in a rented house for two decades at Chakibanda village of Chinnamandem mandal, was suffering from cancer for the last four years. After the treatment yielded no result, she started depending on the villagers for food. As none came out during the lockdown period, the quantum of food started diminishing slowly. Observing foul smell emanating from the vicinity, the nearby residents on Friday rushed to her house, only to find her dead. Owing to the COVID-19 situation and scared by her cancer history, none ventured to go near the body and alerted the police. Chinnamandem Sub-Inspector Hemadri reached the spot along with constable Ganga Raju and conducted ‘panchanama’ in the presence of Panchayat Secretary Ravindra Reddy and Village Revenue Officer Srinu Naik. He later shifted the body with the support of volunteers and personally conducted cremation. On learning about the development, Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan appreciated his men for the humanitarian gesture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-show-human-face-cremate-cancer-patient/article31372097.ece
18 April 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police provide shelter for stranded Arunachal girl||A student from Arunachal Pradesh, who got stranded in Kadapa district, got shelter for the extended lockdown period. Bigalu Khamblai (21), daughter of Sokhim Khamblai, is studying at an engineering college at Kavali in the adjoining SPSR Nellore district. Days before the lockdown was clamped, she along with her friend P . Sravani of Rapur came to the latter’s relatives’ house at Chitvel in Rajampet constituency for the weekend, not knowing that she would have to stay here for the entire period of the first phase of lockdown. Girl’s appeal As the period of lockdown was extended, the girl found it hard to dwell at the strangers’ house and appealed to Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan, who directed Deputy Superintendent of Police (Rajampet) Narayanaswamy Reddy to arrange shelter for the stranded girl. Thanks police The policemen swung into action and identified private accommodation for rent for the girl to stay till the end of lockdown. Ms. Khamblai profusely thanked the police for their timely action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-provide-shelter-for-stranded-arunachal-girl/article31372096.ece
18 April 2020||Kalaburagi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officers suspended for allowing car festival during lockdown||Taking serious note of the huge gathering at Siddalingeshwara temple car festival at Rawoor village in Chittapur taluk of Kalaburagi district during COVID-19 lockdown on Thursday morning, Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat placed Chittapur Child Development Project Officer Rajkumar Rathod, who was designated as sectoral magistrate, under suspension on the same evening pending an inquiry. On the other hand, Superintendent of Police Martin Marbaniang held sub-inspector of police Vijayakumar Bavagi, attached to the Wadi station, responsible for the gathering and suspended him from service, pending an inquiry. Case registered Mr. Marbaniang said that around 150 people had gathered for the car festival around 6.30 a.m. and the sub-inspector of police had failed to prevent it. A case was later registered in the Wadi police station against 20 people under Sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 149 (unlawful assembly guilty of an offence) of the Indian Penal Code. “At present, we have identified and named 20 people in the FIR. We are verifying video clips to identify all the people who participated in the event. Wadi sub-inspector of police has been suspended as he should have ensured that this kind of incident did not happen as all the people are from the same village. The sub-inspector of police had, two days ago, conducted a meeting with the secretary of the temple and told him not to organise any programmes. The secretary had agreed and given it in writing that no such event would be organised,” Mr. Marbaniang told reporters. A week ago, Chennanna Bali and Gundanna Bali, head and secretary, respectively, of the temple, announced the cancellation of the festival owing to the lockdown. They had said that a simple puja would be offered to the deity in the presence of a few people to avoid mass gathering. To prevent a crowd, police personnel had been deployed in the village round the clock. According to sources in the village, the temple car was pulled between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. when the police personnel changed shift. Mr. Sharat had extended the imposition of prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the entire district till April 30 to ensure that no mass gathering would happen as a measure to curb the spread of COVID-19. The first COVID-19 death in India was reported from Kalaburagi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officers-suspended-for-allowing-car-festival-during-lockdown/article31371604.ece
19 April 2020||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||New indigenous kit may soon accelerate testing||A research laboratory funded by the Department of Science and Technology has developed a rapid diagnostic test that can potentially speed up the testing of a batch of suspected COVID-19 samples by 15 times and cut costs by two-thirds. The Chitra GeneLAMP-N, made by scientists at the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), Thiruvananthapuram, has already been licensed to Agappe Diagnostics Ltd., an Ernakulam-based company. If approvals come through, about 20,000 kits could be made by the month-end, said Asha Kishore, director, SCTIMST. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan tweeted: “Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences & Tech, Trivandrum, an Institute of National Importance, of the @IndiaDST, has developed a diagnostic test kit that can confirm #COVID19 in 2 hours at a low cost.” Though qualified by the National Institute of Virology’s sister organisation — NIV Alappuzha — as fit to be offered as a diagnostic, the kit awaits formal approval by the Indian Council for Medical Research and its manufacturers, and a licence from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation. Rapid-Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests are considered the gold standard for detecting the virus. It involves extracting RNA from a swab, collected from the throat or nose, converting it into DNA, magnifying the quantity of DNA and using chemical probes to bind target genes that distinguish SARS-CoV2 from other viruses. While it takes two hours to extract RNA from a given batch of samples, the analysis can take two-and-a-half hours to detect the presence (or absence) of virus in a given batch. ‘Analyse in 10 minutes’ By employing its in-house technology called reverse transcriptase loop-mediated amplification of viral nucleic acid (RT-LAMP), it zooms in on regions of the virus’ nucleocaspid (N) gene and can analyse a batch in 10 minutes. Most RT-PCR kits focus on two different genes, the E (envelope) gene and the RdRP (RNA dependent RNA polymerase) gene. The WHO recommends a E and RdRP test, while the U.S.’s Centres for Disease Control requires an N Gene test. “The N-Gene test is a confirmatory test and widely employed in Germany and China among other countries. However, the design of it is complicated and can be expensive. However, we’ve managed to develop it satisfactorily while keeping costs low,” said Dr. Kishore. The CDC protocol says three regions of the N gene must be analysed but the Chitra-model tests two to confirm the identity of the virus. Anoop Thekkuveettil, a senior scientist of the biomedical technology wing of the institute, was able to develop the kit in 3 weeks, she said. Tests conducted at the NIV Alappuzha showed that it detected 100% of all reference COVID samples and successfully detected 100% of non-COVID samples. While some kits approved by the ICMR and currently in use for diagnosing the infection have a similar 100% profile, some don’t. In the spirit of accelerating testing, the scale of the pandemic has moved regulatory agencies around the world to ease standards and facilitate the availability of more kits. A total of 30 samples can be tested in a single batch and the unit consists of an RNA extraction machine, which too is locally developed. Probes, a critical aspect of PCR testing and frequently imported, for this test can be procured from several places in India. “Everything can be made and developed in India, except for some sensors in the analysis machine,” Dr. Kishore emphasised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-indigenous-kit-may-soon-accelerate-testing/article31371591.ece
18 April 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||N o fresh cases in Prakasam district||In a welcome sign, Prakasam district reported no new cases of COVID-19 on Friday as 84 persons tested negative in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases in the district stood at 41, with Ongole alone accounting for 25 positive cases. Except for one student from London who has been discharged upon making a recovery, others undergoing treatment are either Delhi returnees or their primary contacts. The test results of 582 more persons are still awaited, COVID-19 Nodal Officer Dr. J Richards said. Inaugurating a disinfection tunnel at the Bapuji market complex, State Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy said it was heartening to note that there was no increase in the number of infected persons in the district. He later distributed essential commodities to workers. In Nellore, 61 persons underwent treatment at the COVID-19 isolation ward as five more persons, including four in Nellore, tested positive. As many as 239 persons were kept under observation in the quarantine centres. The test reports of 519 persons were still awaited, COVID-19 Nodal Officer Narendra said. While two persons, including a doctor, succumbed to the disease, a student who had returned from Italy was discharged after making a full recovery in SPSR Nellore district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/n-o-fresh-cases-in-prakasam-district/article31372090.ece
18 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wildlife photographs will add to relief funds||Benny Ajantha, an award-winning wildlife photographer from Pathanamthitta, has always taken pride in his exclusive collection of wildlife and nature photographs. Now, he is joining the fight against COVID-19 by selling a portion of his digital photographs online and contributing the revenue thus generated to either the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF) or the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF). Mr. Ajantha has uploaded images of 175 photographs on Facebook. Those wishing to purchase the photographs may remit Rs. 500 a picture either to the CMDRF (donation.cmdrf.kerala.gov.in) or the PMNRF (pmnrf.gov.in/en/online-donation). They should sent the digital cash receipt along with the selected photographs and their email ID to Mr.Ajantha’s Whatsapp number (9447053238) for him to send its high-resolution images. Benny said photographs worth Rs. 18,000 were sold on the first day on Thursday, boosting the CMDRF kitty. The high-resolution photographs can be enlarged to distortion-free wall-size images suited for drawing rooms. Mr. Ajantha is a recipient of wildlife photography awards instituted by the Kerala Forest and Wildlife Department, the State Biodiversity Board, the Information and Public Relations Department, the Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment, the Kerala State Resource Centre, and the Farm Information Bureau.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wildlife-photographs-will-add-to-relief-funds/article31371596.ece
18 April 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||Help at hand for pregnant women in remote areas||In the wake of the continuing lockdown in the State, the government is taking measures for extending medical aid to pregnant women, particularly in tribal hamlets, and making arrangements for safe delivery. According to the data available with the Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Department, there are about 2.80 lakh pregnant women in the State, and the government is providing nutritious diet to them. Instructions have been given to Anganwadi workers, supervisors, Child Development Project Officers (CDPOs) and Project Directors (PDs) of all districts to check the health condition of pregnant women frequently by undertaking door-to-door visits. ‘Few days to go’ “We have the list of pregnant women who were given delivery dates in the months of April and May. Expected date of delivery of about 30,000 women is a few days away. Steps will be taken for providing care to both mother and child,” said WD&CW Director Krithika Shukla. Anganwadi staff were instructed to have the phone numbers of doctors, PHC staff, 108, 108 and 102 services and ambulances. Staff in red zones should be alert, Dr. Shukla said. “The CDPOs, PDs and the Anganwadi staff staying in island villages and inaccessible areas in Krishna, East and West Godavari districts and employees working in the Rampachodavaram, Buttaigudem, Parvatipuram and Paderu Agency areas should keep sufficient medicines and material. Emergency phone numbers should be shared with the family members of pregnant women. As per our staff, more than 1,000 women were given delivery dates in the next two months in each district,” Dr. Krithika said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/help-at-hand-for-pregnant-women-in-remote-areas/article31371636.ece
18 April 2020||Special Correspondent VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VIMS nurses test negative, want to rejoin duty||The nurses on duty at Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), the State-level COVID-19 hospital, reportedly backtracked on their statements that they were experiencing COVID-19 symptoms, and agreed to rejoin their duties at the hospital. All the 11 nurses tested negative in the Truenat test for COVID-19. The nurses claimed to be suffering from COVID-19 symptoms and sought they be allowed to go home for 15 days. They declined to take the mandatory swab tests and issued statements to the media, without prior approval from the officials concerned. The nurses were summoned to the King George Hospital (KGH) on Friday to give an explanation before a committee comprising KGH Superintendent G. Arjuna, Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar, VIMS Director K. Satya Vara Prasad and Nursing Superintendent Vijayalakshmi. “The nurses claimed that they were misguided by some doctors that they would have to remain in quarantine for 14 days, if they work for long at VIMS. The nurses said they had only worked for one shift at VIMS during the last 20 days,” Dr. Arjuna told The Hindu . “They said they had no symptoms and asked us to allow them to rejoin. To give them the benefit of doubt, we got a Truenat test done, and they all tested negative for it. Truenat does not require hospital admission and the test report is generated in a couple of hours,” he said. Dr. Arjuna said that the nurses were misguided by someone and they thought they could go home for 15 days under the pretext of COVID-19. Dr. Sudhakar said that only two of the 11 nurses, had attended on the positive patients at VIMS and that too for only one shift and they also tested negative for COVID. They too agreed to rejoin duty, he said. Doctors and nurses, who work continuously on treating a COVID-19 patient for a week, would be sent for 14 days quarantine, irrespective of the symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vims-nurses-test-negative-want-to-rejoin-duty/article31372119.ece
18 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU leaders object to 12-hour shift||CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao and State vice-president D. Govinda Rao on Friday objected to the 12-hour duty rule at pharmaceutical companies and other industrial units. Speaking to the media at Pydibhimavaram industrial zone, the CITU leaders said that they feared the 12-hour duty rule would continue to be in force even after the lockdown, claiming that the Centre was all set to issue new ordinances soon. “Everybody knows that working at pharmaceutical companies is hazardous. Their lifespan will be reduced significantly if the eight-hour duty rule is not restored again,” said Mr. Narasinga Rao. Special package He demanded that a special financial package was the need of the hour to instill confidence among the workers of the unorganised sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citu-leaders-object-to-12-hour-shift/article31372091.ece
18 April 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Containment zones to remain frozen for some more time||The six containment zones or red zones in the city and one in the rural area will continue to remain frozen for some more time. Visakhapatnam district is one among the 170 districts in the country that has been declared as red zone district for COVID-19, since the district has recorded over 20 positive cases, irrespective of the number of discharges made so far. But its profile may change after a review on April 20, but the containment clusters in the city and in the district will remain to be frozen for some more time, at least till May 3,, said District Collector V. Vinay Chand, speaking to The Hindu . For a containment zone to be declared as ‘no containment zone’ we have continue the containment for 14 days, after the last positive person from the zone is declared as negative, he said. In Visakhapatnam the last positive case was recorded on April 6 and if things are on track and no one tests positives, then the clusters may be declared as ‘no containment zones’ only some time in the first week of May. Right now, seven areas in the district — Thatichetlapalem (including Akkayyapalem, New Colony, ITI Junction, Muslim Thatichetlapalem), Allipuram, Padmanabham, Narsipatnam, Gajuwaka and Poorna Market are considered as containment zones. Results awaited The rapid testing is in full swing not only in the containment areas but also in other parts of the city and district and results for over 200 samples are still awaited. Though the Union government has opened up a few sectors such as agriculture and allied industries, IT sector and a few others, it has left the final decision to the State government to work out the modalities after a review on April 20. It is only after that we will decide how to go about, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/containment-zones-to-remain-frozen-for-some-more-time/article31372128.ece
18 April 2020||TANUKU (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Three burnt alive in road mishap||Three persons were burnt alive in a road mishap in Pentapadu mandal in the district on Friday. The mishap occurred when a van carrying some chemicals hit a tree near Allampuram village and caught fire. Villagers suspect that the driver and cleaner of the van and another person travelling in the cabin were burnt alive. The deceased are yet to be identified. Pentapadu police rushed to the spot and registered a case. Police are trying to find where the vehicle was coming from and where it was headed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-burnt-alive-in-road-mishap/article31372103.ece
18 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RBI package for States inadequate: Kerala||The COVID-19 finance package announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday is too inadequate to manage the fiscal crisis as it will fetch only Rs. 729 crore for the State, Kerala Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. Dr. Isaac said here on Friday that the package norms lacked clarity and the only option left before the Centre to salvage the crisis was to raise the annual borrowing limit for States from the current 3% to 5%. Additional loans The announcement that States could avail themselves of loans up to 60% of the ways and means segment would fetch the State only Rs. 1,215 crore, but would have to repay it in 21 days. He said the Centre did not seem to be aware of the gravity of the current crisis. Extra loans The RBI should direct banks to sanction additional loans to small and medium traders and such others who were forced to bear the brunt of the crisis. Micro, small and medium enterprises and traditional industries such as coir and cashew needed support for reviving their operations. Their loans should be restructured, he said. The Centre should announce waiver of farm loans, extend the moratorium on all loan repayment for a year and also waive the interest during the period. Similar to the sops announced for corporates, the Centre should adopt a liberal approach in the case of other sectors too, he said. Packages welcomed Dr. Isaac welcomed the packages announced by non-banking finance companies, National Housing Bank, Small industrial Development Bank of India (SIDBI), and National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). State Planning Board member K.N. Harilal said the RBI package would not in any way help to ease the financial woes of the State government. Credit institutions “The apex bank is trying to offer some relief through credit institutions to the public. But in the current circumstances, no one is in a position to avail of loans. Even the moratorium on loans will not offer any solace as there are fears about the mounting interest burden. The State’s demand for raising the borrowing limit has not been met,” Mr. Harilal said.  Centre does not seem to be aware of the gravity of the current crisis||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rbi-package-for-states-inadequate-kerala/article31371599.ece
18 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Exploring alternatives to salary challenge’||The State government is seriously exploring alternatives to the Salary Challenge announced for employees and teachers last week. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said here on Friday that the Cabinet would take a call on the issue soon. The move comes in the wake of the lukewarm response from a section of employees to the challenge and political resistance of the Congress-led United Democratic Front to the proposal. Dearness Allowance arrears of employees may be routed to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF). The government had appealed to donate a month’s salary either as a lump sum payment or in instalments to the CMDRF. But the majority of the employees refused to accept the proposal and this may force the government to opt for a pay cut. An earlier proposal to permit the employees and teachers to make contributions of their choice turned out to be a failure as even those drawing substantial sums as salary got off with measly donations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exploring-alternatives-to-salary-challenge/article31371600.ece
18 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram/Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala ready for post-lockdown phase||Kerala’s COVID-19 graph continued to flatline, with just one person newly testing positive for COVID-19 and 10 others recovering from the disease on Friday. Of 395 cases reported in Kerala so far, 138 were under treatment in hospitals. Except for two, the remaining 255 had recovered . The lone case reported on Friday was from Kozhikode, a contact of an imported case. The number of persons currently under surveillance in the State was 78,980, of whom 526 are isolated in hospitals and the remaining 78,454 in home quarantine. “All our attention is now poised towards managing the post-lockdown period, when we expect an influx of lakhs of Malayalis, all of whom will have to complete a monitored quarantine period in government facilities, before going home,” a senior health official said. A.P. has 38 cases Andhra Pradesh reported 38 new COVID-19 positive cases on Friday and the death toll stood at 14. The total number of cases reached 572 (523 active) from 534 (500 active) on April 16, the Health Department said. Of the 38 new cases, 13 were from Kurnool, six from Nellore, five each from Anantapur and Chittoor, four each from Guntur and Krishna and one from Kadapa. Besides 523 persons were under treatment, 35 have been discharged. Telangana’s total cases stood at 766, of which 562 were active, 186 had been discharged and the death toll stood at 18. In another spike, a staggering 44 new positive cases were confirmed in Karnataka, taking total infections to 359, the Health department said on Friday. The 44 new cases were a new daily high. “Today is a very negative day as far as the numbers are concerned,” Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar told reporters. “We have increased our capacity and we are testing more samples,” he said. Over 17,000 tests had been conducted, Mr. Kumar said. On the pharma company, Jubilant in Nanjanagudu, Mysuru district, Mr. Kumar said 1,705 people were quarantined, 1225 were tested, and 61 were positive, while reports of 480 were awaited. The government issued a circular for testing in private labs and fixed the cost at Rs. 2250. ICMR had purchased, 6,50,000 rapid tests kits nationally, of which Karnataka would get 12,400 kits.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-ready-for-post-lockdown-phase/article31371607.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD battle-ready, says Chairman||TTD trust board Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Friday said the institution is fully prepared with the required infrastructure to fight COVID-19 in the State. After inspecting the Sri Padmavathi Medical College Hospital on the SVIMS campus, which has been converted into a COVID-19 hospital, here, Mr. Subba Reddy said the temple administration had earmarked Rs. 20 crore to upgrade the building into a 500-bed hospital facility with ventilators and other medical equipment. The hospital currently has 390 beds and 110 ventilators and Rs. 20 crore has been allocated for strengthening the medical apparatus at SVIMS, he pointed out. In the course of his inspection, he saw for himself the stock of PPE kits, masks, gloves, sanitisers meant for the doctors and paramedical staff attending on the COVID-19 patients and expressed satisfaction at the sufficient quantity in stock. As SVIMS has been meeting the needs of about 250 epilepsy patients hailing from the Rayalaseema region, Nellore and Prakasam districts, Mr. Reddy announced that required medicines would be sent directly to their doorstep through the nearest Primary Health Centre (PHC) notwithstanding the lockdown. SVIMS Director and Vice-Chancellor B. Vengamma, RMO Koti Reddy and COVID nodal officer Chandrasekhar accompanied him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-battle-ready-says-chairman/article31372095.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ritual performed to stop spread of COVID-19||The temple city of Tirupati on Friday witnessed a religious ritual performed by around twenty priests. It is believed that the ritual was performed to tackle the evil effects of COVID-19. ‘Srinivasa Adbhutha Santhi Yagam’, which was conducted in Padmavathipuram here on Friday, had the words ‘Lokaapadha Corona Nivaranartham’ prefixed, which roughly translates as ‘to rid the world of the evil impact of the global pandemic of corona’. Following the social distancing norm, priests sat at a distance of one metre apart and poured ghee into the fire raging from the ‘Homagundam’ while chanting hymns, as the ritual went on for four hours that coincided with the lockdown relaxation hours. MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy, who is also on the advisory panel of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), supervised the arrangements and also stayed throughout the yagam. He felt it important to ‘invoke divine blessings’ to curb the coronavirus, apart from providing medical aid and ensuring sanitation. “Divine help is needed not only to undo human errors, but also to complement the steps by the mankind," he pointed out. Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT) Commissioner P.S. Girisha expressed the hope that the ritual would bear fruit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ritual-performed-to-stop-spread-of-covid-19/article31372087.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID healthcare products now ‘Made in Sri City’||The COVID-19 may have posed serious challenges to the industry, but the units in Sri City are quick to grab the opportunity in adversity. In view of the lockdown, workers in several manufacturing units in Sri City are slogging it out to produce quality healthcare products such as Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits, life-saving drugs, emergency hospital beds and medical oxygen cylinders. Pals Plush India which manufactures soft toys and accessories started producing PPE kits for medical fraternity and other frontline warriors. The company produces the kits using seamless metal detection machines with the Acceptable Quality Limit (AQL)-based in-house testing facility that makes the product safe for end-users. The entire production line has been dedicated to manufacturing PPE kits, which includes coverall and face shield. VRV Asia Pacific, one of the two companies in India to design and manufacture cryogenic equipment, has swung into action to make liquid cylinders and storage tanks for liquid oxygen. The diversification became imperative in view of the rise in demand for medical oxygen, after the spike in the number of positive cases. Emergency beds Vital Paper’s packaging division in Sri City has conceptualised and developed unique kraft paper-based corrugated board beds, which can be used as emergency beds in hospitals. The flexible, recyclable, movable and easy-to-assemble bed, measuring 2x7 ft and weighing 16 kg, can take a load of up to 200 kg, thus addressing the shortage of beds in isolation wards. TIL Healthcare, an arm of the Jhaver group, produces several medicines and life-saving drugs at its pharmaceutical formulation facility at the special economic zone. The company, which is now licensed to produce Hydroxy Chloroquine Sulfate (HCQS) tablets, is all set to start production upon receiving the raw material.  Overcoming hassles On overcoming lockdown-related hassles to reach raw material to the units, R. Muthu Raj, Development Commissioner of Sri City SEZ, said they would coordinate with State government officials to facilitate smooth running of the units, which are permitted to work with skeleton staff. He also had a meeting recently with the police of Chittoor, Nellore (Andhra Pradesh) and Tiruvallur (Tamil Nadu), which share the border with Sri City. Sri City Managing Director Ravindra Sannareddy thanked the units for volunteering to join the cause of ridding the country of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-healthcare-products-now-made-in-sri-city/article31372098.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free yoga course to beat COVID-19||Tirupati-based National Sanskrit University (earlier Rashtriya Sanskrit Vidyapeetha), has announced an online course in yoga to strengthen immunity and beat the severe acute respiratory syndrome, the illness casued by coronavirus. The free course will be conducted from April 20 to May 17 between 6.30 am and 7.30 am every day. The course includes Asanas, Pranayama, Kriyas, Mudra and Bandha, meditation and recitation, which will be taught in English, Sanskrit and Telugu. Anyone above 12 years of age can participate and learn. For details visit http://rsvidyapeetha.ac.in/ or call R. Lakshminarayana 93915 29539, K.C.S. Lokeswar 89194 66138 or Murali 94925 51772.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-yoga-course-to-beat-covid-19/article31372094.ece
18 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Critical care management system in each district||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday took major decisions, including putting in place a critical care management system in every district, after a detailed briefing by the senior officials of the Health Department. Two doctors would be available round the clock at this call centre, and they are trained to give guidelines to the doctors on duty at the COVID hospitals, isolation and quarantine centres. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy also wanted the Health Department to take care of those above 40 years of age, and also enquired about the facilities at the quarantine centres. Officials said that apart from tackling the COVID -19 cases, they were ensuring that regular, emergency, and Aarogyasri services were not affected. Single rooms were being provided at the quarantine centres, they added. Only one virology laboratory was available in the State prior to the outbreak of coronavirus. The government took measures on a war-footing and established labs in Vijayawada, Kakinada, Anantapur, Guntur, Kadapa and Visakhapatnam in just two weeks. More than 2,100 tests were being conducted every day at these labs. Also, TrueNat kits were available in good numbers, which helped in conducting the tests at a greater pace. As many as 16,555 tests were conducted as on April 16. Andhra Pradesh conducted 331 tests per million, while it was 549 in Rajasthan, 485 in Kerala and 446 in Maharashtra, the officials said. Deputy CM Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, DGP Gautam Sawang and Special Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Jawahar Reddy were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/critical-care-management-system-in-each-district/article31372102.ece
18 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Effective surveillance’ does the trick in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram||Eleven of the 13 districts in the State figure in the list of nationwide hotspots announced on April 15 by the Union Health Ministry based on the number of cases reported in each district. Interestingly, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts were off the list despite being surrounded by the hotspots. The other districts were largely affected due to the persons who had returned from Delhi after attending a religious congregation. Referring to the Health Ministry’s release, Vizianagaram Collector Hari Jawaharlal said that effective surveillance system saved the district from getting affected. Information pertaining to six aspects, which included travel history, medical history, and symptoms, had been gathered, he said. In all, 794 samples had been collected from individuals having symptoms such as cold and cough. Of these, 318 tested negative. “The results of the remaining are awaited,” he said. Mandatory screening Apart from adopting a similar surveillance exercise, Srikakulam district managed to remain “COVID-free” largely because of the attention paid to the screening process at the numerous check- posts set up at the district’s borders, said officials. Every person entering the district was made to undergo the screening test and be in quarantine for a period of 14 days before being allowed to proceed to his/her destination. The district also deployed one ‘COVID officer’ for every 10 suspected cases to help monitor their health in real time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/effective-surveillance-does-the-trick-in-srikakulam-vizianagaram/article31372110.ece
18 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. blamed for most part of State turning red zone||Close on the heels of the Union Health Ministry releasing the data of the districts classified as red zones that mentioned many from the State, TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu turned to Twitter holding the State government responsible for the same. Mr. Naidu alleged that it was a man-made disaster. “84% of A.P.’s districts have been designated as red zones by the @MoHFW_INDIA. Courtesy: @ysjagan’s incompetence, negligence and focus on politicking (read: elections, removal of SEC etc.) rather than public health. This is turning out to be a man-made disaster,” he tweeted. In a series of tweets, Mr. Naidu even posted a letter written by him to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Mr. Naidu termed the official health bulletins as ‘bogus’ as it was a ‘premeditated plan to give false reports to the Central government with ulterior political motives’. There was no consistency in the data being disseminated. Health bulletin, health secretary, Dashboard provide different figures, he alleged. Mr. Naidu accused the YSRCP leaders of resorting to forcible collections from businessmen, traders, industrialists and farmers who were facing the brunt of the lockdown. It was atrocious on their part to make forcible collections for the CMRF, he said. ‘Funds diverted’ Stating that the government had shown Rs. 30,000 crore more revenue, he said there were huge Central funds received through devolutions, 14th Finance Commission and COVID relief. The government was diverting them without giving supporting the fight against the coronavirus, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-blamed-for-most-part-of-state-turning-red-zone/article31372111.ece
18 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medical staff to be recruited for COVID-19 services||The government has accorded permission for the recruitment of 1,170 specialist doctors, 1,170 General Duty Medical Officers, 2,000 staff nurses, 306 anaesthesia technicians, 300 Female Nursing Orderlies, 300 Male Nursing Orderlies and 300 sweepers on a one-year contract for providing COVID-19 - related services. According to a issued by special chief secretary (health, medical and family welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy, the government has also constituted a committee for making recruitment for the State-level specialist doctors and GDMOs with the Commissioner of Health and Family as chairman and Vice -Chancellor of Dr. NTR UHS, Director of Medical Education, Commissioner of A.P. Vaidya Vidhana Parishad and Director of Public Health as the members. The DME has been instructed to get the district Collectors take up the recruitment of nurses, anaesthesia technicians and FNOs, MNOs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/medical-staff-to-be-recruited-for-covid-19-services/article31372106.ece
18 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT urged to stop govt. from destroying mangrove forests||NGT and Supreme Court advocate Sanjay Upadhyay has urged the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to stop the State government from destroying the mangrove forests in an extent of 100 acres in Kakinada. Livelihood concerns In the petition he filed on behalf of environmental activist Bolisetty Satyanarayana in Chennai on Friday, Mr. Upadhyay said that the mangrove forests, which provide livelihood to 54,000 people eking out a living by fishing, was being cleared by the government to be distributed as sites under a housing scheme. The mangrove forests that were of immense significance for their bio- and eco- diversity were being cleared against the lockdown norms announced by the Central government to arrest the spread of COVID-19, the petition mentioned. The petitioner, Mr. Satyanarayana, also made the Union government, the Andhra Pradesh Forest Department, the East Godavari district administration and the Andhra Pradesh Coastal Zone Management Authority parties to the petition. ‘Violation of Acts’ The petitioner explained that the distribution of land after destruction of the mangrove forests contravened the provisions of the Coastal Zone Regulation Notification 2011 and 2019, the Environment Protection Act, 1986, the Biodiversity (protection) Act, among a host of other environmental protections Acts and regulations. The “illegal felling” of the ecologically sensitive mangroves in close proximity to the Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary was a threat to the protected area, and was a violation of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, too, the petitioner said. The destruction of the mangroves was also leading to loss of livelihood for fisherman. “The NGT is expected to give an interim order at the earliest,” Mr. Satyanarayana told The Hindu .  The illegal felling of the ecologically sensitive mangroves in close proximity to the Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary is a threat to the protected area Bolisetty Satyanarayana Petitioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ngt-urged-to-stop-govt-from-destroying-mangrove-forests/article31372109.ece
18 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Engaged in relief work, HAMs have true celebration of the day||A few days back Y.V. Subba Reddy received information on his walkie-talkie that a group of 40-odd migrant labourers from Guntur, desperate to reach home in Visakhapatnam, had started walking homeward despite lockdown restrictions. Mr. Reddy, a photographer by profession and a HAM (Amateur Radio Operator-VU3DIU) by passion, rushed to them with a few of his friends carrying food packets and water bottles. The outbreak of COVID-19 has spurred Mr. Reddy and his other HAM friends like Rajesh Gupta (VU3GXD) to join the community service in this hour of crisis. Monitoring In these days of social isolation, radio amateurs have been contacting those who are shut in to check on their welfare and have been maintaining social contacts while remaining physically separate from each other. HAMs have a long and proud history of providing communications to alleviate suffering in the wake of disasters. With only a low-power HF transceiver, an automobile battery, and a piece of wire for an antenna, a skilled operator can establish communication from almost any location. In the last 20 days, the group has been hitting the deserted city roads in a mini van equipped with food packets and medicated water (kashayam) for distribution in slums and areas closer to the railway and bus stations. A banner reading “Amateur Radio-HAM Radio, One World, One Language-Members of Vijayawada Center” announces their arrival. Menu has dishes like bisibelabaath (sambar rice), daddojanam, pongal, pulihora, fried rice, vegetable biryani and egg biryani. “There are hundreds of people waiting for food in areas like Khuddusnagar. We intend to continue food distribution till the lockdown is lifted,” says Mr. Subba Reddy. “We generally take to the airwaves to celebrate the day but this time, it will be a true celebration of our expertise by reaching out to the needy,” says Arza Ramesh Babu, director, HAM Radio Academy in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/engaged-in-relief-work-hams-have-true-celebration-of-the-day/article31371630.ece
18 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New app to facilitate sample collection||The government has developed a Matha Shishu Samrakshana (MSS) app to facilitate collection of specimen by the mobile testing teams to identify fresh cases of COVID-19. A State-level video-conference organised to educate members of the teams collecting the specimen, was attended by Joint Collector Mohan Kumar, DMHO I. Ramesh, District Surveillance Officer Sharmistha and others. Mr. Mohan Kumar said that on an average 700 samples were being collected and sent to the lab daily and the results of 1,700 samples sent so far were awaited. He said eight testing teams were working in the district. Commissioner, Health and Family Welfare, Katamneni Bhaskar on Friday directed the mobile teams to immediately alert the data entry operators in the event of finding a new positive case. Reviewing the situation in a video-conference with the staff of the Medical and Health Department, mobile sample collection team members, district nodal officers, data operators and staff of the Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory, the Commissioner said details of fresh cases should be updated without delay and everybody engaged in the chain of network should perform their roles perfectly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-app-to-facilitate-sample-collection/article31372113.ece
18 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Reports of 1,541 foreign returnees awaited’||A total of 2,443 persons, who returned from abroad, have been kept in house quarantine in the district, according to a statement released by Krishna Collector A. Md. Imtiaz. As many as 2,226 persons completed house quarantine of 28 days, 217 were advised house quarantine for less than 28 days and 80 persons with symptoms of the COVID-19 were hospitalised. The authorities have conducted tests for 3,569 persons and 52 of them tested ‘positive’, and 1,976 negative, while reports of 1,541 persons are awaited and four patients were discharged from hospital after recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reports-of-1541-foreign-returnees-awaited/article31371631.ece
18 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four labourers die in different incidents||A labourer, B. Papaiah (48), died and another worker suffered injuries in a road accident near Chebrolu in West Godavari district. According to sources, Papaiah, a native of Srikakulam district, came to Tadepalligudem a few days ago in search of work. He got struck in the district due to lockdown. On Thursday, Papaiah, who was trekking towards Unguturu died in a hit-and-run case. The police registered a case. In another incident, a labourer of Ravulapalem, who migrated to Tanjavur district in Tamil Nadu along with 20 others, reportedly died of heart attack. The co-workers brought the body to his native village. A 45-year-old man of Dibbapalem village of Visakhapatnam district died when a goods train hit him in Tamil Nadu two days ago. The accident occurred when the train hit him while walking on a bridge. A few managed to escape from the accident, said the other workers Sathi Babu and Lakshmi, who reached Vijayawada on Friday. A migrant labourer, Ranga (47), of Kurnool district, died of sun stroke on Thursday. The victim along with few others came to Guntur district in search of livelihood. Meanwhile, a few migrant labourers of Anakapalle in Visakhapatnam district, who were going on foot, said that many workers while walking to their native places suffered sun stroke en route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-labourers-die-in-different-incidents/article31372099.ece
18 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aid to lawyers||The Bar Council of Andhra Pradesh is giving a financial assistance of Rs. 3,500 each to 2,732 advocates, who include 236 practising in the High Court, during the lockdown. It will be remitted to their bank accounts, according to council member Sunkara Rajendra Prasad. A special committee of the Bar Council selected the beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aid-to-lawyers/article31372104.ece
18 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||White Paper sought on containment measures||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana has demanded that the government publish a White Paper on issues related to COVID-19. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday, he insisted that the government release a comprehensive note on the measures taken to combat the dreaded disease. He said the government should furnish details of testing kits available, and their additional supplies, quarantine and isolation centres and the roadmap for increasing their number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/white-paper-sought-on-containment-measures/article31372105.ece
18 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exams postponed||In view of the lockdown, the A.P. Public Service Commission has postponed the main exams for the gazetted and non-gazetted posts scheduled from May 10 to 13 and May 18 to 20 respectively. In a statement on Friday, its Secretary P.S.R. Anjaneyulu said fresh dates would be announced later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exams-postponed/article31372112.ece
18 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Dial Your JC’ programme today||Joint Collector K. Madhavilatha said here on Friday that farmers can convey their grievances and clear doubts related to purchase of their food grains in the Krishna district through the ‘Dial Your Joint Collector’ programme. The programme is scheduled to be held on April 18 (Saturday). In a statement, the Joint Collector said that paddy farmers who are facing problems in selling their produce could call 0866 2577144 between 10 a.m and 11 a.m. on Saturday to get their doubts clarified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dial-your-jc-programme-today/article31371629.ece
18 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lukewarm response to FCI offer in State||There is not much demand in the State for procuring quality rice and wheat from the Food Corporation of India (FCI) despite the Union government’s decision to offer them at a concessional price due to lack of awareness. The Centre, for the first time in the FCI’s history, has decided to supply rice and wheat at a lower price to prevent hunger pangs among the rural and urban poor, mainly migrant labour and BPL families, during the lockdown announced to prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. While rice is available for Rs. 22.50 per kg, wheat is being sold at Rs. 21.35 per kg under the new guidelines. There is adequate stock in a majority of the 24 godowns. As on April 15, they had a cumulative total of 3.68 lakh tonnes. FCI State Level Consultative Committee member Gundupalli Satish told The Hindu on Friday that the Centre had supplied 2.2 million tonne to various depots for distribution at subsidised rate to the poorer sections. “NGOs, or charitable organisations, can obtain a minimum of one tonne and a maximum of 10 tonnes in one instalment on request from the nearest FCI depot. In the city’s depot, 29,286 tonnes of rice and wheat are available,” Mr. Satish said, and added that interested organisations could contact him on the phone number 9885793555 for assistance. At present, the Centre is offering food grains at a subsidised rate to the bulk purchasers, State governments and flour millers. Mr. Satish said many NGOs and charitable organisations were distributing rice and wheat to the poorer sections by procuring them at a higher price in the open market during this hour of crisis as they were unaware of the FCI’s offer.  A minimum of one tonne and a maximum of 10 tonnes can be procured in one instalment on request Gundupalli Satish Member, FCI State Level Consultative Committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lukewarm-response-to-fci-offer-in-state/article31372117.ece
18 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC Commissioner lays down timeline for payment of wages||Municipal Commissioner G. Srijana has laid down timeline for payment of salaries and wages to employees and workers of the corporation following. She issued a circular on Friday with timelines in the wake of complaints being received from some employees, especially UGD, water supply and volunteers, that their salary was being delayed She said every regular employee, including the newly-inducted secretaries, has to get his salary by the first of the month. Contract employees, volunteer and outsourced employees have to receive the salary by the first week every month with ESI, EPF also paid. In a statement, CITU city president R.K.S.V. Kumar alleged that cases were being booked for pressing for wages to UGD and dry and wet waste workers pending for five months. In a separate statement, GVMC Contract Workers' Union honorary president P. Venkata Reddy urged that the pending bills of contractors be cleared to pave the way for payment of wages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-commissioner-lays-down-timeline-for-payment-of-wages/article31372125.ece
18 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ICMR should streamline rapid testing: EAS Sarma||Considering the accuracy of rapid testing, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) should institute a system to make sure that the test results reported by the State authorities are consistent with the WHO-prescribed norms, former Union Secretary E.A.S. Sarma has suggested. For effective working of the containment strategy, in case of every cluster, there should be different levels of technical oversight — at least two levels in the State and one Centrally-controlled level of scrutiny by way of random sampling check (by an ICMR-instituted system), Mr. Sarma said in a letter addressed to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. Doubts over accuracy The former IAS officer said rapid tests were not as accurate as RT-PCR tests and even if the former provided accuracy of 70 to 80 %, the results obtained by them could go wrong in 20 to 30 % of the cases. ‘Exercise caution’ Considering the accuracy level of rapid testing, depending exclusively on it can be misleading, he opined adding in the case of COVID-19 which seemed highly contagious being overcautious should be preferred to under-caution. He also said it was not certain whether those conducting the tests were adequately trained and whether there were any technical shortcomings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/icmr-should-streamline-rapid-testing-eas-sarma/article31372115.ece
18 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cybercrime inspector and SI suspended||Commissioner of Police R.K. Meena has suspended Inspector of Police, Cybercrime police station, V. Gopinath, and Sub-Inspector, N. Ravi Kumar, for allegedly being negligent in duties. Confirming about the suspension in a release, Mr Meena said that he has issued orders on Friday. The Police Commissioner warned that departmental action would be taken against police officers if they are found negligent in duties, involved in any illegal or indisciplinary activities. It was learnt that Mr Meena had received complaints from a few victims that the cases which were lodged by them at cyber crime police station have been unsolved. ‘Dress code violation’ The police chief also relieved Inspector from north sub-division K. Srinivas from duty and asked him to report to headquarters for violation of dress code in an official video-conference. The Inspector reportedly became sick and was admitted to a corporate hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cybercrime-inspector-and-si-suspended/article31372124.ece
18 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter first year student found dead||A 16-year-old girl reportedly ended her life by hanging herself from a ceiling fan in her house at Kothapalem area under Gopalapatnam police station limits, here on Friday. According to sources, the minor girl was pursuing Intermediate first year at Government Women’s College. Police inspected the house and seized her mobile phone for further investigation. Reasons behind the girl taking the extreme step is yet to be ascertained. A case has been registered. Those who are in distress can contact the police helpline No. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inter-first-year-student-found-dead/article31372123.ece
18 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Help betel farmers: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) district committee has appealed to the District Collector to come to the aid of betel farmers, who were suffering losses due to the lockdown. The party appealed to him to get the loss estimated and pay compensation .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/help-betel-farmers-cpim/article31372122.ece
18 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||70 units of blood donated||Minister Mopidevi Venkataramana, Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy and YSR Congress leader KK Raju donated blood at the IRCS Blood Bank, near Zilla Parishad, at a programme organised by the Pragathi Bharat Foundation, here on Friday. The participants at the camp reportedly failed to observe the social distancing norm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/70-units-of-blood-donated/article31372121.ece
18 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District tops State in distribution of essential commodities: JC||Stating that 98% of the distribution of essential commodities was completed by 7 a.m. in the district getting it the first position in the State, Joint Collector L. Siva Sankar complimented officials and staff concerned. The same should be achieved every day, he said. He held a video-conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-tops-state-in-distribution-of-essential-commodities-jc/article31372126.ece
18 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||King cobra caught on temple premises||A king cobra was caught on the premises of Sri Jagannath Temple Complex at Daspalla Hills here on Friday. On noticing the snake, temple priest Subramanyam sought the help of a few volunteers from Andhra University specialising in capturing it.  “The king cobra was later handed over to the authorities of Indira Gandhi Zoological Park,” Bimal Kumar Mohanta, general secretary of USS, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/king-cobra-caught-on-temple-premises/article31372129.ece
18 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Metrology dept. conducts raids on wholesale shops||The Legal Metrology Department conducted raids on several wholesale shops in Vizianagaram district after getting information that rice, pulses and other essential commodities were being sold at 10% above the government-prescribed rates. After receiving a directive from the State government, special teams led by Assistant Controller S.M. Radha Krishna conducted surprise checks in Vizianagaram, Kothavalasa, Bhimasingi, Korukonda and other places. Mr. Radha Krishna said that the department booked four cases for violation of MRP rules and underweighing of essential commodities. Mr. Radha Krishna said that the traders were fleecing the public when they were in distress due to the extended lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/metrology-dept-conducts-raids-on-wholesale-shops/article31372093.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Short break||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/short-break/article31372132.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||No full stops in India||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-full-stops-in-india/article31371609.ece
18 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Leaking pipeline valves, dried streams help migrant workers||For the hundreds of migrant workers who are walking towards their distant homes, leaking water pipeline valves and bridges on NH 44 and dried-up streams along the route in former united Adilabad district are coming in handy in their arduous journey. While the leaking valves have become a major source of drinking water for the migrants, the workers are hiding themselves under high-level bridges and under shady trees on the banks of streams some distance away from the road to escape not only the torturing day temperature but more importantly the notice of police who, invariably send them back to places from where they have come, if caught. “We are resting here so that no one notices us. We will start again after it gets dark,” asserted Saheblal Pache, head of a group of 20 construction workers hiding under a railway over bridge near NH 44 Chanda (T) junction. This group, which includes three women and three toddlers, has covered about 330 km from Hyderabad and needs to go 450 km more to reach their home town Balaghat in Madhya Pradesh. “It may take us a few more days to reach home but we do not want to be caught by authorities here,” he asserted. Some sympathetic policemen have advised the workers to stick to the railway lines until they cross over into Maharashtra via the long high-level bridge across river Penganga, roughly 19 km away. This is a dangerous proposition given the fact that goods trains are operational on the line. The hoodwinking is costing the migrant workers in terms of time and food. For example, another group of 50 workers in a factory in Hyderabad had to hide for two days before reaching the NH 44 Adilabad bypass which had completely depleted their supply of chiwda snack and biscuits. Mayur Chandra, sarpanch of Bheemsari village in Adilabad rural mandal, pointed out towards the hungry and exhausted workers saying hundreds of others are suffering of hunger and thirst. He, along with his fellow villagers is organising free meals for the groups of workers at a makeshift kitchen in the fields.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/leaking-pipeline-valves-dried-streams-help-migrant-workers/article31371922.ece
18 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Case booked against reporter||Nirmal town police on Friday registered a case against a TV news channel stringer, Venugopal, for telecasting a news item giving wrong information. The V6 channel telecast the news on April 11 claiming that district Collector Md. Musharraf Ali Faruqui and other officials were subjected to COVID-19 tests. The case was booked under various sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/case-booked-against-reporter/article31371923.ece
18 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New norms notified for issue of paddy procurement tokens||The State government has issued specific guidelines to the field-level officials of the Agriculture Department on issuance of token to farmers, who have cultivated paddy this season, for sale of their produce at the nearest procurement centre. Chairman of Rythu Bandhu Samithi (RBS) Palla Rajeshwar Reddy stated here on Friday that necessary instructions were issued to the district collectors concerned for purchase of old and usable gunny sacks to keep available as many sacks as possible for the procurement of paddy. In case of details of any farmers who had cultivated paddy this season and the details were not uploaded on the information portal for any reason, the agricultural extension officers would have to visit such fields and collect data about the farmer’s production for issuance of token.  Better coordination Giving clarity on the farmers having residence in one village and farms in another village, the RBS Chairman said the extension officers of the two villages had to coordinate among themselves and issue token in either of the villages. In case of shortage of tarpaulins at the procurement centres, the officials concerned could take the tarpaulins available with the farmers locally on the rental basis of Rs. 50 per tarpaulin per season. The extension officers had also been told to keep in mind the change in yield from village to village depending on the crop management methods followed by farmers while issuing tokens. Necessary orders would also be issued to the officials concerned, Mr. Rajeshwar Reddy stated. Meanwhile, the government has procured over 4.78 lakh tonnes of paddy by opening 4,000 procurement centres till Friday. Similarly, over 1.06 lakh tonnes of maize has also been procured this season by opening 883 procurement centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-norms-notified-for-issue-of-paddy-procurement-tokens/article31371917.ece
18 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Breaches aplenty in health bulletins||The information released by the State government by way of media bulletins has several chinks when it comes to COVID-19 numbers in the city and State. Doubts on veracity The Medical & Health department, which releases the health bulletins every day, has been leaving several confusing gaps in the figures of COVID-19 infected, giving rise to doubts about their veracity. Rumours are rife that the government is desperately hiding the real figures so as not to create panic, especially when it comes to numbers in the city. A case in point was the bulletin released on April 14, wherein the number of active cases within GHMC was reported as 249. In the same bulletin, the number of active cases in Vikarabad was reported as 29. In the bulletin next day, the number of active cases in city grew to 267, and that of Vikarabad rose to 32, indicating at least 21 new cases from these two areas. However, the number of fresh COVID-19 cases throughout the State was reported as six, which, if not explained, amounts to gross under-reporting by the government. Another gap was found in the bulletin released on April 16, wherein the total number of active cases in the city was mentioned as 240. The same statement mentioned the total number of discharges at 134, up from the total in the previous day’s bulletin at 70. These 64 discharges were presumably on the same day. A statement from GHMC on the same day put the number of fresh cases in the city at 25. Added with fresh cases and reduced by the number of discharges, the total number of active cases in the city should have been 228, and not 240 as mentioned in the bulletin. A real goof up by the authorities came on Friday, when the media bulletin revised the total number of discharges in the city to 131 from the previous day’s 134. While GHMC’s daily statement mentioned 30 fresh COVID-19 infections, the number of active cases in city as per the bulletin was 286. It was 16 cases higher than the deducible figure of 270 (240 as mentioned by previous day’s bulletin plus 30 fresh cases), considering that there were no discharges for the day. One more glaring omission was in the bulletin on April 1, wherein the total number of deaths in the State were reported as five, together with one death on the same day. However, two days before, the bulletin reported six deaths, and together with the single death on April 1, the number should have been seven. This was pointed out on Twitter as ‘brain teaser’ by the Telangana government. Questions directed to the city’s Medical & Health authorities yielded a blank on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/breaches-aplenty-in-health-bulletins/article31371897.ece
18 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||DRDO comes up with two more products to fight virus||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), which has been relentlessly developing and offering solutions from its existing arsenal of technologies and experience to fight coronavirus, has released two more products. The Centre for Fire Explosive and Environment Safety (CFEES) in Delhi along with HPO 1 has developed an automatic mist based sanitiser dispensing unit. It is a no-contact dispenser that sprays alcohol-based hand rub sanitiser solution while one is entering buildings or office complexes. It is based on water mist aerator technology, developed for water conservation. The unit is activated through an ultrasonic sensor. A single fluid nozzle with low flow rate is used to generate aerated mist to dispense the sanitiser. Only five-six ml of the sanitiser is released for 12 seconds in one operation and it gives the full cone spray over both palms for complete disinfection. It is a very compact unit and bulk fill option makes it economical and a long lasting product. It is also an easy to install system as wall-mountable or on a platform. The unit was manufactured with the help of M/s Riot Labz Pvt. Ltd. at Noida, and one unit has been installed at DRDO Bhawan. UV-C sanitisation box The Defence Institute of Physiology & Allied Sciences (DIPAS) and Institute of Nuclear Medicine & Allied Sciences (INMAS), DRDO laboratories in Delhi, have designed and developed an Ultraviolet C Light-based sanitisation box and hand held UV-C (ultraviolet light with wavelength 254 nanometres) device. The UV-C consists of a shorter and more energetic wavelength of light. It is particularly good at destroying genetic material in COVID-19. Sanitisation of the items by employing UV-C light avoids the harmful effects of chemicals used for disinfection. It has been designed for disinfecting personal belongings like mobile phone, tablets, purse, currency, and cover of office files. COVID-19 virus will be deactivated by using UVC lamps in one minute placed equidistantly in a box with UV dose of 100 mJ/cm2. The hand-held device having eight watt UV-C lamp disinfects office and household objects like chairs, files, postal delivered items and food packets with an exposure of 45 second at a 100 mJ/cm2 irradiance placed at a distance of less than two inches. This measure can reduce the spread of coronavirus in offices and other public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drdo-comes-up-with-two-more-products-to-fight-virus/article31371890.ece
18 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RPF to the forefront||The Railway Protection Force, while playing its part in safe transport of essential commodities over South Central Railway (SCR), has been lending a helping hand in mitigating the economic and social hardships of the needy person. Apart from guarding the notified railway state borders and bridges connecting the South states with Maharashtra, it has been trying to prevent unauthorized movement of migrant workers from one place to another along the tracks. An official spokesperson said thermal screening was being done at the entry points for all emergency duty staff, including outsourced/contract staff, hand wash/sanitisers were provided to staff before taking charge of the duty, adequate physical distancing was maintained even during the duty period, etc. The RPF personnel were also assisting the IRCTC in distributing food to nearly 1,500 persons daily, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rpf-to-the-forefront/article31371904.ece
18 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. told to reconsider pension deferment||Telangana High Court on Friday directed the State government to review the latter’s order to defer 50% pension payments to retired employees in the backdrop of COVID-19. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice T. Amarnath Goud, after hearing a writ petition through video conferencing, instructed the government to file an affidavit on the matter before Wednesday. Telangana Government Pensioners Joint Action Committee filed a writ petition challenging the government order issued on this March 30 relating to deferment of 50% of pension to retired employees. Already, HC senior lawyer S. Satyam Reddy wrote a letter to HC Chief Justice on the matter. It was taken up as PIL petiton. The petitioners’ lawyer Chikkudu Prabhakar contended that lion’s share of the pension amount is spent by the retired employees towards medicines and other medical expenditure. In such circumstances, 50% deferment of the pension amount would land them in trouble in old age, the lawyer said.  ‘Temporary decision’ The government’s decision would make it difficult for the retired employees to make both ends meet, he argued. Advocate General B.S. Prasad told the bench that it was a temporary decision taken by the government to handle the financial consequences emerging due to incidence of COVID-19 and lock-down. The bench, however, asked would it not be difficult for the retired employees to face any medical emergency. Some of the retired employees live in old age homes and away from children. The bench appreciated the decision of public representatives like legislators to donate 50% of their honorariums to fight coronavirus. Though government had facilitated reimbursement of medical expenses of retired employees, it would be difficult for the pensioners to withstand deferment of 50% of pension, the bench observed. The AG explained that 50% deferment of pension was only a temporary measure and the decision would be review. The bench directed him to ask the government to review the matter and inform the HC. The matter was posted to April 22 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-told-to-reconsider-pension-deferment/article31371918.ece
18 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||UoH a COVID-19 testing centre||University of Hyderabad (UoH) has been identified as a COVID-19 testing centre under the city clusters spotted by the Department of Biotechnology (DBT), to scale up the testing capacity for coronavirus. The Hyderabad cluster has Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD), CSIR-Centre for Cellular Molecular Biology (CSIR-CCMB), National Institute of Animal Biotechnology (NIAB), and CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (CSIR-IICT) with CCMB as the coordinating institute. The regional clusters of testing centres will serve Hyderabad and TS to test COVID-19 samples. Institutes and laboratories that have the capacity and expertise for both sample collection, handling or processing (BSL-2 facility) and testing (RT-PCR), serve as hubs. This will involve a number of laboratories that have RT PCR machines and the requisite manpower as their extended testing facilities. UoH will soon identify 15 technical personnel for data entry, sample sorting, dividing and coordination with other testing labs. It will be ready for testing once the ICMR approved testing kits and required reagents are made available by the coordinating institution here. The volunteers will undergo training for one-and-half-days at the CCMB, before undertaking the actual testing. “I am happy that UoH has been identified as a testing centre. It’s a privilege for UoH to be of help to the nation,” said VC Appa Rao Podile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uoh-a-covid-19-testing-centre/article31371888.ece
18 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||30 fresh cases, 146 containment zones||The number of COVID-19 containment zones in the GHMC limits has been updated to 146 on Friday, after de-notification of 15 zones. The number of zones, which was 139 two days ago, grew after identification of 25 fresh cases in the city on Thursday, and 30 more on Friday, the GHMC said. There were a total of 260 containment zones in the State, with 114 of them outside the city in 43 municipalities. Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao, during a video conference from the GHMC headquarters with all districts’ Additional Collectors and Municipal Commissioners, asked them to obtain details of all purchases of medicines for fever and throat pain, so as to keep a tab on unknown COVID-19 infections. Towards this, he suggested review meetings with pharmacy associations of all districts, in coordination with drug inspectors, and issue of orders seeking details of all medicine purchasers. Ministers Eatala Rajender and Srinivas Goud too participated in the conference where Mr. KTR issued instructions towards ensuring confinement of those in containment zones. Milk, vegetables, other essential commodities and medicines, should be supplied to the doorstep, only by volunteers designated by the government. For easy identification, the delivery men may be given special uniforms. No outsiders, including philanthropists and charity organisations, should be allowed inside the zones, and cases should be booked against persons who violate this rule. Sanitation, spraying and fever surveys should be carried out with enough caution, and protective gear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/30-fresh-cases-146-containment-zones/article31371898.ece
18 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Situation easing in Gadwal||Slowly but surely situation is improving in Jogulamba-Gadwal, one of the eight hot-spot districts for coronavirus in the State. Though high alert was sounded in this southernmost district of the State with two of the 23 coronavirus positive persons dying, no sharp rise was recorded in past few days. Barring a fresh positive case reported on Thursday, there are no more critical cases in the district. Close to 60 persons from this district had reportedly participated in Tablighi Jamaat held in New Delhi. All of them returned on different dates. With the efforts of Intelligence wing and local police, all of them were traced and quarantined. “Sixteen of them tested positive for COVID-19. Majority of them were from Gadwal town and mandals of Aija, Shanthinagar and Rajoli,” police officers monitoring the situation said. Within Gadwal town, Mominmela colony recorded highest number of cases. All TJ returnees, who tested positive were shifted to Gandhi Hospital. A paper plate maker, aged above 50 years (not a TJ meeting participant), contracted coronavirus. He used to live in Gadwal town. Inquiries by police indicated that he had met some of the TJ returnees. Among them was an elderly person. He used to regularly attend local religious programmes and prayers. Condition of both the persons deteriorated. “Apparently their age was one of the factors that aggravated their condition,” the police said. The two elderly persons died of the virus. Startled by the deaths, the district administration tightened movement of people in the three mandals and localities of the town from where positive cases were recorded. The authorities were worried a bit after the paper plate maker’s son and daughter-in-law tested positive for COVID-19. “Their condition is being monitored closely. We hope to see improvement in their condition in next few days,” the police said. One respite for the officials is that there are no cases in which they could not ascertain how the persons contracted the virus. “The seven persons who got the virus had directly or indirectly interacted with the 16 people who earlier tested positive,” the authorities said. A 32-year-old bicycle mechanic from the town was the latest case of local transmission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/situation-easing-in-gadwal/article31371919.ece
18 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Corporator distributes sanitary pads||At a time when a large portion of lockdown relief work is centred on ration packs, Ahmed Nagar division corporator Ayesha Rubina of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen has focused on sourcing and distributing sanitary pads to her women constituents. “For the past five days, we have been distributing sanitary pads in the ward. The reason is that women’s health and hygiene, which is paramount, tends to be overlooked during such times. Of course, ration is important. But this crucial aspect of women’s health should not be ignored. We have been giving between 150 and 250 packs per day,” Ms Rubina says. The initiative began at a community hall in Ahmed Nagar when Ms Rubina and her team, with the support of Social Data Initiatives Forum, an NGO, bought sanitary pads to give to women from urban slums in the ward. According to Ms Rubina, there are five such notified urban slums in Ahmed Nagar. “We began the programme as part of the ward’s Women’s Empowerment Cell. On the first day of distribution, we gauged the response of women. It was clear to us how important providing these sanitary pads is. Slums such as Pochamma Basthi, Nehru Nagar, P S Nagar, Syed Nagar - 1 and Syed Nagar - 2 were covered,” Ms Rubina says. Another important issue, Ms Rubina opines, is pricing of the pads in the market. She says that while inexpensive and more accessible sanitary pads are priced around Rs. 40, these are unavailable in some shops. “This forces women to use less hygienic methods such as cloth,” she says. On Friday, Ms Rubina, Mayor Bonthu Rammohan and social activist Azam Khan of SDIF distributed sanitary pads to sanitation workers and other women. In a tweet, Mr Rammohan said, “Unique gesture by an NGO led by our GHMC Corporator Ayesha Rubeena garu who have come up to sponsor sanitary napkins to sanitation workers & other poor needy ladies. Handed over few cartons to lady corporators to be distributed in their respective divisionsTelanganaCMO@KTRTRS”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/corporator-distributes-sanitary-pads/article31371910.ece
18 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pensioners appeal against any cut||Telangana Government Pensioners Joint Action Committee has appealed to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to issue orders for disbursement of pensions without any cut. In a press statement , JAC chairman K. Lakshmaiah , co-chairman P. Krishnamurthy and secretary general Sudhakar Rao said that the pensioners were leading their retired lives with nominal pensions and urged the Chief Minister to reconsider his decision to cut 50% of the pension amount. The State government has decided to cut salaries and pensions of government employees and retired persons in view of difficult financial situation due to COVID-19. They also said that the petition filed against cut in pension was accepted by the High Court and arguments commenced on Friday. The court adjourned the next hearing to April 24, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pensioners-appeal-against-any-cut/article31371920.ece
18 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flight leaves city with 136 UK nationals||The RGIA handled a special passenger relief British Airways flight to repatriate 136 UK nationals from Hyderabad. The British Airways aircraft landed in the city at 04.59 p.m. on Friday from Bahrain and departed at 6:46 p.m. to Ahmedabad, from where a few more UK nationals were to be airlifted to Bahrain and then onwards to London. All these passengers were serviced through the fully-sanitised Interim International Departures Terminal (IIDT). The entire exercise was in coordination with the British Deputy High Commission and the government. “We appreciate the efforts of the government to repatriate these stranded people and we are committed to working with all stakeholders to ensure their safe travel,” said RGIA CEO S.G.K. Kishore. British Deputy High Commissioner Andrew Fleming said he was grateful to the TS government, British Airways and RGIA for their support in making the operation possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flight-leaves-city-with-136-uk-nationals/article31371891.ece
18 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||UoH students say no to online evaluation||Students of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) while maintaining that they have welcomed online learning, have objected to online evaluation given the severe connectivity and adaptability issues with rural students, who form more than 70% of the total student strength. Students who have come under the group, Youth for Inclusive and Sustainable Society (YISS), said that they are open to online learning. They said though the university administration is planning to consider past academic performance and internal examination based on assignments, many faculty members are insisting on taking online classes and asking for assignments with shorter deadlines. Students claim that they are asked to write 2,000 to 5,000 word research papers with citations, which they are unable to do with limited resources now. They said not even 25% of academic is based on e-learning. The YISS also sent a letter to the HRD Ministry questioning the conduct of university entrance exams online using some private partners and demanded that the exams be conducted through the NTA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uoh-students-say-no-to-online-evaluation/article31371894.ece
18 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TS gets Rs. 224 cr. under SDRMF||Telangana has been given Rs. 224 crore by the Central government under the first instalment of the State Disaster Response Mitigation Fund (SDRMF). According to a release from the Finance Ministry, this is the first instalment of the Central share as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission. Andhra Pradesh was given Rs. 559 crore under the same scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-gets-rs-224-cr-under-sdrmf/article31371908.ece
18 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Donation to CMRF||Directors of Yashoda Hospitals group Pavan Gorukanti, Dheeraj Gorukanti, Abhinav Gorukanti and Phalgun Gorukanti donated Rs. 1.50 crore to the Telangana CM Relief Fund towards COVID 19 relief care. They handed over the cheque for the amount to IT Minister K. T. Rama Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/donation-to-cmrf/article31371912.ece
18 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Free access to online courses for engineering students||Coempt Edu Teck Pvt. Ltd, part of Manipal group, is giving free access to engineering classes’ content for the next three months. The company is offering the e-learning course covering over 165 subjects and more than 700 practical e-lab experiments developed using multimedia components such as animation, voiceover, text and pictures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-access-to-online-courses-for-engineering-students/article31371893.ece
18 April 2020||JAGTIAL,TELANGANA||Online puja rituals at Dharmapuri shrine||Sri Laxminarasimha Swamy Devasthanam authorities in Dharmapuri have decided to conduct online puja services for ensuing ‘Sri Narasimha Navarathri Utsavalu’ from April 29 to May 6. Sri Narasimha navarathrulalo vishesha puja, abhishekam and kalyanam costs - Rs. 2,516, vishesha puja and abhishekam - Rs. 1,516, vishesha puja - Rs. 1,116 while Narasimha jayanthi abhisekham and sthambodbhava costs - Rs. 516. Devotees interested to perform the pujas can make payments through SBI account number 52181135161, IFSC code SBIN0020141, Dharmapuri branch. Devotees were urged to call 08724-273227 after making payments, besides giving details about puja rituals and gotram namalu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/online-puja-rituals-at-dharmapuri-shrine/article31371927.ece
18 April 2020||KAMAREDDY,TELANGANA||Woman dies of heart attack at bank queue||A 47-year-old widow, Anaboth Kamala of Kannapur tribal village in Ramareddy mandal, died of heart attack on Friday morning while standing in a long queue for receiving corona virus relief of Rs. 1,500 before the Telangana Grameena Bank branch at the mandal headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-dies-of-heart-attack-at-bank-queue/article31371924.ece
18 April 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Farmers losing extra to ‘wastage’||The paddy farmers who are struggling to transport the harvested crop to the procurement centres due to the labour shortage following COVID-19 lockdown have to face an additional burden of underweighment by 4 to 6 kgs per quintal of paddy at both the IKP centres and also the millers in various parts of the district. On an average, the procurement centres, including IKP, PACS and the millers, were deducting at least four to six kgs of paddy per quintal against the actual weight on the grounds of wastage, gunny bag weight and labour charges. For instance, against the weight of 64 kgs in a paddy bag, the millers and procurement centres were billing for only for 62 kgs and reducing two kgs as wastage which totals to four to six kgs per quintal. The farmers were losing at least Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 5,000 per acre of yield. While the gunny bag weighs only 600 grams, the millers and procurement centre consider its weight as one kg and above and deduct in the total weight. Incidentally, paddy is harvested using harvesters and the blower machine ensures there is no chaff and other wastage. The MSP for paddy is Rs. 1850 per quintal for A grade and Rs. 1830 for B grade variety. Rythu Ikya Vedika district president M. Venkat Reddy said that the farmers were forced to spend extra for pesticides against the rice blast disease this rabi season. At a time when they were expecting a good rate for their produce, the procurement centres, in collusion with the traders, were betraying the farmers by underweighment, he complained. The deduction of weight by 4 to 6 kgs is since last three years, he added. Several farmers who have bought their crop to the procurement centres were facing delays due to non-availability of labour, he said and feared that possible hailstorms and rains during the period may damage harvest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-losing-extra-to-wastage/article31371925.ece
18 April 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Most migrant workers paid relief||Amid the displacement of a multitude of migrant labourers due to coronavirus lockdown, the benevolence of philanthropists and timely intervention of the district administration is providing some relief, albeit temporarily, to the distressed. The district has an estimated number of 42,581 migrant workers mainly working in construction sites, farms, brick kilns and granite factories, including cutting and polishing units. Majority of them are from Maharashtra (24,521), Uttar Pradesh (3622), Odisha (2428), Chhattisgarh (2330), Madhya Pradesh (2064), Andhra Pradesh (1422), Rajasthan (1013), West Bengal (990), Bihar (654), Jharkhand (229) and Tamil Nadu (195). There are some 3057 migrant workers from various districts within the State camping in the district, sources said. There are 487 migrant workers currently housed in 18 State-run relief camps and shelters across the district. The State government has provided ration and Rs. 500 cash each to 30,541 migrant workers in the district so far. An amount of Rs. 1.52 crore has been disbursed as relief. Around 30,161 labourers are being provided shelter and food all over the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/most-migrant-workers-paid-relief/article31371931.ece
18 April 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Harish comes to the rescue of migrant labourers||Idhar koyi suvidha nahi hai bhaiiyya. Hum kya kare? Maharashtra jana hai . Main aapko maddat karne ke liye pooch rahi hun, koyi takalif dene ke liye nahin . (Brother, we have no facilities here. We have to go to Maharashtra. I am seeking your help but not to create any problem for you). This was what an old woman told Minister T. Harish Rao when he came across 30 migrant labourers walking. Mr. Rao stopped his convoy on seeing them, and interacted with them. The migrants workers informed him that they have been residing in and around Hyderabad, and were without work for the past few weeks. ‘Nothing to eat’ They said that all their income sources have dried up and that did not even have food for some time. The sight of small children too taking the long walk moved the Minister. “Do not worry. You need not go anywhere. We will provide you shelter and food. You can stay here till the lockdown ends,” the Minister informed them. Immediately, the migrant labourers were provided food and shelter at Manoharabad. Lok Sabha member Kotha Prabahkar Reddy, MLA M. Padma Devender Reddy and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/harish-comes-to-the-rescue-of-migrant-labourers/article31371929.ece
18 April 2020||SURYAPET/ Adilabad,TELANGANA||No let-up in Suryapet COVID surge||15 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported from Suryapet district and three more from Adilabad district on Friday. According to officials, of the 15 new cases, 12 belong to the vegetable market area in the town, and the remaining three cases were from the nearby Beebigudem. With this, the total number of COVID-19 positive cases has reached 54. Following the spike of cases, Minister for Energy and local legislator G. Jagadish Reddy held a review meeting on the measures taken to counter the COVID spread along with District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy, Rajya Sabha MP B. Lingaiah Yadav and officials. “The detected cases were not due to recent infection, but the patients got infected even before the lockdown and their test results are being updated now, ” the Minister said. He said Suryapet was classified a “red zone district” as per laid-down guidelines. “Hereafter, lockdown measures are going to be stricter. Groceries will be home-delivered, and anyone showing even the mildest COVID-19 symptoms are encouraged to get their samples tested. All test costs will be borne by the government,” he said. In Adilabad Adilabad district’s tally of COVID-19 positive cases rose from 11 to 14 on Friday with three more secondary contacts of a positive patient testing positive. The three belong to Ambedkarnagar in town and have been shifted to Gandhi Hospital. The family members of the patients have also been put into quarantine. The three positives are from a batch of 200 samples sent to Hyderabad for testing, according to sources. A branch post-master working in an interior Adivasi hamlet in Sirpur (U) mandal became the fourth COVID-19 positive case in Jainoor mandal of Kumram Bheem Asifabad district on Friday. He is the secondary contact of a Jamaat returnee from Jainoor being his immediate neighbour. The village, located about 12 km from Jainoor mandal headquarters was sealed completely following the receipt of the test report. Meanwhile, authorities collected blood samples of a senior politician in Adilabad town who became COVID-19 suspect following coming into contact with the primary contact of a positive case in town. He had his vehicle repaired at a service centre which also put all the workers of the garage in the suspect list. Mancherial district had its first COVID-19 positive case in the shape of a 48-year-old woman from Mutharaopet village in Chennur mandal who tested positive post death. She had died on April 14 while being taken to Hyderabad for treatment.  (Inputs from S. Harpal Singh in Adilabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-let-up-in-suryapet-covid-surge/article31371915.ece
18 April 2020||yderabad,TELANGANA||Scammers at work again, cashing in on COVID concerns||Your close friend is caught in Spain with no money to help himself for food and medicines, leave alone for the air ticket, and he sends a mail seeking some money to escape the country severely affected by the deadly disease. With the very mention of Spain and the visuals of your friend roaming in those streets would run through your imaginations even as you won’t hesitate to transfer a few thousands to the account details given there. Arun Vishwanth, an IT consultant, almost did the same but stopped at the last moment to recheck whether his friend was really in a dire situation, only to realise that it was fraud mail. Arun’s email box is the not the lone one flooded with such mails. Kalpana, a housewife, too saw a similar mail from her friend’s account, saying she was stranded in the US with her purse, containing her passport and credit cards, stolen. With COVID-19 scare all pervasive scammers are pouncing on the gullible luring them into giving money. These mails, considered sent by organised crime groups connected to Nigerians are quite similar to what Indians were exposed to till five years ago. They have made a comeback to stoke the sentiments of corona and fleece people. Majority invariably fall for the bait, more so in the present circumstances when such stories are more believable. A senior officer of Cyberabad police said they had received complaints of such mails and warned this is a standard practice and people should be careful. Since the mails come from familiar accounts and they seek reasonable amounts, people tend to fall for it. Popularly known as Nigerian scammers, these guys continue to thrive even on the scams mostly related to cornovirus theme. These include scammers impersonating the World Health Organisation (WHO), financial institutions, government officials, scientists, bankers and doctors seeking personal details while giving information on the disease and enticing them to click on the suspicious links. In fact, Google has released a report saying it has seen 18 million phishing mails in the last one week apart from the spam messages related to coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scammers-at-work-again-cashing-in-on-covid-concerns/article31371907.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Bolt from the blue!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bolt-from-the-blue/article31371900.ece
18 April 2020||New Delhi,||DSCI staff admitted at RGSSH complain of lack of facilities||During the last 10 days, 30-year-old Akash*, a staff of Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI), has been talking regularly to his parents back in his home town, but he has been hiding something from them: Akash was tested positive for COVID-19 and is admitted at a hospital. A total of 31 people connected to the DSCI have tested positive for the virus so far, including staff, patients, and a two-year-old child of a nurse. Though DSCI is not a COVID-19 treatment facility, the hospital was closed for sanitation on April 1, after a doctor tested positive. “If I tell them that I have tested positive, they will worry a lot. So, I have not told them about it. I have told my younger brother and my sister’s husband in Dubai,” Akash told The Hindu over phone from Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH). Multiple issues He complained about “lack” of facilities at RGSSH, where he and other staff from DSCI are currently admitted. Another DSCI staff, who was tested positive and admitted at RGSSH, also raised multiple issues. “My results came on April 6 late evening and I waited for an ambulance, but I did not get one and I reached the hospital on my own. Here, they throw the daily medicines inside our room and leave the food outside the door on the floor. Can’t they at least keep the food and medicines on a table or chair outside the door?” he asked. Another staff, who tested positive and admitted at RGSSH, wrote in an internal WhatsApp group of DSCI staff: “Today morning 10 a.m. I went to ask water to drink, no one is ready to listen, [they were] just sitting in front of me. I called them by knocking the door [they were] simply sitting with no response at all. I was shocked. If they behave with staff like this, then how they deal the other general patient? This is such horrible and irresponsible worker here [sic].” Group dissolved A senior DSCI official, part of the group, then dissolved the WhatsApp group. “On director’s instructions, I am dissolving the group,” the official wrote on the group, screenshots of which were accessed by The Hindu . Mr. Akash also said that the DSCI could have avoided staff being infected with the virus if they had provided PPE to employees after Dilshad Garden, where the hospital is located, became a hotspot for COVID-19 cases. “In March, around the lockdown, we asked the authorities for PPE multiple times. At that time, Dilshad Garden had already become a hotspot for the virus. Though we do not treat COVID-19 patients, we have an OPD and a lot of people came to meet patients who are admitted at the hospital. How will we know who is infected by the virus and who is not?” he asked. “These many staff getting infected could have been completely avoided if the authorities had given us PPE initially,” he lamented. “I was tested negative two days ago. According to procedures, I have to be tested again within 24 hours and if I am negative again, then they have to discharge me. But they are yet to test me and I am stuck here. There is no proper system here and procedures are not being followed,” Mr. Akash complained. DSCI director’s reply Responding to the allgations, B.L. Sherwal, Director of DSCI, told The Hindu that full-body PPE kits were not needed in DSCI as it is not a COVID-19 treatment facility. On the lack of facilities and other issues, he said, “Whatever our staff are pointing out might be true. For the first time we are facing something like novel coronavirus and there could be small problems. All of them have my number and they can reach out to me whenever they want.”  (*name changed to protect identity)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dsci-staff-admitted-at-rgssh-complain-of-lack-of-facilities/article31371860.ece
18 April 2020||New Delhi,||Police intercept migrant workers leaving city, lend help||Seven labourers, who were walking with luggages to reach their village in Uttar Pradesh’s Hardoi after being evicted by their landlord due to non-payment of rent amid the ongoing lockdown, were restored to their rented accommodation, police said on Friday. On Thursday, during patrolling, two policemen found the seven labourers at Barapula walking towards Sarai Kalen Khan. They had luggage with them, the police said. “When they were intercepted, they revealed they were let out by their landlord due to non-payment of rent and were walking to their village in Hardoi,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur. The labourers were then given water and food, Mr. Thakur said. They used to work as casual labourers in Delhi’s Janakpuri. Their landlord Madan Lal, who happens to be the Head Constable in a Delhi jail, was contacted and convinced to waive off the rent, he added. After the landlord agreed, the labourers were escorted to their rented accommodation at Brahmpuri, Pankha Road in a DTC bus provided to the local police, the DCP said. One gas cylinder and dry ration for a month were provided to them with the help of landlord and some good samaritans, he said. In another incident, in Kotla Mubarakpur area, three persons — Nanak, Gurushevak and Mangal — were intercepted at Aurobindo Marg near Madarsa picket while they were coming from INA and going towards New Delhi, the police said. They belonged to Ambala and were working as labourers in Agra. Left with no other option amid the lockdown, they decided to return home on foot on Thursday. They were intercepted and sent to shelter home, he said. The Delhi police also intercepted an SUV carrying seven migrant workers to Bihar, in south Delhi on Friday morning. Atul Kumar Thakur, DCP (South) said that during picket checking at South Extension under KM Pur police station, the on-duty staff noticed the SUV coming from AIIMS flyover side. It was stopped and eight persons, including the driver, were found inside. On being questioned, the driver lied about the occupants initially. During sustained interrogation, it was revealed that all of them belonged to Vaishali, Bihar. They used to work at private construction sites in west Delhi and lived in JJ Colony in Raghubeer Nagar, the police said. They said they hired the SUV of the driver, Shakeel Ahmad, for Rs. 37,000 to travel to Vaishali, Bihar. “A case has been registered under appropriate sections against the driver. All the seven labourers were handed over to the authorities of a shelter home at Bapu Park. The vehicle has been seized,” said Mr. Thakur. The money paid as advance to the driver has also been returned to the labourers. In another case, the police lent help to 52 labourers after they ran out of ration. Mr Thakur said that one Manoj Yadav, a resident of Sangam Vihar, made a distress call and stated that 52 labourers were in urgent need of ration. He further said that since they were thinking of returning to their houses in Supol district of Bihar. The police went to the location and counselled him and assured him not to worry and provided ration to them. On Friday, the Delhi Police received over 900 calls on their 24x7 helpline number regarding issues related to the lockdown. A total of 22,764 calls have been received by them till Friday on their helpline 011-23469526, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-intercept-migrant-workers-leaving-city-lend-help/article31371859.ece
18 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Contractor found transporting 37 workers to market arrested||A 50-year-old labour contractor was arrested after he was found taking 37 labourers to Palwal Mandi in Haryana, the police said on Friday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) R.P. Meena said that the accused contractor has been identified as Brijesh, a resident of Haryana’s Palwal. The police said that around 1.30 a.m. on Friday, Prahaladpur police station staff, deployed at Okhla T-point picket, intercepted a truck on suspicion. “The vehicle was checked and the police found that 37 labourers were inside it. Their contractor was also present with them,” Mr. Meena said. During questioning, it was revealed that the contractor was intending to “supply” the labourers at Palwal Mandi. “It was also revealed that the contractor took the workers from Okhla Mandi and Chatarpur. They all belong to Bihar and are temporarily living in Chhatarpur,” the officer said. The police said that a case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of Epidemic Act has been registered and that the labourers have been shifted to a shelter in Madanpur Khadar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/contractor-found-transporting-37-workers-to-market-arrested/article31371854.ece
18 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi mall to provide drive-in testing facilities||Select Citywalk in collaboration with Dr. Dangs Lab is set to provide drive-in testing facilities for COVID-19, the group said on Friday. In order to avail the facility, one is required to make an appointment on the Dr. Dangs Lab website and provide relevant documents and details of the car. “Each station will have a dedicated sample collection officer for the procedure. The samples will be collected from inside the car by the designated medical officer,” the Select group said. The entire process is estimated to be over in 10-12 minutes, said a statement issued by the group. “The reports will be emailed and will be available on Dr. Dang’s website within 24-36 hours. Dr. Dang’s testing facilities for COVID-19 are government-approved and are at the government-mandated price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-mall-to-provide-drive-in-testing-facilities/article31371853.ece
18 April 2020||New Delhi,||Hit-and-run: policeman injured, driver arrested||A 40-year-old truck driver was arrested for allegedly driving rashly and injuring a traffic policeman in south-east Delhi’s Sunlight Colony area, the police said on Friday. The accused has been identified as Danish, a resident of Dhouj village in Faridabad district, they said. A case has been registered against the him at Sunlight Colony police station. The incident took place on Thursday night when Sub-Inspector Prakash Chand of traffic circle Lajpat Nagar, along with other staff, were checking vehicles at Maharani Bagh picket, the police said. Around 9.30 p.m., the truck, which was bearing Haryana’s registration number, was spotted being driven rashly and negligently. After the vehicle hit the barricades, the driver sped away, the police also said. A constable, who was patrolling on a motorcycle, chased the offending truck. The vehicle was seized but the driver managed to escape. He, was, however, subsequently arrested, the police said. Mr. Chand suffered injuries in the incident, they added. After receving first-aid treatment at Jeevan Hospital, he was shifted to AIIMS Trauma Centre, said R.P. Meena, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hit-and-run-policeman-injured-driver-arrested/article31371861.ece
18 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||DMRC distributes food to 300 people in city||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation DMRC on Friday distributed food to around 300 people at three locations across the Capital. The food packets were arranged with resources from a canteen at Shastri Park Depot, officials said. “To attend to the people in need of care and support, around 300 food packets were distributed to the children and women at Nigambodh Ghat Hanuman Mandir and the pocket adjacent to Bangla Sahib. We shall try to take up more such initiatives during this period of lockdown,” the DMRC said. A DMRC official said, “We will continue making efforts to carry out such initiatives.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dmrc-distributes-food-to-300-people-in-city/article31371852.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||City reports 67 new cases, 4 deaths||Delhi reported 67 new COVID 19 cases and four deaths on Friday, taking the toll to 42 and total number of cases to 1,707. Twenty-one patients were also discharged, taking the total to 72. Meanwhile, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday intervened in the termination of a doctor from the Hindu Rao Hospital, run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation.  Dr. Piyush Sharma, a DNB student in the orthopaedic department of the hospital, was terminated from duty for “bringing disrepute to the institution”, an order issued by the hospital stated. The commissioner of the North DMC had said that Dr. Sharma had intercepted personal protection kits being donated to the hospital by an NGO, and then distributed the kits to the staff himself.  The news of termination received backlash on social media with Harjit Bhatti of the Progressive Medicos & Scientists Forum (PMSF) calling it a vindictive act and demanded revocation of termination. Taking cognizance of the issue, Dr. Vardhan later tweeted: “I have spoken to Varsha Joshi Ji on the phone and asked her to call the aggrieved doctor and resolve the issue. Please wait for her action. I'm sure she will take appropriate redresal steps [sic].”  Ms. Joshi said that she would find an appropriate solution adding: “Grateful for your support, guidance and leadership at all times” in a response to the Minister. Dr. Sharma was unreachable for a comment. Later in the day, Dr. Vardhan chaired a video conference with L-G Anil Baijal, Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain and Medical Superintendents of central and State government hospitals and Municipal Commissioners of Delhi. The Minister told the officials not to neglect other patients during COVID-19 outbreak. “I am receiving a lot of complaints regarding denial of treatment to patients suffering from critical ailments other than COVID-19 such as patients requiring dialysis, suffering from respiratory or heart disease, those who require blood transfusion and pregnant mothers,” he said. “It is a testing time for everybody in lockdown; patients who are really ill and require urgent medical attention are venturing out with great difficulty to reach the hospital for treatment in this situation. We should not turn them away,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-reports-67-new-cases-4-deaths/article31371856.ece
18 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Close to 6 lakh labourers from State stranded: Jharkhand govt.||The Jharkhand government on Friday said close to six lakh migrant labourers were reported stranded at over 12,000 locations across the country. “As many as 5,97,187 migrant labourers have been reported stranded at 12,257 places. So far, the government has mobilised food and lodging for 4,47,261 labourers stranded at 10,153 places,” according to Jharkhand’s Department of Labour, Planning and Training. The department said complete information was also being collected from the people to provide assistance at all levels. Information about stranded labourers was said to have been gathered with the the help of the ‘Chief Minister Special Assistance Scheme Mobile App’ launched recently by Chief Minister Hemant Soren.  Database of labourers According to the government, the application helped in creating a database of migrant labourers and enabled the Jharkhand government to mobilise assistance. When all public transport came to a grinding halt following announcement of lockdown last month, hundreds of workers stuck outside Jharkhand had probably opened an account in social networking site ‘Twitter’ in order to communicate with Mr. Soren. The CM had instead forwarded those messages to his counterparts eliciting their assistance to residents of Jharkhand. “I have no idea how the State government has come to such a particular number. If the statistics are true, then the methodology and tool used for arriving at the astounding number should be followed by all high migration States,” said Umi Daniel, head of the Migration information and Resource Centre (MiRC), Aide et Action South Asia, an international voluntary organization. A ‘State Level Corona Control Room’ has been set up by the State government which functions through toll free helpline number 181.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/close-to-6-lakh-labourers-from-state-stranded-jharkhand-govt/article31371838.ece
18 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha govt. to go for large-scale testing in Bhubaneswar||The Odisha government on Friday announced to undertake large-scale testing of samples in Bhubaneswar city which has emerged as a hotspot with 46 persons testing positive for COVID-19 so far. Addressing the media through videoconferencing, State Chief Secretary Asit Tripathy said that 5,000 more samples will be collected and tested in the capital city over the next seven days starting from Friday.  ‘No case in last 2 days’ Mr. Tripathy said of the total of 7,577 samples tested in the State till Thursday midnight, as many as 1,958 samples or 38% of the total belonged to Bhubaneswar. No positive case was detected during the past two days in the State where six laboratories were testing samples to detect COVID-19 at present, he added. While static camps will be set up at some locations, mobile camps will also visit vulnerable areas to collect samples for testing, said Mr. Tripathy, while adding that the special drive was aimed at making Bhubaneswar safe. A total of 60 persons were found positive in the State so far. While 38 patients were under treatment, 21 persons were discharged after recovery and one had died earlier. Requesting people to come forward for giving samples, Mr. Tripathy said that anyone showing reluctance will be taken to task. Anyone who is found positive will avail free treatment at the COVID-19 hospitals and make his family safe, he said. Mr. Tripathy said that priority for testing during the special drive will be given to those with travel history and severe acute respiratory infection; healthcare and sanitary workers; senior citizens with co-morbid conditions; and slum dwellers who were unable to maintain social distancing strictly. Many samples will also be collected on random basis, he said. Combat plan Bhubaneswar has already been divided into three zones with two IAS officers each working as COVID-19 observers with overall charge of containment and prevention of the disease in the city, said Mr. Tripathy. Stating that wearing of masks was already made compulsory, he informed that the Department of Health & Family Welfare has also made spitting an offence by issuing a notification on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-govt-to-go-for-large-scale-testing-in-bhubaneswar/article31371849.ece
18 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||14 new COVID-19 cases reported in Punjab, tally climbs to 211||With 14 fresh COVID-19 cases reported on Friday, the total number in Punjab have touched 211, according to an official statement. State Health Department said out of the 14 new cases reported on April 17, five cases are from Patiala, four each from Jalandhar and Ludhiana districts while one case is from Ferozpur district. So far 30 patients have recovered in the State, it added. The State has so far seen 14 COVID-19 deaths. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, meanwhile ordered strict enforcement with regard to the compulsory wearing of masks in public, and asked the police to take stringent action, including imposition of challans, against violators.  Protection of employees The Chief Minister also issued strict directives for protection of all employees on the frontline duty, including health, agriculture, police and revenue department staff. Capt. Amarinder said there could be no compromise with the lives of the people and the government’s priority continues to be on saving and protecting the citizens of Punjab. “I can get a factory started again but cannot bring a Punjabi back to life,” he said in a statement. He directed the health department to launch rapid testing in all the 24 containment zones of the State. Four Punjab districts (Jalandhar, Pathankot, Nawanshahr and SAS Nagar) have been declared hotspot as per the Union Health Ministry. The State had so far been conducting these tests in Jalandhar and SAS Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/14-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-punjab-tally-climbs-to-211/article31371850.ece
18 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Rain forecast makes farmers a worried lot||Rain with gusty winds forecast during the next 24 hours in parts of Punjab and Haryana has raised the anxiety of farmers, who are in the midst of harvesting the wheat crop. Farmers, who are already concerned over delay in harvesting and increased expenses this season on account of the ongoing nationwide lockdown, are now under the fear that the inclement weather would damage the standing crop in the field and the harvested grain in the mandi (market yard). According to the India Meteorological Department, light to moderate rain and thundershowers are expected at isolated places between April 17 and 18 in Punjab and Haryana. Also, thunderstorm accompanied by lightning and gusty winds has been predicted. “Today and tomorrow we can expect light to moderate rain in parts of Punjab and Haryana... It is expected to be a little windy as well during the next two days,” Surender Paul, director at the India Meteorological Department, Chandigarh, told The Hindu .  ‘More rain next week’ “Rain at the time of harvesting is not good for the crop,” he added. Mr. Paul said that next week, between April 22 and 23, there is a possibility of light rain in the region as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rain-forecast-makes-farmers-a-worried-lot/article31371843.ece
18 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Police officers felicitated in Moradabad||The attack on a medical team in Moradabad on April 15 is turning out to be a story of distrust, fuelled by rumours, between a section of the Muslim community and the administration, and perhaps, a lack of understanding of the demands of an unprecedented situation. To bridge the gap, a team of officers led by Superintendent of Police (City) Amit Anand and Circle Officer (Katghar) Poonam Sirohi were showered with 10 quintals of rose petals on Prince Road on Friday. Noman Mansoori, president, Handicraft Development Society, who organised the felicitation said he condemned the attack and together with like-minded people felt that the police, who were serving them during the lockdown should be welcomed. When The Hindu asked him why didn’t they felicitate the medical staff, Mr. Mansoori said after some medical officials declared that they won’t go for taking samples of possible COVID-19 patients, many in the community feared that now police would go door to door to pick people. “Already 200 unnamed persons have been named in the FIR and we have heard that some people have been picked up for questioning. We wanted to ease the tension,” said Mr. Mansoori, who works with artisans of the brass industry. Looking back at the event of April 15, Mr. Mansoori said the “condemnable reaction” was a combination of many things. “The family had lost two members in quick succession. The administration said it was because of COVID-19 but the family maintained that one had a heart attack and the other had tuberculosis. Most of them are illiterate and could not process the information on a disease that is new for all of us. Even today, explaining social distancing during the felicitation was a task.” Secondly, he added, in Muslims, when a wife loses her husband, she observes a period of iddat, which lasts for around four months. “Usually, women spend this period of mourning at home. When the team went to take the family, people tried to explain that the wife should be spared. We know this was not possible but had there been a senior person or a cleric with the team, a way out could have been explored. We did it successfully when some people tried to avoid polio vaccine,” he argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/police-officers-felicitated-in-moradabad/article31371842.ece
18 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Tribals using indigenous practices to sustain during lockdown||Faced with the challenge of sustaining themselves, tribal communities in southern Rajasthan are utilising their indigenous practices of food and agricultural management to tide over the difficult period of nationwide lockdown enforced to control the COVID-19 pandemic. Tribals have adopted a number of micronutrient-rich plant foods as their daily dietary intake. The Banswara district, situated at the tri-junction of Rajasthan, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, is rich in natural resources and has abundant edible materials which are nutritious for the local population. With an enormous storehouse of knowledge on food gathering and cultivation, the tribal communities have embraced a sagacious food management after the rabi crop harvesting. A large number of tribals, who had migrated to the towns in Gujarat to work as labourers, have come back to their native villages after the lockdown started. Jayesh Joshi, secretary of Banswara-based Vaagdhara, which works on tribal livelihood issues, told The Hindu on Thursday that the kitchen gardens developed in the tribal households during the last few years were helping in regular supply of vegetables and spices to these labourers. Turmeric, which is one of the items produced in kitchen gardens, has been especially helpful for the tribal communities during the crisis when the shops are closed. Besides the daily usage of turmeric, several tribal families have converted it into the powdered form for use in the food preparation and other essential tasks. Ramji Ninama, a farmer in Banswara district's Sundrav village, has built a huge stock of turmeric powder for the use of local residents. He is among the beneficiaries of a project undertaken by Vaagdhara for promoting nutrition sensitive farming system, which was aimed at reducing the vulnerability of marginalised sections by ensuring their food and nutrition security. The region's commonly consumed foodgrains and vegetables, such as rajan, dhimda, kodra, bati, baota, kang, cheena, hama, hamli and gujro, are rich in iron and dietary fibre content. The consumption of these grains and maintenance of diverse food habits based on the locally available oilseeds, pulses, fruits and spices have helped the tribal people develop immunity against diseases. Mr. Joshi said the women members of tribal families had also pitched in to help overcome gender inequality and improve food security within the households with the preparation of “healthy and culturally appropriate” edible materials. Besides, the farmers have sufficient wheat stocks at their homes with the harvest season just getting over. Significantly, none of the 59 COVID-19 positive cases detected so far in Banswara district is from the tribal communities. Mr. Joshi pointed out that the tribals' social customs, such as scattered living, greeting each other from a distance and eating warm food, would protect them against the virus infection.  Resource management “Though the tribals generally do not have access to market-based products of oil, spices and sugar, they are assured that they will not remain hungry,” Mr. Joshi said, while affirming that their food security had been ensured through their own resource management in agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry, pasture and medicinal products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tribals-using-indigenous-practices-to-sustain-during-lockdown/article31371847.ece
18 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Policemen attacked in Tonk, 3 hurt||A contingent of policemen on patrolling duty to enforce the lockdown was attacked by a group of people in a curfew-bound area in Rajasthan’s Tonk city on Friday. Three policemen, injured in the incident, were admitted to Saadat Government Hospital in Tonk. Tonk’s Additional Superintendent of Police Vipin Sharma said the policemen patrolling in Kasai Mohalla of Panch Batti area had asked some people roaming unnecessarily in the streets to stay inside their homes. “The accused started beating the policemen. An extra force was sent to the spot to bring the situation under control,” he said. The injured police constables were identified as Rajendra, Raja Ram and Bhag Chand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/policemen-attacked-in-tonk-3-hurt/article31371839.ece
18 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||Man tests positive in Unnao, charged for violating curbs||The Unnao police have lodged an FIR against a person who tested positive for COVID-19 on charges of allegedly violating the lockdown norms by attending religious meetings. The district, adjoining Lucknow, reported its first positive case on Thursday from the Kotwali area. “During investigation we found out that the person along his friends was regularly violating the lockdown,” said Circle Officer Unnao (City) Yadvendra Yadav. A case was registered against the person and his contacts under Indian Penal Code Code Sections 188 (disobedience to order), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life). According to the administration, the person who tested positive had recently come to Unnao, around March 29,, and was living in a rented apartment in the Sadar area. Despite the lockdown, Mr. Yadav said the person along with 10 friends was regularly gathering and holding meetings in mosques in different areas. “When police got information, they were apprehended and a medical test was conducted,” Mr. Yadav told The Hindu . After the test turned out positive, an FIR was lodged, said Mr. Yadav, adding that the person was charged for allegedly violating the lockdown. The person is also accused of “hiding” in the rented apartment in Unnao and concealing travel history, said the officer.  ‘No link with group’ The U.P. Directorate of Health Services in its latest COVID-19 bulletin listed the Unnao positive case under the Tablighi Jamaat bracket but did not provide details. However, the police said there was no link between the man tested positive and the Tablighi Jamaat. District Magistrate Ravindra Kumar said an area of 1 km had been sealed after the case emerged. Around 10-12 close contacts of the man have been kept under quarantine and tested, while sanitisation work of the entire area is on, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-tests-positive-in-unnao-charged-for-violating-curbs/article31371840.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Jam-packed||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jam-packed/article31371845.ece
18 April 2020||BEIJING,||China’s economy in worst downturn since 1960s||China faces a drawn-out struggle to revive an economy that suffered its biggest contraction since possibly the mid-1960s after millions of people were told to stay home to fight the virus. The world’s second-largest economy shrank by 6.8% from a year earlier in the quarter ending in March after factories, offices and shopping malls were closed to contain the outbreak, official data showed on Friday. Consumer spending, which supplied 80% of last year’s growth, and factory activity were weaker than expected. China, where the COVID-19 pandemic began in December, is the first major economy to start to recover after the ruling Communist Party declared the virus under control. Factories were allowed to reopen last month, but cinemas and other businesses that employ millions of people still are closed. There are signs that after an “initial bounce” “the recovery in activity has since slowed to a crawl,” said Julian Evans-Pritchard of Capital Economics in a report. “China is in for a drawn-out recovery.” The last contraction this big was 5.8% in 1967 during the upheavals of the ultra-radical 1965-75 Cultural Revolution, according to Iris Pang of ING. Forecasters earlier said China might rebound as early as this month. But they say a sharp, “V-shaped” recovery looks increasingly unlikely as negative export, retail sales and other data pile up. Instead, they expect a gradual crawl back to growth in low single digits in the coming quarters. For the full year, forecasters, including UBS, Nomura and Oxford Economics, expect little to no growth. In total, China has reported 4,632 deaths after the total for Wuhan, the city at the centre of the outbreak, was revised upward on Friday. The mainland has announced 82,367 cases. Possible job losses Retail sales fell 19% from a year earlier in the first quarter. That improved in March, the final month of the quarter, to a decline of 15.8%. But consumers, jittery about possible job losses, are reluctant to spend despite government efforts to lure them back to shopping malls and auto showrooms. That is a blow to automakers and other companies that hope China will power the world economy out of its most painful slump since the 1930s. That is a political challenge for the ruling party, which bases its claim to power on China’s economic success. The party appealed to companies to keep paying employees and avoid layoffs during the shutdown. But an unknown number has failed, adding to public anxiety. The economy already was squeezed by a tariff war with President Donald Trump over Beijing’s technology ambitions and trade surplus. Last year’s growth sank to a multi-decade low of 6.1%. Exports fell 6.6% in March from a year earlier, an improvement over the double-digit plunge in January and February. But forecasters say demand is bound to slump in America and Europe as anti-virus controls keep shoppers at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-economy-in-worst-downturn-since-1960s/article31371527.ece
18 April 2020||Berlin,||Behind Germany’s battle, a fight for Merkel’s crown||Sporting events may be on hold in Germany, but the race to succeed Chancellor Angela Merkel is gathering pace as the country makes cautious progress in the fight against the coronavirus. North-Rhine Westphalia State Premier Armin Laschet, 59, and his Bavarian counterpart Markus Soeder, 53, locked horns this week as Germany announced tentative steps to ease restrictions on public life. Mr. Laschet and Mr. Soeder head Germany’s biggest States by population and area respectively — and also the two worst hit by the coronavirus —and have played a key role in the decision to start reopening schools and smaller shops. Yet the two prospective Merkel successors have clashed over the question of how quickly Germany should relax its coronavirus curbs. Mr. Laschet is a prime candidate to be the next leader of Ms. Merkel’s CDU party, having thrown his hat in the ring when the Chancellor’s hand-picked successor Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer stepped down earlier this year. Extension to shutdown As head of the CDU’s Bavarian sister party CSU, Mr. Soeder also has a claim to be put forward as the conservative alliance’s candidate at elections scheduled for autumn 2021, even if he has until now been coy about the prospect. Mr. Soeder held a conservative line as Germany mulled an extension to its coronavirus shutdown this week, while Mr. Laschet urged a return to “responsible normality”. With increased testing and the widespread distribution of masks, Mr. Laschet is hoping to revitalise the German economy quickly after it entered into recession this week. He has also warned of collateral problems such as unemployment and a rise in domestic violence, and his State government even suggested schools could reopen from as early as next week, rather than the May 4 restart mooted elsewhere. That was quickly slapped down by Mr. Soeder, who warned against “one-upmanship” in the race to relax restrictions.  Yet Mr. Soeder has placed himself front and centre in the coronavirus fight, and has himself been accused of going it alone. In March, Bavaria was the first of Germany’s 16 States to introduce sweeping restrictions on public life, acting unilaterally while other States hesitated. Popular in Bavaria And while State Premiers agreed with Ms. Merkel to reopen schools gradually from May 4, Mr. Soeder has decided to push back that start day by a week. The moves angered his colleagues, but Mr. Soeder’s hard line has gone down well with Bavarians. A recent poll by public broadcaster BR put his approval rating at 94%, earning him the nickname “Corona Kaiser”. That popularity may yet rub off on a national level, argues political scientist Gero Neugebauer of Berlin's Free University. Meanwhile, Mr. Laschet, whose State was home to the first major outbreak of the virus in Germany, has cut a more uncertain figure. He has appeared less frequently alongside Ms. Merkel. And in March, he was derided by Germany’s biggest-selling Bild daily as an example of “how not to wear a mask” after he appeared at a hospital wearing a mask that failed to cover his nose. Yet as Mr. Neugebauer also points out, not all German voters like a strongman. “(People) have recently voted for the CDU/CSU because of Ms. Merkel and because of the party programme,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/behind-germanys-battle-a-fight-for-merkels-crown/article31371528.ece
18 April 2020||Chennai,||‘Food supply chain disruption a concern’||Disruptions in domestic food supply chains are a pressing issue as the COVID-19 pandemic unfolds, World Bank President David Malpass told reporters on a tele-briefing on Friday. Labour shortages are impacting logistics and loss of jobs and income has impacted people’s ability to afford food, he said. “So we have a double problem of both the supply and the demand sides being disrupted in such a critical area as food and agricultural supply chains,” Mr. Malpass said, making specific references to the situation in parts of Africa in this context. The Bank would have pandemic-related programmes in 100 countries by the end of April, Mr. Malpass said, with $160 billion of financing over the next 15 months, $50 billion of which will be on grant and highly concessional terms. India had received a $1 billion health sector emergency loan from the World Bank earlier in April. Major recession “We’re expecting a major global recession — our estimates suggest a much deeper downturn than the Great Recession [2007-09],” he said. The World Bank had recently projected a 1.5%-2.8% growth rate in this fiscal year. Earlier in the day, as per his prepared remarks to the Bank and the International Monetary Fund’s shareholders at the Development Committee, Mr. Malpass had pointed to the “huge” capital outflow from developing countries in the COVID-19 context and suggested steps to improve debt transparency and investment quality that, Mr. Malpass said, were critical to reversing these capital flows. No free ride Mr. Malpass also told the Development Committee that commercial creditors of governments should not “free ride” and need to help sovereign debt reduction efforts. He expected governments that are part of the International Development Association (a group of 76 of the poorest World Bank Group member countries — India is not a member) to get credit on similar terms from commercial creditors, he said. Bilateral loans Days ago, the G20 group of countries agreed to freeze bilateral loan repayments from 76 countries that are eligible for IDA assistance. In response to a question on countries restricting export of medical supplies, Mr. Malpass said he hoped countries would not use the crisis to close or block markets and suggested a barter system. “We should allow markets to function, markets to clear, and the supplies to go to those most in need.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/food-supply-chain-disruption-a-concern/article31371534.ece
18 April 2020||WASHINGTON,||Trump gives State Governors options on lifting restrictions||U.S. President Donald Trump has given Governors a road map for recovering from the economic pain of the COVID-19 pandemic, laying out “a phased and deliberate approach” to restoring normal activity in places that have strong testing and are seeing a decrease in COVID-19 cases. “We’re starting our life again,” Mr. Trump said during his daily press briefing. “We’re starting rejuvenation of our economy again.” The new guidelines are aimed at easing restrictions in areas with low transmission of the coronavirus, while holding the line in harder-hit locations. They make clear that the return to normalcy will be a far longer process than Mr. Trump initially envisioned, with federal officials warning that some social distancing measures may need to remain in place through the year. "You’re going to call your own shots,” Mr. Trump told the Governors on Thursday afternoon in a conference call. “We’re going to be standing alongside of you.” Three-phase opening Places with declining infections and strong testing would begin a three-phase gradual reopening of businesses and schools. In phase one, for instance, the plan recommends strict social distancing for all people in public. Gatherings larger than 10 people are to be avoided, and non-essential travel is discouraged. In phase two, people are encouraged to maximise social distancing and limit gatherings to no more than 50 people unless precautionary measures are taken. Travel could resume. Phase three envisions a return to normalcy for most Americans, with a focus on identification and isolation of any new infections. Mr. Trump said recent trends in some States were so positive that they could almost immediately begin taking the steps laid out in phase one. “They will be able to go literally tomorrow,” Mr. Trump said. The guidelines recommend that States pass checkpoints that look at new cases, testing and surveillance data over the prior 14 days before advancing from one phase to another. Governors of both parties made clear they will move at their own pace. At the earliest, the guidelines suggest, some parts of the country could see a resumption in normal commerce and social gatherings after a month of evaluating whether easing up on curbs has led to a resurgence in cases. In other parts, or if virus cases pick up, it could be substantially longer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-gives-state-governors-options-on-lifting-restrictions/article31371535.ece
18 April 2020||Yangon,||Myanmar to release 25,000 prisoners||More than a quarter of Myanmar’s prison population is being released, the President’s office announced on Friday, after calls grew to ease pressure on overcrowded jails with coronavirus fears gripping the country. The Southeast Asian nation grants an annual amnesty to thousands of prisoners to mark its April New Year holiday, but this is the largest recorded in recent years. It comes as governments around the world — including the U.S., parts of Europe, and Colombia — grapple with overcrowded prisons as fears spiral of virus outbreaks behind bars. “To mark Myanmar New Year, by respecting humanitarian ground and peace in mind of the people, the President pardons altogether 24,896 prisoners from various prisons,” a statement on Friday from the President’s office said. So far Myanmar has officially confirmed 85 cases of COVID-19, including four deaths, but experts fear the real number is many times higher because of the low numbers being tested. The President’s office said 87 foreigners included in the amnesty would be deported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-to-release-25000-prisoners/article31371529.ece
18 April 2020||Lagos,||Nigeria charges 142 over unrest||Nigerian authorites have laid charges including murder, robbery and street violence against 142 people over unrest during the coronavirus lockdown, police said on Friday. The suspects were arraigned at a magistrate court on Thursday for alleged incidents in Ogun state, which abuts the country’s economic hub, Lagos. “They were 142 in number and were accused of murder, robbery, illegal possession of arms and disturbance of public peace,” said police spokesman Abimbola Oyeyemi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nigeria-charges-142-over-unrest/article31371530.ece
18 April 2020||Madrid,||Spain toll nears 19,500||Spain’s death toll spiralled towards 19,500 on Friday as the government revised its data collection methodology despite controversy over a system that counts only deaths among those who tested positive. The country reported 585 new fatalities in the past 24 hours, but it was difficult to compare with previous tolls after the government amended its counting mechanism. The total number of deaths in Spain now stands at 19,478, the third-highest in the world after the United States and Italy. The government issued revised guidelines overnight for reporting deaths in order to standardise the data sent in from the country’s 17 autonomous regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/spain-toll-nears-19500/article31371533.ece
18 April 2020||Manila,||Manila, April 17, 2020 (AFP) -||Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte has threatened a martial law-like crackdown to stop people flouting a virus lockdown in the nation’s capital. Mr. Duterte spoke a day after authorities reported an upsurge of cars on Manila’s roads.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/manila-april-17-2020-afp/article31371532.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Short on labourers, a long harvest||Jagtar Singh is a man in a hurry. It’s April 15, and with temperatures starting to soar, the government has just begun procurement of the winter wheat crop. Migrant workers have fled Jagtar’s village, Kailon, in Punjab following the announcement of a lockdown to contain the novel coronavirus pandemic. As a result, there is shortage of farm labour in the village. Jagtar, 47, and his family of six are rushing to harvest their single acre of farmland themselves and sell the crop as early as possible, to prevent it from getting damaged for want of storage space. “We have permission to harvest during the lockdown, but there’s no labour available. So, my entire family has been manually harvesting the crop for the last two days,” Jagtar says. “So far, we have been able to harvest less than half the field. It’s a time-consuming process. After harvesting, we will have to get the threshing done. It will at least take another week to complete the harvest.” Usually, 90% of the wheat in Punjab and neighbouring Haryana is harvested using combine harvester machines. But with physical distancing norms in place now, for many small farmers, that system has been thrown out of gear. “This year, things are tough,” says Jagtar. “I own a small farm. In the neighbourhood, many like me have small landholdings. Earlier, most of us used to jointly harvest the wheat using combine machines as it was economical and would save a lot of time. But this season we can’t jointly hire the machine as everyone is being issued a coupon by the government through commission agents for bringing their produce to the mandi to ensure that people don’t congregate. As the date and time will differ for most of us, it becomes difficult to synchronise harvesting,” he says. Jagtar’s head droops as he calculates the time needed for the entire harvesting process. What usually takes two or three days will now take at least 10 days. The major worry is how to store this harvested produce during this extended period, says his brother Ranjot Singh. “We have to keep the harvested crop in the open field. We don’t have any space to store it in our small house, which is around two kilometres from the farm,” he says. “What if it rains or if it gets stolen? Our efforts will be ruined. The longer the produce stays in the field, the higher the risk.” To add to their woes, the family has outstanding debts to the tune of Rs. 3 lakh with the bank and commission agents and cannot afford crop damage. Unfortunately for them and other anxious farmers across the northern plains, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast says a western disturbance is likely to affect the western Himalayan region, which could bring scattered rain and thunder showers over the region on April 17 and 18. Standing crops and harvest stored in the open could face widespread damage. The coupon system Wheat is the major rabi crop in the winter farming season in India, and the only one bought by government agencies at the pre-set minimum support price (MSP) of Rs. 1,925 per quintal. This year, over 31 million hectares of farmland have been sown with wheat across the country, and a record harvest of 106 million tonnes is expected. In western States such as Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and even Rajasthan, warmer weather means that the wheat harvest was already under way when the COVID-19 pandemic hit the country, and is now largely over. However, the bulk of the country’s wheat is grown in Punjab and Haryana, an area known as the bread basket of India. The prolonged winter delayed the maturing of the grain and pushed harvesting dates by at least a week. With Prime Minister Narendra Modi first announcing a lockdown until April 14, State authorities set procurement dates after that date. Punjab opened its mandis on April 15, while Haryana will follow suit on April 20. In a bid to stagger procurement and prevent congestion at mandis, Haryana has offered incentives to farmers who can delay selling their produce until May or June. At the annual agriculture conference held on the first day of procurement in Punjab, Agriculture Commissioner Suresh Malhotra reiterated the physical distancing and sanitisation instructions meant to protect both farm workers and end consumers from SARS-CoV-2: “Keep a distance of 4-5 metres between workers. Sanitise all tools, machinery and packaging materials. Don’t touch your mouth, nose and eyes without washing your hands with soap. Wear masks or at least cover your nose and mouth with gamchas and chunnis . Keep farm produce in the open, preferably in the sun, for 48 hours before storing.” The long list was presented to the States, via video conferencing due to the lockdown, along with another long list of actions taken by the Centre to facilitate agricultural activity. “We have exempted all agricultural work from lockdown restrictions. Mandis can function with at least 50% of their workforce. Although migrant labour may have left, local labour is available, so there is no need to panic. Anyway, most Punjabi farmers use machines for harvesting,” said Malhotra. As many as 17,500 combine harvesters are available in the State. Punjab is expecting a bumper wheat harvest crop this season with production likely to touch 182 lakh tonnes. The government estimates that around 137 lakh tonnes of this will arrive in the market, most of which will be purchased by government agencies. The cash credit limit of Rs. 22,900 crore has already been approved by the Centre to ensure prompt and seamless procurement operations in the State. On day one (April 15), government agencies procured 3,119 tonnes of wheat across the State. To ensure smooth procurement of wheat in all 22 districts of the State, as many as 3,691 purchase centres or mandi yards have been set up. To avoid crowding, maintain safe physical distancing norms, and ensure smooth procurement, a detailed action plan has been chalked out to undertake procurement by staggering arrival of produce in the mandis by issuing coupons fixed with holograms to the farmers through commission agents (Artiyas). “With each coupon a farmer will be entitled to bring one trolley of about 50 to 70 quintals of wheat. A farmer will be entitled to take multiple coupons each day or on different days depending on space in the purchase centre in order to avoid rush in the mandis,” says Viswajeet Khanna Additional Chief Secretary (Development), Punjab. At the Kharar grain mandi just outside Chandigarh, farmers are discovering that this system is cumbersome and costly in practice. “I harvested the crop with a combine machine. There’s no shortage of combines. I have brought over 80 quintals of wheat for sale without any hassle. But the actual problem will start now,” says Baljinder Singh, 67, of Rasan Heri village. “I have another lot of harvested produce that I need to bring for sale. But I don’t know how many days later I’ll be given the next coupon. All that time, the crop will be out in the open as there’s no storage space.” Citing cost and health concerns, he says the restriction of one trolley per coupon should be removed. “If a farmer can bring his entire produce in one visit, it will only help mitigate infection risk at procurement centres,” he says. Shamsher Singh from Harlalpur village says his family’s harvesting has been going at a slow pace. “Today, I have come to the mandi only to enquire about the mechanism. Of the 15 acres in which we have cultivated wheat, so far we have harvested crop in about 2-3 acres. We have kept the harvested crop in a shed, waiting for the coupons. But most of my neighbours don’t have sheds or storage space. It’s a difficult time,” he says. The Bharatiya Kisan Union’s general secretary in Punjab, Jagmohan Singh, points out that as one coupon only allows sale of 50 quintals, it will be a difficult task for farmers with big landholdings to sell their produce. “50 quintals of wheat is approximately what you get from 2.5 acres. How will farmers with large landholdings sell their produce? How many visits will they have to make to the mandi,” he asks. Lifting and transporting produce The Punjab Agricultural Marketing Board has stated in its guidelines that Deputy Commissioners in their areas will ensure that the sold produce is lifted within 48 hours. The government is still making arrangements for packaging and storage materials. Against the total requirement of 4.82 lakh gunny bales, 3.05 lakh have been made available till April 12. Likewise, the arrangements for the 47,000 tarpaulins against the total demand of 52,570, and 29,261 mesh nets against 32,805, have already been made. To ensure that farmers get their monetary return at the earliest, the amendment of the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act has been notified to ensure that farmers are paid electronically through commission agents within 48 hours after the produce is lifted. Commission agent Shyam Mittal emphasises that it’s the lifting and transportation of produce to the storage points that will put to test the government’s claim of “foolproof” preparedness for hassle-free procurement of wheat. “There’s a shortage of labour. The skilled labourers, who are usually from Bihar, are experts in stacking the bags in godowns and stores. But since the lockdown, most of them have gone back to their native place,” he says. Labourers are also demanding higher wages this year, given the lockdown. “Last season, the payment was fixed around Rs. 14 per bag (50 kg) and this year it has been fixed around Rs. 15 by the market committee. But labourers are demanding Rs. 20/bag. After the bags are packed, it’s the lifting of the produce, which is done by government agencies, that will need to be swift. Otherwise it could pose a serious problem,” says Mittal. At the end of the day, time equals money. Most of the precautions put in place to prevent the spread of infection translate to extra cost for the farmer. The government needs to announce a financial incentive to farmers to cover their enhanced expenses due to staggered procurement, says Surinder Singh of Popna village. “Storing the produce at home means incurring additional costs of labour and transportation. Also, fire incidents during the harvesting season usually go up, which is a major concern for crop safety. The government, whether at the Centre or State, should adequately compensate farmers,” he says. “Industrial lobbies are pushing the government for a bailout and economic package because of COVID-19 losses, but farmers’ losses will be much higher. They are yet to get any financial support from the government apart from the PM-KISAN income support of Rs. 2,000 which was due anyway,” says Devinder Sharma, an agriculture scientist and food policy expert. “During a lockdown, an auto firm may shut down production and may not be able to sell cars. But a farmer has no choice. He has to continue production with or without labour. He has to harvest the crop even if it then rots in the field, or if he makes losses in getting it to the market.” Watermelons, grapes go to waste The problem may be more acute for those selling perishable crops such as fruits and vegetables. In Maharashtra’s Beed district, banana farmer Bhagwan Deshmukh had hoped that this year’s harvest would help him pay off his outstanding loans. However, since the lockdown was imposed and transport came to a halt, he has not been able to find a trader to transport his yield. “Now the only option left for him is to sell the land to return the money to the land,” says Kalidas Aapet, a worker with the farmers’ group Shetkari Sanghtana, which is aiding Deshmukh. With APMCs closed and transport to take produce to customers unavailable, farmers are in shock. In the western district of Solapur, Siddheshwar Hembarde and Sanjay Birajdar had hoped to gain large profits from their watermelon crop, planted on two and three acres, respectively. On March 16 and 17, Hembarde sold 95 tonnes of watermelon at Rs. 8 per kg. As Birajdar waited for the trader, the lockdown was announced and transport came to a standstill. “He distributed watermelon for free in the entire village,” said Aapet, noting that it was just a difference of four days. “The government in its initial order did not specify fruit transport as an essential service. There was confusion. It led to the destruction of fruit crop all over the State,” he says. Abhijit Zambre is a grapes farmer in Maharashtra’s Sangli district, known for producing export-quality grapes. “The initial yield of grapes, before the COVID-19 scare, was sold without any hassle. However, the problem started once the lockdown was imposed. The traders refused to pick up the yield giving reasons of ban on transport. Prices were slashed according to the wishes of the traders. Grapes have to be sold without delay and farmers had to sell the crop at much lower prices,” says Zambre. In the mosambi-growing region of Aurangabad and Jalana, farmers looked forward to a good year after two consecutive seasons of drought and hailstorm. Farmers usually sell the crop while it is on the tree to the trader, who brings his own labour to harvest the fruit and load it in the trucks. “With the availability of water, this year’s crop was sure to bring huge money. But as the lockdown was announced and movement of labour was stopped, no trader was available to purchase the crop. It’s all gone now. The impact of this virus is much bigger than any drought,” says Aapet. The policy-implementation gap The Centre announced a slew of relaxations and support measures for agriculture in the first two weeks of the lockdown. All agricultural and horticultural activities, markets, labour and transport were supposed to be exempt from lockdown restrictions. Subsidies on crop loans were extended for late repayment. States were asked to relax regulations and allow direct purchases by bulk buyers and retailers. The digitally connected e-NAM marketplace system was touted, along with a logistics module connecting farmers and traders to a network of almost 8 lakh trucks and 2 lakh transporters. The Railways introduced 67 routes for perishable produce. An Agri Transport Call Centre was set up to handle transport issues. However, as farmers from different parts of the country reported, many of these policies were not uniformly implemented on the ground, especially in the first few weeks. “Movement on the ground has been the real problem. In many cases, the Centre’s instructions have not percolated down to District Magistrates and Superintendents of Police, resulting in the harassment of farmers and agricultural traders, and supply chain disruptions,” says former Agriculture Secretary Siraj Hussain, who is now a fellow at the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations, Delhi. “Nationally, we must recognise that the implications of COVID-19 go beyond health issues.” In a bid to shield farmers from logistics hurdles, both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have launched initiatives to buy winter paddy directly from farmers at the village level, rather than expecting them to come to the mandi. In Andhra Pradesh, the responsibility of procuring the State’s expected harvest of 57 lakh tonnes has been given to agriculture assistants at village secretariats. The idea is to ensure MSP to farmers who are battered by restricted transport, untimely rains, and damaged crops, says K. Kannababu, the State’s Agriculture Minister. Owing to the recent rains in April, several crops were severely damaged. “As per the preliminary enumeration, paddy, maize and horticulture crops in over 30,000 hectares were damaged. The government is going all out to procure even the damaged crops,” he says. The Telangana government has also promised procurement of “every grain of paddy” at MSP rates. Although the State Agriculture Minister, S. Niranjan Reddy, says the government was prepared to open up to 8,500 procurement centres to purchase paddy in villages, only 2,720 centres had been opened as on April 14. The State is also dealing with a shortage of gunny bags. Farmers in other States are closely watching the experiment of village-level procurement to see whether it is a viable option. In some parts of the country where the rabi harvest has already come to a close, sowing of the kharif or summer season crop has already begun. In fact, government data show early sowing of paddy with the sown area almost 40% higher than usual by April 10. The IMD forecast of a normal monsoon has bolstered the Agriculture Ministry to target an all-time record production of foodgrain of 298.3 million tonnes in 2020-21. “The lockdown has proved one thing: agriculture is truly the backbone of the Indian economy. Coronavirus or not, farm production goes on because the demand for food will always be there. And so long as we meet our kharif and rabi production target, we are happy,” says Sharma. “But the cost to the farmer, to agricultural workers, is not taken into account in that process.” He pointed to the tragic images of lakhs of migrant workers trudging back to their villages due to the lockdown. “This reverse migration proves that they were actually agricultural refugees, who left for the cities only because they could not make a living in the fields,” he said. “Everyone is talking about the need to invest in public health once the COVID-19 crisis is over. Our farmers, agricultural workers are also front line workers during this time and they also deserve attention. If we can invest in agriculture and overhaul it so it is profitable, then we will have actually learned something from this crisis.” Alok Deshpande, Aditya Anand and Appaji Reddem contributed to reporting||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/short-on-labourers-a-long-harvest/article31371524.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A virus, social democracy, and dividends for Kerala||The global coronavirus pandemic is a natural, albeit brutal experiment. Just about every part of the world has been impacted and the range of responses we are seeing at the national and subnational levels reveal not only existing inequalities but also the political and institutional capacity of governments to respond. Nowhere is this more so true than in India. The national government ordered a lockdown but it is States that are actually implementing measures, both in containing the spread and addressing the welfare consequences of the lockdown. A number of States have been especially proactive, none more so than Kerala. Flattening the curve and how Though Kerala was the first State with a recorded case of coronavirus and once led the country in active cases, it now ranks 10th of all States and the total number of active cases (in a State that has done the most aggressive testing in India) has been declining for over a week and is now below the number of recovered cases. Given Kerala’s population density, deep connections to the global economy and the high international mobility of its citizens, it was primed to be a hotspot. Yet not only has the State flattened the curve but it also rolled out a comprehensive Rs. 20,000 crore economic package before the Centre even declared the lockdown. Why does Kerala stand out in India and internationally? Kerala’s much heralded success in social development has invited endless theories of its cultural, historical or geographical exceptionalism. But taming a pandemic and rapidly building out a massive and tailored safety net is fundamentally about the relation of the state to its citizens. From its first Assembly election in 1957, through alternating coalitions of Communist and Congress-led governments, iterated cycles of social mobilisation and state responses have forged what is in effect a robust social democracy. The current crisis underscores the comparative advantages of social democracy. To begin with, social democracies are built on an encompassing social pact with a political commitment to providing basic welfare and broad-based opportunity to all citizens. In Kerala, the social pact itself emerged from recurrent episodes of popular mobilisation — from the temple entry movement of the 1930s, to the peasant and workers’ movements in the 1950s and 1960s, a mass literacy movement in the 1980s, the Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP)-led movement for people’s decentralised planning in the 1990s, and, most recently, various gender and environmental movements. These movements not only nurtured a strong sense of social citizenship but also drove reforms that have incrementally strengthened the legal and institutional capacity for public action. Second, the emphasis on rights-based welfare has been driven by and in turn has reinforced a vibrant, organised civil society which demands continuous accountability from front-line state actors. Third, this constant demand-side pressure of a highly mobilised civil society and a competitive party system has pressured all governments in Kerala, regardless of the party in power, to deliver public services and to constantly expand the social safety net, in particular a public health system that is the best in India. Fourth, that pressure has also fuelled Kerala’s push over the last two decades to empower local government. Nowhere in India are local governments as resourced and as capable as in Kerala. Finally, all of this ties into the greatest asset of any deep democracy, that is the generalised trust that comes from a State that has a wide and deep institutional surface area, and that on balance treats people not as subjects or clients, but as rights-bearing citizens. Chain of decision-making So how has this built-up capacity translated into both flattening the curve and putting broad and effective welfare measures in place? A government’s capacity to respond to a cascading crisis such as the COVID-19 pandemic relies on a very fragile chain of mobilising financial and societal resources, getting state actors to fulfil directives, coordinating across multiple authorities and jurisdictions and maybe, most importantly, getting citizens to comply. An effective response begins with programmatic decision-making. From the moment of the first reported case in Kerala, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan convened a State response team that coordinated 18 different functional teams, held daily press conferences and communicated constantly with the public. Kerala’s social compact demanded no less. Not only did Mr. Vijayan directly appeal to Malayalees’ sense of citizenship by declaring that the response was less an enforcement issue than about people’s participation, but also pointedly reminded the public that the virus does not discriminate, destigmatising the pandemic. Second, the government was able to leverage a broad and dense health-care system that despite the recent growth of private health services, has maintained a robust public presence. Private provisioning of a public good has never made much sense, but as anyone watching the chaos in the United States has learned, there is nothing like a pandemic to expose the obvious coordination problems that for-profit health systems face. Kerala’s public health-care workers are also of course highly unionised and organised, and from the outset the government lay emphasis on protecting the health of first responders. Third, the government activated an already highly mobilised civil society. As the cases multiplied, the government called on two lakh volunteers to go door to door, identifying those at risk and those in need. A State embedded in civil society — the women’s empowerment Kudumbasree movement being a case in point — was in a good position to co-produce effective interventions, from organising contact tracing to delivering three lakh meals a day through Kudumbasree community kitchens. Pivot of local governments Fourth, you can get the politics right and you can have a great public health-care system, but its effectiveness in a crisis like this will only be as good as the infamous last kilometre. And this is where two decades of empowering local governments have clearly paid off. Whether in focalising containment efforts in hotspots, tracking down those who have been exposed or managing the broad array of direct benefits that have been distributed to migrant workers, the elderly and the differently abled, the key has been the capacity of state actors and civil society partners to coordinate their efforts at the level of panchayats, districts and municipalities. The pandemic is a physical exam of the social body, and never has public trust been put to a greater test. In democracies, compliance must be elicited. Asking citizens to stay at home, to give up work, and to trust that the individual sacrifices they make now are essential to preserving the well-being of the community going forward is never easy to do and especially not against an invisible enemy. Trust is hard to measure, but survey work that colleagues and I, working with the Bengaluru non-governmental organisation Janaagraha, recently conducted in 10 Indian cities that included Kochi, shows that across a wide range of measures, and across all classes, castes and religions, Malayalees have extremely high levels of trust in both their institutions and locally elected local representatives. This, more than anything, points to the robust nature of Kerala’s social compact. Beyond the peak, every country in the world, and especially India, will be dealing with the economic and welfare consequences of the pandemic for years. This brutal, unpredictable, external shock is laying bare the most essential as well as the most complicated challenges of democratic citizenship. In moments like these, the authoritarian temptation for some is irresistible. U.S. President Donald Trump has claimed “total” authority and is threatening to usurp the power of Governors, the Bharatiya Janata Party has exploited the crisis to communalise the pandemic and to silence its critics, and things are as bad as they are to begin with because of China’s authoritarian DNA. At a time when India’s democracy was already in crisis, it is important to be reminded that Kerala has managed the crisis with the most resolve, the most compassion and the best results of any large State in India. And that it has done so precisely by building on legacies of egalitarianism, social rights and public trust. Patrick Heller is Lyn Crost Professor of Social Sciences and Professor of Sociology and International Affairs, Brown University, U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-virus-social-democracy-and-dividends-for-kerala/article31371518.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Institutional fixes and the need for ethical politics||Late night on March 23, while the nation was vexed with the coronavirus crisis, Shivraj Singh Chouhan of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was sworn in as the Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh in a small ceremony at the Raj Bhavan. The next morning, he won a trust vote in an Assembly session boycotted by the Congress legislators. The Supreme Court had, on March 19, given an order directing the Speaker to conduct a floor test the next day. Kamal Nath of the Congress party resigned as Chief Minister just hours before the scheduled time for the floor test. With the resignation of the 22 Congress MLAs who subsequently joined the BJP, the halfway mark of the Assembly had reduced, allowing the BJP to stake claim to form the government. In the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, the BJP machine was still active and able to wrest power in yet another State it lost in the Assembly elections. The rush to hold a floor test seems to be have been driven by the need to capture the reins of the State before a longer coronavirus lockdown. Much of India was already in a lockdown when Mr. Chouhan took oath. Since no other Minister was sworn in, Madhya Pradesh does not presently have a cabinet or a dedicated Health Minister at this time of a health emergency. New method of bypass The political skulduggery in Madhya Pradesh represents a new method of bypassing the anti-defection law and toppling elected governments. The H.D. Kumaraswamy-led Congress-JD(S) government was brought down in July last year in a similar manner with 17 MLAs of the ruling coalition resigning and joining the BJP. Under this novel method, a set of legislators of the party in power is made to resign from the Assembly to reduce the total strength of the House enough for the BJP to cross the halfway mark to form government. In the ensuing by-elections, the members who resigned were then fielded as BJP candidates (most of whom have been re-elected in the case of Karnataka). The same practice is likely to be repeated in Madhya Pradesh soon. This method of mass defection circumvents the provisions of the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution (better known as the anti-defection law) that prescribes the grounds for disqualification of legislators: voluntarily giving up party membership and voting or abstaining to vote against party directions. Though resignation is not mentioned as a ground for disqualification, the Speaker in Karnataka disqualified them for the rest of the Assembly’s term, thereby barring them from contesting the by-polls. While the Supreme Court upheld the disqualification, it stuck down the bar from contesting by-polls. In Madhya Pradesh, since the Speaker has accepted the resignation of the MLAs, the defectors can in any case contest the by-polls. The recurrence of this model of defection signals the exploitation of the inherent weaknesses of the anti-defection law. While solo legislators jumping ship might have reduced now, “horse-trading” seems to have gone from retail to wholesale. This threatens the underpinnings of India’s electoral democracy since such surreptitious capture of power essentially betrays the people’s mandate in a general election. Further, as the by-polls are held after the alternate political formation has assumed office, the turncoats now have an upper-hand in the election as members of the ruling dispensation. Rethinking the law In this context, it is important to examine whether the anti-defection law fulfils any purpose. This law raises fundamental concerns regarding the role of a legislator in a parliamentary democracy. It denies the legislator the right to take a principled position on a policy matter and reduces her to an involuntary supporter of the whims of party bosses. The constitutionality of the Tenth Schedule was challenged for violating the Basic Structure of Constitution with regard to parliamentary democracy and free speech, but the Supreme Court in Kihoto Hollohan v. Zachillhu (1992) in a 3-2 verdict upheld the law while reserving the right of judicial review of the Speaker’s decision. Hence, the anti-defection law, on the one hand, severely restricts the freedom of a legislator and makes her a slave of party whips. On the other hand, it has not been able to meet its primary objective of preventing horse-trading and continues to be circumvented to bring down elected governments. This calls for reforms that address concerns at both ends of the spectrum. For addressing the first issue, as the Dinesh Goswami Committee also suggested, the scope of the binding whip should be restricted to a vote of confidence. For addressing the second issue, it is best to institutionalise the Karnataka Speaker’s decision to bar the defected members from contesting in the ensuing by-poll, if not for a longer period, and thereby disincentivise MLAs from jumping ship. These reforms would require a constitutional amendment to the Tenth Schedule, an uphill task under the current circumstances. Even if these measures are introduced, our politics might come up with other ingenious ways to circumvent them. As the orders in the Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh cases show, the courts also cannot be relied on much to curb defections. We are facing a deeper challenge of the corrosion of India’s parliamentary system, for even in jurisdictions without such anti-defection laws, we do not see “horse trading” and “resort politics”. Hence, beyond institutional fixes, we also need a popular articulation of an ethical politics that causes the public to shun such political manoeuvres. Mathew Idiculla is a lawyer, researcher and writer based in Bengaluru and a consultant with the Centre for Law and Policy Research||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/institutional-fixes-and-the-need-for-ethical-politics/article31371520.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A season of change||In the season of the abnormal, the IMD has announced that the monsoon this year would likely be normal. The agency follows a two-stage forecast system: indicating in April whether there are chances of drought or any other anomaly and then a second update, in late June, with a more granular look at how the monsoon will likely distribute over the country and whether danger signs are imminent. ‘Normal’ means India will get 100% of its long period average, with a potential 5% error margin. The IMD’s April forecast, experience suggests, is not much to go by especially if the agency declares it ‘normal’ as rarely, if ever, do weather models catch signs of an impending shortfall or a large excess in April. Also being a part of a hierarchical government set-up, the agency defaults to being conservative. In April last year, it said the monsoon would be ‘near normal’, an arbitrary category. Private forecasters expected a shortfall, predicated on the development of a future El Niño. The IMD did account for this but said it was unlikely El Niño would strengthen enough to dampen the monsoon. It however kept its estimate on the lower side of ‘normal.’ In the end, India received excess rains, the highest in a quarter century. The April forecast is a vestige of the agency’s reliance on the ‘statistical forecast system’ where values of selected meteorological parameters are recorded until March 31 and permutations of these are computed and compared to the IMD’s archive of weather data. It is also reflective of an era when landline telephones were the state-of-the-art in personal communication. Along with connectedness, weather forecasting has metamorphosed. Climate, as well as technological change, allows new weather variables — such as surface temperatures from as remote as the southern Indian Ocean and regular updates from the Pacific Ocean — to be mapped. Powerful computers mathematically simulate the weather based on these variables and extrapolate onto desired time frames. Using these dynamical models is a change the IMD has incorporated and experimented with for years. It made two key changes this year: reducing the definition of ‘normal’ rainfall by 1 cm, to 88 cm and, officially updating monsoon onset and arrival dates for many States. This was long due and constituted acknowledgement of the accumulated impact that global warming has been having on monsoon patterns, particularly for cities and States. The monsoon was arriving later in many places, had long weak spells, and lingered longer. This has already heralded thinking, in the agency, on whether India should move to a new monsoon-accounting calendar instead of the century-long tradition of June-September. This would signal a truly momentous break from the past. Just as COVID-19 is forcing introspection on the links that tie people, trade and ecology, it is also time for the IMD to incorporate the lessons from the new normals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-season-of-change/article31371513.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Helping a lending hand||The RBI has infused oxygen into the financial system with a second set of measures announced on Friday by Governor Shatikanta Das to combat the lockdown impact on the economy. Most are aimed at maintaining liquidity, the economy’s lifeblood, though there are some regulatory proposals aimed at making life easier for banks, NBFCs and borrowers. It is now clear the bank prefers to calibrate its moves based on constant feedback from the ground — the way it should be. In what should be reassuring for the markets, Mr. Das was categorical that the RBI would do what it takes to support the economy and also monitor the evolving situation. Indeed, the RBI has been very generous in its liquidity maintenance measures in recent times and particularly so after the lockdown began in March. There will surely be consequences for the economy but that is a worry for another day. The overarching objective now should be to keep the economy afloat by deploying all the instruments at the RBI’s command. The central bank has learnt from its experience of the Targeted Long Term Repo Operations (TLTRO) till now when banks preferred to deploy the funds in bonds of PSUs and large corporates. The RBI has called out this risk-off attitude of the banks while announcing a further Rs. 50,000 crore TLTRO — all of this has to be invested in bonds and paper of NBFCs and microfinance institutions. The response to the next round of TLTRO will be interesting to watch. Similarly, by reducing the reverse repo rate by another 25 basis points to 3.75%, the RBI has made it furthermore unattractive for banks to indulge in ‘lazy banking’ by parking excess funds with the central bank rather than lend. As much as Rs. 6.9-lakh crore was parked with the RBI as on April 15. This is the time when banks will have to be liberal in extending help for working capital loans and overdrafts to their borrowers, including MSMEs. The government could help here by extending a scheme of credit assurance cover that will encourage banks to be more liberal in their risk outlook. By clarifying that there will be an asset classification standstill during the moratorium period for accounts that were not already NPAs as of March 1, the RBI has brought relief to borrowers who were worried that opting for the moratorium may turn them into NPAs. State finances have got some breathing space through the increase of WMA (Ways and Means Advances) limit to 60% over the level as on March 31. The special refinance facility of Rs. 50,000 crore extended to NABARD, SIDBI and NHB will help these institutions to prop up their respective constituents. The central bank has done what it can. It is now over to the government for the fiscal support package.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/helping-a-lending-hand/article31371512.ece
18 April 2020||Mumbai,||NBFCs get Rs. 50,000-cr. liquidity booster||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has announced a host of measures to provide liquidity support to non-banking financial companies (NBFCs), apart from giving them certain benefits for loans extended to the commercial real estate sector. To begin with, banks have to invest the funds availed under targeted long-term repo operation (TLTRO), in investment grade bonds, commercial paper, and non-convertible debentures of NBFCs. RBI stipulated that small and mid-sized NBFCs and micro-finance institutions (MFIs) should receive at least 50% of these funds. Auction on April 23 Banks can avail Rs. 50,000 crore through the targeted long-term repo operation. The first auction of TLTRO for Rs. 25,000 crore will be conducted on April 23. Of the 50% stipulated for smaller entities, 10% has to be invested by banks in securities of MFIs, 15% in securities issued by NBFCs with asset size of Rs. 500 crore and below; and 25% in securities issued by NBFCs with assets size between Rs. 500 crore and Rs. 5,000 crore. “These investments have to be made within one month of availing liquidity from the RBI,” the banking regulator said. The RBI clarified that investments made by banks under this facility would be classified as ‘held-to-maturity’ (HTM), even in excess of 25% of the total investment permitted to be included in the HTM portfolio. “This will, in turn, ease the liquidity problem faced by NBFCs and MFIs to some extent, if their lender bank does not provide moratorium on payment of instalment and interest which they are extending to their customers,” said Deo Shankar Tripathi, MD & CEO of Aadhar Housing Finance. NBFCs and housing finance companies are facing liquidity pressure since banks have not extended any repayment moratorium to these entities even if NBFCs have to provide the same for their borrowers. The RBI has also decided to provide special refinance facility of Rs. 50,000 crore to NABARD, SIDBI and NHB to enable them to meet sectoral credit needs. This would comprise Rs. 25,000 crore to NABARD for refinancing regional rural banks (RRBs), cooperative banks and micro finance institutions (MFIs); Rs. 15,000 crore to SIDBI for on-lending/refinancing; and Rs. 10,000 crore to NHB for supporting housing finance companies (HFCs). The regulator has also allowed non-banking institutions to extend the date for commencement for commercial operations (DCCO) by an additional one year, without treating the same as restructuring, if the project is delayed due to reasons beyond the control of the promoter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nbfcs-get-rs-50000-cr-liquidity-booster/article31371501.ece
18 April 2020||MUMBAI /CHENNAI,||Industry hails RBI move||Companies and industry associations have welcomed the steps taken by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to deal with the economic impact of COVID-19. Chandrajit Banerjee, Director General, CII, said “The RBI’s continued resolve to ensure that the availability of liquidity, especially for stressed sectors, remains adequate is commendable. The launch of the TLTRO 2.0 is expected to ensure that MFIs and small and mid-sized NBFCs remain well lubricated. “[The] RBI Governor has done his side of the job perfectly. Now, the end beneficiaries will have to wait to know how the benefits percolate and how soon. The RBI, government and FIs [financial institutions] need to think out of the box in ensuring that the funds flow into MSMEs quickly as we have only 12 days left for month-end commitments,” said K.E. Raghunathan, past national president, All India Manufacturers Organisation (AIMO). Akshay Mehrotra, CEO, EarlySalary said, “As a fintech lender and small NBFC, we need much more support to emerge stronger in these times. We are hoping SIDBI and PSU bank funds will trickle down to smaller NBFCs like us. The much needed support to realty-focused NBFCs with a one-year extension for delayed projects will help. Unfortunately, suspense still abounds moratorium to NBFCs.”   TVS Group chairman Venu Srinivasan said it was a sign of continued efforts to stimulate economic activity and protect jobs. “The long-term repo operation (LTRO) for non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and micro-lenders is a good tool to ease liquidity without tinkering with policy rates, and Rs. 50,000 crore is a substantial amount. This should restore confidence, especially among MSMEs that provide a significant portion of the country’s jobs and is integral to all supply chains,” he said. “The tone of RBI is one of empathy and support to needy sectors. The targeted LTRO focused on mid-sized NBFCs and micro-finance institutions is positive. The 90-day extension in non-performing assets reckoning for stressed standard assets as on March 1 effectively postpones NPA classification for accounts that were slipping into NPA between March and May,” said Padmaja Chunduru, MD & CEO, Indian Bank. It is a timely move by RBI, said D. Lakshminarayanan, MD, Sundaram Home Finance. Additional funds to housing finance companies via the National Housing Board is a confidence-boosting move, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/industry-hails-rbi-move/article31371497.ece
18 April 2020||MUMBAI,||RBI measures to benefit realty||Players in real estate segment and analysts have welcomed the measures announced by Reserve Bank of India Governor Shatikanta Das to infuse liquidity into the financial markets to deal with the crisis arising out of COVID-19 outbreak. Sanjay Dutt, MD & CEO, Tata Realty and Infrastructure Ltd, said, “The RBI’s decision to slash reverse repo rate by 25 basis points and additional liquidity measures will provide some relief to the sector, which had already been dealing with its own set of issues prior to the pandemic. “These measures are bound to encourage banks to lend more, thereby improving the credit flow and giving more purchasing power to home buyers and investors.” Niranjan Hiranandani, president, Assocham and NAREDCO said, “For real estate, the announcement that loans given by NBFCs to real estate companies would get similar benefits as those given by the scheduled commercial banks is positive.”  NHB allocation Anuj Puri, chairman, Anarock Property Consultants, said, “the allotment of Rs. 10,000 crore to the National Housing Bank is a big move for the real estate sector reeling under a liquidity crisis. It will help provide capital to HFCs and eventually provide major relief to developers battling liquidity issues in COVID-19 times.” Manju Yagnik, vice-chairperson, Nahar Group and vice-president, NAREDCO (Maharashtra), said, “These steps would prove to be a booster dose to the economy, impacted by COVID-19.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-measures-to-benefit-realty/article31371498.ece
18 April 2020||Mumbai,||Moratorium period will not count for NPA purpose: RBI||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has prescribed higher provisioning norms for all loans where banks have extended moratorium to their customers, by 10%, spread over two quarters — January-March and April-June. The central bank said that it was cognisant of the risk build-up in banks’ balance sheets on account of firm-level stress and delays in recoveries. “With the objective of ensuring that banks maintain sufficient buffers and remain adequately provisioned to meet future challenges, they will have to maintain a higher provision of 10% on all such accounts under the standstill, spread over two quarters, i.e., March 2020 and June 2020,” the RBI said, adding that these provisions can be adjusted later on against the provisioning requirements for actual slippages in such accounts. The provisioning requirement was announced as RBI has allowed asset classification standstill for all such accounts from March 1, 2020 to May 31, 2020. This would mean an account will continue to be in the same status on June 1, 2020 as it was on February 29, 2019. Brickwork Ratings estimated additional provision requirement could increase the total provisioning of banks by around Rs. 35,000 crore in the March-June 2020 period, assuming special mention accounts are about 4% of total banking advances and have been accorded moratorium. Banks are allowed to extend moratorium to repayment for such loans that were standard as on February 29. “It has been decided that in respect of all accounts for which lending institutions decide to grant moratorium or deferment, and which were standard as on March 1, 2020, the 90-day NPA norm shall exclude the moratorium period, ie, there would be an asset classification standstill for all such accounts from March 1, 2020 to May 31, 2020,” the RBI said. “Providing relaxation to banks by allowing 90-day asset classification standstill for accounts covered under moratorium will imbibe banks with the desired operational flexibility to lend a helping hand to stressed accounts,” SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar said. The regulator has also provided extension in resolution timeline for stressed assets. Current norms stipulate lenders to hold an additional provision of 20% if a resolution plan has not been implemented within 210 days from the date of default. Now, the the period for resolution plan has been extended by 90 days. According to stressed asset resolution norms, lenders are required to implement a resolution plan in respect of entities in default within 180 days from the end of review period of 30 days. Now, the RBI has said that for accounts within the review period as on March 1, 2020, the period from March 1, 2020 to May 31, 2020 will be excluded from the 30-day timeline. Also, for accounts where the review period was over, but the 180-day resolution period had not expired as on March 1, 2020, the timeline for resolution will get extended by 90 days from the date on which the 180-day period was originally set to expire. The RBI has also provided relief to banks by lowering the liquidity coverage ratio requirement, to 80% from 100%. The requirement will be gradually restored in two phases — 90% by October 1, 2020 and 100% by April 1, 2021. The RBI has also barred commercial and cooperative banks from making dividend payouts for the year ended March 31, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/moratorium-period-will-not-count-for-npa-purpose-rbi/article31371502.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||As demand surges for hand sanitisers, new players pitch in||Amid a huge spike in demand for hand sanitisers in the country during the past months, new entrants and smaller brands have come to the rescue of the consumers. According to a report by market researcher Nielsen, smaller players jumped in to exploit the demand surge, capturing 61% of the market in March, with the top three brands accounting for the remaining 39%. The share of top three brands dropped from 85% in both January and February. About 152 new players entered the segment in March, the ‘Nielsen Covid-19 Impact on FMCG and Retail: Edition 2’, stated. The report showed a sharp fall in the sale of FMCG products across various channels after a high double-digit growth during the first three weeks on account of the nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19. Traditional retailers, who account for the bulk of FMCG sales in India, saw sales surge by 10% in the week ending March 22, while seeing a 8% dip in the week ended March 29, compared with the same week of the previous year. Modern trade stores saw a sharp 63% jump in sales in the third week of March while posting only 6% growth in the last week of March. E-commerce saw demand nosedive 64% in the last week of March. Nielsen cited supply and retail point issues, among others, as the reasons that impacted volumes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/as-demand-surges-for-hand-sanitisers-new-players-pitch-in/article31371510.ece
18 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Sensex up after RBI booster dose||Indian equity benchmarks rose sharply on Friday after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced a slew of liquidity boosting measures that led to strong gains in banking and financials stocks. A strong surge in the global markets also acted as a catalyst. The 30-share Sensex gained 986.11 points, or 3.22%, to close at 31,588.72. Stocks such as ICICI Bank, Reliance Industries, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, TCS, HDFC and Kotak Mahindra Bank contributed the maximum to the day’s gains. The broader Nifty closed at 9,266.75, up 273.95 points or 3.05%. The India VIX index fell nearly 8% on Friday. Market participants, while welcoming the move, said that the RBI measures would help in easing the financial stress though the market would look at stronger signals in terms of flattening of the COVID-19 curve before underlying investor sentiment turns positive. “The measures would aid financials but are not significant enough to change the bias and result in material re-rating of NBFC and MFI stocks,” said Gaurav Dua, Head — Capital Market Strategy & Investments, Sharekhan. “The situation is still volatile and uncertain in terms of the extent of disruption in economy and businesses. Thus, it is advisable to stick to quality companies with proven track record, healthy balance sheet and stable growth outlook,” Mr. Dua added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sensex-up-after-rbi-booster-dose/article31371495.ece
18 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||E-com firms to scale up post Apr. 20||Following the Centre’s move to allow resumption of e-commerce activity April 20 onwards, online commerce firms are readying to scale up operations in anticipation of high demand for products in the health, kitchen accessories, books and mobile phone categories. “Nearly 50% of our sellers will be in a position to resume operations and more are likely to follow after assessing the local situation in their respective areas,” a Snapdeal spokesperson said. In the lockdown period, Snapdeal, like other e-commerce players, was delivering only essential products; however, the platform was accepting other orders as well, which will be delivered once restrictions are removed. “We expect products such as summer apparel, kitchen accessories, small appliances like headsets, tablets for school work, home printers and competitive exam books will be in high demand,” the spokesperson added. Dependent on approvals An industry official said while companies were setting up a roadmap, operations will depend on approvals from local authorities. Grofers has also been able to bring down service time to 2-3 days in most places. “We don’t have a massive pile up of orders right now. The demand, of course, remains very high and we are now operating at 70% capacity,” the company’s co-founder Saurabh Kumar said. The company is also looking at ramping up hiring aggressively to cater to demand and is onboarding 200-300 people every day. An Amazon India spokesperson said the firm was focussed on the immediate needs of consumers. “We are working closely with brands, manufacturers, sellers, small businesses and local shops, helping them to offer the most needed products to customers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/e-com-firms-to-scale-up-post-apr-20/article31371504.ece
18 April 2020||Chennai,||TVS Motor buys Norton Motorcycles for Rs. 153 cr.||TVS Motor Company Ltd. has acquired Britain’s iconic sporting motorcycle firm Norton Motorcycles (UK) Ltd. in an all-cash deal for a consideration of Rs. 153 crore (£16 million) through one of its overseas subsidiaries. An asset purchase agreement with Norton Motorcycles Holdings Ltd. and Norton Motorcycles (U.K.) Ltd. was concluded to acquire certain assets, including the brand Norton and other associated brands, TVS Motor Company said in a regulatory filing. Interesting acquisition “This would be one of the most interesting acquisitions of a storied motorcycle maker in recent times and will reflect TVS Motor Company’s and India’s rapidly rising prominence in the international two-wheeler market,” the company said. “This transaction is in line with our effort to cater to the aspirations of discerning motorcycle customers. We will extend our full support for Norton to regain its full glory in the international motorcycle landscape,” said Sudarshan Venu, JMD, TVS Motor Company. “Norton will continue to retain its distinctive identity with dedicated and specific business plans. TVS Motor will work closely with customers and employees in building the success and pre-eminence of the Norton Motorcycles brand,” he said. TVS Motor Company also announced the upcoming products of Norton Motorcycles such as Commando, Dominator and V4 RR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-motor-buys-norton-motorcycles-for-rs-153-cr/article31371506.ece
18 April 2020||Mumbai,||ICICI, Axis rating outlook turns negative||S&P Global Ratings has revised the rating outlook of Axis Bank Ltd. and ICICI Bank Ltd. to negative from stable citing heightened economic risks faced by Indian banking system which would affect the creditworthiness of these lenders. “We believe Indian banks face increasing risks stemming from challenging operating conditions following the COVID-19 pandemic. We expect a flattish U-shape economic recovery ,” the rating agency said. It expected banks’ asset quality to deteriorate, credit costs to rise and profitability to decline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/icici-axis-rating-outlook-turns-negative/article31371499.ece
18 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||India eases paracetamol export curbs||The Centre has permitted the export of formulations made from paracetamol. The government has, however, decided to continue with the restriction on export of paracetamol APIs placed on March 3. On Friday, a Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) notification said the March 3 order is “further amended to the extent that the formulations made from paracetamol, including FDC (fixed dose combinations), under any ITCHS code…, are made ‘free’ for export with immediate effect. However, paracetamol APIs will remain restricted for export. A common fever medication globally, paracetamol is the most sought after and widely-used drug ever since the COVID-19 outbreak. According to sources, India is among the leading manufacturers of paracetamol globally. Some of the major producers are Farmson Pharmaceuticals, Granules India, Sri Krishna Pharma and Bharat Chemicals. The production capacity is estimated to be 5,000 tonnes a month. From an export perspective, it is a low-value, high- volume product.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-eases-paracetamol-export-curbs/article31371503.ece
18 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Crucial for India to regroup first’||India’s qualification for next year’s ICC World Cup should ease a lot of pressure on the players, said captain Mithali Raj. In a chat with The Hindu on Friday, the 37-year-old said that till now the players were not sure how to prepare for the World Cup qualifiers. “In that context, this is welcome news amidst the crisis because of COVID-19 that is threatening the world,” she said. Not sure “Definitely, this is good news even though we are not still sure when the conditions will improve and sporting activity will resume,” Mithali said. It may be mentioned here that India reached the 2017 World Cup final under Mithali’s captaincy, and also beat the West Indies in the last one-day series it played in November 2019. “With the issue of the World Cup settled, we can plan the preparation much better as there will be enough time when the situation improves, hopefully, by August this year,” said Mithali. Specific objective Mithali, in line to play her sixth World Cup, said: “It is important for the team to regroup first, plan about the coaching camps with the specific objective of winning the trophy. “Of course, a lot depends on the kind of international schedule women’s cricket can afford in the run-up to the World Cup. But, by all means, with India qualifying for the tournament, the focus can shift to planning for the event in order to realise the big dream of winning the World Cup,” she said. Mithali hopes that things would improve early so that the athletes can at least go to the stadiums and start training. “For now, the focus cannot be on competitions but on resuming training sessions,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/crucial-for-india-to-regroup-first/article31371645.ece
18 April 2020||Bengaluru,||KSCA will be hit hard, says official||The suspension of the Indian Premier League (IPL) due to the coronavirus pandemic is set to hit the Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA) hard. The KSCA, which hosts Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) matches at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium here, could lose a major chunk of its earnings if the IPL is not held this year. Biggest earner KSCA hony. treasurer Vinay Mruthyunjaya stated that the association would be been affected “very, very badly” by the postponement. “We generally receive a broadcast-related revenue (distributed by the BCCI to State associations) of Rs. 20-25 crore per IPL season. This is the biggest earner. “Apart from this, we get Rs. 7 crore as stadium rent. “With the IPL now suspended, this revenue is down to zero. There are other business and trade elements associated with the IPL too which have been affected. Overall, there is no doubt that the KSCA will be affected very, very badly,” Mruthyunjaya told The Hindu on Friday. The KSCA banks on the revenue generated by the IPL to conduct its own cricket activities in the State. The KSCA could be forced to scale back on its operations to manage this loss.  “There are certain expenses that simply must be met. For example, employee salary wages, umpire and scorer fees, ground maintenance costs and so on are fixed costs. “The KSCA also rents grounds to conduct certain matches. This is also a fixed cost. To compensate, we may have to cut back on aspects like scale and duration of tournaments that we conduct,” Mruthyunjaya said. The budget has to be reworked, Mruthyunjaya stated, adding that the KSCA plans to hold a meeting to discuss the matter. “But we don’t know when we will be able to hold the meeting. We are all on lockdown now, so we have to wait for things to normalise first,” Mruthyunjaya said.  We are all on lockdown now, so we have to wait for things to normalise first. — Vinay Mruthyunjaya,KSCA hony. treasurer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ksca-will-be-hit-hard-says-official/article31371654.ece
18 April 2020||KOLKATA,||Develop attitude of a champion, Nieva tells boxers||Santiago Nieva, the high performance director of Indian boxing, wants the boxers to emerge stronger from the COVID-19 crisis. Nieva said boxers should develop the attitude of a champion. “The present situation teaches us the importance of adaptability. Champions are capable of adapting to new situations. We should remain strong and focused. We need to deal with it instead of complaining,” Nieva told The Hindu . According to Nieva, India, having booked nine quota places in the Tokyo Olympics, has an advantage. “We are better off than many other countries in Europe and America. We are lucky to have secured a good number of qualifying spots. We just have to refocus when we resume our camp.” Nieva said given the situation, the boxers’ training was going well. “We are waiting to start our camp properly. Maybe we can do that in a couple of weeks (when the lockdown ends).” Nieva was happy that Indian boxers were accepting the situation and using their time well. “We have to be positive. We have more time now to prepare, which is excellent.” Nieva, who conducted an online ‘Train the trainers’ programme for boxing coaches on Friday, said COVID-19 had a role to play. “Such online courses have been going on internationally by other federations, schools, colleges and universities. This (pandemic) has hurried it (the process of starting here). We need to do this in the future as well,” he said.  We are lucky to have secured a good number of qualifying spots. We just have to refocus when we resume our camp||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/develop-attitude-of-a-champion-nieva/article31371643.ece
18 April 2020||TIRUCHI,||No lockdown impact on ground maintenance work||The lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19 has not hindered the maintenance work at the NPR College ground in Natham (Dindigul district), thanks to technology. Guided by BCCI curator R. Karthikeyan, who is stationed in Dindigul, two groundsmen have been handling the duties through video calls. “They send me the photos and videos through WhatsApp, based on which I provide guidance,” Karthikeyan told The Hindu . The ground has hosted Ranji Trophy, Duleep Trophy, TNPL and BCCI age-group matches. Karthikeyan informed that ground maintenance happens in full swing during the summer. “Technically, it is called the pre-season preparation period. Many tasks, including the top dressing of the pitches, grass-cutting and scarifying the outfield are carried out now. It is also a challenging time since the groundwater level will be low and we have to plan accordingly.” “Impossible,” he said when asked whether the entire maintenance work was being done during lockdown. “Only watering and grass-cutting on the pitches are getting done. Since most of the groundstaff rely on public transport, it is not possible to reach the ground. It is also important to maintain social distancing. Only a couple of them who stay nearby go to the ground on alternate days.” On hold He said other maintenance can be put on hold. “Retaining the grass is the most important and watering plays a significant role. Once the lockdown period is over, the remaining work can be finished in about 10 days and the ground will be ready to host matches.” Lauding the groundstaff for giving their best, Karthikeyan felt it was their unbridled passion that has helped in the upkeep of the ground even in a tough situation like this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-lockdown-impact-on-ground-maintenance-work/article31371761.ece
18 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Biju stresses on keeping fit and in touch||If not for the lockdown Biju George would have been busy as Sunrisers Hyderabad fielding coach. The IPL postponement has confined Biju George to his home this summer. The former fielding coach of the India women's cricket team is a fitness freak and does daily workouts. He also keeps tabs on what his trainees (around 90) at the SAI's Regional Coaching Centre do to maintain fitness during this lockdown period. “De-training can happen in two or three weeks, so it is imperative for them to maintain a certain level of fitness and game sense. The trainees have a WhatsApp group. We have a trainer Akhil in the group and some trainees follow the fitness programme charted out by him. “Some have their own personal trainers and train accordingly. But all of them post videos of their drills twice a week in the group. They discuss their doubts with me. I keep messaging them and do follow-ups. There is also exchange of ideas and articles on fitness and cricket,'' he said. “The long lay-off can lead to problem of sighting the ball while taking high catches. To avoid any such problem, I have told my trainees every day to track fast moving objects like birds from the terrace or from the open ground. To maintain their focus, I have asked them to concentrate alternately on faraway and nearby stationary objects. These are things I learnt from experience and are quite useful,'' he said. Biju says the IPL is an important tournament for players like Sanju V. Samson and added that it is imperative that BCCI conducts at least a shortened version. He also wanted the Kerala Cricket Association to be proactive by conducting webinars for coaches and support staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/biju-stresses-on-keeping-fit-and-in-touch/article31371936.ece
18 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sardar using social media to help people keep fit||Sardar Singh was one of the fittest players in the Indian hockey team and the former India captain has lately taken to sharing his workout sessions on the social media. The ongoing lockdown has given him lot more time to do so. The pandemic hit soon after Sardar returned from Canada. He spent a few days in Chandigarh before shifting to his ancestral village in Sant Nagar, Sirsa. “The lockdown meant your couldn’t even leave your flat in Chandigarh. Here it is easier and safer,” Sardar told The Hindu . Along with his parents, elder brother Didar Singh and his family, Sardar is also reconnecting with his spiritual roots. “What I have learnt is what our Guruji (the spiritual head of Namdhari sect) always said — only the man who remembers God — not to ask for something but simply to be thankful and seek blessings — will be able to stay strong and survive any crisis. The last few years I had lost some touch. Now I am slowly trying to get back, starting and ending the day with a prayer,” Sardar said. Pending work About his workout videos, Sardar said it was mainly to encourage people for fitness through example. “That’s what I used to do on field also, lead by example. But on social media, when a player puts up something, he keeps thinking of that only all day and focus goes for a toss. That’s why I kept off it earlier. But now I have time. “Once this is over, I plan to complete my police training (he is with Haryana Police) and may think of getting into coaching also (he is already a selector with Hockey India). Let’s see,” he says. As for the current situation, the Padma Shri and Khel Ratna awardee admits there is uncertainty. “As of now, no one knows when things will get normal, or will it be back to old normal at all. But one thing is sure — only if you are healthy you can go ahead in future, whatever it may be like,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sardar-using-social-media-to-help-people-keep-fit/article31371703.ece
18 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Advisory puts coaches in a fix||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs’ advisory that the Zoom meeting platform is not for use by Government Officers / officials for official purposes has put some leading coaches like chief national badminton coach P. Gopi Chand in a fix. Gopi had tied up with well-known fitness trainer Dinaz Vervatwala using the Zoom app since April 1 to conduct online training. “Now the advisory certainly means we have to rethink on the whole issue. We will take a call today or tomorrow on what to do next in this regard,” Gopi told The Hindu on Friday. Explore other options “We will have to explore other platforms to ensure that we are in touch with the players and also their daily training schedule. We just cannot afford to be out of the radar in this regard because of the lockdown,” said Gopi. “Obviously, we will have look for a platform which facilitates interactive sessions as that is always a better option than a one-way communication app,” he said. However, there are some like world champion P.V. Sindhu who didn’t join these sessions but preferred to stick to the regimen issued by her personal trainer M.V. Srikanth of Suchitra Academy and monitored by her father Ramana. Meanwhile, the Sports Authority of India was itself using the app to conduct similar online sessions in some disciplines in the evenings with emphasis on physiology and nutrition, said chief national rowing coach Ismail Baig. “We will have to wait and see how things shape up on this front,” he added.  We will take a call today or tomorrow on what to do next in this regard||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/advisory-puts-coaches-in-a-fix/article31371658.ece
18 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indian women’s hockey team to raise funds for poor||The Indian women’s hockey team, currently locked down in Bangalore, has decided to raise funds to help the poor affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Beginning Friday, the team would be launching an 18-day fun fitness challenge to raise funds for poor and migrant families through crowdfunding. “Every day we are reading in newspapers and on social media about so many people struggling for food and so decided to do something as a team. “We thought an online fitness challenge would be the best way to do it and through this, we can also urge people to adapt to an active lifestyle during the nation-wide lockdown. “Our goal is to raise enough funds to feed at least 1000 families,” captain Rani Rampal said. “A few days back when my father said, ‘if you did not play hockey and lift us out of poverty, maybe we also would have been in the same condition as so many poor people today,’ it broke my heart. We know the pain of not getting food,” she added. New challenge every day The players would give a new fitness challenge every day and tag 10 people on their social media handles to take it up and donate minimum Rs. 100 to the fundraiser. “We hope people support us. All of us come from poor backgrounds and have been through struggles for food and other basics. “Today we are in a position to help,” vice-captain Savita added. The funds would be donated to Delhi-based NGO Uday Foundation and the proceeds used to provide basic necessities for patients across locations, migrant workers and slum dwellers. Rani had also sponsored food for more than 150 families through Delhi Police in the initial days of lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-womens-hockey-team-to-raise-funds-for-the-poor/article31371660.ece
18 April 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Gokulam disappointed it may not finish second||The All India Football Federation (AIFF) is soon expected to announce that this season’s I-League is indeed over. With Mohun Bagan having already won the title — with four matches to spare — the fight was going to be for the positions 2 to 11. The coronovirus outbreak had first caused a postponement, but the subsequent lockdown has meant there is little chance for the resumption of the 13th edition of the league. Share prize-money The AIFF is likely to distribute the prize-money of Rs. 1.25 crore equally among the 10 teams with Bagan taking home Rs. 1 crore for being the champion. No team is likely to be relegated. But, with Bagan’s merger with the ISL side ATK, one new team could be promoted to the next edition of the league. The owners of the I-League clubs are understandably disappointed that the season has had to finish like this. “We were hopeful of completing the league, but the central government’s recommendation that no sporting event can be held till July has more or less left us with little options,” Gokulam Kerala’s president V.C. Praveen told The Hindu . “We were looking forward to a strong finish and taking the second place behind Bagan.” With 22 points from 15 matches, Gokulam was indeed well-placed for the runner-up spot. The Kerala club was just one point behind the second-placed East Bengal, which played a game more. “Finishing second would have meant a lot to us, as this was only the third I-League for us,” he said. “And we had prepared hard for this season and had invested heavily on foreign players.” Good crowd response He said the team was also happy that big crowds had come out consistently for Gokulam’s home matches here. “Now we will look forward to entertain our supporters in the next edition,” said Praveen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gokulam-disappointed-it-may-not-finish-second/article31371938.ece
18 April 2020||MUMBAI,||ICC on the horns of a dilemma||The COVID-19 pandemic has led to a state of uncertainty all over the world. Sport is no exception, with sports bodies unsure of when live sport will resume, even if in front of empty stands. The International Cricket Council (ICC), meanwhile, finds itself in a Catch-22 situation vis-a-vis its restructuring plans. While the T20 World Cup (scheduled to be played in Australia from October 18) is in limbo, the two additions in the ICC calendar — the World Test Championship (WTC) and the ODI League Championship — are in danger of being shortlived. While WTC is in its maiden two-year cycle, with the final scheduled for June 2021, the ODI League is scheduled to be held between May 2020 and March 2022. Thirteen teams are set to compete in the ODI League, with each side supposed to feature in eight series of at least three matches each. While the ICC has been in constant touch with all stakeholders, some of the influential members, including India, have sensed that a condensed international calendar upon resumption will eat into their own bilateral arrangements and T20 leagues (read income through broadcast rights). Big Three’s plan As a result, the ‘Big Three’ have been planning to pressurise the ICC into cancelling at least one of the events. The proposal is likely to be discussed at the next ICC Board meeting, likely to be held in June. ICC executives and member Board officials hope that in the next couple of months, the world would have started recovering from the pandemic and they will be in a position to at least start chalking out the future course of action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/icc-on-the-horns-of-a-dilemma/article31371652.ece
18 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kapil asks religious institutions to donate big||India’s World Cup-winning captain Kapil Dev, on Thursday, called upon the country’s major religious institutions to contribute generously from their coffers and strengthen the fight against COVID-19. “This is the time for us to come together. All the official agencies are engaged in this humongous exercise, but we still need support from all possible platforms,” Kapil said. Lauding the efforts of the police and health workers, Kapil observed: “I expect big religious institutions to help the government in its battle against the deadly virus. The police and health workers are giving their best and deserve our support. We need funds to buy medical equipment and I am sure a large part of this campaign can be met if the religious institutions come forward at this stage.” Need of the hour Even as reports come in about shortage of medical equipment, Kapil said: “The devotees have always donated to the religious institutions in good times. Today, the need of the hour is to provide the best of equipment to our doctors and nurses so that they can also save their own lives while serving those infected by the virus.” Kapil emphasised: “India has a large number of temples, gurdwaras, churches and masjids, which undertake charitable exercises. I know Gurudwara Sri Harmandir Sahib has already offered to take the responsibility of buying medical equipment. I now expect the others to rise to the occasion.” Kapil added, “Never has mankind faced such a calamity and the issue to be addressed urgently is the procurement of medical equipment for carrying out tests and ventilators for affected patients. I am confident the government will receive support from all the religious institutions of the country.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kapil-asks-religious-institutions-to-donate-big/article31371793.ece
18 April 2020||Hyderabad,||HCA’s gesture||Hyderabad Cricket Association will pay Rs. 3000 each to about 80 umpires and scorers in view of the lockdown imposed to fight Covid-19, according to Secretary R. Vijayanand. “We have taken this decision to help only those who don't have a regular job and are dependently on these two jobs," he said. It is also informed that the payment date for the annual subscription for all affiliated clubs, departmental and Institutional teams has been extended till May 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hcas-gesture/article31371882.ece
18 April 2020||Doha,||Qatar reports three cases at WC sites||Qatar has detected three more coronavirus cases among the workers on World Cup stadiums, organisers said, bringing the number of infections among those involved in 2022 tournament construction to eight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/qatar-reports-three-cases-at-wc-sites/article31371883.ece
18 April 2020||Washington,||Laver Cup postponed to 2021||The 2020 Laver Cup will not go ahead in September as planned and will return next year due to the clash of dates with the French Open, the organisers of the exhibition event said on Friday. It will now be held between September 24 to 26, 2021.Reuters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/laver-cup-postponed-to-2021/article31371656.ece
18 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||No dearth of tricksters in Mizo folklore, says expert||The trickster is a common and popular staple of most folklore and Mizo folklore has a fair share of them, says R. Thangvunga, professor in Mizoram University’s Department of Mizo language. The self-seeking ‘Machiavellian trickster’ sits at the top of the list of bad hats in Mizo folklore, says Prof. Thangvunga. The manipulative ‘Odyssean trickster’ comes second in his analysis published in the university’s journal followed by the humorous ‘Dickensian trickster’, the boastful ‘Herculean trickster’ and the witty trickster posing problems that require intelligence. According to Prof. Thangvunga, most folklore tends to ignore the underbelly of a society or community and focus on stories of heroism and semi-supernatural deeds of one’s ancestors. Such stories “boost the collective ego of one’s community more effectively than pots of rice beer to a safe level of ethnic pride.” Such tales, he says, may not have played any significant role in “preserving our tribal ethnicity as well as providing a shield against the infiltration of a Machiavellian breed of more advanced nations”. But the Machiavellian trickster existed in Mizo folklore before such infiltration. The professor cites the example of brothers Chhura and Nahaia to make a point. Nahaia often makes younger brother Chhura the butt of profitable jokes, once proposing to exchange houses so that Chhura and his wife could watch the stars while going to bed. It wasn’t until the monsoon that Chhura realised his folly. Prof Thanvunga cites Keimingi, the daughter of the chief of the 'tigermen', assigned to bewitch and take revenge on tiger hunter Hualtungamtawna, as an example of the Odyssean trickster, manipulator and opportunist. The lazy Samdala is an example of the Dickensian tricksters, lacking intellectual finesse for any ulterior motive but providing comic relief often at their own expense. He offers to be eaten by a tiger only if he is carried to the top of a hill, but once he reaches his destination, he scares the tiger away with the story of an animal-eater. The tale of Thailungi, a 10-year-old girl sold off by her stepmother, qualifies as that of a Herculean trickster who uses gimmicks to accomplish impossible missions, the professor says. He cites the story of Chemteii, who stops her father from being robbed of inheritance by using her intelligence to find answers to tricky questions by the local king.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/no-dearth-of-tricksters-in-mizo-folklore-says-expert/article31371642.ece
18 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Vocalists come together to celebrate Earth Day||To celebrate the 50th anniversary of Earth Day, nine leading artistes have come together to sing a multi-lingual song in eight regional languages, including in Tamil, Hindi, Gujarati, Kannada, Malayalam and Punjabi. The album is titled Dharti Ma - A Tribute to Earth . Put together by the Earth Day Network, an organisation that works with about 50,000 NGOs worldwide, the song, to be launched on YouTube on April 22, aims at “creating awareness among the masses about doing what little each one of us can,” said Karuna Singh, Asia regional director for the Network. ‘Reduce carbon footprint’ “They are all influencers and we want them to, through their voices and otherwise too, take the message of the importance of doing even small things to reduce our carbon footprint. When we talk to students, we show them how the simple act of reducing the brightness of their laptop screens can help reduce power usage,” she explained. The seven-minute long song features leading vocalists — Bombay Jayashri, Shankar Mahadevan, Kaushiki Chakraborty, Hansraj Hans, Mahesh Kale, Abhishek Raghuram, Sweta Mohan, Abhay Jodhpurkar and M.D. Pallavi. It has been composed by Amrit Ramnath. It features Sayee Rakshith on the violin, Abinandan David on the guitar, Sumesh Narayanan on the mridangam and percussions, M.T. Aditya on the tabla, and singers Karthik, Amrit and Sreenidhi Venkat on the chorus vocals. Ms. Jayashri said, “As artistes, all of us do our bit. This album is one and so are concerts or songs performed for the earth. Personally, too, I don’t use single-use plastics and try as much as possible to reuse and recycle things. Last year, I had written to the city sabhas requesting them to provide re-usable water bottles to artistes and many of them had implemented it,” she said. ‘Absolutely spellbound’ Mr. Jodhpurkar said that when he heard the song, he was absolutely spellbound. “It is an honour for me to be a part of a multilingual anthem featuring such legendary singers of our nation,” he added. Musician and vocalist Shankar Mahadevan recalled how he and Ms. Jayashri learnt music from the same guru in the initial years in Bombay and said he was happy to have lent his voice to the song composed by her son.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/vocalists-come-together-to-celebrate-earth-day/article31371641.ece
18 April 2020||MOSCOW,||ISS crew lands in Kazakhstan||A U.S.-Russian space crew landed safely on Friday. NASA astronauts Jessica Meir and Andrew Morgan and Russian Oleg Skripochka touched down as scheduled at 11.16 a.m. when their Soyuz capsule landed near Dzhezkazgan (Kazakhstan).AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/iss-crew-lands-in-kazakhstan/article31371639.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 07:10 IST,||Sudoku - April 18, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-18-2020/article31372380.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Remember the time||When I find myself in times of trouble, comfort food comes to me. Locked up inside my house, I have been thinking of all the time that we spent outside the four walls once upon a time. There was an age, as a callow youth in flared bell-bottoms, when I was hardly ever home. Meals were eaten in other people’s houses. And when we had money, we ate at Nirula’s. Young readers who have grown up with all kinds of international food brands will find it difficult to imagine the kind of excitement that Nirula’s sparked in our hearts. We would save up money to go there for special treats. My favourite was the sausage, mushroom, and onion pizza, on which I’d spread their special mustard; and the Mahaburger which had two juicy mutton patties squeezed in between soft buns, and was eaten with lots of coleslaw, onion rings, and ketchup. We used to have all this with a tall glass of Hot Chocolate Fudge — ice cream on top of gooey chocolate with lots of nuts, served with a long spoon that went all the way to the bottom of the glass. Then times changed. American fast food flooded the metros. And Nirula’s died, reopening some years ago. The owners had changed and many of the outlets were closed. But, as I discovered earlier this week, it didn’t lose its nostalgic magic. To beat the lockdown gloom, we wanted to have something that reminded us of happier times. So we thought of Nirula’s. I placed my order through Swiggy’s. And within an hour, our dinner was on the table — thin crusty Hawaiian Chicken Pizza Rs. 380), Hot Shoppe Non-veg Pizza (Rs. 523) and spicy, Grilled Chicken Breast (Rs. 290). The chicken, I was told, had been marinated overnight with herbs and came with a hash brown, coleslaw and two slices of bread. The Hot Shoppe pizza, the menu said, was loaded with meat, and included a mix of mozzarella and cheddar cheese. The Hawaiian Chicken Pizza was excellent — mildly sweet and tart at the same time, with a light and crispy base. I didn’t mind the thick Hot Shoppe pizza either, though I don’t really think it was loaded with meat. The chicken breast seemed more fried than grilled, but it was juicy and moist and I loved it. It is not an exhaustive menu anymore, but some of the old favourites are still there: the old Cheese, Capsicum, Onion, Mushroom Pizza (Rs. 239); and Mutton Sausage, Capsicum, Onion Pizza (Rs. 315); Paneer Tikka Pizza (Rs. 286) and Chicken Tikka Pizza (Rs. 286). The Big Boy Mutton Burger is there (Rs. 220), as is the Mahaburger (Rs. 239). I used to love their footlongs, and those are there as well, including the Hot Shoppe Footlong (loaded with meat again, I bet, for Rs. 205). If you are missing old times, you could open your arms to old Nirula’s once again. If you are not, you could try out a place that a young friend was raving about. It’s called Nomad Pizza Traveller Series, and has all kinds of pizzas — from New York special pizza (choice of spicy pork, chicken sausage or flame grilled chicken with roasted pepper, onion and pimento, Rs. 595) to the Neapolitan Prosciutto en Rucola pizza (Parma ham, rocket leaves and Parmesan, Rs. 735). The Nirula’s pizza worked for me. Speaking words of wisdom, it said, let it be. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/remember-the-time/article31371826.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Netflix’s ‘Extraction’ — starring Chris Hemsworth, David Harbour, Randeep Hooda, Pankaj Tripathi, Priyanshu Painyuli and Rudhraksh Jaiswal — is the sole big-budget summer movie of 2020||Press tours before a movie release usually involve weeks of travel for the cast and crew, and numerous interviews. For journalists, it is a chance to meet some famous actors and directors. Of course, things are a little different now thanks to the Covid-19 pandemic — what with flights being grounded and borders being closed. Instead, we have a Zoom call, with writers joining in from across the country to speak to the star of upcoming Netflix film Extraction , Chris Hemsworth, from his home in Australia, and director Sam Hargrave from the US. This year’s highly-anticipated titles, including James Bond flick No Time To Die , John Krasinski’s thriller A Quiet Place Part 2 , and the live-action remake of Disney’s Mulan have deferred release dates. This has by default made Extraction the big-budget summer movie for 2020, as cinemas around the world remain closed indefinitely. Second chances If they had known, would they have changed anything about the film? Hemsworth is quick to say, “No. I think we both put everything we possibly could into it and are very proud of what we have accomplished. If by releasing at this time, the movie provides an escape for people, then that’s fantastic.” Hargrave concurs, adding that they do the work because they love it, and if audiences love it too, then their goal is accomplished. “These are crazy times for sure, but if things were ‘normal’ so to speak, we would want the film to have the same reception,” he says.  The screenplay, written by Joe Russo (of Avengers ) aimed to show the western audiences a side of India and Bangladesh that is not always depicted on screen. While there were logistical and communication challenges, Hargrave says, “One of the beauties of cinema is that even if you are not able to speak the language, you can understand the scenario if you set it up right. Action, especially, transcends language. Once you’ve set up the hero and the villain, and they are at odds physically, it speaks for itself.” India connect The fact that the film was shot extensively in India and Thailand has meant that there is a whole lot of interest in the Asia-Pacific region and the subcontinent. Recalling time spent in Mumbai and Ahmedabad, Hemsworth says, “We had hundreds of people around watching us. At times, it felt like being in the Colosseum!” Hargrave adds that he is grateful to his casting directors for putting together a great lineup of Indian talent as well. “However, I also did my research and watched clips and films of these actors. Even if everything about them was not exactly what was written on the page, there were certain qualities about them that I recognised when we met that made their characters work,” he concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/netflixs-extraction-starring-chris-hemsworth-david-harbour-randeep-hooda-pankaj-tripathi-priyanshu-painyuli-and-rudhraksh-jaiswal-is-the-sole-big-budget-summer-movie-of-2020/article31371439.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Online viewing rooms are like groping in the dark’||In February, six months after hidden images were discovered in Leonardo da Vinci’s Virgin of the Rocks painting, a new X-ray scan revealed a winged angel and the baby Jesus. But with the current travel restrictions, the art fraternity will have to wait to see it. Though The Louvre ventured into virtual reality — in partnership with HTC Vive Arts, on the occasion of the painter’s 500-year death anniversary last year — the experience is still offline. This could, however, change soon in a post Covid-19 world. Meanwhile, another artist’s work is lending itself beautifully to online viewing. Starry Starry Nights is one of the most forwarded videos on WhatsApp and YouTube — a visual rendering of a seamless blend of all of Dutch post-impressionist painter Vincent Van Gogh’s important works, including the eponymous one he painted in 1889 during his stay at the asylum of Saint-Paul de Mausole. There is also a growing interest in the animated 2017 Dorota Kobiela and Hugh Welchman film, Loving Vincent (you can pay Rs. 75 to get the 95-minute film from YouTube or Google Play).  No longer reserved  With travel restrictions and social distancing likely to be the norm for some time to come, the new status quo demands change. In the world of art, this has meant podcasts, art blogs, live streaming, virtual exhibitions, and short films to hold our interest in the upcoming art calendar. It has also meant access to rare collections. Istanbul University recently opened Sultan Abdülhamid II’s Yıldız Photography Collection, one of the richest visual archives in the world, on digital media. The Metropolitan Museum of Art has put thousands of objects online for free viewing, most of which were in its reserved collection. “Art, like every other sector, is focussing on its digital presence,” says Bhavna Kakar, director of Gallery Latitude 28 and editor-publisher of TAKE on Art . The task in hand: to re-establish the various mediums — painting, sculpture, performance and photography — to maintain its relevance and have global impact, while being physically absent.  Qualitative differences  The online space is not uncharted territory for the art world, but it does hold more promise now. Whether it can successfully surrogate the white cube and physical viewing of an artwork, however, remains to be seen. “In the aftermath of anything drastic, such as the Renaissance or World War II, there has always been a revival, but it is too early to say what it will be for Covid-19. With consumption going down, and only virtual options available for some time to come, there may not be a space for people like us. That is when we will have to rethink,” says Chennai-based gallerist and curator Sharan Apparao, who feels “viewing rooms are a little like groping in the dark. So, at the moment, I’m relying on our reputation, our network of artists and collectors, and social media”. Art critic and curator, Ranjit Hoskote, feels that while the online experience has become a little more defined — you can focus on the work that you want to, and do it at your own time — it can’t be a stand-in for physically being there. “Online studio visits are qualitatively different. It is a question of temporality: when you visit someone at their studio, the encounter unfolds in a certain way, but when you have a Zoom meeting, predefined as 40 minutes, it is so very different. In one sense, it may be far more sharply defined, but there is also a pressure to get quickly to the outcome,” he says. The more real problem now for curators like himself is freight. “The next question is, if we don’t have the possibility of transporting things, how are exhibitions going to happen?”  With inputs from      Surya Praphulla Kumar    “The pandemic has hit the art world like a tsunami and it will take a couple of years to recover. The online space will have to be used in more imaginative ways by the art world — some of us will participate, while others will be drawn to a different vocation” — Devika Daulet Singh, founder, PHOTOINK||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/online-viewing-rooms-are-like-groping-in-the-dark/article31371459.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The lockdown games||Reporting from the thick of action. The tennis finals have seen an unprecedented level of interest this year. And here comes the serve, faultless… Is that an ace? But an all-out stretch gets the lunging backhand to it in the nick of time… to send it back cross-court. ‘How long are you going to watch the dog’s tail wag from side to side,’ asks the wife, placing a bowl of dough on the sofa near me. ‘Knead that. I’m exhausted.’ The action moves to the boxing ring. Welterweight Round 6. A jab followed by a swinging right hook throws the barely-standing pulpy mass to the ropes… finished off by an upper-cut that brings it to its doughy knees. And… it’s a Knock Out! The countdown begins … 8…9… and the whistle goes. ‘Are you whistling at me or the dog?’ The wife is capable of delivering a black eye just with that glare. A leap up to a record height in record time that would do Sergey Bubka proud, and I’ve switched to Track and Field seamlessly. Giving it all I have into that last sprint, I breast the tape just before she… emerges with a mopping broom. Down the midfield, unchallenged, I go, loads of space. What am amazing run! I slip past the defending chairs, nutmeg a few, sending them flying over the table… Oh, stopped by a horribly-timed tackle by the wall. My shoulder slams into it, and as I go down, I throw an arm up in appeal. The dog shrugs off a flea, and rules it a deliberate dive. Then I’m on the counter, looking for an equaliser, passing it from room to room… There’s the beer can I slam-dunked on the sly last night… Straight for the window, I go for goal, chipping it past the keeper-curtain which flaps in vain… What a finish… almost … but too high! It hits the post and spins back with a clatter that brings the wife frantically in. I appeal desperately to the VAR, who barks even louder. The wife faces off. ‘You call this mopping?’ She reaches into her apron, to serve me that red card. No, no! ‘That was just a dummy run. I want to see some corners. And run it closer to the sidelines. And If you really want to lift some silverware, you can wash the dishes next.’ I stand stumped. I guess it takes two to play any sport. Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-lockdown-games/article31371475.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Tracking designer masks||With the extended lockdown, and face masks now compulsory for anyone stepping out, we take a look at designer mask makers. Global fashion behemoths like Gucci and Louis Vuitton have added motif to motive, but designers back home aren’t lagging behind. Joining the bandwagon this week is designer Masaba Gupta with her initiative, Maskaba. She took to Instagram to announce that a small team is making non-surgical masks for donation at her production facility. Also, as part of Fashion Design Council of India’s (FDCI) Covid-19 Support Fund, every donation of Rs. 2,000 will receive a pack of seven masks designed by Nagpur-based Shruti Sancheti. “The idea is not to do it for the limelight but to help in the overall efforts to give vulnerable people the first layer of protection,” says FDCI president, Sunil Sethi. Meanwhile, designer duo Shivan and Narresh plan to give out cotton-jersey masks with every order placed on their website. With the global mask shortage, experts have been urging people not on the frontline of the battle to use cloth masks. The effectiveness of masks varies: between fabric, surgical and N95 variants. The last is best used by health workers, but sanitised fabric masks are getting popular among ordinary citizens. Some designers are also adding layers of fabric to their masks. “We iron our masks with a hot pressing iron to kill any viruses,” says Uma Prajapati of Auroville-based conscious fashion label, Upasana. Her team is crafting neem masks. Others are using sanitising machines or treating masks with sanitising sprays. Fashion students are also chipping in. Students of Mumbai-based design school Pearl Academy have worked on masks for medical workers at a local hospital. Initiated by faculty member Kali Rawat, some are made from muslin cloth and others come with attached plastic sheets. Simran Oswal in Karnataka, another fashion student, attaches a plastic shield covered in doodles to masks and distributes them to staff at a hospital where her father (a doctor) works. The new normal One of the goals is to offer a variant to monotone masks and to normalise them. “People, whether healthy or unwell, should not be terrified at the sight of someone else wearing masks,” says Delhi-based designer Manish Tripathi, who is crafting cotton, khadi, jamdani and ikat masks from leftover fabric. “My weavers are now excited to see their fabric used in masks,” says the designer, who plans on cotton denim ones soon. Apart from selling them (Rs. 800 on designermasks.in), Tripathi will continue distributing the masks to vulnerable communities along with the help of a local police station. For most designers, however, the underlying need is to meet the growing demand. Municipal bodies, like the one in Mumbai, have collaborated with labels like Anita Dongre and Karleo. “When the lockdown hit us, we approached the government with our proposal to make masks; we had a prototype ready since we were catering to mask orders from the West,” says Leon Vaz of Karleo, whose masks have so far found their way to policemen and security guards at hospitals and municipal workers. “We encourage using different designs so that people don’t end up wearing each other’s masks,” points out Vaz. But managing logistics is tricky. “Two health volunteers from our team move about locally and take care of the distribution,” says Prajapati. Similarly, Karleo has been permitted to get five members of its team to mobilise women artisan clusters in Mumbai and Rajasthan to work from their homes. “The women keep baskets outside their homes for us to drop off the material, and place the finished products in them for us to collect,” explains Vaz. Call of the times Designers also ensure that the stipulated hygiene standards, for the products and its makers, are adhered to. Shruti Sancheti — who recently supplied the Delhi Police Force with around 5,000 masks — sanitises her masks at the local hospital’s sanitisation plant. And Noida-based Pallavi Mohan ensures that there is a gap of 1.5 m between each person in the factory. “Apart from wearing gloves and hair caps, a team makes sure they sanitise the workers’ hands at regular intervals,” explains Mohan. Meanwhile, Delhi-based Narresh Kukreja of designer duo Shivan and Narresh has an Instagram filter to liven things up. The exercise is to change the social perception of wearing masks from a liability to a fashionable asset. He also hopes to up the design game with options in prints, leather, and perhaps embellishment. “Irrespective of the social occasion, it will be nice to step out in designer masks. The aim is for them to be statement pieces too,” he concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/tracking-designer-masks/article31371467.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Small town swag||There is always a right time for everything. And there could not have been a better one for Panchayat — currently streaming on Amazon Prime Video — that has turned out to be the darling of the binge-watchers this lockdown season. The eight-episode web series, about a young engineering graduate, who, for the lack of a better job opportunity, heads to the village of Phulera to work as thepanchayatsecretary, is just the kind of show the doctor would have ordered now. It has the basics of what makes for an eminently watchable show: good writing, well-observed characters, excellent performances (Jitendra Kumar, Raghuvir Yadav, Neena Gupta, Chandan Roy), an innate understanding of the youth, and the unending problems of the hinterland. Just last week, one saw Bamfaad , a love story set in Allahabad, on Zee 5. Meanwhile, reruns of old serials — from Ramayana to Office Office — are working well with the audience. Are we turning nostalgic and seeking a connect with the past now that the present has suddenly turned dystopic? Hard to say, but it is an opportune time to examine online content that is more mofussil than urbane; homegrown than edgy. Simple pleasures In a similar vein, another TVF show, Gullak , on Sony Liv, is about the ordinary concerns and heart-warming grid of relationships in a small town, middle class family underlined with cheeky lines and gentle humour. Each episode is about a little day-to-day issue that threatens to keel over into a loud family battle — the motor for pumping water conking off on a Sunday for instance — but is amicably resolved over a post-dinner ice cream. The arc in each episode is reminiscent of serials from yore; feels like a mellowed out version of the more rambunctious Yeh Jo Hai Zindagi or Dekh Bhai Dekh . Shreyansh Pandey, AVP, Content Strategy & Creative Producer, TVF Originals, says that their protagonists are cast in the Amol Palekar mould and the shows themselves aspire to be like Hrishikesh Mukherjee films. “It is about showing the people from the villages and small towns as normal people, and bringing their aspirations and small problems to life. Also, looking at the drama emerging from the small things in life rather than from some big world crashing down,” he says. Back to roots For director Vikas Chandra — known for hinterland dramas like Chacha Vidhayak Hai Humare and Mannphodganj Ki Binny — it is to do with the web world following in the footsteps of Bollywood films. It is about going past the breathtaking views of Switzerland and taking the tier 2 characters and their stories beyond the caricatures and kitsch that they often get stuck in. The trendsetting show in the genre has been Mirzapur (putting aside the polarising debate on its quality) that brought a certain swag to the small town world. “Much as Gangs of Wasseypur did for the ones on the big screen. It also made Hindi swear words sound cool,” says Chandra. Since then there have emerged varied narratives under the larger umbrella of the small-town genre. The two seasons of OML’s Laakhon Mein Ek looked at the commercialisation of education and medicine. There was also Kota Factory, on the iconic coaching classes culture in the small town of Rajasthan. An idea that may well have emerged from the makers’ own growing up years in these cities. The supply is also being determined by the demand. A huge audience has opened up in tier 2 towns for the streaming platforms, riding on the omnipresence of mobiles and the growing spread of 4G networks. “Everyone I met in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar had seen Mirzapur and Chacha Vidhayak . When I went to Allahabad for the shoot of Mannphodganj ... I was treated with respect when they got to know of my Chacha Vidheyak association,” says Chandra. The dark side However, the reason for backing these shows has to go beyond the logic of eye balls and numbers, or for that matter the flavour and setting. “You will have to show the ugly underbelly, however uncomfortable it might be,” says Chandra. Something that Jamtara — Sabka Number Aayega , on the phishing scam in Jharkhand tried to do, but also got widely criticised for its excessive use of coarse language. Chandra’s next — a show from Tiger Baby — takes him back to the heartland. Based on serial killings in Rajasthan with Sonakshi Sinha playing a cop, he says, “We have localised the characters, milieu and lingo. It is to do with caste and gender politics, and the misogyny rampant there as well.” This Friday’s new Netflix offering, Hasmukh , plans to add yet another new dimension to the genre. It takes its comedian protagonist Hasmukh on a journey from Saharanpur to Mumbai, where he murders his way to on-stage success. “It is not a gangland, heartland narrative,” says lead actor Vir Das. “The small town will, however, remain till the last scene,” promises co-writer Suparn Verma. Or, as actor Ranvir Shorey puts it pithily, it is about the small town as a point of view: “It is about Saharanpur looking at Mumbai’s entertainment industry.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/small-town-swag/article31371435.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||From Garg’s lab||By now, it is fair to say that designer clothing brand Raw Mango doesn’t do ‘regular’, not even when it comes to its music. “I want to start a certain culture or aesthetic that belongs to India. Our tradition is not a burden and it can only go forward. I want to reach out through this — whether it is architecture, photography, music... We treat ourselves as a laboratory sometimes,” founder Sanjay Garg tells us. In addition to designing stand-out collections of clothing over a decade, Raw Mango also announced a range of collectible art objects to mark their 10th year. Along with it came a music compilation that reflects the company’s sonic tastes. Called Ghar: Sounds of Raw Mango and released on April 7, the seven-track album features the likes of New Delhi producer-singer Lifafa (Suryakant Sawhney) and alternative band Peter Cat Recording Co’s members, together with lesser-known folk and classical vocalists and instrumentalists from Rajasthan, Bengal and other regions. No to EDM, yes to regional As Garg informs us, Ghar is not their first dalliance with music. They have hosted baithak concerts featuring veteran folk voices such as Channulal Mishra from Varanasi and Madhya Pradesh’s Prahlad Singh Tipaniya, who adapts saint Kabir’s poetry. For their various collections such as Cloud People (2017), Monkey Business (2016) and Mashru (2015), Garg commissioned artists like Stefan Kaye (from ska/reggae/rocksteady band The Ska Vengers) and Baul musicians. Although the designer is enamoured by African legends like Baaba Maal and Ali Farka Toure, whose music he discovered on his own, he happily says he was never into English music necessarily. “I’ll tell you something, it is very private and I never usually share, but whatever Raw Mango parties we had, we never had electronic music. We played Tamil, Telugu, Bhojpuri, Bollywood, there was a mix of things, because that’s what was thriving and fresher,” he says. Open to public  Ghar goes from Sawhney playing dreamy harmonium-led songs to folksy horn section-aided songs like ‘Tejeta’, written in Amharic, based on traditional Ethiopian music. “These are essentially Sanjay’s ideas, where he wanted large groups of women and men singing,” Sawhney explains. And while it was originally meant just for Raw Mango’s clientele, Garg says he released Ghar for public consumption, considering the current national lockdown and global pandemic.    On Apple Music and Spotify||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/from-gargs-lab/article31371442.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The Test (Amazon Prime Video)||The regeneration of the Australian men’s cricket team is one of the great sporting redemption stories in recent years. After Steve Smith, Cameron Bancroft and David Warner were found guilty of ball-tampering during a test match against South Africa in 2018, Cricket Australia banned them for a year. Losing Smith and Warner, two of the finest players in the world, plus the psychological impact of the episode, meant that Australia kept losing for a while (at one point conceding a world-record 481 runs against England in a one-day international at Trent Bridge). The Test (which premièred last month) is the behind-the-scenes documentary of how a new coach (Justin Langer) and captain (Tim Paine) turned it all around.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-test-amazon-prime-video/article31371473.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Five to follow||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/five-to-follow/article31371448.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Sunsets from Maldives: Tired of the same old view from your terrace or balcony? Head to Instagram for a live streaming of the sunset from Maldives, courtesy The Residence resorts. On Saturdays @theresidencemaldives and Wednesdays on @residencemaldivesdhigurah. From approximately 6.30 pm IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article31371477.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Design at home||With season staples like the Salone del Mobile being pushed to next year, and several other fairs, expos and conferences also cancelled, the design community has come to a grinding halt. To make up for this,Dezeen,a digital magazine, launched theVirtual Design Festivalon April 15, with a schedule that is on till June 20. Visit virtualdesignfestival.com. London Craft Week, which was set for April 27 to May 3, will run as an online event on the same dates with masterclasses, demos, studio and workshop tours. On londoncraftweek.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/design-at-home/article31371479.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||On a field trip||The love of sports has not waned during the lockdown. MS Dhoni Cricket Academy is offering Facebook Live classes for trainees, while Gen-Next Cricket Institute, mentored by R Ashwin, is providing coaching sessions with the off-break bowler himself. Great Goals, a Chennai-based sports academy, is sending a daily football tutorial to keep the players’ skills tuned. In addition, live Zoom classes are being conducted, with coaches and students in attendance. For ages five to 15. Details on greatgoalschennai.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/on-a-field-trip/article31371481.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Write to get published||There are book readings and free resources aplenty to keep kids occupied during the lockdown. But why not encourage them to write their own stories? The Scholastic Writing Awards, for Classes IV to IX, calls for short stories in English, in humour, horror, sci-fi/fantasy and adventure genres. The deadline is June 30. Details: swa.scholastic.co.in. For the adults, the CRAFT Short Fiction Prize, which closes for entries on April 30, allows international submissions up to 5,000 words. Register on craftliterary.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/write-to-get-published/article31371483.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Space escapades||The Hubble telescope explores the universe 24 hours a day, seven days a week. That means it has observed some fascinating cosmic wonders through the year, including on your birthday. Check out some cool space images: today, it is the globular star cluster, M79, located 41,000 light-years from Earth. NASA and the ISS National Lab have also developed programmes and activities for children, including a training programme to become a home astronaut, build a hovercraft and launch rockets. On nasa.gov||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/space-escapades/article31371485.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Today, our Instagram Live series is all about dogs! Rashi Narang, founder of pet accessory brand, Heads Up For Tails, will be in conversation with Aashish Mehrotra (@borktales on Instagram) and his two dogs, Heidi and Lucifer. Sama Ali, head designer at House of Kotwara, and her pack of around 10 dogs, will also join in for an interactive session. At 5 pm. Tomorrow at 5 pm, columnist Vasudha Rai will teach us how to create a home spa with ingredients from the kitchen. On Instagram, follow @thehinduweekend||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lockdownwithweekend/article31371487.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Singers unite||Canadian rappers Tory Lanez and Drake have broken the record for most Instagram Live viewers with over 3.1 lakh people tuned in at one point. Drake was a guest on Lanez’sQuarantine Radio, which earlier featured Megan Thee Stallion, Timbaland, Chris Brown and DMX. Follow @torylanez on Instagram for more episodes. Closer home, Sony Music South has launched a series called Veetla Concert . The lineup includes GV Prakash Kumar, Ghibran, Jonita Gandhi and Shashaa Tirupati. On all of Sony’s social media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/singers-unite/article31371489.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Lady Gaga and friends||One World: Together At Home is being curated by Lady Gaga for Global Citizen and the World Health Organization. While stars from India, including Priyanka Chopra Jonas and Shah Rukh Khan, are set to make an appearance, artistes Lisa Mishra and Vishal Mishra will be performing. Singers Meghan Trainor, Rod Stewart, Kristen Annie Bell and bands like Train, The Lumineers and others have been streaming live concerts on @glblctzn on Instagram in the run up. Tomorrow, on VOOT, Colors Infinity, Comedy Central and Vh1 India, from 5.30 am.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lady-gaga-and-friends/article31371491.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Public art: Despite the shelter at home advisory in place, some street artists have been defying orders. Rebel Bear depicted a couple in quarantine together, masks and all, in Glasgow. In Berlin, graffiti artist Eme Freethinker pictured Gollum saying, “My precious” to a roll of toilet paper. And anonymous street artist Banksy’s latest work reveals he has a pest problem — rats in his bathroom. The image is accompanied by the cheeky caption. “My wife hates it when I work from home.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article31371493.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Online viewing rooms are like groping in the dark’||In February, six months after hidden images were discovered in Leonardo da Vinci’s Virgin of the Rocks painting, a new X-ray scan revealed a winged angel and the baby Jesus. But with the current travel restrictions, the art fraternity will have to wait to see it. Though The Louvre ventured into virtual reality — in partnership with HTC Vive Arts, on the occasion of the painter’s 500-year death anniversary last year — the experience is still offline. This could, however, change soon in a post Covid-19 world. Meanwhile, another artist’s work is lending itself beautifully to online viewing. Starry Starry Nights is one of the most forwarded videos on WhatsApp and YouTube — a visual rendering of a seamless blend of all of Dutch post-impressionist painter Vincent Van Gogh’s important works, including the eponymous one he painted in 1889 during his stay at the asylum of Saint-Paul de Mausole. There is also a growing interest in the animated 2017 Dorota Kobiela and Hugh Welchman film, Loving Vincent (you can pay Rs. 75 to get the 95-minute film from YouTube or Google Play).  No longer reserved  With travel restrictions and social distancing likely to be the norm for some time to come, the new status quo demands change. In the world of art, this has meant podcasts, art blogs, live streaming, virtual exhibitions, and short films to hold our interest in the upcoming art calendar. It has also meant access to rare collections. Istanbul University recently opened Sultan Abdülhamid II’s Yıldız Photography Collection, one of the richest visual archives in the world, on digital media. The Metropolitan Museum of Art has put thousands of objects online for free viewing, most of which were in its reserved collection. “Art, like every other sector, is focussing on its digital presence,” says Bhavna Kakar, director of Gallery Latitude 28 and editor-publisher of TAKE on Art . The task in hand: to re-establish the various mediums — painting, sculpture, performance and photography — to maintain its relevance and have global impact, while being physically absent.  Qualitative differences  The online space is not uncharted territory for the art world, but it does hold more promise now. Whether it can successfully surrogate the white cube and physical viewing of an artwork, however, remains to be seen. “In the aftermath of anything drastic, such as the Renaissance or World War II, there has always been a revival, but it is too early to say what it will be for Covid-19. With consumption going down, and only virtual options available for some time to come, there may not be a space for people like us. That is when we will have to rethink,” says Chennai-based gallerist and curator Sharan Apparao, who feels “viewing rooms are a little like groping in the dark. So, at the moment, I’m relying on our reputation, our network of artists and collectors, and social media”. Art critic and curator, Ranjit Hoskote, feels that while the online experience has become a little more defined — you can focus on the work that you want to, and do it at your own time — it can’t be a stand-in for physically being there. “Online studio visits are qualitatively different. It is a question of temporality: when you visit someone at their studio, the encounter unfolds in a certain way, but when you have a Zoom meeting, predefined as 40 minutes, it is so very different. In one sense, it may be far more sharply defined, but there is also a pressure to get quickly to the outcome,” he says. The more real problem now for curators like himself is freight. “The next question is, if we don’t have the possibility of transporting things, how are exhibitions going to happen?”  With inputs from      Surya Praphulla Kumar    “The pandemic has hit the art world like a tsunami and it will take a couple of years to recover. The online space will have to be used in more imaginative ways by the art world — some of us will participate, while others will be drawn to a different vocation” — Devika Daulet Singh, founder, PHOTOINK||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/online-viewing-rooms-are-like-groping-in-the-dark/article31371821.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Small town swag||There is always a right time for everything. And there could not have been a better one for Panchayat — streaming on Amazon Prime Video — that has turned out to be the darling of the binge-watchers this lockdown season. The eight-episode web series, about a young engineering graduate, who, for the lack of a better job opportunity, heads to the village of Phulera to work as thepanchayatsecretary, is the kind of show the doctor would have ordered now. It has the basics of what makes for an eminently watchable show: good writing, well-observed characters, excellent performances (Jitendra Kumar, Raghuvir Yadav, Neena Gupta, Chandan Roy), an innate understanding of the youth, and the unending problems of the hinterland. Just last week, one saw Bamfaad , a love story set in Allahabad, on Zee 5. Meanwhile, reruns of old serials — from Ramayana to Office Office — are working well with the audience. Are we turning nostalgic and seeking a connect with the past now that the present has suddenly turned dystopic? Hard to say, but it is an opportune time to examine online content that is more mofussil than urbane; homegrown than edgy. Simple pleasures In a similar vein, another TVF show, Gullak , on Sony Liv, is about the ordinary concerns and heart-warming grid of relationships in a small town, middle class family underlined with cheeky lines and gentle humour. Each episode is about a little day-to-day issue that threatens to keel over into a loud family battle — the motor for pumping water conking off on a Sunday for instance — but is amicably resolved over a post-dinner ice cream. The arc in each episode is reminiscent of serials from yore; feels like a mellowed out version of the more rambunctious Yeh Jo Hai Zindagi or Dekh Bhai Dekh . Shreyansh Pandey, AVP, Content Strategy & Creative Producer, TVF Originals, says that their protagonists are cast in the Amol Palekar mould and the shows themselves aspire to be like Hrishikesh Mukherjee films. “It is about showing the people from the villages and small towns as normal people, and bringing their aspirations and small problems to life. Also, looking at the drama emerging from the small things in life rather than from some big world crashing down,” he says. Back to roots For director Vikas Chandra — known for hinterland dramas like Chacha Vidhayak Hai Humare and Mannphodganj Ki Binny — it is to do with the web world following in the footsteps of Bollywood films. It is about going past the breathtaking views of Switzerland and taking the tier 2 characters and their stories beyond the caricatures and kitsch they often get stuck in. The trendsetting show in the genre has been Mirzapur (putting aside the debate on its quality) that brought a certain swag to the small town world. “Much as Gangs of Wasseypur did for the ones on the big screen. It also made Hindi swear words sound cool,” says Chandra. Since then there have emerged varied narratives under the larger umbrella of the small-town genre. The two seasons of OML’s Laakhon Mein Ek looked at the commercialisation of education and medicine. There was also Kota Factory, on the iconic coaching classes culture in the small town of Rajasthan. An idea that may well have emerged from the makers’ own growing up years in these cities. The supply is also being determined by the demand. A huge audience has opened up in tier 2 towns for the streaming platforms, riding on the omnipresence of mobiles and the growing spread of 4G networks. “Everyone I met in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar had seen Mirzapur and Chacha Vidhayak . When I went to Allahabad for the shoot of Mannphodganj ... I was treated with respect when they got to know of my Chacha Vidheyak association,” says Chandra. The dark side However, the reason for backing these shows has to go beyond the logic of eye balls and numbers, or for that matter the flavour and setting. “You will have to show the ugly underbelly, however uncomfortable it might be,” says Chandra. Something that Jamtara — Sabka Number Aayega , on the phishing scam in Jharkhand tried to do, but also got widely criticised for its excessive use of coarse language. Chandra’s next — a show from Tiger Baby — takes him back to the heartland. Based on serial killings in Rajasthan with Sonakshi Sinha playing a cop, he says, “We have localised the characters, milieu and lingo. It is to do with caste and gender politics, and the misogyny rampant there as well.” This Friday’s new Netflix offering, Hasmukh , plans to add yet another new dimension to the genre. It takes its comedian protagonist Hasmukh on a journey from Saharanpur to Mumbai, where he murders his way to on-stage success. “It is not a gangland, heartland narrative,” says lead actor Vir Das. “The small town will, however, remain till the last scene,” promises co-writer Suparn Verma. Or, as actor Ranvir Shorey puts it pithily, it is about the small town as a point of view: “It is about Saharanpur looking at Mumbai’s entertainment industry.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/small-town-swag/article31371809.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The Test (Amazon Prime Video)||The regeneration of the Australian men’s cricket team is one of the great sporting redemption stories in recent years. After Steve Smith, Cameron Bancroft and David Warner were found guilty of ball-tampering during a test match against South Africa in 2018, Cricket Australia banned them for a year. Losing Smith and Warner, two of the finest players in the world, plus the psychological impact of the episode, meant that Australia kept losing for a while (at one point conceding a world-record 481 runs against England in a one-day international at Trent Bridge). The Test (which premièred last month) is the behind-the-scenes documentary of how a new coach (Justin Langer) and captain (Tim Paine) turned it all around.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-test-amazon-prime-video/article31371810.ece
18 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Private schools told to charge tuition fee on monthly basis||Private schools in Delhi will be allowed to charge only tuition fee and that too on a monthly basis till the time the COVID-19 lockdown ends and schools reopen, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Friday. The schools will not be allowed to increase fees, or charge parents an annual fee or transportation fee. “Trusts run private schools and they are not run for profit. We are receiving complaints that private schools have hiked their fees and those students who fail to pay the charges are being dropped from online classes. I would request the private schools to not stoop down to this level,” said Mr. Sisodia, who is also the Education Minister. He said that the schools will not be allowed to charge fees on a three-month basis. “They will charge only tuition fee for one month... fees under other heads like transportation will not be charged,” he added. Salaries of staff  Mr. Sisodia said that online education must be provided to all students. “Even if parents are unable to pay the fee, students will not be cut from the classes,” he added. The Minister added that the schools will have to pay salaries to all teaching and non-teaching staff regardless of whether they are contractual or non-contractual. “Any shortfall in revenue to pay salaries will be met by parents’ associations,” Mr. Sisodia said. Strict action under the Delhi Disaster Management Act and the Delhi School Education Act will be taken against any school that violate the order, the Minister added. The country is under a lockdown since March 25 due to COVID-19 outbreak. The lockdown has now been extended till May 3. Schools were closed and exams postponed at least two weeks before the lockdown was announced, online classes are being conducted by private schools as well as Delhi government-run schools. Several parents have been approaching the government with requests for fee waivers during the lockdown period. FICCI Arise, a collegium of stakeholders who represent different facets of school education, said the latest move will put private schools in jeopardy and that the government needs to come up with some measures to save the institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/private-schools-told-to-charge-tuition-fee-on-monthly-basis/article31371796.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Some schools start online classes; fees a sticky issue||With the new academic year starting under lockdown, schools in the National Capital Region (NCR) have been taking varying positions on the collection of fees and devising ways to ensure classes are not interrupted. Last year, most parents were bothered about the number of holidays, said Divya Vaidyanathan, a public health consultant whose two children are in the primary section of a private school in Noida. Whether it was due to smog, the Ayodhya verdict or other reasons, too many holidays meant children had to break their routine several times, she said. This time, however, schools have started online classes and are keeping students engaged. Meanwhile, fees have been deferred to the next quarter besides a 10% hike, she said. While fee hike happens annually, she reckoned that keeping in view the current circumstances, where every sector is being affected, it would have been prudent to not increase the fee this year. In Noida, some schools have hiked the fees while others have issued circulars stating components like day boarding and transport fees will be waived. A circular of the Kothari International School read: “The school has decided to waive [not to charge] the day boarding and transport fees for April and May 2020. It will become effective from June 1, as school reopens.” Books, board games Noida resident Ananya Sengupta, mother of an 8-year-old girl, said: “There has been no reduction in fees, rather there has been an 8% hike. We are playing innumerable games with her to keep her engaged like board games and “hit-the-ball-into-the-cup” type games.” For Mitali Basu, parent of a six-year-old girl studying in DPS R.K. Puram, keeping her child engaged in a constructive manner has been a task. “We have to constantly come up with new ideas to keep her engaged. Because she is unable to go to the park or meet friends in school she is getting impatient with each passing day. We are relying on activity books and storybooks,” said Ms. Basu. South Delhi resident Deepika Sangwan, whose daughter has just been promoted to Class 12, said that she is hopeful of board authorities taking adequate steps to ensure that students do not face any hassle. “Currently, we have a bigger problem to deal with, the virus. In the larger scheme of things, all the issues people are facing now are much bigger than the tension of board exams. I am sure proper steps will be taken, be it a reduction in syllabus or online classes. Though there has been no intimation from the school about reducing fees, the online classes started from Thursday,” said Ms. Sangwan, whose daughter studies in a school in Vasant Vihar. While the Delhi government has issued orders to private schools on fees and salaries, the Haryana government too has asked schools to seek fees on monthly basis during lockdown. It also said that those parents who are unable to pay should not be forced, and that transport fee for the first quarter be waived. Unpleasant experiences However, in a few cases, the parents had unpleasant experiences with the school authorities, who allegedly adopted arm-twisting tactics to force parents to deposit the fee. In response to a post on “Gurgaon Parents for Better Education”, a Facebook forum for parents, students and educational institutions, by The Hindu , Namita Chaudhary Kanth, a parent, shared that she had to pay the fees after the school stopped teaching her child. Most of the parents objected to schools charging transport and meal charges for the lockdown period. “The school has asked for three months’ transport fee along with annual charges. April is gone, May will be a half month and June is summer vacation. Why demand transport charges then? It is unjustified,” said Jagat Pal Singh. But some had pleasant experiences too. “My child’s school has sent a request to pay voluntarily and there is no ‘demand’ for the fee to be paid immediately,” said Mahima Suri, a parent. Many parents also objected to schools demanding annual and infrastructure charges. Some felt that online classes, especially for the junior section, were a mere “ploy” to charge fees. Others opined that schools were only allowing delayed payment and there was no waiver or reduction. A few advocated the need to pay the fee saying it was a “chain”. “I pay the school, which pays the teachers... they in turn pay house helps and so on,” said Chumki Sen, a former journalist, supporting the need to pay the fees. The forum’s administrator Tripti Singh said: “None of us are promoting the idea of not paying the fees. Of course, we want to pay. But all we are asking is not to charge any unreasonable money such as transportation fee, annual charges, meal charges.” She demanded that there should be no fee hike for the current session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/some-schools-start-online-classes-fees-a-sticky-issue/article31371799.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Documenting the personal and the political||A documentary co-directed by a Palestinian and an Israeli is reason enough to watch it. Its humanistic, anti-authoritarian stand is another. What truly stands out about 5 Broken Cameras is the manner in which the voice, mind, heart, soul and point of view of the person behind the camera, becomes the most compelling presence. The film is about the rough and tumble of Emad Burnat’s (also the co-director) life. Protests in his hometown Bil’in on the West Bank grow as their agricultural land and olive groves start getting run over by ever expanding Israeli settlements. His five cameras — one of which he had bought for capturing the birth and early years of his youngest son Gibreel — also bear the brunt of the brutality (and concomitant) resistance that they capture. From the very start you begin hanging on to Burnat’s lovely words that reveal his profundity of thought. He films to hold on to the memories — in which pain alternates with joy and fear with hope even as old wounds get layered by new ones. The personal and the political are never separated but are intertwined tightly. Each birth of his four sons marks a different phase in their life as well as that of Palestine. Each of the kids has a different childhood from the other. The first son was born in 1995 in the times of relative peace when they could go to sea. When the third came there were the dead and the wounded in the hospital he was born in. Gibreel is born at the time of barriers and of Israeli settlements closing in. His first two words on turning one are ‘wall’ and ‘cartridge’. From filming special family events to societal, political incidents, Burnat transitions into an inadvertent filmmaker. There is the personal, familial visual diary he builds through his images, the very fond character sketches of his friend Adeeb and Phil. There is the former’s endurance and the latter’s spirit and the zest for life they share in common. They are also the significant players in Burnat’s diligent chronicling of the political demonstrations. Burnat’s cameras become the site where the cinematic, personal and political come together. In filming resistance they also become an ally and tool of protest and end up facing the wrathful consequences of it. There is a line in the film where Burnat talks of why people respond with ease to Phil. It’s because of a certain guilelessness and innocence and positivity. Says Burnat: “Hope is not easy to find in adults.” Neither can you deep dive for it in Bil’in. And yet, you are still left feeling an overwhelming admiration for the people who are still chipping away at their despair. The film is currently streaming free of charge in the Visiting Room of the Dharamshala International Film Festival website||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/documenting-the-personal-and-the-political/article31371823.ece
18 April 2020||New Delhi,||Siblings help raise fund to keep Inspector’s community kitchen going||A Class 12 student and her elder sister have taken to crowdfunding to keep a Delhi Police Inspector’s community kitchen for slum dwellers and migrant workers stranded in south-east Delhi going. Sarita Vihar residents Tarini (16), who studies at D.P.S R.K Puram, and Ananya Kapoor (20), an undergraduate student at Stanford University said they decided to leverage technology to raise and contribute Rs. 50,000 to keep Inspector Suman Kumar’s community kitchen afloat as the number of people being fed daily under the initiative has gone up to around 800 from an estimated 300 when it began in late March. “We heard about the kitchen from our parents who have been contributing and decided to go beyond contributing just food and ration to it,” said Ananya who returned to the Capital from the U.S. in early March due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “Both my sister and I would have liked to volunteer ourselves but this epidemic hasput a lot of emphasis on social distancing...but, at the same time, a very large number of people are struggling. So we decided to utilise technology,” Tarini said. The siblings said they already have a community service initiative — Help Us Skill — which imparts underprivileged children, especially girls, learn life skills like computers, basic English and math. Utilising a popular online crowdfunding platform, the two said they were able to raise Rs. 50,000 within three days. As reported by The Hindu on April 5, Inspector Kumar, while performing duties related to his deployment as Night Checking Officer on March 27, came across a stream of migrant workers braving the rain to inch as close as they could to their hometowns in the dead of the night. Posted as Inspector Investigation at the local police station, Mr. Kumar tried but could not succeed in finding shelter for them given apprehensions related to the infectious nature of COVID-19 despite knocking on several doors. Over the next 12 hours, however, he was successful at utilising his failure for something better. Since then, the Sarita Vihar resident has overseen a community kitchen set up by him in his and the Kapoor siblings’ neighbourhood in the C block seeking to ensure that stranded migrant workers, out-of-work daily wagers or unemployed cobblers, watchmen, e-rickshaw drivers and housemaids among others residing at slum clusters such as Madanpur Khadar, the Mohan Cooperative Area or in the vicinity of the Jasola redlight do not go hungry.  ‘A continuous process’ “It is a continuous process; we have prepared a list of residents across such vocations and get calls asking what we are busy with if we are late,” Mr. Kumar said. The initiative, which began with the distribution of small food packets containing one orange, one banana and a packet of biscuits gradually had poori subzi added to it; now, Mr. Kumar also distributes dry ration kits. “These have 5kgs of aata, 1 kg each of rice, dal, oil, salt and one soap; what these kids have done is more than commendable. Every drop counts. We are now able to reach around 800 individuals per day and the number is gradually increasing ,” he said. Using crowdfunding to make a positive impact, Tarini and Ananya said, was a learning experience for them. “We are grateful to get the opportunity to serve our community in these tough times. The overwhelming support has motivated us to do more in the future,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/siblings-help-raise-fund-to-keep-inspectors-community-kitchen-going/article31371805.ece
18 April 2020||New Delhi,||College students seek help over rent payment||Malayali students’ group Maithry and Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), on Friday wrote to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, regarding the issue of students paying rent. Several students from various States, including Kerala and Northeast, had returned home during the mid-semester break due to which they were back home before lockdown, Maithry’s letter highlighted. However, many students received incessant calls from house owners, demanding rent for the last two months. However, several students were not in a position to pay rent as the lockdown had hit the livelihood of their parents. Laxmi, a first year student at Zakir Hussain College, said that she was required to pay around Rs. 14,000 for the last two months. It could go up to Rs. 21,000 if the lockdown continues. She said she could not afford it, as that the only source of income of her family is from a rented store, which is shut. Sneha, a third year student of Hindu College, who is still in Delhi revealed that many students were being forced to pay rent even though they were not residing at their accommodation. ABVP in a statement said: “Despite strict government instructions to forego involuntary rentals and untimely evictions until the pandemic subsides, violation of the directive has become common public knowledge.” It recommended a direct benefit transfer of a baseline amount to the accounts of resident students, as enforcing the rent order was improbable. Among other recommendations to the CM, in a memorandum, were setting up a helpline for counselling and fee waivers in State-run schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/college-students-seek-help-over-rent-payment/article31371800.ece
18 April 2020||New Delhi,||South body launches e-learning programme||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Friday launched an e-learning programme — Reach and Teach — for nearly two lakh students in it’s 600 primary schools. Under the programme, study material, including worksheets, videos and activities, will be sent to parents through WhatApp, voice calls and sms or other forms of communication available at their homes, the SDMC said, adding that multiple groups have been formed to prepare the study material. The programme will be monitored by the teachers who will assess its implementation by getting feedback from parents and students to ensure effectiveness, it said. Several NGOs have also been roped in to provide online training to teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/south-body-launches-e-learning-programme/article31371802.ece
18 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Unable to feed family, man found dead||A daily-wager who had been without a job for a month due to the lockdown was found dead in Saraswati Kunj, the police said on Friday. He was perturbed over not being able to feed his family, including four children, said his in-laws. His father-in-law said the painter had exhausted his savings. For the past few days, the family was dependent on food provided by the villagers. “Getting even one square meal a day was not a certainty. Sometimes we had to go without food,” said the father-in-law, who migrated from Bihar 20 years ago. His father-in-law had an accident six months ago and is unable to walk without support. Not able to arrange money, the daily-wager sold his phone worth around Rs. 10,000 to buy some ration and a small ceiling fan on Thursday. “He also handed over Rs. 400 in cash to his wife,” said his mother-in-law. Even before the lockdown, he did not have much work due to economic slowdown, the family said.. The father-in-law said they had to borrow around Rs. 5,000 from neighbours to arrange for the funeral.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/unable-to-feed-family-man-found-dead/article31371803.ece
18 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Laboratory workers allege non-payment of salaries||Several employees of a pathology laboratory in Sector 44 here have taken to Twitter seeking redress to their grievances after the company did not pay them salaries for March. The employees are all from the tele-sales team of Hindustan Wellness, who are engaged in selling preventive health check-up packages. Tagging media houses, Haryana CM and even the PMO, the employees said they were unable to pay their rents and meet other expensesdue to non-payment of salaries. The company’s spokesperson said they were a start-up struggling financially due to the lockdown and the salaries are deferred till June 15. “We have not laid off even a single employee. We have compensated majority of the staff and remaining will be paid in a staggered way over a period of next 2-3 months,” the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/laboratory-workers-allege-non-payment-of-salaries/article31371807.ece
18 April 2020||New Delhi,||Bidhuri writes to Kejriwal over issues in ration distribution||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to inform him about alleged problems related to distribution of ration here on Friday. The Delhi government had assured that poor people who applied for ration cards between 2015 and 2019 and who have a receipt for the application will also be given 5 kg of grain but even after showing the receipt of the application are not being given ration, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bidhuri-writes-to-kejriwal-over-issues-in-ration-distribution/article31371801.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Sunsets from Maldives: Tired of the same old view from your terrace or balcony? Head to Instagram for a live streaming of the sunset from Maldives, courtesy The Residence resorts. On Saturdays @theresidencemaldives and Wednesdays on @residencemaldivesdhigurah. From approximately 6.30 pm IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article31371811.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Design at home||With season staples like the Salone del Mobile being pushed to next year, and several other fairs, expos and conferences also cancelled, the design community has come to a grinding halt. To make up for this,Dezeen,a digital magazine, launched theVirtual Design Festivalon April 15, with a schedule that is on till June 20. Visit virtualdesignfestival.com. London Craft Week, which was set for April 27 to May 3, will run as an online event on the same dates with masterclasses, demos, studio and workshop tours. On londoncraftweek.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/design-at-home/article31371812.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||On a field trip||The love of sports has not waned during the lockdown. MS Dhoni Cricket Academy is offering Facebook Live classes for trainees, while Gen-Next Cricket Institute, mentored by R Ashwin, is providing coaching sessions with the off-break bowler himself. Great Goals, a Chennai-based sports academy, is sending a daily football tutorial to keep the players’ skills tuned. In addition, live Zoom classes are being conducted, with coaches and students in attendance. For ages five to 15. Details on greatgoalschennai.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/on-a-field-trip/article31371813.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Write to get published||There are book readings and free resources aplenty to keep kids occupied during the lockdown. But why not encourage them to write their own stories? The Scholastic Writing Awards, for Classes IV to IX, calls for short stories in English, in humour, horror, sci-fi/fantasy and adventure genres. The deadline is June 30. Details: swa.scholastic.co.in. For the adults, the CRAFT Short Fiction Prize, which closes for entries on April 30, allows international submissions up to 5,000 words. Register on craftliterary.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/write-to-get-published/article31371814.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Space escapades||The Hubble telescope explores the universe 24 hours a day, seven days a week. That means it has observed some fascinating cosmic wonders through the year, including on your birthday. Check out some cool space images: today, it is the globular star cluster, M79, located 41,000 light-years from Earth. NASA and the ISS National Lab have also developed programmes and activities for children, including a training programme to become a home astronaut, build a hovercraft and launch rockets. On nasa.gov||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/space-escapades/article31371815.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Today, our Instagram Live series is all about dogs! Rashi Narang, founder of pet accessory brand, Heads Up For Tails, will be in conversation with Aashish Mehrotra (@borktales on Instagram) and his two dogs, Heidi and Lucifer. Sama Ali, head designer at House of Kotwara, and her pack of around 10 dogs, will also join in for an interactive session. At 5 pm. Tomorrow at 5 pm, columnist Vasudha Rai will teach us how to create a home spa with ingredients from the kitchen. On Instagram, follow @thehinduweekend||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lockdownwithweekend/article31371816.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Singers unite||Canadian rappers Tory Lanez and Drake have broken the record for most Instagram Live viewers with over 3.1 lakh people tuned in at one point. Drake was a guest on Lanez’sQuarantine Radio, which earlier featured Megan Thee Stallion, Timbaland, Chris Brown and DMX. Follow @torylanez on Instagram for more episodes. Closer home, Sony Music South has launched a series called Veetla Concert . The lineup includes GV Prakash Kumar, Ghibran, Jonita Gandhi and Shashaa Tirupati. On all of Sony’s social media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/singers-unite/article31371817.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Lady Gaga and friends||One World: Together At Home is being curated by Lady Gaga for Global Citizen and the World Health Organization. While stars from India, including Priyanka Chopra Jonas and Shah Rukh Khan, are set to make an appearance, artistes Lisa Mishra and Vishal Mishra will be performing. Singers Meghan Trainor, Rod Stewart, Kristen Annie Bell and bands like Train, The Lumineers and others have been streaming live concerts on @glblctzn on Instagram in the run up. Tomorrow, on VOOT, Colors Infinity, Comedy Central and Vh1 India, from 5.30 am.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lady-gaga-and-friends/article31371818.ece
18 April 2020||April 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Public art: Despite the shelter at home advisory in place, some street artists have been defying orders. Rebel Bear depicted a couple in quarantine together, masks and all, in Glasgow. In Berlin, graffiti artist Eme Freethinker pictured Gollum saying, “My precious” to a roll of toilet paper. And anonymous street artist Banksy’s latest work reveals he has a pest problem — rats in his bathroom. The image is accompanied by the cheeky caption. “My wife hates it when I work from home.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article31371819.ece
