21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Speed of virus infections slows, doubling time rises in 18 States||Eighteen States and Union Territories have “shown improvement” in containing the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, with Odisha and Kerala leading the pile, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. These were States with a 'doubling time' (an indicator of how quickly cases increase) of more than 8.5 days which is higher that the national average of 7.5 days. This was due to effective measures taken to contain the spread of the virus, Joint Secretary in the Ministry Lav Agrawal said at the daily briefing. Kerala leads the list with a doubling rate of 72 days, followed at a considerable distance by Odisha at 39.8 days.  The Ministry confirmed 17,655 cases, with 14,255 active infections and 559 deaths on Monday. Reports from States show a jump of 1,214 new cases and 33 deaths in the past 24 hours. The nationwide death toll was 592, with 14, 913 active cases out of 18,509 confirmed COVID-19 infections. Maharashtra recorded 466 new positive cases, including 155 in Mumbai, taking the number of the infected people to 4,666, health officials said. With nine more patients succumbing to COVID-19, the death toll in the State rose to 232. Fewer cases However, the Ministry's figures on doubling eclipse the fact that these States account for only about 7,000 of India's overall COVID-19 count. On the other hand, just five States with a lower and hence faster doubling rate than the national average account for about 10,000 or about 60% of the case-load. As of Monday, Maharashtra had the highest number of cases at 4,666 and it reported a doubling of cases in six days. Gujarat’s 1,800 cases had doubled in 4.5 days and Madhya Pradesh with 1,407 cases had doubled in 5.5 days. These numbers are dynamic and liable to change everyday. The epidemic has affected 32 out of 36 States and UTs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/speed-of-virus-infections-slows-doubling-time-rises-in-18-states/article31392615.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,||As Centre frowns, Kerala steps back on easing curbs||Following the Centre’s strong objections to Kerala easing certain COVID-19 lockdown restrictions, the State government on Monday decided not to allow plying of buses in cities, opening of restaurants and pillion riding on two-wheelers. Responding to the Centre’s concerns, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Kerala was not at variance regarding adherence to guidelines on the national COVID-19 lockdown. In a letter to Kerala Chief Secretary Tom Jose, on Sunday, the Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla had said the State government had “diluted” the national timetable for the lifting of curfew sanctions and had “violated” Central government orders and provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The Centre had taken exception to Kerala’s decision to allow salons, dine-in facility at restaurants, workshops and book stores in districts categorised as relatively low-risk Green and Orange (B) zones. It had also objected to the opening of industrial units in municipal centres, public transportation, allowing more than two passengers in cars and permitting persons to ride pillion on two-wheelers. Mr. Bhalla had urged the State to rectify the guidelines and bring the State’s containment strategy in line with that of the Centre. New guidelines At his daily COVID-19 briefing, Mr. Vijayan announced a new set of guidelines that reflected the concerns raised by the Centre including a rescinding of the decision to reopen barbershops, allowing public transport or dine-in facilities in restaurants. He also announced stricter restrictions on mobility and banned pillion riders and more than two persons in cars. Mr. Vijayan said Kerala had witnessed an influx of citizens into public places on Monday. As the threat of resurgence and new flare-ups loomed large, the State could ill afford to lower its guard. Mr. Vijayan said the State was not in disagreement with the Centre. The State’s containment measures have to reflect regional realities. The Centre has given States some latitude in making tactical arrangements. “Kerala is in touch with the Centre constantly. We had sought the Centre’s consent to implement certain measures differently to suit regional requirements. There is no Centre-State dispute or any scope for disagreement,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/as-centre-frowns-kerala-steps-back-on-easing-curbs/article31392610.ece
21 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Police detain 59 for violence over quarantine round-up||The J.J. Nagar police have registered five FIRs and arrested 59 people for allegedly instigating residents and attacking the police when they arrived on Sunday night along with BBMP officials to take secondary contacts of a deceased COVID-19 patient into quarantine. BBMP commissioner B. H. Anil Kumar said the violence had erupted almost an hour after civic officials had left the ward, adding that none of the BBMP’s personnel had been injured. As many as 500 police personnel have been deployed in the ward, which had been sealed and barricaded on April 10 along with a neighbouring ward after a spurt in the number of positive cases. On Sunday night, a BBMP team went to the neighbourhood to take secondary contacts of the deceased patient into institutional quarantine. However, a group of residents in the area started protesting claiming that they had not been informed of the move, and demanded to speak to their MLA. “They stopped the BBMP team claiming that they were not getting enough food and essentials as the area had been sealed,” said a senior police officer. The situation became increasingly tense as residents started protesting. The police said that a group of people used the confusion to damage police checkposts and the barricades used to seal the area. They stopped officials, allegedly assaulted them, pelted stones and ransacked the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-detain-59-for-violence-over-quarantine-round-up/article31392608.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Locals protest burial of doctor’s body||In a shocking repeat of what happened when a doctor from Andhra Pradesh died of COVID-19 a week ago, a mob attacked a group of persons, including doctors, during the burial a neurosurgeon who died after he tested positive for COVID-19 in a private hospital on Sunday. The body of the 55-year-old doctor who heads a private hospital on Poonamallee High Road, was shifted from the private hospital to Chennai Corporation’s burial ground near Kilpauk on Sunday night. However, residents quickly gathered and protested. Drama at midnight “The Chennai Corporation staff had made all arrangements, and accompanied us from the private hospital to the burial ground. However, on reaching the spot, we found that around 200 persons had gathered and started to protest. Police were at the spot. The Corporation officials said we should go to another burial ground in Anna Nagar (Velangadu). We reached the burial ground and an earthmover was engaged for digging the pit. As per norms, only a few of us, including doctors and family members, gathered for the burial,” Pradeep Kumar, a consultant arthroscopy surgeon, said. “Suddenly, some 50 to 60 persons began to attack us. They started to hurl stones and sticks at us. There were about seven to eight Corporation staff at the spot. We had to flee the spot. Some of us were bleeding. The windshield of the hospital ambulance was damaged by the attackers. We drove back in the same vehicle,” Dr. Kumar said. At around 11.30 p.m., the ambulance reached Kilpauk and Dr. Kumar along with two ward boys of the hospital decided to go back. “I wore the personal protective equipment and drove back in the ambulance. Police personnel were at the spot. The earthmover operator had also fled. We buried the doctor and closed the pit on our own. Our ward boys and police helped,” he said. An ambulance driver, who was injured in the attack, said he received four stitches on his head at the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital. An ambulance driver, who was injured in the attack, said he received four stitches on his head at the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, while a colleague received six stitches, also for a head injury. Additional Commissioner of Police (South) Prem Anand Sinha said some locals threw stones, damaging the ambulance. A team led by Kilpauk Deputy Commissioner of Police chased the attackers. The body was buried around 1.30 a.m. amid tight security, he said. The Anna Nagar police arrested 21 persons, including a woman, for rioting and attempt to murder. They were booked under Sections 332 (Voluntarily causing hurt to deter a public servant from his duty), 307 (Attempt to murder), 147 (Punishment for rioting), 148 (Rioting, armed with a deadly weapon) and provisions of the Tamil Nadu Property (Prevention of Damage and Loss) Act. All 20 were remanded in judicial custody, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/locals-protest-burial-of-doctors-body/article31392601.ece
21 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Two more COVID deaths in Telangana even as 14 test positive||The spike in the number of coronavirus (Covid-19) positive cases in the State is continuing with 14 more persons testing positive to the virus in the State on Monday. The State witnessed two more deaths taking the total number of casualties since the outbreak of the pandemic to 23. The total number of COVID positive cases touched 872 with 12 active cases added from GHMC area and one each from Medchal and Nizamabad during the day. The total number of active cases, according to the bulletin issued by the Public Health and Family Welfare department, stood at 663 and the number of people discharged after being treated/cured from different hospitals remained at 186. One among the two people who died is a 35-year-old woman who was also suffering from stage-IV cancer. Another is a 72-year-old man who was diagnosed with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). He died within six-hours of admission. The department had asked the people to adhere to the lockdown guidelines and stay indoors. Staying indoors would be the best prevention strategy and people could contact 104 in case of any doubts or queries pertaining to COVID-9, the department said. Pointing out that Telangana is yet to receive 1,000 ventilators, Health Minister Eatala Rajender requested Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey to provide the equipment at the earliest. Mr Rajender told Mr Choubey over phone that the State has not received the required number of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and N-95 masks. Stating that the State is procuring the PPE kits and N-95 masks at high cost, he said that the burden will decrease if the Centre provides it. Meanwhile, the government has issued an order banning collection of samples from dead bodies to test for coronavirus . Officials from the Telangana Health department stated that though the instructions were issued earlier, it was not followed strictly. District Medical and Health Officers (DMHO) were once again instructed not to collect samples from dead bodies for tests. Sources said that if anybody who died is suspected to have contracted coronavirus, they will be cremated as per guidelines. “Their family members will be quarantined,” the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-more-covid-deaths-in-telangana-even-as-14-test-positive/article31392850.ece
21 April 2020||Tharun Boda,||COVID tally goes up to 722 as State records 75 new cases||The State breached the 700-mark in the number of COVID-19 positive cases with 75 new ones reported in the last 24 hours in seven districts, taking the tally to 722. Incidentally, it is the highest number of cases reported in a single day so far. The death toll has gone up to 20 with more persons succumbing to the viral disease, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department on Monday. Anantapur, Krishna and Kurnool districts reported one each death. Chittoor district has witnessed a spike with 25 fresh cases and the total number of cases in the district doubled in just a day. Guntur district reported 20 cases and Kurnool district reported 16 cases. Krishna district reported five fresh cases, while Anantapur has reported four, Kadapa three and East Godavari two cases. So far, Kurnool has reported 174 cases and Guntur 149, and together they account for 45 % of the total cases in the State. They are followed by Krishna (80), Nellore (67), Chittoor (53), Prakasam (44), Kadapa (40), West Godavari (35), Anantapur (33), East Godavari (26) and Visakhapatnam (21). 27 discharged Meanwhile, 27 persons, including 15 in Guntur, 10 in Krishna and two in Visakhapatnam have recovered and have been discharged. Of the 610 active cases in the State, Visakhapatnam has only three. The government has tested 3,775 samples in the past 24 hours, and the total number of samples tested so far has reached 30,733. Distribution of masks Meanwhile, the government began distribution of masks to the citizens as promised. Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (MEPMA) State manager K. Sakunthala handed over 10, 000 masks made by women of Self Help Groups (SHGs) to the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-tally-goes-up-to-722-as-state-records-75-new-cases/article31392602.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. not to relax lockdown||Forty-three persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Monday. The State now has a total of 1,520 cases, of which 1,406 are active. The total number of deaths stands at 17. Keeping the current scenario in mind, the Tamil Nadu government announced that the COVID-19 lockdown would continue to be enforced till May 3 without any further relaxation. The decision also meant that there would not be a relaxation for any industry in the State except for the essential services already notified. The decision not to grant any relaxation from the lockdown was made during a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority, of which Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami is the chairperson. The SDMA also considered the views of the 21-member expert committee, tasked with formulating an exit strategy. The SDMA felt that the lockdown needed to go on without any fresh relaxation in the prevailing conditions. “Since containment efforts against the spread of COVID-19 were required to be intensified,” the lockdown would continue till May 3, an official release stated. “Exemptions granted by the government for essential works and services would continue,” it specified and went on to state that “if the severity of the spread of COVID-19 declined, decisions would be taken after receiving the report from the expert committee.” Officials present at the meeting also cited the decisions taken by governments of Delhi, Karnataka, Punjab, Telangana, Maharashtra and Gujarat to continue with the lockdown in their respective States. On Monday evening, the State government issued a G.O. to the effect that all restrictions mentioned in the Revenue Department G.O. dated March 25 (G.O. No. 193) would prevail and the eventual G.O. issued on April 15 (G.O. No. 172) would not be applicable in Tamil Nadu. "On April 15, the State government merely endorsed all the guidelines issued by the Centre, which allowed select activities that were to be allowed after April 20. The fresh G.O. will not allow those activities," sources said. Since the lockdown had been imposed under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the SDMA was to decide on whether to continue with it. Though members of the expert panel and senior officials from the Health Department were not part of the SDMA, they attended the meeting as special invitees. Though the expert committee was constituted to generate suggestions on the way forward after April 20 and the "strategy to take measures in the post-lockdown period", there was no talk on the latter. "On Monday morning, the immediate issue to be considered was to decide on relaxation, which was not difficult to take. With the prevailing conditions, it was an open and shut case. But, as for post-lockdown [after May 3], there has not been any talk and it will be decided later," a senior official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-not-to-relax-lockdown/article31392689.ece
21 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||No room for complacency: CM||Despite the exemplary manner in which Kerala’s health system has managed COVID-19 transmission, containment and mitigation, the State is much vulnerable to a resurgence of the disease once lockdown ends and an influx of Keralites from across the country and abroad ensues, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. At his media briefing on Monday, he sought to dispel the notion amongst the public that Kerala was in a safe shore now. The days ahead would be hectic and there was no room for the slightest of complacency, he said. Mr. Vijayan gave a wrap-up of the State’s tryst with COVID-19 so far. “The State has much to be happy about. We have the lowest COVID-19 mortality rate of 0.58% against the national average of 2.83% and the global rate of 5.75%. Among the States, we have the highest testing rate. We moved for plasma therapy first; passed the Epidemic Diseases Act; set up 38 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals in all districts. We have identified over 1.3 lakh beds, nearly 8,000 ICU beds, and 2,400-odd ventilators in both public and private sectors. We have also made arrangements to quarantine over two lakh people,” he said. The fact that the State’s health system managed to cure eight COVID-19-positive foreign nationals, many of whom were in the vulnerable age group and had severe illnesses, was a testimony to the system’s efficiency. On Monday, Kerala reported six new positive cases while 21 patients who were undergoing treatment entered the recovery list. All six cases are reported from Kannur, five of whom had returned from abroad while one had contracted the disease through contact with an imported case. Of the 407 COVID-19 cases so far, 114 are undergoing treatment. Virology institute Mr. Vijayan said the Institute of Advanced Virology (IAV) in the capital had won the membership of Global Virus Network (GVN), the first institution in the country to do so. This would enable IAV to link with GVN researchers across 29 countries for academic interactions and exchanges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-room-for-complacency-cm/article31392911.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU donation for PMNRF sent to PM-CARES||After an appeal for donations to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) from the University Grants Commission and Delhi University, one-day salary of DU staff was deducted for this purpose. However, DU Vice-Chancellor Yogesh Tyagi has now said that the collected money — amounting to more than Rs. 4 crore — was sent to the PM-CARES Fund instead. The change was made on the directions of the Ministry of Human Resource Development, according to a senior DU official. “After the DU registrar’s appeal had gone out, we subsequently received a communication from the MHRD, and were asked to send the money to PM-CARES,” the official, who confirmed that Rs. 4.04 crore had been transferred to the new fund, told The Hindu . Outrage over transfer “There should not be any misleading from official sources,” said Mithuraaj Dhusiya, an assistant professor at Hans Raj College. “Why was it suddenly changed? And if it was changed, then at the very least, staff should have been informed so that we are aware of where our money is going,” he added. With a number of staff expressing outrage over the shift, the Delhi University Te-achers’ Association wrote to the V-C on Monday, objecting to the “acts of misdirection”. “Historically, we have provided financial assistance to the PMNRF or Chief Minister’s Relief Fund either through local Staff Associations or through the Vice Chancellor’s Relief Fund (as in the present case),” DUTA said in a letter. “This has efficiently worked out most times because of trust and transparency between the employee, college and the university,” the association added. “It is unacceptable that an appeal is made by the university for contributions under one head (PMNRF) and in reality the contribution is submitted to another head (PM-CARES). Such acts of misdirection shake our faith in the professional working of the university.” The original appeal for contributions for COVID-19 relief was sent by UGC chairman D.P. Singh on March 28. The following day, DU’s acting registrar sent a letter to all university departments and colleges, asking them “to submit their contributions to Vice-Chancellor’s Relief Fund for making a consolidated contribution to the PMNRF”. However, a letter from the V-C to university alumni, posted on DU website, states: “The faculty and staff of all departments and constituent colleges of the university have collectively contributed their one day’s salary to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/du-donation-for-pmnrf-sent-to-pm-cares/article31392788.ece
21 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Sea escape from Chennai ends in quarantine in Andhra Pradesh||Twenty-seven migrant workers — 10 from Odisha and 17 from Andhra Pradesh — made a daring five-day sea journey in a fishing boat from Chennai to dodge the continuing lockdown and reach their homes. They travelled around 1,000 km in the Bay of Bengal, but ended up in the hands of waiting officials. On receiving information about this group, the administrations of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh were keeping track of its movement. On Monday morning, their boat was brought to the coast at Donkuru, in Andhra Pradesh, around 35 km from Berhampur in Odisha. According to Ganjam District Collector Vijay Amruta Kulange all the workers have been quarantined in Andhra Pradesh.  Sources said they were working in different factories in Chennai and had been unable to return home due to the lockdown. Their factories had closed. Most of them belonged to the fisherman community. They pooled their savings to buy a fishing boat for Rs. 1.6 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sea-escape-from-chennai-ends-in-quarantine-in-andhra-pradesh/article31392786.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||J&K police file FIR on The Hindu report||Describing a report headlined “ Kin allowed to exhume bodies of militants in Baramulla” published by The Hindu on April 19 as “fake news,” the Jammu and Kashmir police have registered an FIR in the matter.  The Hindu’s correspondent in Srinagar, Peerzada Ashiq, was called for questioning by the Cyber Police in Srinagar on Sunday and then again on the same evening by the Anantnag police before being permitted to return home. “The details quoted in the news item were factually incorrect and could cause fear or alarm in the minds of public. The news published without seeking confirmation from the district authorities,” a J&K police release said on Saturday. An FIR (No. 81/2020) was registered in relation to the news item at the Anantnag police station, the release added.  The Hindu’s report was based on a quote from the uncle of a slain militant, Ghulam Nabi Magray. However, contrary to what he conveyed to the reporter, no permission for exhumation of the bodies had been given. Apparently, the families had misconstrued grant of a movement/curfew pass as sanction for exhumation. The report also said, “Yasin Choudhary, Deputy Commissioner, Shopian, was not available for his comment.” No rejoinder/clarification was received by the newspaper prior to the registration of the FIR either from the police or from the information department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jk-police-file-fir-on-the-hindu-report/article31392611.ece
21 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Change of guard at Gandhi Hospital||An important change of guard was made on Monday at Gandhi Hospital, the biggest COVID-19 Isolation facility in Telangana . Dr P Shravan Kumar, superintendent of the government hospital was shifted from the post and given the charge of coordinator of 34 COVID-19 centres in the State. Professor of General Medicine from the tertiary care centre, Dr M Raja Rao, was given full additional charge as superintendent of Gandhi Hospital. Mr Rao is one of the doctors who has been in the front line providing medical services to COVID-19 patients admitted to isolation wards there. Mr Rao is also principal investigator of clinical trials on Convalescent Plasma Therapy to be taken up in the State. Officials from the Health department said that as Dr Shravan Kumar has experience in managing a hospital dedicated for COVID-19, his services will be used to coordinate with all COVID-19 centres in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/change-of-guard-at-gandhi-hospital/article31392844.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vijay Mallya loses U.K. High Court appeal||The High Court of Justice in the U.K. on Monday dismissed the appeal of businessman Vijay Mallya against a lower court’s order for his extradition to India in connection with the IDBI Bank fraud case. The High Court did not find any merit in the objections raised by Mr. Mallya to the senior district judge’s findings on December 10, 2018, that a prima facie case was made out against him on account of misrepresentation to the bank in securing credit facilities, conspiracy and money laundering. Mr. Mallya has 14 days to apply for permission to appeal to the U.K. Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vijay-mallya-loses-uk-high-court-appeal/article31392612.ece
21 April 2020||HUBBALLI,||Five media persons in home quarantine||Five media persons belonging to different media houses working in Hubballi have voluntarily confined themselves to home quarantine as a precautionary measure as they had visited a place where one of the COVID-19 positive patient in Hubballi worked. Their health condition is good and stable, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-media-persons-in-home-quarantine/article31392822.ece
21 April 2020||DHARWAD,||Two workers go missing||Two migrant workers who were temporarily housed in a government hostel here following the lockdown orders have gone missing since Sunday night. According to a release, Surendra Patiram (24) and Ramveer Kamal from Madhya Pradesh were lodged in the hostel in Saptapur area here on March 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-workers-go-missing/article31392821.ece
21 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Eighteen new COVID-19 cases in Karnataka||Eighteen new COVID-19 cases were detected in the State on Monday, taking the total positive cases to 408. All the new cases are from North Karnataka — 11 from Vijayapura, five from Kalaburagi, and one each from Gadag and Bidar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eighteen-new-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka/article31392650.ece
21 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Kerala residents refused entry into home State||Twelve Kerala residents, who tested negative after 28-day quarantine at two facilities in Bengaluru, were recently denied entry back into their home State. They are back in the quarantine facility now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kerala-residents-refused-entry-into-home-state/article31392649.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Two Bangladeshis in custody test positive||Two of the 11 Bangla-deshi nationals, who were arrested on charges of violating visa conditions and remanded in judicial custody, have tested positive for COVID-19.The entire group that was lodged in the Borstal School in Puzhal prison complex,was shifted to the Stanley Government Hospital, police sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-bangladeshis-in-custody-test-positive/article31392692.ece
21 April 2020||New Delhi,||Two deaths, 78 new COVID-19 cases in Delhi||Two deaths and 78 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Monday, taking the toll of dead to 47 and the total cases to 2,081. Five more areas have been declared containment zones, taking the total to 84.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-deaths-78-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi/article31392782.ece
21 April 2020||Patna,||Probe ordered into travel pass issued to BJP MLA||The Bihar government on Monday ordered a probe into how a pass was issued to a BJP MLA to bring his ward back from Kota in Rajasthan to Nawada during lockdown. The local administration of Nawada had issued a travel pass from April 16 to 25 to Hisua MLA Anil Kumar Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/probe-ordered-into-travel-pass-issued-to-bjp-mla/article31392784.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Arrests in Jamia, Delhi riots impartial: police||The Delhi police on Monday said the arrests made in connection with Jamia violence and north-east Delhi riots were impartial and based on evidence. “...Delhi Police has done its job sincerely and impartially. All the arrests made have been based on scientific and forensic evidence,” stated a tweet by Delhi Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/arrests-in-jamia-delhi-riots-impartial-police/article31392783.ece
21 April 2020||Coimbatore,||Coimbatore Corporation to buy spraying machines||Coimbatore Corporation will buy five new machines to spray disinfectants to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the city. A machine costs Rs. 20 lakh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/coimbatore-corporation-to-buy-spraying-machines/article31392731.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Two pilgrims test positive for COVID-19||Two women, who were among a group of 127 people who recently went to Varanasi on a pilgrimage, have reportedly tested positive for COVID-19. The pilgrims — mostly senior citizens — from Tamil Nadu were quarantined soon after arriving in Tiruvallur district from Uttar Pradesh last Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-pilgrims-test-positive-for-covid-19/article31392732.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Decision on SSLC exam schedule after May 3’||School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said the decision on SSLC exam schedule will be taken after the lockdown ends on May 3. Students might have to face a tighter exam schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decision-on-sslc-exam-schedule-after-may-3/article31392691.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pay Rs. 7,500 to the poor: Cong.||The Congress consultative group on COVID-19 headed by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh suggested, after a virtual meeting on Monday, that the Central government immediately transfer Rs. 7,500 to every Jan Dhan account and beneficiaries of the PM Kisan scheme and other pension schemes of the Rural Development Ministry. The Congress group, of which former party chief Rahul Gandhi and former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram are members, will submit a detailed report to the government on the revival of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) as well as streamlining the procurement process of crops such as wheat, mustard and gram. Addressing the media through video conferencing, former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh said the group would meet every alternate day and also discuss a smooth transition out of the lockdown on May 4. “Right now, the most urgent thing in the country is cash transfer, as people have to survive. People’s livelihoods have been destroyed, lakhs and lakhs of families need immediate assistance. We are not talking about assistance for the next three months, but today, tomorrow, the next few weeks,” he said. “I think a compassionate government, a sensitive government or a responsive government must and can find the resources for Rs. 7,500 direct transfer to the three accounts that I have just mentioned. It’s not a question of whether we can find the funds, we must find the funds,” Mr. Ramesh added. Apart from the Jan Dhan accounts, he said that by directly transferring cash to beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Samman Nidhi (PM Kisan) and old age, widow and handicapped persons’ pension schemes, all the needy rural households would be covered. The Congress Working Committee (CWC) will be meeting on Thursday to discuss the pandemic and lockdown situation. This will be the second CWC through video conferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pay-rs-7500-to-the-poor-cong/article31392531.ece
21 April 2020||PUNE,||Maharashtra reports 466 new cases, 9 deaths||The upward surge in the numbers of new COVID-19 positive cases in Maharashtra continued with the State reporting 466 cases and nine deaths on Monday. The cumulative tally rose to 4,666 cases, and the death toll stands at 232. Seven of these deaths were reported from Mumbai city, while two more were reported from Malegaon in Nashik. Malegaon had reported four fatalities on Sunday. With these deaths, Nashik’s toll stands at eight. 308 in Mumbai Meanwhile, 308 of the 466 new cases were reported from Mumbai city alone, as the city’s tally crossed the 3,000 mark to reach 3,032 with 139 deaths. The State has reported more than 1,600 new cases over a five-day period. Pune district witnessed another spurt in fresh cases, reporting as many as 52 positive cases to take the district’s tally to 663, with 51 of these being reported from Pimpri-Chinchwad.  The cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), excluding Mumbai city, continued to mount steadily as well, with Vasai-Virar recording a jump in 21 new cases to take its tally to 107, while Thane district reported 24 fresh cases to take its tally to 154 and Kalyan-Dombivli reported a further 15 cases to reach 84. A further 11 cases were reported from Navi Mumbai, taking the area’s tally to 83 positive cases.  At least 53 mediapersons from Mumbai have tested positive for coronavirus, a city civic official said on Monday. During a special camp organised at the Azad Maidan here on April 16 and 17 for COVID-19 testing of scribes, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) collected swab samples of 171 mediapersons, including electronic and print media journalists, photographers and cameramen. “Out of the 171 mediapersons, 53 tested positive for coronavirus,” BMC spokesperson Vijay Khabale said, adding that most of those who tested positive were asymptomatic at present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-reports-466-new-cases-9-deaths/article31392555.ece
21 April 2020||New Delhi,||Central teams to monitor situation in 4 States||The Union Home Ministry rushed six teams led by senior bureaucrats to West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra to ensure that the lockdown measures are implemented strictly by their governments. The country is under lockdown till May 3 in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. A Ministry spokesperson said violation of the lockdown measures posed a serious health hazard to the public and risked a spread of the infection. He said the situation was serious in Indore, Jaipur, Mumbai and Pune. In West Bengal, Kolkata, Howrah, Medinipur East, 24 Parganas North, Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Jalpaiguri districts had troubling situations, he noted. A Ministry order listed the violations by the States: incidents of violence on front line healthcare professionals; complete violation of social distancing norms outside banks, PDS shops, market places; and movement of private and commercial vehicles with passengers in urban areas. The Centre has constituted six Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCT) — led by an official of Additional Secretary rank and including public health specialists — under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 to make on-the-spot assessment of the situation, issue necessary directions to the State authorities and submit reports. Mamata’s objection West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Twitter that the Centre’s decision was not consistent with the spirit of federalism. “We welcome all constructive support and suggestions, especially from the Central Govt in negating the #Covid19 crisis. However, the basis on which the Centre is proposing to deploy IMCTs in select districts across India including a few in WB under Disaster Mgmt Act 2005 is unclear.. I urge both Honb’le Prime Minister @NarendraModi Ji & Home Minister @AmitShah Ji to share the criterion used for this. Until then I am afraid, we would not be able to move ahead on this as without valid reasons this might not be consistent with the spirit of federalism,” she tweeted. She has also written a letter to the Prime Minister on the issue. When asked about her objection, an MHA representative at Monday’s media briefing, said, “The purpose is to provide support and assistance to the States in their endeavour to combat COVID-19. The teams have been carefully constituted so that support can be provided from the health, administrative and disaster management aspects. The States will benefit.” The Ministry order said the logistic support, accommodation, local transportation and personal protective equipment (PPE) and access to documents and records should be provided by the State governments. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla has also written to all States and Union Territories (UTs) asking them to strictly comply with the MHA guidelines and ensure their implementation without any dilution. On April 15, the Ministry revised its guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, to allow the States to decide on the additional public activities to be allowed from April 20 in non-hotspot zones. It said the additional facilities should be based on strict compliance with the existing guidelines. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-teams-to-monitor-situation-in-4-states/article31392565.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC seeks full refund for air fares||A petition was filed on Monday seeking directions that airline companies should fully refund tickets cancelled due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The petition filed by the Pravasi Legal Cell has also challenged an April 16 office memorandum (OM) of the Civil Aviation Ministry which covers only the refund of tickets booked during the lockdown period. The OM leaves out the vast majority of passengers who booked tickets before the flights were banned due to the lockdown. “There is no question of anyone booking a ticket during the lockdown period knowing the fact that schedule passenger flights were cancelled for period of travel. This makes the Office Memorandum of the Ministry of Civil Aviation ambiguous and devoid of any logic. The office memorandum is in clear violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution in so far as directing the airlines to provide full refund of ticket amount only if the ticket is booked during the lockdown period for travel during the lockdown, which amounts to treating equals unequally,” the petition contended. Credit shell It said the office memorandum indirectly approves the practice of airlines providing credit shell for booking effected before the lockdown, though the same clearly violates the refund rules of the Directorate-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). “Airlines, instead of providing the full refund of the amount collected for the tickets due to cancellation, are providing a credit shell, valid up to one year, which is in clear violation of the Civil Aviation Requirement of May 2008 issued by the DGCA,” the petition said. 2008 order It said the DGCA clearly required that “the option of holding the refund amount in credit shell by the airlines shall be the prerogative of the passenger and not a default practice of the airline.” The May 2008 DGCA requirement mandates that refunds should be done within seven days from date of cancellation in case of credit card payments. In case of cash payment, the ticket refund should be made immediately. ‘Harsh on passengers’ On the other hand, the April 16 Memorandum allows airlines 30 days after receiving a passenger’s request for a refund. “Airline companies, instead of showing humanitarian virtues, are rather seeing these challenging times as an opportunity to extract unlawful gains from the people who are already in misery due to uncertainties. That the present policy is extremely harsh on the ordinary passengers who booked tickets in advance for travelling,” the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-sc-seeks-full-refund-for-air-fares/article31392578.ece
21 April 2020||Ahmedabad,||Gujarat records 8 deaths, 196 cases on single day||Gujarat on Monday recorded 196 COVID-19 cases and eight deaths, pushing the numbers of cases to 1,939 and death toll to 71. Monday also saw 26 patients getting discharged after recovery, making it the largest single-day recovery. So far, 131 people have recovered and been discharged. However, 19 patients are critical and on ventilator support while the rest 1,718 are stable and under treatment. The critical patients include a senior Congress leader from Ahmedabad and municipal councillor Badaruddin Sheikh, who is on ventilator. Ahmedabad remains top on the curve in infections and deaths. So far, 1,248 people have been found infected. Of them, 38 have succumbed to the disease while 49 have been discharged after recovery. Surat turns a cluster Surat has emerged as another cluster with rapid surge in cases — 269 until now. Of them, 10 have died and 11 discharged. According to the Health department, the deceased are mostly those with comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension or other disease. The State has so far tested 33,316 samples. Of them, 1,939 have tested positive for COVID-19. The government has given permission to three private hospitals in Ahmedabad to admit and treat the infected after a surge in number of cases, requiring additional beds and medical infrastructure, including doctors. The three hospitals are Narayani Hrudayalay, Sterling Hospital and HCG Hospital. So far, the patients were admitted to the Civil Hospital, the SPV hospital and others run by the Municipal Corporation. According to sources, as the cases rise, the State will allow private hospitals to admit and treat COVID-19 patients in other cities as well. The State government has also extended curfew till April 24 in parts of Ahmedabad and Surat as the containment strategy for hotspots. In another decision aimed at smooth operations in hospitals and to oversee measures for lockdown and containment, the government has deputed eight senior IAS officials from the Secretariat to the fields in Ahmedabad and Surat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-records-8-deaths-196-cases-on-single-day/article31392547.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Aarogya Setu app must for labourers, says CPWD||Central government organisations involved in construction, including various metro rail corporations, were instructed by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) to ensure that “all labour personnel/staff” returning to work from Monday have downloaded the government’s COVID-19 tracking app — Aarogya Setu. The advisory comes as the Union Home Ministry has relaxed some restrictions from Monday, including for construction activity under certain conditions. On Sunday, the Ministry issued an order allowing stranded migrant workers to return to their workplaces within the State they are located in, provided they are asymptomatic. Ahead of the resumption of construction work, a video-conference was held on April 17 by the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry with the CPWD, metro rail corporations, and the National Capital Region Transport Corporation and NBCC (India), formerly the National Buildings Construction Corporation. Pre-conditions According to the minutes of the meeting circulated on April 19, one of the “action points” that organisations were asked to implement was: “Every organisation should ensure that all labour personnel/staff get Aarogya Setu app downloaded on their mobile, when he/she resumes work.” The organisations were also asked to make sure there is no resumption of work in coronavirus containment zones and only workers still present at the camps should be asked to return to work at a particular site. Standard operating procedures, such as those issued by the National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO) for private developers, taking into account the advice of the Health and Family Welfare and Home Ministries should be prepared and followed, the organisations were told. Nod from States Niranjan Hiranandani, the president of NAREDCO, told The Hindu that while the real estate developers and the Home Ministry had agreed on activity resuming where workers are living on site, State governments, like Maharashtra, were yet to give their approval. He added that some government projects, like the metro rail, had seen a resumption of work. Workers restive Mr. Hiranandani said that while he understood the challenge before the government, there was a possibility that workers living on sites since the lockdown began on March 25 may start leaving. “We are providing them with food and conducting temperature checks, but workers are fed up. They want to work,” he said. Chandan Kumar of the Working People’s Charter, which works with unorganised sector workers, said the government’s welfare measures for construction workers seemed “utopian and impractical”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aarogya-setu-app-must-for-labourers-says-cpwd/article31392567.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army issues guidelines on rejoining||All Army personnel from Nepal and presently on leave there are to remain at their home stations till the COVID-19 situation in the neighbouring nation stabilises and the government opens the border for movement of personnel, Army sources said on Monday. These are part of the broad guidelines issued by the Army for those rejoining from leave, temporary duty and courses. Requisite instructions would accordingly be passed to such personnel from their parent units, headquarters or establishments, the sources said. Conference postponed Separately, the Unified Commanders Conference (UCC), which was scheduled to be held on April 22 and 23 has been postponed, defence sources said. The UCC is an annual event chaired by the Defence Minister and attended by the three Service Chiefs and senior officers of the Services and the Defence Ministry in addition to the Minister of State for Defence, the Chief of Defence Staff and the National Security Advisor. The sources stated that the overall guidelines for rejoining have been planned in a phased manner considering the number of individuals rejoining and the requirement for smooth reporting, quarantine and onward dispersal to units. The instructions state that personnel will rejoin only on receipt of specific instructions from unit, formation or establishment that has granted leave or temporary duty. Any individual whose leave station is within 500 km of the unit or duty station is allowed to directly report to the unit using private transport only, while individuals who are beyond the 500-km criteria will report to nearest unit, station headquarter in private vehicle only. The Army has also stated that orders for reporting do not apply to ‘hotspots, containment zones’. Individuals in hotspots and containment zones would follow strict 'No Movement' till the areas were denotified as containment zones. The sources said all personnel in the Army would be classified as Green, Yellow and Red. Those who have completed 14 days of quarantine would be classified as Green, those who need to undergo 14 days quarantine as Yellow and those symptomatic, requiring isolation and further treatment in COVID-19 hospitals, as Red. As per instructions, the first priority for rejoining is for all ranks of the Northern Command and all Army medical, dental and Military Nursing Services personnel, as well as other personnel with the unit or duty stations within 500 km and can reach by private transport. The next priority is for all ranks of the Eastern Command.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-issues-guidelines-on-rejoining/article31392570.ece
21 April 2020||Srinagar,||Bandipora emerges as J&K’s hotspot after cases rise to 91||Bandipora district in J&K has emerged as the Valley’s hotspot for the novel coronavirus cases, with the count touching 91 on Monday, forcing the authorities to carry out rapid antigen tests (RAT). A government spokesman said 18 cases tested positive in the Kashmir division taking the number to 368. “Bandipora has 91 positive cases, the highest in the UT, followed by Srinagar with 79,” the official said. Bandipora’s Hajin tehsil is the worst affected after the mysterious death of Ghulam Nabi Mir, 54, was reported on April 7. With no travel history or contact with a positive case, the fruit dealer died just within a day of his admission at the Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) hospital here. A large population — official figures suggest over 16% — of the hamlet Gund Jahangir and its surrounding areas have been put under quarantine, after there was no let up in cases. “We have imposed complete restrictions on the movement of people. Door-to-door survey is being conducted. The people who belong to the vulnerable age group are being sensitised and educated to take precautions,” an official said. The seven positive cases from Bandipora include six members of a family, three of them brothers, from the Gund Jahangir area. Deputy Commissioner, Bandipora, Shahbaz Ahmad Mirza said samples of 870 persons were taken for testing of which 683 reported negative while 91 reported positive. “The result of 96 tests is awaited.” Of the 27,114 persons screened in 12 Red Zones (population of 48,969), Mr. Mirza said 543 persons were put under administrative quarantine while 3,776 persons are under home quarantine and are being regularly monitored. He said: “So far 31 dedicated screening teams of health experts in 12 Red Zones of Hajin, Naidkhai, Gund Jahangeer, SK Bala, Batagund, Chandeergeer, Madwan, Hakbara, Kunan, Gund Qaiser, Gund Dachina, Nowgam and Bonakoot, have screened 27,114 persons in a continuing process.” Mr. Mirza said after receiving the Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits, the medical staff have also started conducting the tests at the doorstep of the people in the Red Zones. “41 RAT tests were conducted in the district on Monday, including 25 in Gund Jahangeer and Hajin while 16 were conducted in Bandipora town,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bandipora-emerges-as-jks-hotspot-after-cases-rise-to-91/article31392552.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||No plan for GST relief for key medical items: Centre||The Centre does not plan to provide an exemption from paying Goods and Services Tax (GST) for key medical items such as ventilators, sanitisers, COVID-19 diagnostic test kits, masks and other protective equipment. Exempting GST would increase manufacturing costs without helping the consumer much, and would also incentivise import of such items from China, official sources said. Currently, sanitisers are taxed at 18%, while ventilators and test kits are taxed at 12%. Masks attract 5% GST. This comes after a number of demands for tax exemptions, including a tweet by Congress MP Rahul Gandhi on Monday, asking that all equipment related to the the treatment of COVID-19 patients should be GST-free. “It is wrong to collect GST on sanitisers, soaps, masks, gloves etc. from the people who are suffering from poverty,” he tweeted, using the hashtag #GSTFreeCorona. However, government sources say that such a move could be counterproductive. Basic customs duty and health cess have been exempted on most of these items till September. As GST is a value added tax collected on net basis at each stage of the supply chain, an exemption would lead to blocked input tax credit, thus increasing the cost and compliance burden for manufacturers, without reducing the cost for consumers. The increased manufacturing cost would discourage domestic manufacturers and incentivise imports from foreign players who would not face any input tax credit blockage, said sources, pointing to a previous experience with GST on sanitary napkins. They added that such imports would mostly be sub-standard quality goods from China. Given that the government itself is the single largest buyer of these medical items now — and is supplying such goods for free — it may not be desirable to distort the rate structure at the cost of the domestic supplier who is making a much-needed effort to ramp up production capacity, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-plan-for-gst-relief-for-key-medical-items-centre/article31392580.ece
21 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Sea escape from Chennai ends in quarantine in A.P.||Twenty-seven migrant workers — 10 from Odisha and 17 from Andhra Pradesh — made a daring five-day sea journey in a fishing boat from Chennai to dodge the continuing lockdown and reach their homes. They travelled around 1,000 km in the Bay of Bengal, but ended up in the hands of waiting officials. On receiving information about this group, the administrations of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh were keeping track of its movement. On Monday morning, their boat was brought to the coast at Donkuru, in Andhra Pradesh, around 35 km from Berhampur in Odisha. According to Ganjam district collector Vijay Amruta Kulange all the workers have been quarantined in Andhra Pradesh. Factories shut Sources said they were working in different factories in Chennai and had been unable to return home due to the lockdown. Their factories had closed. Most of them belonged to the fisherman community. They pooled their savings to buy a fishing boat for Rs. 1.6 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sea-escape-from-chennai-ends-in-quarantine-in-ap/article31392582.ece
21 April 2020||New Delhi,||IT panel to meet via video conference||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has allowed the holding of a meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Information and Technology via video conference, committee chairman Shashi Tharoor said. There is, however, no formal orders for all the committees to use this means. The Budget session of Parliament had ended abruptly on March 23 and since then no meeting of these parliamentary committees had been held. Mr. Tharoor announced on Twitter that his committee would meet soon. “Delighted to announce that Lok Sabha Speaker @ombirlakota has approved the holding of meetings of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology by video conference. What could be more appropriate than for our Committee to set this welcome precedent?” the Congress leader said. He had written a letter to Mr. Birla on April 17 requesting him to reconsider the curtailing of activities of parliamentary committees since the ministries continue to function with officials working remotely. “It is imperative that our committees also continue to meet periodically so that they can execute their constitutional mandates of scrutinising the activities of the Executive,” he wrote. Mr. Tharoor said a number of pressing issues had developed even in this short duration for each of these committees to consider urgently and, therefore, it was imperative that they were allowed to convene and discuss such time-sensitive concerns. Rule 267 concerning the functioning of committees says that ‘The sittings of a committee shall be held within the precincts of the Parliament House, and if it becomes necessary to change the place of sitting outside the Parliament House, the matter shall be referred to the Speaker whose decision shall be final’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/it-panel-to-meet-via-video-conference/article31392523.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||China says Indian trade curbs are against WTO principles||India’s recent policy to curb opportunistic takeovers of domestic companies goes against the World Trade Organisation (WTO) principles, the spokesperson of the Chinese Embassy here said on Monday. This is the first response from the Chinese side after the Ministry of Commerce and Industry in an April 17 decision imposed restrictions saying companies from countries that share borders with India can invest “only under the government route”. “The additional barriers set by Indian side for investors from specific countries violate the WTO’s principle of non-discrimination, and go against the general trend of liberalisation and facilitation of trade and investment. More importantly, they do not conform to the consensus of the G20 leaders and Trade Ministers to realise a free, fair, non-discriminatory, transparent, predictable and stable trade and investment environment, and to keep our markets open,” said Counsellor Ji Rong, spokesperson of the Chinese Embassy. The official pointed at the Chinese investments in various sectors of the Indian economy. He said China's overall investment as of December 2019 was above $ 8 billion and it had driven key sectors like telecom, infrastructure, automobile and household goods in India. The revision was meant for sectors and enterprises other than defence, space, atomic energy and sectors and activities “prohibited for foreign investment”. It was understood that the Indian decision was a response to the news of an incremental purchase of shares in HDFC by the People’s Bank of China. The Chinese spokesperson invoked the principle of free market economy and said, “Companies make choices based on market principles. We hope India would revise relevant discriminatory practices, treat investments from different countries equally, and foster an open, fair and equitable business environment”. The statement said the new policy was clearly going to impact future investment from China.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-says-indian-trade-curbs-are-against-wto-principles/article31392527.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Avoid hate speech, expat Indians told||Cautioning Indians in the United Arab Emirates against a spate of religiously derogatory posts, India’s Ambassador to the UAE said any discrimination would not be tolerated. “India and UAE share the value of non-discrimination on any grounds. Discrimination is against our moral fabric and the Rule of law. Indian nationals in the UAE should always remember this,” Ambassador Pavan Kapoor said in a tweet on Monday, indicating how strongly the government has taken many such cases that have come into prominence recently. The tweet also referred to PM Modi’s earlier statement that said the Coronavirus “does not see race or religion”. In the past month, at least six Indians have lost jobs or face charges over social media posts linking the coronavirus pandemic to the Muslim community in India. The issue, according to at least two sources aware of the discussions, is creating a greater diplomatic strain for New Delhi, even as it negotiates with UAE officials who have been pushing for India to repatriate thousands of citizens who have lost jobs with companies in the Emirates due to COVID-19. An estimated 3.3 million Indians live and work in the UAE. On April 18, Sharjah businessman and filmmaker Sohan Roy was forced to apologise publicly after a complaint against him for a video which depicted Islamic clerics leading blindfolded men in skull caps in an adaptation of his poem on religious bigotry. Earlier in April, Dubai resident Rakesh B. Kitturmath, who worked at a services company, an accountant Bala Krishna Nakka, and Abu Dhabi resident Mitesh Udeshi were terminated for similarly derogatory posts on social media that contravened UAE law. In March, a Dubai-based Chef Trilok Singh was sacked for an online rape threat against a student for opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act. A complaint was also filed against the CEO of an events management company Sameer Bhandari, who, in a written response to an Indian Muslim job applicant, told him to “Go to Pakistan”. Former Ambassador to the UAE Navdeep Suri says the Emirates has cracked down on hate speech against all religions, especially after it enacted the 2015 Anti-Discrimination Law, punishing “any form of discrimination against people and religion”. “The UAE has been working actively to promote an image of tolerance and have targeted religious extremism,” he said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/avoid-hate-speech-expat-indians-told/article31392534.ece
21 April 2020||Mumbai,||No communal angle in Palghar lynching: Uddhav||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday reiterated that there was no communal angle to the mob-lynching episode in Palghar last week. In his social media address, he said the killings were the result of rumours being spread about thieves roaming the area. While warning of strict action against people spreading fake news and rumours on the incident, the Chief Minister said he had spoken to Union Home Minister Amit Shah on this. “Amitji knows there is no communal angle here. I told him we must search for all those fanning hatred on social media,” Mr. Thackeray said, adding that Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath too had called him. He warned those trying to inflame passions to desist. “There is no Hindu-Muslim angle or communalism in this attack. Two policemen were suspended immediately. The CID Crime will inquire into this incident and DGP Atul Kulkarni will lead the probe,” he added. “Mob lynchings have taken place in other States too in the last five years. I don’t want to play politics here. This is shameful and must not happen. This is not our culture,” Mr. Thackeray said. The Chief Minister said that the incident took place around 110 km from Palghar on the Dadra Nagar Haveli border. He said that the victims, from Kandivali, were travelling to Gujarat through an inside route in the remote area, as there were traffic curbs on the main roads. They had earlier been stopped at the Mumbai-Gujarat border and asked to go back. “They were stopped at Gadchinchli village in the remote area, due to a misunderstanding following rumours that thieves were moving around in the area,” he added. The incident could have been prevented, Mr. Thackeray said, if the victims had been detained at the border for the night. “After the incident, over 100 people have been detained and five arrested. Nine minors have been sent to remand homes and a hunt is on for others involved. The government will not spare anyone,” he said.  I don’t want to play politics here. This is shameful and must not happen Uddhav Thackeray  Maharashtra Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-communal-angle-in-palghar-lynching-uddhav/article31392540.ece
21 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. police stops truck with 94 migrants from Haryana||A truck carrying 94 migrant labourers to Bihar, including women, was intercepted by the Uttar Pradesh police on the Jharkhand border in Sonbhadra. The migrants, natives of Munger and Vaishali districts of Bihar, were coming from Faridabad in Haryana, said a police officer. A case was registered against the owner of the truck, its driver and the deckhand under the Epidemic Diseases Act, said Ashish Srivastava, Superintendent of Police, Sonbhadra. The migrants worked in factories in Haryana’s Ballabgarh, which is around 1,000 km from the location where the truck was seized. The truck had set off for Haryana from Tata Nagar in Jharkhand with a supply of pipes a few days ago. On April 17, after the lockdown was extended, the labourers asked the driver to drop them home, said the police. “Medical inspection of all 94 persons was done. They are kept in a school in Sonbhadra under quarantine and are being provided food,” Mr. Srivastava said. ‘No work, no money’ Nand Kishor Rajak, one of the migrants, said the group was left with no choice but to attempt going home as they had run out of supplies and money. He worked as a labourer in a bedsheet factory, which was closed due to the lockdown. “There was no work, no employment,” Mr. Rajak said. Mr. Rajak claimed that the labourers contacted many politicians in Bihar, including Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and RJD leader Tejaswi Yadav, but did not receive any help. “Someone said money would be deposited in our account, others said ration would be sent. With the second lockdown, we had exhausted all our stuff and money”. “We would have died of hunger there. So we decided to take the road.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-police-stops-truck-with-94-migrants-from-haryana/article31392550.ece
21 April 2020||New Delhi,||Blood banks running on low reserves, seek urgent help||Pushed against the wall, hospitals across India have now started contacting individual blood donors to tide over the acute shortage of blood that most of them are facing with the continued lockdown. Added to this is the confirmation from the Union Health Ministry that it was receiving several complaints over calls, and Twitter and other social media, on the denial of treatment to patients suffering from critical ailments other than COVID-19. “The worst hit are patients requiring dialysis, having blood disorders, and pregnant women. We are now dipping very deep into our reserves and will find it very tough to carry on operations if we urgently don’t receive adequate blood supply. Now the crisis is such that we are calling listed donors and those with rare blood groups to come in and donate. Also, there is a shortage of the commonly seen B-positive blood group,” said Himanshu Lamba, consultant, Department of Lab Transfusion Medicine, Manipal Hospital in New Delhi.  Thalassemics fearful Thalassemics India, an NGO working for patients, has now requested the Health Ministry to help tide over the shortage. “Thalassemia patients need repeated blood transfusions to survive. Indian Red Cross blood bank camps are being cancelled. More than 900 thalassemics take blood for their transfusion from them. What is the government planning to do now?” asked a worried Shobha Tuli of Thalassemics India. She explained that donors were hesitant to travel to hospitals now to donate blood, and medical supplies were not delivered countrywide by her organisation due to the lockdown, which meant that patients with low immunity could be at risk. Transport for donors The organisation has suggested that the States should try and arrange transportation for donors, and even patients, if possible, to come to medical centres. The group has noted that the worst hit are patients from small towns and villages. But the problem is not restricted to the supply of blood alone, with the Union Health Ministry having to intervene and ask hospitals to not turn away patients suffering from respiratory or heart diseases, those who require blood transfusions and pregnant mothers, who have reportedly been facing harassment. While hospitals are citing the rising numbers of COVID-19 cases as the reason they are advising other patients to stay away from hospitals, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan noted that the denial of treatment to patients who have been visiting hospitals in case of emergencies, and are being forced to visit a number of hospitals one after another, resulting in the denial of immediate medical attention, which may result in the loss of lives, is being taken very seriously. “Hospitals have to remember that patients who are really ill and require urgent medical attention are venturing out with great difficulty to reach the hospital for treatment in this situation. We should not turn them away on any kind of flimsy pretexts as certain procedures like blood transfusion, dialysis etc. can’t wait,’’ said Dr. Vardhan. The Ministry has now directed hospitals to use tele-consultation, digital prescription and home delivery of medicines. Stock blood: Minister The Minister, speaking about the shortage of blood, said that hospitals should now start working on ensuring sufficient stock of blood for transfusion by encouraging voluntary blood donors and utilising various services like mobile blood collection vans with the help of the Indian Red Cross Society. The Ministry has asked the Indian Red Cross Society to send mobile blood collection vans to the premises of regular blood donors. According to the National Blood Transfusion Council, there are 2,023 blood banks in India, which receive 78% of their blood supply from voluntary donors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/blood-banks-running-on-low-reserves-seek-urgent-help/article31392560.ece
21 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||A 25-day journey from Gujarat to Assam||A 45-year-old man reached his home district in central Assam on Sunday night after partly walking for 25 days from Vapi, an industrial town in Gujarat 2,800 km away. Jadav Gogoi, a migrant labourer in Vapi, told his rescuers that he began walking on March 27 along the highway. He dodged the police in several districts along the route and hitch-hiked on trucks, sometimes for a fee, to reach a toll gate near his home at Gadharia village in Nagaon district. He had set out with Rs. 4,000 but was robbed of the money, mobile phone and other belongings on the way and had to beg to survive. “He could barely move about when he reached the toll gate, walking the last 1,000 km from Bihar. He called up members of his family from the phone of a local person who took pity on him. Our members took him to the nearest police station from where he was admitted to the civil hospital in [district headquarters] Nagaon,” said Dibyajit Hazarika of the Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chhatra Parishad. Doctors said Mr. Gogoi’s condition was stable but he would have to be under quarantine as he had arrived from outside the State. His swab sample has been sent for COVID-19 test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-25-day-journey-from-gujarat-to-assam/article31392572.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Rajasthan frees 630 prisoners, shifts over 2,000 inmates||Over 630 inmates have been released from various jails in Rajasthan in compliance with the Supreme Court’s recent direction to decongest prisons for preventing the spread of the novel coronavirus. The District Legal Services Authorities filed applications for bail and parole on behalf of prisoners in the courts. The Prisons Department has also shifted over 2,200 inmates from overcrowded jails and sub-jails to less crowded prisons. No inmate has been diagnosed with COVID-19 or is showing symptoms of the infection in any of the jails in the State. State Legal Services Authority member-secretary Ashok Kumar Jain told The Hindu here on Monday that the bail and parole had been granted to first-time offenders and those booked for crimes punishable with imprisonment of up to seven years. The Undertrial Review Committees, headed by District & Sessions Judges, have also released inmates booked for petty offences. Mr. Jain said the committees were holding weekly meetings to identify those who could be released during the COVID-19 pandemic.  A high-power committee headed by State Legal Services Authority’s executive chairman Justice Sangeet Lodha has issued directions for creation of isolation wards in the jail, quarantine of new prisoners and inclusion of nutritious food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-frees-630-prisoners-shifts-over-2000-inmates/article31392579.ece
21 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Lockdown a boon for organic vegetable growers in Assam||The COVID-19 lockdown has hit commercial vegetable growers in Assam, but restrictions on inter-district transport have come as a boon for small-scale organic farmers whose produce used to be edged out by cheaper “imports”. The “lockdown positive” has come with a downside, though. Most growers have almost exhausted their harvest, forcing them to network with others of their ilk in adjoining districts for meeting the shortfall. “Tomatoes were sold out last week and the last of the capsicums were sold today (Monday). Some vegetables are not yet ready to be harvested and I need a gap of at least a month to sell the cabbages and cauliflowers,” said Tutu Sonowal of Bogoriguri Borbam village, about 28 km from Dibrugarh town. An SOS to Dibrugarh district’s Deputy Commissioner Pallav Gopal Jha last month opened a window of opportunity for Mr. Sonowal and 334 other farmers who have since been delivering vegetables door to door. Mr. Sonowal, who grows vegetables on 7.28 acres along with his three brothers, took land on lease and hired the vehicles of his relatives and neighbours for delivering them to places within a 30-km radius. ‘New model’ “We are getting used to the new business model. Had this pandemic not struck, we would probably not have thought of selling beyond the village,” he said. At Sengamarihabi near the Bogibeel bridge across the Brahmaputra, Pran Ballav Barhoi and nine others of the Seuj Bhagabat Self-Help Group have been trying to cater to the growing demand for vegetables. “There was a time when bulk buyers chased me away for trying to sell broccoli, a vegetable our district had never seen before. The demand is high, but we are not taking advantage by raising prices or using chemicals for increasing yield,” he said. Mr. Barhoi said his group had developed a network with 40 organic farmers in Tinsukia and Dhemaji districts to supply the vegetables they are running out of. According to Mr. Jha, the district’s local growers sold over 7,02,000 kg of vegetables worth over Rs. 1.41 crore since March 27. This, he said, was possible because of restrictions on bringing vegetables from commercial hubs in northern and central Assam and the enterprise of the growers. Consumers have appreciated the initiative. “It clearly shows Dibrugarh is self-sufficient,” said Diganta Saikia, a tea planter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lockdown-a-boon-for-organic-vegetable-growers-in-assam/article31392790.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Doubling time of virus goes up in 18 States||Delhi (8.5) and Tamil Nadu (14) were also included in the Health Ministry’s list of regions that had doubling times under 20 days but these were also among the leading contributors to India’s case load. After Maharashtra, Delhi follows with 2,000 cases and Tamil Nadu is the fifth largest contributor with 1,477 cases. Ladakh, Uttarakhand, Assam, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Andaman and Nicobar islands recorded doubling times of 20-30 days. All COVID-19 patients in Goa were discharged after recovery, and the State now had no active cases. Central teams The Centre said it had constituted six Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCTs), two each for West Bengal and Maharashtra and one each for Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan to combat the outbreak. “Situation is specially serious in Indore (MP), Mumbai and Pune (Maharashtra), Jaipur (Rajasthan) and Kolkata, Howrah, Medinipur East, 24 Parganas North, Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Jalpaiguri in West Bengal,” a press release said and added that the teams would focus on complaints of implementation of lockdown measures as per guidelines, supply of essential commodities, social distancing, preparedness of health infrastructure, safety of health professionals and conditions of the relief camps for labour and poor people. Several states — notably Delhi, Maharashtra and Karnataka — have said that a sizeable number of those testing positive appeared to be asymptomatic. However, Raman Gangakhedkar, spokesperson for the Indian Council for Medical Research said there were no plans to change the testing criteria, which has been expanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doubling-time-of-virus-goes-up-in-18-states/article31392526.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Police detain 59 for violence over round-up||“Four police personnel, who are part of enforcement teams, sustained injuries and have filed complaints,” said the officer, speaking on the condition of anonymity. “They targeted CCTVs and street lights, which shows that the attack was premeditated,” the officer added. According to police sources, the phones recovered from the accused showed that messages had been shared among them days before the attack. “The accused formed four teams and carried out attacks separately,” said a police officer. They carried knives, wooden logs and pelted stones at the enforcement teams, the police alleged. Special police teams have been formed to probe the violence and the search for the remaining accused has intensified after both Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai condemned the attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-detain-59-for-violence-over-round-up/article31392525.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP doing politics over Palghar lynching: Cong.||The Congress on Monday charged the BJP with playing politics over a lynching incident in Maharashtra. The party called it a shameful attempt to ‘politicise and communalise” the incident. In a statement, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the lynching at Gadchinchli village on the border of Dadar Nagar Haveli was ‘extremely unfortunate and the Congress party unequivocally condemns it’. He said, “There is no communal or Hindu-Muslim angle to the attack as is being sought to be projected by those, who see an opportunity in every such incident to inflame communal passion. We urge all such persons and groups, including political parties and a section of the media, to desist from doing so.” All those who have been arrested are ‘local adivasis’.” On April 16, three Mumbai residents while on their way to Surat were lynched, allegedly by locals, on the suspicion of them being ‘thieves’. Mr. Surjewala said there was no place for violence in a civilized society. “We have urged the Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to ensure an expeditious trial and punishment of the guilty”. Earlier, senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh also accused the BJP of playing politics over the incident. “I think the BJP is playing politics at a very very disturbing moment in our society's history,” he said through an online press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-doing-politics-over-palghar-lynching-cong/article31392529.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Vijay Mallya loses U.K. High Court appeal||“Now, Mr. Mallya has 14 days to file an application in the High Court for permission to appeal in the Supreme Court, which takes up constitutional matters and issues of larger public interest. We believe that it will be turned down in all likelihood. Once he exhausts all legal avenues, we will have 28 days to bring him back,” said a senior Enforcement Directorate official. As flight operations are hit globally due to COVID-19, in case his extradition is cleared by the final authority during the lockdown period, he may be brought back on board any special aircraft, including Air India, the official said. Meticulous probe The Central Bureau of Investigation said the decision was a result of meticulous probe and would strengthen the “war” against the economic offenders who evaded judicial proceedings in India. The U.K. High Court, in its 43-page judgment, discussed threadbare Mr. Mallya’s submissions against the lower court order, holding that on the first impression the charges made against him by the Indian probe agencies stood. The agencies have alleged that Mr. Mallya, between September 1, 2009, and January 24, 2017, conspired with A. Ragunathan, S. Borkar, A. Nadkami, A. Shah, Y. Agarwal, B. Batra, O. Bundellu, S. Srinivasan, R. Sridhar and others to cheat those who might deposit funds with the IDBI Bank. This was done “by dishonestly causing and permitting the bank to sanction and disburse loans” to Kingfisher Airlines (KFA) in the order of (a) Rs. 1,500 million on October 7, 2009, (b) Rs. 2,000 million on November 4, 2009, and (c) Rs. 7,500 million on November 27, 2009, with the intention not to repay them. False information The alleged conspiracy was executed by supplying to the bank false information on Kingfisher’s profitability and the value and/or availability of securities to be relied upon. The funds so raised were diverted and laundered. The High Court, which had heard the case in February, also turned down the appellant’s contention that the lower court had erred in law in its approach to the prima facie case test and the admissibility of the respondent’s evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vijay-mallya-loses-uk-high-court-appeal/article31392536.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,||J&K police file FIR on The Hindu report||Former Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti’s Twitter handle, used by her daughter Iltija, said, “A correspondent working for The Hindu was interrogated for hours on an article that didn’t fit into the narrative of the establishment. Any dissent/counter opinion has been outlawed & criminalised. Filing FIRs & invoking stringent laws meant for criminals is a blot on democracy.” In a related development, the Kashmir Press Club condemned the booking of a freelance photojournalist, Masrat Zahra, under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Ms. Zahra was also interrogated by the police. An “appeal” was also issued by the Inspector-General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar that any information, which has bearing on national security and can cause “social instability” be clarified/confirmed before publication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-police-file-fir-on-the-hindu-report/article31392537.ece
21 April 2020||Mumbai,||30 more cases in Dharavi||Dharavi in Mumbai reported another 30 cases on Monday, bringing the total to 168. The area has reported 11 deaths so far. The Asia’s largest slum has also become a COVID-19 hotspot, with cases being reported from containment zones. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has screened more than 40,000 people in Dharavi. Despite this, cases continue to be reported from newer parts of Dharavi. On Monday, of the 30 new cases reported, three are from Kalyanwadi, one of the largest clusters in Dharavi. A few cases were reported from areas that had previously reported cases, including Mukund Nagar, PMGP Colony, Kunchi Kurve Nagar. Cases were reported from newer parts of Dharavi such as Dhorwada, Padmagopal Chawl, Naik Nagar, Kala Killa. A two-year-old boy from Kalyanwadi has tested positive. Dadar, which falls in the same administrative ward as Dharavi, also reported three new cases. A 29-year-old man living on Ranade Road near Shushrusha Hospital has tested positive. The hospital has seen eight positive cases so far. This brings Dadar’s total to 25. Mumbai now has 721 containment zones across the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/30-more-cases-in-dharavi/article31392542.ece
21 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha to check people from sneaking into State||After more than 10 persons, who have tested positive for coronavirus, are found to have sneaked into Odisha from West Bengal during the lockdown period, focus has now shifted to curb illegal movement along the long, porous borders of the State. These infected people had managed to travel hundreds of kilometres either by van, ambulance or goods vehicles dodging border guards during the lockdown period. A worried Odisha government had to request all those with travel history to West Bengal during the last 28 days to inform the local sarpanch, the Block Development Officer and the Tahsildar and quarantine themselves at home. Odisha shares borders with West Bengal, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh. Village roads People stranded in other States have reportedly taken village roads to enter the State. Movement of people with little checking had been going on till March 29 when the Orissa High Court ordered all bordering districts to stop inbound migrant workers at the border and provide them shelters. “Till March 29, there had been unhindered movement of goods vehicles from across the border. Thereafter, we have tightened checking and not spared goods vehicles. Balasore’s border with West Bengal is definitely porous as vast stretches of agricultural fields are located on both sides,” said B. Jugal Kishore, Balasore Superintendent of Police. The checking at inter-State gates, Laxmanath and Digha, had been tightened, said Mr. Kishore. Mayurbhanj district, which shares border with West Bengal and Jharkhand, has entered into an understanding with the police of bordering districts, who have agreed not to let anyone cross the border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-to-check-people-from-sneaking-into-state/article31392545.ece
21 April 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal begins rapid antibody testing||West Bengal on Monday recorded 54 new cases of the SARS-CoV-2 infection, prompting the authorities to urge people to maintain self-discipline and follow lockdown norms. With 54 new cases of the viral infection, the highest in the State so far, the number of active cases in West Bengal climbed to 245. During the day, the State also started conducting rapid antibody tests in “Red Zone areas where containment activities are going on”. State Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said that the tests will be conducted first in Kolkata and Howrah and then in districts of north Bengal with the approval of State’s Health Department. “Rapid antibody testing will also be done in low incidence areas so that large populations do not remain out of the ambit of testing,” he said The number of deaths due to COVID-19 infections in the State remains at 12. The total number of samples tested in the State as on April 20 stands at 5,469. In the past 24 hours, 424 samples were tested in the State, Mr. Sinha added. Curbs on sweets shops The Chief Secretary said that sweet shops and shops selling flowers will be open till Noon. Earlier, these shops were allowed to remain open till 4 p.m. He added that attempts will be made to barricade the markets so that a large number of people do not gather there at the same time. “Lockdown cannot be enforced only by force or by the police. People will have maintain self-discipline and behave responsibly,” he said. Mr. Sinha said that people were coming out of homes on certain pretexts, thinking that the police would not intercept them. As far as exemptions for industries goes, Mr. Sinha said that no exemptions had been given to industries that were located in the containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/west-bengal-begins-rapid-antibody-testing/article31392553.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||IMA seeks law to check violence against doctors||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Monday asked the Centre to enact a law to check violence against doctors and hospitals across the nation. “Our legitimate need for safe workplaces have to be met. Abuse and violence should stop immediately. Doctors and medical professionals across the country will light a candle at 9 p.m. on April 22 as protest and vigil against the violence and abuse. The next day, doctors across the country will work with black badges and declare it a ‘Black Day’ if the government fails to enact a Central law on violence against doctors and hospitals,” it said in a release issued by the group. ‘Utmost restraint’ “The IMA has maintained utmost restraint and patience despite extreme provocation. Doctors have been abused, beaten up, denied entry and residence. Obstruction to cremation is the last straw that the IMA can bear,” the statement said. Last week, residents of a Chennai locality protested against the cremation of a doctor from Andhra Pradesh who died of COVID-19 in the city, saying it might lead to the spread of coronavirus in their area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ima-seeks-law-to-check-violence-against-doctors/article31392561.ece
21 April 2020||Kolkata,||NICED says testing kits faulty in West Bengal||Amid claims by the West Bengal Department of Health and Family Welfare that testing kits supplied by the ICMR-NICED about two weeks ago had started to “throw up a large number of inconclusive results”, representatives of NICED (National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Disease) on Monday admitted of glitches in them. “This has been noted by the ICMR as well..... It is unfortunate that the kits are not standardised by the manufacturer to give exact results... It is difficult for each of the medical college to standardise the kits... hence they are showing different and inconclusive results. The matter is being seriously addressed by the ICMR,” NICED Director Shanta Dutta told The Hindu . On Sunday, the Health Department tweeted, “The apparently defective test kits supplied by ICMR-NICED, Kolkata are resulting in a high number of repeat/confirmatory tests and causing delays and other attendant problems at a time when we are battling a pandemic. This is an issue that ICMR needs to look into immediately”. It said inconclusive results were “necessitating a repeat confirmatory test run”. There was no problem when testing kits were received directly from the National Institute of Virology, Pune, but supplies to the government labs have been routed through ICMR- NICED, Kolkata, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/niced-says-testing-kits-faulty-in-west-bengal/article31392564.ece
21 April 2020||Mumbai,||CID to probe Palghar lynching||The investigation into the Palghar mob lynching, in which three Mumbai residents were lynched to death last week, was on Monday transferred to the Maharashtra Criminal Investigation Department (CID). Meanwhile, two officers with the Palghar Police were suspended on Monday and a departmental enquiry initiated. Two local religious leaders from Kandivali, who were going to Silvassa in an SUV being driven by a hired driver , were stopped on April 16 and attacked by a mob of over 100 people in the Gadchinchale village in Palghar. With sticks, iron rods and their bare hands, the mob beat the trio to death and also attacked a police team that tried to rescue the victims.  Assistant Police Inspector Anandrao Kale and Police Sub Inspector Sudhir Katare with the Kasa police station were also suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cid-to-probe-palghar-lynching/article31392524.ece
21 April 2020||New Delhi,||K.D. Tripathi new Secretary to President||Kapil Dev Tripathi was on Monday appointed Secretary to President Ram Nath Kovind. The 1980-batch retired IAS officer of the Assam-Meghalaya cadre will replace Sanjay Kothari, who was selected as the Chief Vigilance Commissioner in February. Mr. Tripathi’s tenure is on a contract basis and is co-terminus with the tenure of the President. Mr. Tripathi, who retired as the Secretary in the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas in June 2018, was heading the Public Enterprises Selection Board (PESB) that does top-level recruitments in the central public sector enterprises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kd-tripathi-new-secretary-to-president/article31392532.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Another killer in Rahman case picked up||Risaldar Moslehuddin Khan, one of the five absconding assassins of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in 1975, has been picked up by security agencies in the North 24 Paraganas district, a senior intelligence official claimed. Mujibur Rahman is Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s father. “Likely that he has been handed over already. But his identity confirmation from Bangladesh is awaited,” the officer said amid confusion about his photos doing the rounds in closed messaging groups. Moslehuddin is the second of the absconding assassins arrested in quick succession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/another-killer-in-rahman-case-picked-up/article31392538.ece
21 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Newborn girl in Rajasthan tests positive||A newborn girl has tested COVID-19 positive in Rajasthan’s Nagaur district, making it probably the first case of its kind in the country. The baby was born at Basni village — which has become a hotspot after the detection of 51 coronavirus patients — and was diagnosed with the virus on Sunday. Ten members of the newborn’s family, including her parents, had also tested COVID-19 positive, Nagaur Chief Medical and Health Officer Sukumar Kashyap said on Monday. All the family members were earlier sent to the isolation facility and the pregnant woman was alone at her house when she was shifted to the Primary Health Centre for delivery. Earlier, a case of a two-and-a-half month old girl getting infected with the virus was reported from Jhunjhunu district. The girl, who had returned along with her parents from Italy on March 8, has since recovered. A 62-year-old COVID-19 positive man from Nagaur district died on Sunday. With another death reported from Kota, the toll in the State increased to 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/newborn-girl-in-rajasthan-tests-positive/article31392548.ece
21 April 2020||New Delhi,||Donations ‘diverted’ to PM-CARES||After an appeal for donations to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) from the University Grants Commission and the Delhi University (DU), one day’s worth of DU staff salaries were deducted for this purpose. However, the DU Vice Chancellor Yogesh Tyagi has now said that the collected money — amounting to more than Rs. 4 crore — was sent to the PM-CARES Fund instead. The change was made on the basis of direction from the Ministry of Human Resource Development, said a senior DU official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) has written to the VC, objecting to the diversion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/donations-diverted-to-pm-cares/article31392563.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||PF trusts disburse Rs. 481.63 crore||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) on Monday said exempted PF trusts, which manage the PF and pension funds themselves, have disbursed Rs. 481.63 crore in advance to over 40,000 PF members during the COVID-19 pandemic. The EPFO had started its special withdrawal scheme for EPF subscribers on March 28 as a part of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. As of April 16, EPFO had disbursed Rs. 946 crore through 3.31 lakh claims under the special pandemic withdrawal scheme. “As on April 17, Rs. 481.63 crore has been disbursed to 40,826 PF members as advance,” the EPFO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pf-trusts-disburse-rs-48163-crore/article31392562.ece
21 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Inspector enters temple, suspended||A police inspector has been placed under suspension for allegedly entering Shree Jagannath Temple in Puri in violation of the lockdown. Deepak Kumar Jena, inspector in charge of the Badachana police station in Jajpur district, allegedly entered the 12th century temple with his family members on Sunday evening. “A case has also been registered against him,” the Odisha State police said in a statement on Monday. Although the district boundaries were sealed, Mr. Jena managed to pass through three districts — Cuttack, Khordha and Puri — by putting a yellow beacon on his vehicle. The temple has been out of bounds since March 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/inspector-enters-temple-suspended/article31392575.ece
21 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Only 20 can attend funeral: Assam govt.||The Assam government on Monday capped the number of people attending funeral or burial services to 20 for the rest of the COVID-19 lockdown period and beyond. This is among a slew of decisions to be applicable from Tuesday. “All officers will be attending office while only 33% grade 3 and grade 4 staff will join duty on a rotation basis from Tuesday,” Chief Secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna told newspersons. “There will be no inter-district and inter-State travel by rail or road except for medical services and government-approved movement for emergencies,” Mr. Krishna said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/only-20-can-attend-funeral-assam-govt/article31392576.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu not to relax lockdown||Forty-three persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Monday. The State now has a total of 1,520 cases, of which 1,406 are active. The total number of deaths stands at 17. Keeping the current scenario in mind, the State government announced that the COVID-19 lockdown would continue to be enforced till May 3 without any further relaxation. The decision also meant that there would not be a relaxation for any industry in the State except for the essential services already notified. The decision not to grant any relaxation from the lockdown was made during a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority, of which Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami is the chairperson. The SDMA also considered the views of the 21-member expert committee, tasked with formulating an exit strategy. The SDMA felt that the lockdown needed to go on without any fresh relaxation in the prevailing conditions. "Since containment efforts against the spread of COVID-19 were required to be intensified", the lockdown would continue till May 3, an official release stated. "Exemptions granted by the government for essential works and services would continue," it specified and went on to state that "if the severity of the spread of COVID-19 declined, decisions would be taken after receiving the report from the expert committee."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tamil-nadu-not-to-relax-lockdown/article31392791.ece
21 April 2020||Lucknow/New Delhi,||Adityanath to stay away from father’s funeral||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s father Anand Bisht died on Monday and will be cremated in Haridwar at a funeral which will not be attended by the Chief Minister, who said he is duty-bound to stay in his State. Mr. Bisht, 89, was admitted to the gastroenterology department of the AIIMS. In a statement, the Chief Minister said, “I had the ardent wish to get a glimpse of him at the final moment. However, following a sense of duty towards the State’s 23 crore people during the COVID-19 pandemic, I could not do so. For the success of the lockdown and the strategy to defeat the novel coronavirus pandemic, I will be unable to attend the last rites on April 21.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adityanath-to-stay-away-from-fathers-funeral/article31392535.ece
21 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam transfers 2,000 each to 86,000 people stranded outside State||The Assam government on Monday transferred Rs. 2,000 each to the accounts of 86,000 people from the State stranded across India due to the COVID-19 lockdown. These 86,000 people are among the 99,758 people found eligible for cash relief after the government processed 4,29,851 calls for help and 2,28,126 applicants, who had filled up an e-form. The remaining 13,758 people would get the first instalment within the next few days, Assam’s Finance and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-transfers-2000-each-to-86000-people-stranded-outside-state/article31392541.ece
21 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Coronavirus: Doctor posted at health centre dies in Moradabad||A doctor in Moradabad succumbed to COVID-19 infection on Monday. With this, the tally of deaths in Moradabad touched three and in Uttar Pradesh the number went up to 18, official sources said. The doctor was posted at Tajganj community health centreand was part of the survey team that visited the area where the attendees of the religious congregation in Delhi were found, said a health department official. Chief Medical Officer M.C. Garg said the doctor was admitted to Tirthankar Medical University on April 10 when he tested positive. Moradabad has 57 positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coronavirus-doctor-posted-at-health-centre-dies-in-moradabad/article31392544.ece
21 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||13 new cases detected as Odisha ramps up testing samples||The number of COVID-19 positive cases increased to 74 in Odisha with the detection of 13 new cases on Monday. While 49 patients are under treatment in different COVID-19 hospitals, 24 persons have been discharged after recovery and one has died. The State government has ramped up testing samples with 10,641 being tested by midnight on Sunday, the government said. The Health department is taking measures for contact tracing and steps to create containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/13-new-cases-detected-as-odisha-ramps-up-testing-samples/article31392558.ece
21 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Adhere to norms, Amarinder tells re-opening units||Punjab on Monday reported one COVID-19 case from Jalandhar district, taking the tally to 245. Till April 20, Punjab has seen 16 pandemic-related deaths and 38 recoveries. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said that industrial units being permitted to function in non-containment zones would be required to align with State government orders as also the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adhere-to-norms-amarinder-tells-re-opening-units/article31392557.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fear of the dead transmitting disease unfounded: experts||On April 13 and 19, residents took to the streets to oppose the burial of doctors who died of COVID-19 in the city. But the fear that the disease could spread from the dead was unfounded, and unnecessary, said doctors. So far, 17 persons have died due to COVID-19 in the State. However, the burial of two doctors - an orthopaedic surgeon from Nellore (the death was part of Andhra Pradesh’s tally) and a neurosurgeon who headed a private hospital in Chennai - witnessed opposition from residents living in the area where the burial grounds were located. Official sources said that the Chennai Corporation did not face any hurdles in conducting the burial of other patients who had died of COVID-19 in the city. “The route to the burial ground was cleared and the burials were conducted smoothly,” an official said. “Last night, an earthmover was engaged in digging a pit at the burial ground. The residents came out on hearing the sound. When they knew that a patient who died of COVID-19 was going to be buried there, they started to block the entrace to the cemetery. Chances are slim that they knew it was a doctor. They would have objected to and attacked anyone for that matter, considering the profile of the locality,” the official said. SOP followed R. Selvakumar, professor and head, Forensic Medicine Department, Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, explained the standard operating procedure followed in preparing a body for burial or cremation. “If it is a confirmed COVID-19 patient, we take all necessary precautions. We wear personal protective equipment and sanitise the body with antiseptic solution. We wrap the body in a cloth and pour the antiseptic solution on it. We then cover it using a plastic sheet and put in a body bag which is leakproof with a zipper in the centre. Both the inside and outside of the bag are sanitised,” he explained. If the patient had tubes during hospitalisation, the passages are packed carefully to prevent leaks, he said. He added that sometimes, a person could have been admitted to the COVID-19 ward but died before the test result arrived. “In such a situation, the same protocol is followed. But we keep the body in the mortuary until the laboratory result arrives.” He said the body is shifted from the mortuary only after the Chennai Corporation arranges for the burial and a pit is dug for burial. “None of the relatives are allowed to touch the body. But they are allowed to see the face of the person,” he said. Deeper pit He said that usually, bacteria and viruses die if the host dies. “There is no chance of any infection spread by burying the person. There is no study to prove that the virus spreads from the dead to others,” he said. For the burial of persons who died of COVID-19, a deeper pit - six to eight feet deep - is dug. “A dead person cannot sneeze or cough or breathe. All ways of infection spread stops the moment a person dies. Viral replication also stops. The skin may contain viral particles. So long as there is no touch, there is zero per cent chance of infection spread,” J. Amalorpavanathan, retired vascular surgeon, said. “Safe and dignified burial or cremation of those who died of COVID-19 is the responsibility of the State. If there is any failure, it is that of the State,” he added. An official said many countries were cremating those who died of COVID-19 and this was in fact ideal to prevent any further infection. “The government could also identify a place that is outside the city. Most of the burial grounds in the city are old and in the midst of residential localities,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fear-of-the-dead-transmitting-disease-unfounded-experts/article31392724.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||45 toll plazas resume collection||Even as truck owners and political leaders are questioning the commencement of toll collection, 45 toll plazas began working on Monday. Local authorities did not permit operation of the three plazas, explained NHAI sources. S. Selvaraj, a driver who crossed Sulurpet and Naidupet plazas on Monday, said initially they were told that there would be no toll collection for three months. “But now they are collecting money. This is not fair,” he said. A few toll plaza operators said not many vehicles were seen on the road. They said they have been asked to keep the plazas open even for less number of vehicles. Staff exposed “But we have to employ the same number of persons. We are unnecessarily exposing our staff to dangers due to orders from NHAI,” said a toll operator. “With the State government continuing with lockdown no public transport vehicles or private vehicles crossed the plaza. Only trucks, government vehicles, ambulances and vehicles with special passes have crossed the plaza. Also a section of vehicles had FASTag without balance since they could not recharge during the lockdown,” said a toll operator. M.R. Kumaraswamy, president, State Lorry Owners Federation, said they petitioned the State and Central governments asking them to suspend fee collection. “We are ferrying essential goods despite the shortage of drivers and in such a dangerous situation. The increase in toll rates effected from April 1 was also unfair,” he said. Meanwhile, PMK founder S. Ramadoss and MDMK leader Vaiko have both questioned the increase in toll rates at the 26 plazas that came into effect from April 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/45-toll-plazas-resume-collection/article31392694.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Using down time to rid airport of pests||What is happening inside Chennai airport now that there are no commercial flights? The Airports Authority of India (AAI) is using the opportunity to shoo away pigeons inside both domestic and international terminals. Recently, a bunch of Narikuravas armed with slingshots quietly walked into the empty terminals. After a quick recce, they waited patiently for the pigeons to emerge, managing to catch quite a few of them. AAI officials said this was the ideal time to catch the pigeons as their presence inside the terminals had irked many passengers. “There were pigeon droppings in many parts of the terminals. Besides, the birds sometimes enter the security hold area, hop from one table to another, and eat leftovers. This bothered many passengers. So, we thought now that there are no operations, let us use this time to catch a few pigeons,” an official said.  A challenge  The process is quite a challenge as a few birds keep finding their way into the terminals. “There may be an opening through which they come in. Anyway, we are keeping a constant vigil. From now on, it is even more important to keep the terminals clean,” he said. This apart, beehives outside the terminals are also being removed. “Since the hives could pose problems to passengers, we have to get rid of them immediately. We don’t know when both terminals will be open again, but we have to continue with these cleaning measures as and when required,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/using-down-time-to-rid-airport-of-pests/article31392698.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Right to decent burial is part of fundamental right to life, says HC||Observing that the fundamental right to life guaranteed under the Constitution includes the right to decent burial or cremation, the Madras High Court on Monday warned local residents against raising objections to the disposal of the bodies of those who had died due to COVID-19. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and M. Nirmal Kumar took up a suo motu public interest litigation petition, with the permission of Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi, after a neurosurgeon’s body was not allowed to be buried in a cemetery at Kilpauk here on Sunday. The judges said, according to news reports, local residents had opposed burial of the surgeon’s body at the Kilpauk cemetery. Consequently, the body was taken to a burial ground at Velangadu in New Avadi Road where again a mob attempted to prevent the burial. In the process, some public servants had sustained injuries when they attempted to disperse the mob. The ambulance, in which the body was transported, was also damaged. Such acts were completely unacceptable and legally punishable, the judges pointed out. “It prima facie appears that as a consequence of the above said alleged acts, a person who practised a noble profession as a doctor, and breathed his last, has been deprived of his right to have a burial in a cemetery earmarked for that purpose,” the Division Bench lamented. The Bench pointed out that the Code of Criminal Procedure contains enough provisions to deal with maintenance of public order, discouraging unlawful assemblies, dispersal of such assemblies using civil force and immunity to police personnel involved in such action. Authoring the interim order, Justice Sathyanarayanan also pointed out that Section 297 of the Indian Penal Code states it is a punishable offence to trespass into a burial ground or crematorium and cause indignity to the corpse or disturbance to performance of funeral rites. Centre’s guidelines People found guilty under the Section could be punished with imprisonment that could extend up to one year or with fine or both. The court also recalled that the Centre had already issued an advisory to the citizens and urged them to avoid social stigma associated with COVID-19.  Further, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had also issued guidelines on March 16 with respect to management of bodies of those who die due to COVID-19. Those guidelines require strict adherence to infection prevention control practices. Those guidelines require the body to be secured in a body bag, the exterior of which should be decontaminated. “Environmental cleaning and disinfection of surfaces is to be done with one per cent Sodium Hypochlorite solution. Autopsy should be avoided and embalming should not be allowed. “At the crematorium/burial ground, the staff should be sensitised that COVID-19 does not pose additional risk,” the Ministry’s guidelines read. Stating that these guidelines were available in the public domain, the judges said, people were expected to be aware of them. The court also ordered notice to the State government and adjourned further hearing on the PIL petition to April 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/right-to-decent-burial-is-part-of-fundamental-right-to-life-says-hc/article31392729.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Discharged tally eclipses case count on Monday||On a day that was marred by news of violence during the burial of a doctor who had died of COVID-19, the State government announced that 43 persons had tested positive for the disease. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said that with two more deaths at a private hospital in Chennai (the death of the doctor was included only in Monday’s count), the State had reported a total of 17 deaths thus far. Forty-six patients, including 22 from the Coimbatore ESI Medical College Hospital, were discharged from hospitals across the State, taking the total number of patients discharged after treatment to 457. “Presently, we have a total of 1,043 active cases (patients in hospital) in the State. Of these, six patients are sick but not on ventilator support. All other patients are stable,” he told reporters. There have been 1,302 cases linked to a “single source event” so far, the Minister said. As of Sunday, a total of 618, who had travelled to Delhi for the Nizamuddin conference, and 661 of their contacts, had tested positive. The remaining 198 patients had contact and travel histories. New cases The Minister said a majority of the fresh cases were family members of COVID-19-positive persons. They included a healthcare worker attached to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. The Minister said all the contacts of the worker had been traced and were in isolation. Chennai accounted for 18 of the 43 new cases, taking its tally to 303. Pudukottai reported its first case. This takes the total number of affected districts to 35. The Minister said a man who had attended the Delhi conference had tested negative for COVID-19 in Pudukottai, but his son had tested positive. Four persons each in Tiruchi and Tenkasi, three in Villupuram, two each in Dindigul, Tiruvallur and Ariyalur and one each in Tiruppur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Thoothukudi, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram and Perambalur had tested positive for COVID-19. “Till date, we have lifted 46,984 samples and have tested 41,710 using the RT-PCR equipment,” he said. Two more testing facilities had been approved - ESI Hospital Coimbatore and Pasteur Institute of India, Coonoor. With this, the State had 33 testing facilities — 23 in the government sector and 10 in the private sector, the Minister said. Both the Public Health Laboratory and King Institute of Preventive Medicine, Guindy, had the capacity to test up to 1,000 samples, he said. Testing using the rapid test kits was under way simultaneously. Testing, the Minister said, was being carried out in a focussed manner in containment areas, covering primary and secondary contacts of patients. “Of the 6,109 samples that were tested on Monday (the highest so far), 43 have returned positive,” he said. “There is no community transmission of COVID-19 in T.N.,” he added. The Minister said it was condemnable that residents had objected to the burial of the body of a neurosurgeon who had died of COVID-19. “The government is clear that such incidents should not recur,” he said. “There is no way that the virus will spread if a person is buried or cremated. Do not spread rumours, and do not engage in such shameful acts,” he said. He added that a team comprising police officers, revenue officials, health inspectors and Chennai Corporation officials had been formed to tackle law and order issues. Reacting to the criticism levelled against the government by DMK president M.K. Stalin, the Minister said COVID-19 was a disaster, and this was not the time for politics. “The Opposition leader should avoid such cheap politics at this time,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discharged-tally-eclipses-case-count-on-monday/article31392726.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. doctors’ association demands action against mob||The Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association (TNGDA) has condemned the actions of the “unruly mob” that prevented the burial of a neurosurgeon who had died of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) at a private hospital on Sunday. In a statement, K. Senthil, State president of TNGDA, condoled the death of the doctor, Simon Hercules, who got infected after treating a patient. The association said the government should have provided adequate security for his burial, and demanded stern action against those who tried to prevent it. The TNGDA said a body that was packed was least infective, and stern action should be taken against the “ignorant mob” opposing such burials. “Already, the government sector is burdened with COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 emergencies as most private sector institutions have downed their shutters. At this juncture, such disheartening incidents will demotivate doctors and other healthcare providers. The TNGDA demands proper action against the perpetrators and protection during similar incidents in future. Is this (referring to the disturbance during the burial) the reward for our selfless commitment towards the fight against the deadly SARS-CoV-2 virus?” the association said in the statement. “Government doctors are risking their lives, using existing poor quality/inadequate protective gear in treating the patients. Recently, many doctors have tested positive in spite of wearing protective gear. TNGDA demands supply of proper specified protective gear immediately to all healthcare providers on COVID-19 duty,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-doctors-association-demands-action-against-mob/article31392718.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vijayakant offers land on college premises for burials||After residents violently objected to the burial of the body of a neurosurgeon who had succumbed to COVID-19, DMDK founder Vijayakant on Monday offered a piece of land on the premises of his Andal Azhagar Engineering College in Mamandur for burying those who had died of the disease. In a statement, Mr. Vijayakant said he was pained by reports of people objecting to such burials and even resorting to violence to prevent them. “We are all going to die one day. If doctors who attend to patients are treated like this, we have to think about the common people. When Tamils give dignified burials to animals, it is shocking to see them objecting to the burial of a doctor’s body,” he said. Mr. Vijayakant said people were attacking ambulances and their drivers despite the World Health Organisation and the State government having clarified that the virus cannot be spread through a dead person. DMDK treasurer Premalatha Vijayakant urged people not to attack ambulances and those accompanying the bodies of the deceased.  WHO and the State government have clarified that the virus cannot be spread through a dead person||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vijayakant-offers-land-on-college-premises-for-burials/article31392720.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hostels decide to extend discounts||Many hostels in the city have decided not to charge inmates for food and electricity for April. “Since most girls have left for their homes, we thought it would not be fair if we charge them for food and other expenses. So some hostels have decided on a waiver of Rs. 2,000 from the monthly rent while the others are deciding based on location,” said K.S. Manoharan, secretary, Chennai Hostel Owners Welfare Association. “There are 300-plus hostels under our association and we have requested members to follow this,” he added. Nageswara Rao, secretary, South Chennai Paying Guest and Hostel Owners Association, said that members of his association were also waiving food and power charges from the monthly rent. “We have left it to the hostels to decide because a hostel in Taramani cannot extend the same cut as a hostel in Navalur. Rates vary from location to location,” he added. Hostels have also indicated that the waiver would be extended in case the lockdown went beyond May 3. The owner of a hostel on Natesan Street in T. Nagar said that she had not decided on the quantum of the cut as some inmates were yet to pay for the month of March. “After IT firms allowed staff to work from home, the girls went back to their native places. I'm struggling to pay the cooks, maintenance and security staff. If I don't pay them they will find other jobs,” she said Decision misunderstood Hostel owners have also expressed concerns that those residing in their premises have misunderstood the announcements regarding rent payments. Ballpark estimates show that Chennai has over 4,000 hostels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hostels-decide-to-extend-discounts/article31392701.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||College develops 3D printable face shields for healthcare staff||Faculty and students from SSN College of Engineering have developed 3D printable protective face shields for front line healthcare workers. The first set of 100 face shields were delivered to Stanley Medical College and Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. The transparent face shields are biocompatible and made of medical-grade 0.4 mm thick APET sheetsand can be reused after proper sterilization and do not cause skin irritation, it added. Taking lead from Prusa, a 3D printing company based in Prague, Czech Republic, the face shields developed by the team from SSN College have been further modified in design on doctors’ suggestions. Star Health and Allied Insurance Company Ltd. donated 1.5 lakh 3 ply disposable face masks to A.K. Viswanathan, Chennai Commissioner of Police. Charitable Trust Sevalaya’s Tiruchi unit, handed over 100 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits to the District Collector Mr. S. Sivarasu, for use by doctors and nurses treating corona patients, according to a statement. Hyundai Motor India has made a donation of Rs. 7 crore to the PM CARES Fund. Food for migrants Southern Railway has been distributing food packets to thousands of migrant labourers and homeless people. A senior official said cooked meals consisting of lunch and dinner packets were being distributed to the needy since the lockdown was announced. The meals were cooked using the base kitchens of IRCTC. The packets were distributed at various railway stations all over the State such as Chennai Egmore, Central, Vellore and Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-develops-3d-printable-face-shields-for-healthcare-staff/article31392706.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rise in cases leading to loss of hope, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday said the death of a neurosurgeon in Chennai due to COVID-19 and the continued rise in infections reinforced the need for the State government to function effectively, without any lapses, in dealing with the pandemic. “On April 16, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said the spread of the novel coronavirus would be brought under control in three days. But the increase in the number of people testing positive for COVID-19 has brought about shock and a loss of hope among the people,” he said in a statement. Mr. Stalin said the government should make use of rapid test kits to expand testing and study the status of the disease. “The situation in the State warrants such measures,” he added. Urging the government to make efforts on a war-footing to protect medical professionals, police personnel, sanitary workers and journalists, he said the rules and regulations of the lockdown should be strictly observed. Mr. Stalin said he was shocked and pained by the violent behaviour of some people who had tried to prevent the burial of the deceased neurosurgeon. He said confusion and fear about the virus created such untoward situations. “The government should ensure that deceased medical professionals are given a dignified burial under police protection,” he said. The DMK leader urged the people to cooperate with the government and not give in to unfounded fears.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rise-in-cases-leading-to-loss-of-hope-says-stalin/article31392716.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two pilgrims test positive for COVID-19||Two women, who were among a group of 127 people who recently went to Varanasi on a pilgrimage, have reportedly tested positive for COVID-19. The pilgrims — mostly senior citizens — from Tamil Nadu were quarantined soon after arriving in Tiruvallur district from Uttar Pradesh last Friday. “Since the pilgrims had stayed in Uttar Pradesh for over a month and had travelled through many States to reach Tamil Nadu, medical teams took samples of all 127 pilgrims. Two women have now tested positive. Some more results are awaited,” a senior State government official told The Hindu on Monday. Campus isolated The two women were shifted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government Hospital in Chennai. The test results of the 125 other pilgrims were awaited. Officials of the Tiruvallur district administration and the police were monitoring the health status of the pilgrims, the official said. The campus housing the pilgrims was isolated early on Monday and health workers disinfected the premises as per protocol. Since the women who had tested positive had travelled in buses with the other pilgrims, the latter would be subjected to additional tests. “Many of them have pre-existing conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, etc. Health officials are closely monitoring their health,” the official said. The pilgrims, hailing from 9 districts, including Chennai, Madurai, Tiruchi and Salem, had visited Uttar Pradesh in February. They were stranded in Varanasi since Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the ‘Janata Curfew’ on March 22. A couple of days later, the first phase of the nationwide lockdown began, confining the pilgrims to the quarantine camps in Varanasi. After the government announced an extension of the lockdown, they made an appeal to the local authorities to help them get back home, police sources said. The pilgrims from Tamil Nadu were among hundreds from across the country who were stranded in Varanasi in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. The authorities arranged 22 special buses to transport them to their respective States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-pilgrims-test-positive-for-covid-19/article31392727.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘SSLC exam schedule to be announced after lockdown ends’||School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan has said the SSLC exams will definitely take place, and a decision on their schedule will be taken after the lockdown ends on May 3. “The schedule will be announced by the School Education Department after May 3. Since the situation we are facing is unprecedented, we may be forced to schedule the exams in May, which is usually the time for the summer holidays,” he said. Tighter schedule The students may have to face a tighter exam schedule, and the officials were exploring all options, the Minister said. When asked how social distancing norms would be enforced in the exam halls, Mr. Sengottaiyan said the students’ seating arrangements were already adequately spaced. “After the lockdown ends, a schedule for evaluation of Class XII papers will also be announced. “As the Chief Minister has said, students who had missed their exams due to the COVID-19 curbs would be given a second chance,” he said. Fiat to schools The School Education Department had instructed private schools not to force parents to pay their wards’ school fees during the lockdown, the Minister said, adding that the government will act on any complaints in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sslc-exam-schedule-to-be-announced-after-lockdown-ends/article31392696.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Food distribution banned within 2-km radius of hotspots||The Chennai Corporation has banned the distribution of food within 2-km radius of containment zones, Corporation hospitals, COVID-19 testing centres, government tertiary care hospitals and designated private hospitals as directed by the Madras High Court. In an order late on Monday, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said that NGOs and other organisations would not be permitted to distribute food within 2-km radius of hotspots that include Corporation hospitals, testing centres and designated private hospitals. The order was issued based on the directions of the High Court. The NGOs and associations, who want to distribute food to residents in the neighbourhoods located within 2-km distance of the hospitals, have been asked to hand over the food to the Corporation officials who will distribute the food after testing it. The zonal officers should be informed 48 hours before in other places and food should be distributed only after food safety department permits the venue. The preparation should be in the same zone and food distributed within a time frame. However, the civic officials said that the order was to prevent NGOs and voluntary associations from directly distributing food to any resident because all residential areas in the city were located within 2-km distance of a Corporation hospital or COVID-19 testing facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-distribution-banned-within-2-km-radius-of-hotspots/article31392700.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM urges Centre to help fishers stranded in Iran||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has urged External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar to direct the Indian Embassy in Iran to make arrangements for the supply of food, water and other essentials to Indian fishermen stranded in various parts of the country. In his letter to Mr. Jaishankar, Mr. Palaniswami said the State government had been receiving repeated requests from the stranded fishermen and their families for help in meeting their basic needs. Around 1,000 Indian fishermen, including over 650 from Tamil Nadu, are stranded in Iran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-urges-centre-to-help-fishers-stranded-in-iran/article31392705.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2 Bangladeshis in custody test positive||Two of the 11 Bangladesh nationals who were arrested for violating visa conditions and remanded in judicial custody tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. The entire group, lodged in the Borstal School in the Puzhal prison complex with no access to other inmates, was shifted to the Stanley Government Hospital, police sources said. The Bangladeshis, who had come here on a tourist visa to participate in an event conducted by Tablighi Jamaat, were arrested from Dindigul and adjoining areas on the charge of having indulged in religious preaching, violating visa conditions. They were moved to the Borstal School in Chennai after the first COVID-19 test returned negative. However, when the results of the second test came in, two of them, who were asymptomatic, were found to have tested positive, sources said. “We immediately shifted the entire group to the quarantine facility at the Stanley Government Hospital. Disinfection of the premises was immediately carried out,” Director-General of Police Sunil Kumar Singh told The Hindu on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-bangladeshis-in-custody-test-positive/article31392725.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three die in wall collapse||Three persons — a 65-year-old daily wage earner and his two daughters — were crushed to death after a wall from a neighbouring building collapsed on them in New Perungalathur. The accident occurred on Sunday evening. The names of the victims victims were given as Rajangam, 65, Kala, 41, and Sumithra, 35, a differently abled person. Rajangam was sitting in the front portion of his house and talking with his daughters and suddenly a wall of poorly maintained building in the neighbouring plot collapsed on them. Sumithra died on the spot while Rajangam and Kala died in a private hospital, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-die-in-wall-collapse/article31392702.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prince of Arcot urges Muslims to pray at home||Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali has appealed to Muslims to spend Ramadan, starting from April 24, at home by praying five times and breaking fast (Iftar). He wanted them to continue this even if the lockdown was lifted after May 3. In a press release, the Nawab urged Muslims to bear in mind the physical distancing norms and the safety measures prescribed by the Union and State governments as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prince-of-arcot-urges-muslims-to-pray-at-home/article31392704.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Helpline, website launched||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday launched Ondrinaivom Vaa — Let us come together — an initiative for helping the needy during the COVID-19 pandemic. He called upon 200 of his party leaders, including MLAs, MPs and leaders of various wings of the DMK, to work together and combat the COVID-19 pandemic. He introduced a helpline number 90730 90730 and a websiteondrinaivomvaa.in The initiative consists of five categories — Stalin Connect, People’s helpline, Nallor Koodam, Feed the Poor, Virtual Neighbourhood Groups — to reach out to the people of Tamil Nadu. “If anyone faces an issue, they can call my office directly,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helpline-website-launched/article31392717.ece
21 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Puzhal prison chief warder suspended||The Prison Administration has suspended a Chief Warder of Central Prison-I Puzhal for allegedly spreading rumours that a few foreign prisoners had coronavirus. According to sources, B. Saravana Kumar, chief warder, was assigned to work at the prison’s special block, where foreign prisoners were lodged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puzhal-prison-chief-warder-suspended/article31392713.ece
21 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Civic body now focussing on migrant workers||Coimbatore Corporation that has been conducting tests to check for COVID-19 virus in people who live in the neighbourhood of those who have tested positive to check for community transmission of the virus, if any, has now turned its focus on the health of migrant workers. According to sources, the Corporation with help from the Coimbatore City Police have been identifying places where migrant labourers have been living or the latter has accommodated them to test them for fever or other ailments. The Corporation is focusing on migrant labourers because they are known to live in small rooms or houses or construction sites where they may find it difficult to observe personal distancing norms or live hygienic environment. The same situation persists in lodges where the police have accommodated them and, where, again, personal distancing is difficult to observe. Of the identified 10,000-odd workers in city limits, the Corporation has so far tested 3,500-odd workers for fever or other ailments, they say and clarify that the Corporation is not testing the workers for COVID-19 but only for common fever. Only if the workers show symptoms COVID-19 will the Corporation start the process of testing them for the virus. The Corporation is also using the opportunity to treat the workers for other health issues they rise, the sources say and add that the objective is to ensure that the migrant workers do not turn vulnerable and are well taken care off during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-now-focussing-on-migrant-workers/article31392746.ece
21 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore industries welcome extension of lockdown||Industries in Coimbatore have welcomed the decision of the State government not to extend relaxations for industries to operate till May 3. Coimbatore District Small Industries Association president R. Ramamurthy said the association had, in its representation to the government, said the industries would be willing to operate only when the virus spread curve flattened and when the government said the industries could operate. “Now we have time to discuss and see how the industries can adopt some of the precautionary norms such as personal distancing when the lockdown is lifted on May 3,” he said. Regarding individual industries obtaining permission to operate with minimum strength, he said the associations in Coimbatore had jointly decided that the MSMEs would operate only when the government gave its approval for all industries to operate. According to the president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, J. James, the micro units accept the government decision as the spread of virus is only on the rise. What is of concern to the micro units is that the employers and their workers are not enrolled with any welfare board and do not get any benefit. The government should ensure that while giving permission to individual units, it should be only for those in the essential sector, say industry sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-industries-welcome-extension-of-lockdown/article31392735.ece
21 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||More industries in Coimbatore, Tiruppur into manufacturing healthcare requirements||Over 100 units in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts have registered on the website of MSME Department, Tamil Nadu, as manufacturers of emergency healthcare requirements. According to data available on the website, 90 units in Tiruppur and 55 in Coimbatore have registered as manufacturers of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, masks, sanitisers, cots, mattresses, ventilators and COVID testing kits. Most of the manufacturers in Tiruppur are into masks and PPE kits while those in Coimbatore are into different products. According to C.R. Anandakrishnan, executive director of KPR Mill, there is a demand for PPE kits from various States. The Mill’s garment unit at Thekkalur has got into production of PPE kits recently. There is a challenge in procuring the fabric that is used to make the kits. But there is a demand for the products. The unit has employed women workers, who were staying inside the premises, to make the kits, he says. Raja Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association, says if the government provides handholding support, more industries in the region can manufacture PPE kits. The country is importing a large quantity of these kits now. The import time and cost can be saved if the local manufacturers are supported. According to General Manager of District Industries Centre, Coimbatore, P. Karthigaivasan, several industries continue to approach the district administration for permission to operate. Many of these are into production of healthcare products. Since Friday, the numbers are up, he says. According to a SITRA official, nearly 100 manufacturers in the country have met the prescribed standards for non-woven fabric used in making the PPEs and coveralls. While the number is high in the western region, many of the manufacturers here need to get the products certified from the designated laboratories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-industries-in-coimbatore-tiruppur-into-manufacturing-healthcare-requirements/article31392738.ece
21 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Govt. school teachers get trained online||As many as 550 teachers from Coimbatore district, mostly from the government schools, are being trained online. Coimbatore district Chief Educational Officer (CEO) P. Usha told The Hindu the courses began on April 17 and 150 teachers were present in the first batch. “Another 150 teachers will be trained by the end of April,” she said. The remaining teachers would be trained by May. The online classes were offered by volunteers from Cognizant Outreach, Ms. Usha said. Titled ‘Digital Mastery’, the course would focus on using Microsoft Word, Excel and Powerpoint along with training on using emails and online searches effectively. The classes were in a video conference format where each trainer would handle a group of 10 teachers. There would be 12 one-hour sessions overall with three sessions per week. Following this, there would be a course on ‘Communicative English’ for the teachers. The courses could be accessed either through laptops or smartphones, the CEO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-school-teachers-get-trained-online/article31392739.ece
21 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Youth develops vehicle to help COVID-19 patients||At a time when personal distancing is emphasised, reaching out to people in quarantine or persons who have tested positive for COVID-19 becomes a challenge. More so, because people fear contracting the virus from the positive persons. To overcome the challenge, Vedappati resident V. Karthi seems to have a solution in his remote-controlled vehicle, which he showed to the district administration authorities and demonstrated to journalists at the Coimbatore Collectorate on Monday. Mr. Karthi, an engineer, says he designed the vehicle over the last weekend with materials he had acquired while working over the years on various projects. His objective behind developing the vehicle is to help supply food, medicines or other items to people quarantined or persons who tested positive. The vehicle will also help them chat over video call with doctors or family members when mobile phone is attached. Built over four wheels with a circuit board and four batteries of 3v each, Mr. Karthi’s vehicle runs responding to commands given from mobile phone, through an app. A mobile phone or an internet dongle at the vehicle’s end passes on the commands to the circuit board. After the demonstration, the officials said that he was free to take it to hospitals to see if they were interested, he adds. Mr. Karthi says he is engaged in developing mobile apps and robotic projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-develops-vehicle-to-help-covid-19-patients/article31392744.ece
21 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to buy new spraying machines||Coimbatore Corporation will buy five new machines to spray disinfectants to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the city. Sources familiar with the development say that the civic body tested one such machine a few days ago in Telugupalayam and in Kuniamuthur and after satisfying itself of the effectiveness, it has decided to buy five machines – one each a zone. A machine costs Rs. 20 lakh. The sources say that the Corporation mounted the machine on a container lorry to spray disinfectant. The machine comes with two tanks of varying capacities – 5,000 litre and 2,000 litre. With the 5,000 litre tank, the machine will spray disinfectant for an hour. At present, the Corporation is buying only the machines and to use them will hire trucks. Once the lockdown period is over, the Corporation will use the machines in its dump yard in Vellalore to spray water during fire accident or chemicals for fly control, the sources add.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-to-buy-new-spraying-machines/article31392747.ece
21 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Grocery kits distributed||The officers of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, headed by Deputy Director Sathish, distributed grocery kits to the needy at Sowripalayam. The kit included rice, bread and vegetables. More than 100 people received the kits. The Association of Hotels, Travel, and Tourism Professionals, Coimbatore, contributed Rs. 1.1 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. The office-bearers handed over the cheque to Collector K. Rajamani recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grocery-kits-distributed/article31392734.ece
21 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Reduce electricity charges for MSMEs: MP||Coimbatore MP, PR Natarajan, has opposed the move by Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) asking industries to pay the electricity charges for March by May 6. In a letter to Electricity Minister Thangamani, Mr. Natarajan said the Tangedco had written to the industries asking them to pay the charges of January-February for March too. During the first two months of the year, the industries had full-fledged operations. However, since the lockdown from March 25, the industries, especially the MSMEs and powerloom units, were not operating. But the Tangedco had asked them to pay the current consumption charges of January-February now too. It had given them time only till May 6 and the lockdown was in place till May 3. The industries would not be able to pay the electricity charges immediately after re-starting operations. They were already facing loss of revenue and business and were hit by cash crunch. Hence, the Electricity Minister should hold discussions with the industry and decide whether they could be given full waiver or allowed to pay in instalments, he said. The jobworking powerloom units in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts have sought three months time to pay the electricity charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reduce-electricity-charges-for-msmes-mp/article31392733.ece
21 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Passport appointments from May 5||Regional Passport Office, Coimbatore, announced on Monday that passport appointments had been released from May 5 for Passport Seva Kendras and Post Office Passport Seva Kendras in Salem, Erode, Rasipuram and Coonoor. According to a release, those who booked an appointment in an earlier date may reschedule it on or after May 5. “Those applicants, who received any showcause notice from passport office, can visit the office on or after May 5,” said G. Sivakumar, Passport Officer, in the release. Passport applicants shall contact through email atrpo.cbe@mea.gov.inor through WhatsApp at 94879 92991 for further clarifications, the release said. Updates regarding passport services are available atwww.passportindia.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/passport-appointments-from-may-5/article31392740.ece
21 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CPI (ML) functionary held||The R.S. Puram police arrested Velmurugan, urban secretary of Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist), Coimbatore, for staging a protest on Thadagam Road on Sunday Government aid for migrant workers during lockdown. The protest he staged was part of nation-wide agitation, demanding Government to give Rs. 10,000 to migrant workers as relief fund during the lockdown. AICCTU State secretary Louis and a few functionaries also took part in the protest. While Velmurugan was remanded in judicial custody, Louis was released on bail.  Special Correspondent adds:  The AICCTU has condemned the arrest of its leaders here who protested against lack of facilities for migrant workers. The Union said its members had staged a protest by abiding by the personal distancing norms. They demand train facilities for migrant workers to return home, food and Rs. 10,000 as compensation and guarantee of job when they return. The leaders of the union, who took part in the protest, were arrested and released. This was a nation-wide protest and action was taken only against the leaders in Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-ml-functionary-held/article31392755.ece
21 April 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘Athoor dam can supply water till June 15’||With the storage of 4.9 feet of water in Athoor reservoir, the prime source of supply for Dindigul, there will not be any problem in drinking water distribution till June 15, said officials at a review meeting here on Friday. Presiding over the meeting, Forests Minister Dindigul C. Srinivasan said that with copious rain last year during the northeast monsoon, the reservoir had a good storage. Many ooranis and farm ponds near Dindigul had conserved water, helping in recharging the water table in the arid region. The Athoor dam water catered to 28 of the 48 wards in Dindigul, while the remaining areas were served by Cauvery integrated drinking water project. So there would not be a water crisis this summer. After the meeting, when it was pointed out by the media about a flaw in the water supply, officials admitted attributed it to a burst in the pipeline near taluk office. The Minister asked the Commissioner to set it right at the earliest. Through the Cauvery project, 11 mld was supplied to the town and the supply would be streamlined within a week by laying a 25-metre-long steel pipe in place of a worn pit pipe near the taluk office0. To a query on supply of vegetables to residents during the lockdown, the officials said 65 vehicles had been deployed for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/athoor-dam-can-supply-water-till-june-15/article31392987.ece
21 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||10 discharged from hospital in Erode||Ten COVID-19 patients, including a woman, were discharged from the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai taking the total number of discharged to 32 in the district here on Monday. The discharged persons offered prayers and thanked the district administration, doctors and frontline workers for saving them from the disease. Collector C. Kathiravan, Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan, College Principal R. Mani, doctors and nurses wished them and asked them to follow the guidelines while being at home. Addressing media persons on the hospital premises, Mr. Kathiravan said that so far 37 persons were discharged and they would be monitored by health staff for 14 days at their houses. It includes four members of railway doctor’s family in Coimbatore and one person from Tiruchi, who is a native of Erode district. However, two Thai nationals, who were discharged last week, were arrested and kept in a separate ward along with four of their colleagues. “Currently, 38 persons are in the isolation ward and are undergoing treatment”, he added. Mr. Kathiravan said that 1,258 swab test was conducted so far in the district in which 70 persons tested positive while the rest 1,188 persons tested negative. Also, 1,500 rapid test kits had arrived in the district and the testing would begin from Tuesday. A total of 32,435 families comprising 1,20,135 persons in 18 containment areas, including 10 places in the city, were in the district and were monitored by health officials continuously, he added.  Namakkal Staff   Reporter adds  33 discharged in Namakkal As many as 33 persons, who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at Karur Medical College Hospital, were discharged on Monday. According to officials, the 33 persons, 12 from Rasipuram, 14 from Namakkal, three from Velur, three from Kokkaranpettai and one from Manapalli were discharged and sent in ambulances to their homes from the hospital. Earlier, six patients from Namakkal were discharged from the hospital. S. Somasundaram, Deputy Director of Health Services said, “still 11 persons are undergoing treatment at the Karur hospital and they are stable. They would also be discharged soon.” Dr. Somasundaram said that till date 2,133 samples have been collected from here and most of them were Delhi event attendees and their close contacts and those tested positive were moved to hospitals. According to officials, the district has received 900 rapid antibody test kits and training was given to officials regarding using the kits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-discharged-from-hospital-in-erode/article31392750.ece
21 April 2020||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||No positive cases yet in Karaikal, but illegal liquor sellers could play spoilers||There has been no COVID 19 positive case in Karaikal so far, but there are concerns that the district will cease to be a green zone if the alleged surreptitious movement of people from neighbouring Nagapattinam district for purchase of liquor is not checked. Video clippings of people from Poraiyar and Thirukadaiyur in Nagapattinam district sneaking into Karaikal along the shutters of Nandalar river with the intent of consuming and purchasing liquor has understandably been passed on to the district authorities by the public of Poovam village. Calling for blockage of the secret passage, S. Anandkumar, president of Karaikal unit of India Against Corruption, apprehended that the illegal sale of liquor at Poovam, Varichikudy and Thiruvettakudy villages of Karaikal, due to negligence of the law enforcing machinery and the liquor merchants could eventually cause spread of COVID- 19 virus in the enclave. In his Open House Complaint made to the Lt. Governor, Mr. Anandkumar sought disciplinary action against those officials whose negligent actions could cause serious repercussions and nullify the hard work of the district administration for containment of the virus. According to M. Adarsh, Deputy Collector, Excise, action has been initiated against five persons for selling liquor illegally after the lockdown took effect. Seven audit teams comprising staff of Revenue Department have been formed to verify stock registers. Those involved in selling liquor illegally will be dealt with stringently under Disaster Maintenance Act, 2005, and Pondicherry Excise Act 1970. On its part, the administration has been keen on preventing cross-border movement of work force. In an advisory issued earlier this month, Karaikal Collector Arjun Sharma urged managements of industries to make sure that no labourers from Nagapattinam, Nagore and other places cross the borders of Karaikal district, citing the surge in coronavirus cases in neighbouring districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-positive-cases-yet-in-karaikal-but-illegal-liquor-sellers-could-play-spoilers/article31393018.ece
21 April 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||48 patients recover, discharged from Karur Medical College Hospital||Forty-eight patients, who had tested positive for COVID-19 virus, were discharged from the Karur Government Medical College Hospital after treatment on Monday. Of them, 33 patients were from Namakkal district and 13 from Dindigul district. Two patients were from Karur district. While a section of them had contracted the virus after attending a religious event in New Delhi, the remaining were their contacts. The patients were given a rousing send off by the doctors, nurses and para medical staff members of the hospital when they left for their native places. While medical personnel lined up to send them off, the visibly relieved patients too expressed their gratitude for the treatment extended to them over the past three weeks. The patients were sent home in ambulances and cars. Rosy Vennila, Dean of the hospital, said that 101 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from the hospital so far. They had undergone 14 days treatment at the hospital after testing positive for the virus. They were discharged after testing negative for the virus in two consecutive tests. Dr. Vennila said that 67 more patients, who had tested positive for COVID-19, were still in the isolation wards of the hospitals. All of them were stable and responding well to the treatment protocol, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13-from-dindigul-district-sent-home/article31392979.ece
21 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||From season of bounty, artistes, weavers slip into grip of despair||For 35-year-old Stella and a group of 20 transwomen, all folk artistes from Cuddalore district, summer is when they perform in temple festivals across southern districts and earn a decent income. During March to July, these artistes perform traditional folk dances such as karagattam , kali aattam and Karuppasamy Aattam at the temple festivals. “I used to dress up as Karuppasamy and dance to eulogies penned for the village deity. We perform for eight hours and earn Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 1,500 each,” she says. However, this summer has turned out to be disastrous. In the wake of COVID-19 lockdown, all the temple festivals have been cancelled. These artistes solely dependent on income they earn during this period to see through the rest of the year. Ms. Stella says most of the artistes have either pawned their jewellery or borrowed from money-lenders for their sustenance. “With no source of income, we are all dependent on friends and good Samaritans to feed ourselves. Three artistes in our group, who are dependent on income from these performances to pay for their college tuition fee, are affected the most,” she says. “We are paid in advance to perform in the temple festivals. With the cancellation of events, we have returned the money. With no source of income, we are looking for help for our sustenance", says K. Suji, another artiste. “Some humanitarians gave us rice, vegetables, groceries and oil. But we want the government to look into our plight and help us during the crisis,” she adds. This scenario holds true for all transgender folk artistes across the State, says K. Muthupandi who runs Thanga Thaai Gramiya Kalai Kuzhu in Madurai and engages transwomen for his shows. “Since most of them do not have transgender identity cards, they are not eligible for financial assistance given by the State government. Hence, the government must look into their problems and give financial assistance to all the folk artistes during these testing times ,” he says. Kalaiarasi, who has been performing karagattam for the past 30 years, says that performing traditional folk dances helps in carving an identity for themselves. “It is difficult for us to get a good job. Through our performances, we remind people about vanishing art forms.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/from-season-of-bounty-artistes-weavers-slip-into-grip-of-despair/article31392996.ece
21 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MSME sector seeks support from banks during recovery process||Micro, small and medium industries must start from scratch and will be additional burdened by loans and statutory charges when the lockdown ends, according to B. Muruganantham, President, Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA). Speaking at a press meet here on Monday, he lamented about the state of affairs across the world but emphasised that the industries in Madurai would see an average of 50% fall in revenue. Small-scale industries would also be plagued by irrecoverable overhead charges and statutory cost. Paying unproductive labour when all industries were shut would also impact industry. MADITSSIA and the Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries Association (TANSTIA) worked with STAGE, an advisory forum for industries to conduct a study on the impact of COVID-19. Executive Director of STAGE R. K. Jeyabalan said data from small and medium industries were usually inaccurate and hardly prioritised. “It is important to assess the problems of the bottom of the pyramid as an overestimation of problems may repel the government from helping. By underestimating the impact, we will be doing much damage to all the people dependent on the industry,” he felt. He added that recovery would be one of the greatest problems that MSMEs faced as there was displacement of labour force essential for revival of companies now. There was also sparse availability of materials, transportation and financial resources. Mr. Muruganantham demanded 30% credit support from banks to enable them to restart functioning of industries. He added that companies were yet to recover from other blows including demonetisation, good and service tax implementation, industrial slow down and total lockdown. He demanded that interest in all types of loans be waived off for six months. “Although we understand that it is difficult for labour, we are unable to pay them properly without a functioning unit. We ask the government to waive off the employer's contribution to provident fund and employee's insurance. We can instead choose to subsidise the whole salary from unclaimed funds that are available with the government’s several statutory bodies,” he said. Electricity bills must not be levied on the average monthly consumption but on actual metered consumption. “We also request that all electricity bills are collected after six months,” Mr. Muruganantham added. Joint Secretary M. Chandrasekhar and Treasurer D. Balaganesh too sought support from banks to sail through the troubling times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msme-sector-seeks-support-from-banks-during-recovery-process/article31393000.ece
21 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MP criticises NHAI move||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has expressed shock over hike in user fee by National Highways Authority of India for vehicles passing through 26 toll gates in the State amid a severe crisis due to COVID-19. The hike in the range of 5% to 12% will result in additional Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 1,500 expenditure for a truck. Traders associations have also expressed concern over its fall out on prices of essential goods, he said in a letter to Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari. Toll collection was stopped on March 23 in view of lockdown and permission for operation has been given to vehicles carrying essential goods and for essential services only. Even now, only 10% of the trucks are operational. “Already people are subjected to unbearable miseries due to loss of income and jobs. There is scarcity of essential commodities in certain areas of the State,” he said. Consequently, the prices of essential goods and vegetables have gone up. Against this background, collection of fee and its hike will be a huge blow to people. The MP has appealed to the Minister to stop fee collection at all toll gate till revocation of lockdown and withdraw the decision to hike user fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-criticises-nhai-move/article31392999.ece
21 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||These stray dogs in Madurai do not go hungry||On seeing stray dogs in her Oomachikulam neighbourhood going hungry during the lockdown, K. Malarvizhi, an animal lover, has stepped in to feed them. She feeds them twice a day and has earned support from her neighbours in the initiative. A beautician, Ms. Malarvizhi says she was feeding the dogs even prior to the lockdown, imposed to prevent the spread of COVID-19. She feeds stray dogs in neighbourting Tiruppalai too. “I feed them curd rice, eggs, meat and dog food, in the morning and the evening. I have spent over Rs. 10,000 on the food so far,” she says. Initially she was questioned by her neighbours as to why she was wasting money so much money to feed the dogs when many poor people were starving. But, now, they have turned supportive. Animals also deserve as much respect as humans, she says. After getting support from her family, she has started feeding cows, birds and cats too. “My plan is to start a shelter for animals once the lockdown is lifted,” she says. Following her footsteps, her friends have started feeding animals in their areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/these-stray-dogs-in-madurai-do-not-go-hungry/article31392991.ece
21 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Unified command best in fight against COVID-19 across the country, says State BJP leader||In the most critical situation of fighting COVID-19 pandemic, it would be better if all the States worked under a unified command of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said Bharatiya Janata Party leader L. Ganesan. Talking to reporters here through social media, Mr. Ganesan said that the country was facing a major crisis and it was better if India faced it under a single command. “Let the general instructions on the fight against the virus come from the Centre, though the gravity of the infection differed from State to State,” he said. Stating that former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had promulgated national emergency to promote self-interest, he said under an emergency situation now, it was good for the country to work under a Central leadership However, the power could be decentralised, like the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath allowing respective Collectors to take district-specific works. Though a healthy criticism against the Centre’s initiatives on COVID-19 fight was welcome, he cautioned the opposition to be wary of their diction. With regard to the Tamil Nadu government’s demand that more funds should be allocated to the State that had seen the fourth largest number of COVID-19 infections, Mr. Ganesan said he too shared the same view. “I hope the Centre allots more funds to Tamil Nadu,” he said. On resumption of toll collection from Monday, Mr. Ganesan said that the Centre should reconsider its decision. “It is shocking that toll has been increased at this critical juncture. Toll should not be collected till the lockdown ended on May 3,” he said. Over three lakh BJP cadre worked during the lockdown and helped in supply of essential goods to over 48 lakh people, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unified-command-best-in-fight-against-covid-19-across-the-country-says-state-bjp-leader/article31392997.ece
21 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||8 discharged in Madurai||Eight COVID-19 patients on Monday were discharged from Government Rajaji Hospital after recovery. A majority of them contracted the infection after attending a religious meet in Delhi in March, said Collector T. G. Vinay. All patients were asymptomatic and underwent the mandatory 14-day quarantine at the hospital. Those who were discharged were residents of areas scuh as Mahaboobpalayam, Madurai city crime branch, Narimedu, Gomathipuram, Usilampatti, Keelamathur and Tirumangalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/8-discharged/article31392993.ece
21 April 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||24 contacts of policeman hospitalised in Perambalur||Various safety measures have been put in place in Perambalur after a policeman tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. Twenty four people, including 17 police personnel who were in contact with the policeman and seven family members of the patient have been admitted to the isolation ward of the Perambalur Government Headquarters hospital. Samples were lifted for 39 people, including some more contacts. However the results have returned negative, official sources said. “Although they are currently asymptomatic, they will be kept in quarantine for 28 days before being discharged,” a senior official at the GH said. The others have been kept in home quarantine. Apart from quarantining all police personnel who worked at the V. Kalathur police station, where the patient was posted, the station was also sanitised and shut. However, to ensure that the station continues to function, a van has been converted into a makeshift station. Speaking to The Hindu , Nisha Parthiban, Superintendent of Police, Perambalur, said that the police station with skeletal staff was functioning from a van. It is parked outside the gate of the existing station, she said. “A Sub-Inspector, two constables and two home guards have been posted at the station,” she said. Policemen from Mangalamedu, Kunnam and Kaikalathur have been asked to man the station on a shift basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-contacts-of-policeman-hospitalised-in-perambalur/article31393028.ece
21 April 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||PM assured financial aid: Narayanasamy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has promised to release adequate financial assistance to the Union Territory during a telephone call on Sunday night, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said. Posting on his Twitter handle, Mr. Narayanasamy said he had also apprised the Prime Minister about the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-assured-financial-aid-narayanasamy/article31392707.ece
21 April 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Constable dismissed for criminal misconduct||The Police department on Monday dismissed from service a constable for assaulting a colleague who was on the lockdown duty in a containment zone at Reddiyarpalayam. The constable, Aravind Raj, attached to the Lawspet Police, was dismissed from service for criminal misconduct.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-dismissed-for-criminal-misconduct/article31392714.ece
21 April 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Mundu chilli farmers hit by labour shortage||For the farmers of ‘Ramnad mundu’, a native chilli variety of Ramanathapuram district, the COVID-19 pandemic could not have come at a worse time. While around 40% of the crop is harvested across the district, shortage of labour and restrictions in transporting the produce to other States has reduced the profit margin, farmers rue. They demand interventions by the government to help them earn higher profits for their produce. Deputy Director (Horticulture) N. Balakrishnan says the mundu chilli variety has been raised on around 16,000 hectares in the district. Usually, the chilli variety commands good demand in both domestic and international markets. While the harvest season is under way across the district, there is shortage in farm labour due to the lockdown, says N. Santhakumar, a farmer from Kadambodai village in Mudukulathur block. “In the wake of the outbreak of the pandemic, labourers are not willing to work at farmlands in other villages. The labour shortage delays plucking of crop and, hence, some of them tend to become spoiled,” he points out. Due to rise in demand for labourers, farmers are paying additional Rs. 100 for wages, says A. Paneerselvam, another farmer. With rising operational costs, the current market price for the chillies, which ranges from Rs. 100 to Rs. 130 per kg, is not profitable, says S. Michael, chairman of Ramanathapuram Chillies Producers Company, a farmer producer organisation. “Only if the chillies are sold at Rs. 200 per kg, we will be able to get a decent profit.” He adds that despite a good yield this year, farmers are forced to sell their produce for lower rates to traders and commission agents. “Though the government announced that there must be no restriction in transportation of agricultural produce, there is still hesitation among traders.” Usually, 60% of the crop harvested from the district is sold in other States such as Kerala, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, which has been disrupted due to the lockdown, says Mr. Balakrishnan. ‘We are ready to provide emergency passes to the traders, but there are hardly more than a few who come forward.” K. Kanthirajan, Director of Ramanathapuram Mundu Chilli Growers’ Association, says traders who buy the produce for export, have not done so due to the pandemic. “We are worried that by stocking up the produce, the crop might lose weight. We are also apprehensive that the chillies might also lose colour and eventually fetch lower profits.” The district administration has encouraged farmers to store their produce in godowns at regulated markets, where they are not charged any fee for 30 days, says P. Raja, Secretary of Ramanathapuram Market Committee. “They can also store their produce at the three cold storage facilities in the district for free for 15 days. They can store their produce here and sell them to traders when the market price rises.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mundu-chilli-farmers-hit-by-labour-shortage/article31392989.ece
21 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Automated thermal scanner installed at Salem Corporation office||Salem Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh launched the use of automated thermal scanner at the Corporation office here on Monday. The device was funded using CSR funds from Indian Bank and it was designed by M. Anand, a scientist from the Nilgiris. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Sadheesh said, “the automated thermal scanner would be kept at public gathering places to check human temperature. Another device would be placed at Urban Primary Health Centre in Kumarasamipatti.” He said that similar devices would be placed at other public gathering places also. “If the temperature is beyond permissible limit then they would be immediately referred to hospital,” he said. City Health Officer K. Parthibhan said that temperature up to 100 degree Fahrenheit can be considered normal and beyond it, persons would be referred to hospital. Mr. Sadheesh also said that a team has been formed to inspect areas were charitable organisations or individuals wish to distribute food and to ensure safety standards are followed. He said, “the State government and High Court has issued various guidelines regarding distribution of food. Interested persons can contact the Corporation and a team from the civic body would inspect whether the distribution is being done following all safety and hygiene standards.” M. Anand said the device was designed with the motive of preventing the spread of the disease to those who are in close proximity with those temperatures is being checked. S.Jaisankar, Technical Advisor from Department of Science and Technology, said that the device would prevent spread of the disease as there is no human intervention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/automated-thermal-scanner-installed-at-salem-corporation-office/article31392760.ece
21 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Food through Amma canteens||The district committee of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam will provide breakfast and lunch to all beneficiaries of Amma canteens here from Monday. In a release, the party said that it would bear the cost of the food. It would also offer 10 kg of rice to conservancy workers under the Salem Corporation, at the Collectorate and to workers at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here. The conservancy workers would be given masks till May 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-through-amma-canteens/article31392742.ece
21 April 2020||Salem/Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for stealing truck||Salem city police on Monday arrested a person from Kolkata for trying to steal a truck. According to Karuppur police, Nayan Das, a migrant worker, noticed a truck parked at a private transport firm near Karuppur. Police said that truck was parked there since the beginning of lockdown and it was about to be sent to Bengaluru for service. Police said that Nayan Das managed to steal the truck and it was taken to Coimbatore. Police team, who were on a night patrol on a stretch between Salem-Kochi highway in Coimbatore late on Sunday, detained the man who stole the lorry belonging to a courier agency at Karuppur in Salem. The police said that they found the truck parked on the side of road near Irugur and asked the driver why it was halted there. As the man gave contradictory statements, the police questioned him and contacted the courier agency, mobile number of which was written on the lorry. The courier company alleged that the man, Nayan Das from West Bengal, stole the vehicle and left Salem. The man and the lorry were handed over to the Salem police. It was alleged that the man stole the lorry to transport migrant workers stranded here due to lockdown to their States. Police said that the accused has been lodged in Attur prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-stealing-truck/article31392761.ece
21 April 2020||Sirkazhi,TAMIL NADU||Case against quarantined man, companions for flouting prohibitory orders||A case has been registered by the Sirkazhi police against a quarantined man and his companions for returning home after quarantine period in a procession in a containment zone, in contravention of the prohibitory orders. According to sources, the man had undergone quarantine in the Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruvarur after showing symptoms for COVID-19 after his return from New Delhi where he had attended the Tablighi Jamaat Conference. Though he was advised self-isolation by the doctors after completion of the quarantine period, he was received with shawls by his friends at Sabanayagar Street where his house is located, despite the area being a containment zone. The Sirkazhi police have registered the case under IPC sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) read with Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. No arrest has been made so far, police sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-quarantined-man-companions-for-flouting-prohibitory-orders/article31393021.ece
21 April 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||VC distributes face masks||Alagappa University Vice-Chancellor N. Rajendran inaugurated the distribution of 250 cotton face masks and ‘kabasura kudineer’ by the National Service Scheme volunteers of the university to the customers who visited the temporary vegetable market set up on Alagappa Model Higher Secondary School campus, here on Monday. He said that Alagappa Institute of Skill Development has been producing face masks with the help of 10 students and faculty from the Fashion Technology department. “Under the supervision of B. Dharmalingam, Director of Alagappa Institute of Skill Development, the students are preparing face masks while ensuring that personal distance is being followed,” he said. Around 500 face masks were also given to the Tahsildar of Karaikudi for distribution to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vc-distributes-face-masks/article31392980.ece
21 April 2020||SIVAKASI,TAMIL NADU||Two fireworks units sealed||Two fireworks units here were sealed after officials found that workers were involved in routine works in violation of the curfew order. Sivakasi Sub-Collector C. Dinesh Kumar has recommended cancellation of the licences of the units located in Vetrilaiyoorani and Anuppankulam. Collector R. Kannan had earlier said that fireworks units could start functioning from April 20 as they were in rural areas. However, he had laid down various conditions like a series of disinfection activities at the units before their reopening. Subsequently, the State government announced that the lockdown conditions would continue as usual till the high-level committee formed by it came out with its recommendation on allowing reopening of industrial units. This change in lockdown order was intimated to the fireworks units, Mr. Dinesh Kumar said. “Earlier, the units were asked to get certification from the Incident Commander before reopening. But, these two units had neither taken up disinfection works nor got certification,” he said. Besides, in both the units, the officials found that the workers were sitting huddled together, without maintaining social distancing and wearing masks and gloves, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-fireworks-units-sealed/article31393005.ece
21 April 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||900 rapid test kits arrive in Theni||The district administration has received 900 rapid test kits with which persons could be diagnosed whether they tested positive or negative to COVID-19 virus at a faster pace, said Collector M Pallavi Baldev here on Monday. In a press statement, she said that the gadget would be more handy to test persons in containment zones and other locations. It takes hardly 15 minutes to know the result. From then onwards, the persons can be diagnosed for further screening, if they tested positive. The district had 647 foreign returnees and 28 persons who had been to other States and returned home, taking the net tally to 675. Out of this, 630 persons had successfully completed home quarantine, while those who had been to other States (28 persons), 23 tested positive to COVID-19 virus. The health authorities tested as many as 92 contacts of the positive patients. So far, 18 persons were discharged from the hospital after successful treatment. The district had 328 beds in all the Government Hospitals, including Bodi, Cumbum and Periakulam, 360 at Theni Government Medical College Hospital and another 120 beds in Primary Health Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/900-rapid-test-kits-arrive-in-theni/article31392981.ece
21 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Colour-coded card system begins amidst confusion||With Tiruchi Corporation implementing a colour-coded card system to allow residents to venture out to purchase essential commodities on specified days, confusion prevailed as many residents were yet to receive the cards. On Monday morning, police personnel guarding all temporary markets set up in the city allowed entry only to pink coloured cardholders while others were turned away. M. Muthu, a resident of Amman Nagar ward number 52, said that he was asked to return home because he did not have a card. “We did not receive the card and my stock of vegetables has run out. However, they asked me to go back or would seize my vehicle. I will have to make do with what I have today,” he said. Another resident from Crawford asked if they will be forced to wait until next week. “I appreciate the move by the civic body, but does it mean that I have to wait and can only go out to buy things next Monday? There are some essentials that will run out before that,” he said. Clarifying the concern, S. Vaithiyanathan, Assistant Commissioner, Srirangam Zone, said that all zonal level officers have been asked to make a list of residences and will complete distribution in the next couple of days. “We initiated the move only two days ago and over 2.5 lakh residences have to be visited by our workers. Although a major portion of the distribution is done, the remaining will be completed within two days,” he said. Those who missed their turn this week would be exempted and allowed to shop. The police officials will be briefed on the same, he assured. Delayed announcement Meanwhile, citizens’ associations petitioned the Corporation Commissioner to rethink the move or to make some exemptions to the system as it caused inconveniences. M. Sekaran, Chairman, Citizens’ Forum said that the announcement was not only delayed but also impractical. “If this measure was taken at the start of the lockdown it may have been more effective. People are already struggling to earn a living and this move to purchase essentials on a certain day will make things more difficult,” he said. The Federation of Tiruchi City Residents Welfare Associations, however, asked for an exemption for senior citizens living alone as the system only allows cards to be issued for those below the age of 60. S. Shaktivel, president of the federation said that the civic body must keep in mind the needs of the elderly. “They surely need to go out to purchase medicines, food items and other necessities. They must at least be allowed to buy items such as milk, bread and medicines from the nearby shops on all days,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/colour-coded-card-system-begins-amidst-confusion/article31393027.ece
21 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic leaves Karur textile exporters reeling||Handloom made-ups manufacturing units in Karur, a highly export oriented industry which powers the economy of the town, have been severely hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. The units are facing huge losses due to cancellation of orders and deferred payments. Since the last week of March, not many export shipments have gone out of Karur. According to industry estimates, the handloom textile units are sitting over stocks worth about Rs. 500-600 crore as orders were cancelled one after other as the pandemic wreaked havoc from one country to another in Europe and the USA. About 750 MSME units in the town are involved in manufacturing and export of made-ups such as table cloths, kitchen towels, bed sheets, curtains and other home furnishing products. Annual exports from the town is valued at between Rs. 3,500 crore - 5,000 crore. The industry employs about 1.50 lakh employees directly and provides indirect employment to an equal number. Importantly, it employs a large number of semi-skilled and unskilled workers. “Cancellations have been high – 40 to 50%. It varies from unit to unit, buyers and the country. We are staring at a total loss of about Rs. 500 - 750 crore this year,” rues ‘Atlas’ M. Nachimuthu, president, Karur Textile Exporters Association. The pandemic has hit Karur where it hurts the most. “The major part of our exports goes to the USA and European countries such as Italy, Spain and France. Unfortunately these are the countries which are worst hit due to the COVID-19 pandemic,” explains A. Sethu, Chairman, Confederation of Indian Industry, Karur. “The immediate challenge is the cancellation or deferment of orders. The orders which we have planned to ship for the summer season, between April and June, have been halted by our importers. Our products are season oriented and cannot be sold in the next season (autumn) as the designs and colours would change,” he adds. “Many customers also want to renegotiate payment terms. They want a longer credit cycle. All this is putting us in a highly stressed business environment”, observed K. G. Prithivi, Secretary, Karur Textile Exporters Association. The immediate worry for the textile units is the need to pay the salaries of employees for the month of April, as directed by the government. “With no revenue, we have to manage our overheads and pay the salary. This is a big challenge. We request the government to take a liberal view on this and support employees by utilising the huge sum of unclaimed money available with the Employees State Insurance Corporation of India and Provident Fund, which is meant to provide social security to employees,” observes Mr. Prithivi. The industry has also put forth other demands to the government. “The moratorium on term loan repayment should be extended to a year. The government should also offer interest subvention on loans and working capital limits should be increased to all MSMEs,” suggests Mr. Nachimuthu. He also wants the government to take steps to restore domestic and international courier operations so that the exporters were able to get samples and whatever orders they manage to keep themselves going. The Reserve Bank of India has announced some stimulus to the industry but seeing the world scenario the measures should be stepped up. “Some relaxations has been given in Provident Fund payments and government has taken liability to pay both employer and employee portions but this is applicable only for units with less than 100 employees. This should be extended to all units,” requests Mr. Sethu. Returning to pre-COVID situation is not a scenario that many exporters visualise now. “Our business will not be back to normal even if the situation improves here; much depends on the USA and countries in Europe returning to normal. It will take three to six months for a clear picture to emerge,” observes Mr.N achimuthu. “Bouncing back to pre-COVID situation may be at least 18 to 24 months away provided the whole world returns to normalcy and people regain their spending capacities. Our products are not essential items and buying home furnishings will be the last thing on the mind of people recovering from the economic crisis caused by the pandemic,” observes Mr. Prithivi. Most exporters say that the industry will face shrinkage of operations in the near future. “Even if we resume restricted operations, we may operate only to 30% of capacity due to poor demand. Retrenchments and downsizing will be the order of the day. Some weak players may even be forced to shut. Unless there is government support, it will be a very tough scenario,” says Mr. Prithivi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-leaves-karur-textile-exporters-reeling/article31393020.ece
21 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||During lockdown, the hairdresser comes knocking at your doorstep||A 55-year-old hairdresser, whose livelihood has come under threat due to the lockdown, has started offering his service at the doorsteps of customers in the city. R. Arunachalam, who owns a hairdressing saloon on the Collector Office road in the city, visits each and every apartment with a kit of scissors, blades, after-shave lotion, and canvases with customers. It is not easy for him to make the men agree for a haircut or a shave. Many men, even if they are badly in need of haircuts, hesitate to accept Arunachalam’s fervent canvassing. However, he manages to convince a few customers by demonstrating the safety precautions he follows to prevent the spread of COVID-19 virus while doing his job. “I need at least Rs. 400 a day to take care of my family’s need. If I remain in doors, I cannot take care of the basic necessities. Hence, I have no other option but to offer service at the doorsteps of the customers,” Mr. Arunachalam says. He said that he used to earn an average of Rs. 700 a day until the lockdown. Earlier on, he had no need to go canvassing as he had some regular customers. But, the unexpected lockdown has dealt a severe blow to him and also to other hairdressers. With nil income for over a month, several hairdressers have been finding it difficult to meet their day-to-day household expenditure. Mr. Arunachalam said due to the closure of saloons, several men preferred to grow a beard or try different moustache styles on their own. Some were desperate to find hairdressers to cut their overgrown hair. The home service offered by him would not only take care of their needs but also help him financially to an extent. Stating that he makes it a point to adhere to all safety precautions and personal hygiene while serving the customers, Mr. Arunachalam said that the State government must include the service of hairdressers in the essential services category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/during-lockdown-the-hairdresser-comes-knocking-at-your-doorstep/article31393024.ece
21 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Nine wards in Thuvarankurichi brought under containment zone||Nine wards in Thuvarankurichi town in the district have been brought under containment zone and the district authorities have decided to tighten curbs on movement of people and vehicles so as to contain the spread of COVID-19 virus. Collector S. Sivarasu said in a statement that nine persons from Thuvarankurichi have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Of them, seven were primary contacts. Two had contracted the virus from them. Besides their houses, 93 houses and streets in Thuvarankurichi had already been declared as containment zone on April 15, thereby restricting the movement of the residents. All entry points to Thuvarankurichi including from the Tiruchi-Madurai Highway, Manapparai-Thuvarankurichi Highway, Alagapuri-Natham road and Thuvarakuruchi-Ponnampatti road have been closed. Barricades were placed at all entry points. Police personnel were posed at various places to ensure the residents adhered to the curfew restrictions. Mr. Sivarasu said no resident of the containment zone should venture out except for emergency. Similarly, there was a blanket ban on those living outside containment zone to visit Thuvarankurichi. If anyone wanted to supply medicine to the residents of Thuvarankurichi, it should be done through the designated volunteers. Until further notice, all meat and fish stalls in and around Thuvarankurichi should not transact business on Saturdays and Sundays. Similarly, grocery stores and vegetable shops should not transact business between 1 p.m. and 6 a.m. They should be closed on Sundays too. He said that the traders, who had grocery shops in the non-containment zone, should go for bulk purchase of commodities only on Mondays and Fridays. Milk and gas cylinder suppliers would be given passes to enter the containment zones. The restrictions were imposed for effective control of the spread of the virus. The residents in the containment and non-containment zones should extend all possible cooperation to the authorities to contain the spread of the virus, he said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-wards-in-thuvarankurichi-brought-under-containment-zone/article31393025.ece
21 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Toll plazas open but with revision of tariff||Even as the lockdown period continues, toll plazas established along various stretches of the National Highway near Tiruchi began functioning on Monday as per the directive of the organisation. The six toll plazas put up at Samayapuram, Thirumandurai, Sengurichi, Boothakudi, Thittampatti and Ponnambalapatti falling under the NHAI’s Tiruchi Project Implementation Unit have started working, said a senior official of the organisation. With bus services yet to commence, only freight carriers and other vehicles passed through the toll plazas as the prohibitory orders clamped in the wake of spread of COVID-19 pandemic continues. The movement of vehicles was around 20 to 25 per cent through the toll plazas on Monday, the official said. The tariff had been revised at two toll plazas- Thittampatti and Boothakudi along the Tiruchi – Madurai national highway. The fare remained the same in the other four toll plazas, the official said. The official said toll revision usually takes place in April and October adding that revision at the toll plazas was in tune with the system. However, the revision of toll plazas at a time when the lockdown was in place has been stoutly opposed by various sections of the society. Charging of toll and increasing its fare was least expected at the time of lockdown when people were expecting some kind of relief from the government, says S. A. Mubashir, a resident of Tiruchi. The revision would have an immediate impact resulting in hike in essentials at this time of crisis, he further said. The Makkal Sakthi Iyakkam has also expressed its condemnation. The charging of toll and its revision would only affect the lower strata of the society and the middle-class as the toll imposed on freight carriers transporting essentials and vegetables would eventually fall on them, its state advisor K. C. Neelagam said here. The Central government should not impose toll at least for three months during the current scenario keeping in mind the welfare of the general public. The Centre should accord importance to the welfare of the people and not act in favour of the corporates, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-plazas-open-but-with-revision-of-tariff/article31393030.ece
21 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Ten more positive cases in Central region||Ten patients tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Monday. Four of them hailed from Tiruchi while two belonged to Ariyalur and one each were from Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Pudukottai and Perambalur districts. The patients from Ariyalur, Pudukottai are undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) as it is the designated COVID-19 hospital. The four male patients in Tiruchi who tested positive are primary contacts of people who had travelled to the single source event in New Delhi in March. The patients had been kept in home quarantine within containment zones and rushed to the MGMGH after they showed symptoms. With this the total active cases in the district has risen to 21. The district however, remains in the ‘red zone’ as the situation must be monitored for some more time, S. Sivarasu, District Collector said. Health officials have so far tested 39 family members and 707 contacts of patients who had previously tested positive within 25 containment zones. Seven contacts had tested positive earlier. Meanwhile, all 3,916 individuals who were kept under home quarantine have completed their 28-day period and can go out when necessary.  Ariyalur Two women, both contacts of a man who had travelled to New Delhi have tested positive here. Both women are employees of a medical shop which the man owns, official sources said. Although the man was traced, tested and the result came negative, the two girls tested positive and are undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi MGMGH where they were sent to on Saturday night, officials said. The families of the girls residing in Sendhurai and Rayampuram have been home quarantined and their localities have been cordoned off as containment zones.  Perambalur A 59-year-old woman, a resident of Kunnam who had travelled to Varanasi for a pilgrimage has tested positive for COVID-19. The patient had travelled with 55 others belonging to various States, where she may have contracted the infection, officials here said. She is, however, undergoing treatment at Chennai, as she was kept under isolation at a facility there after being brought back from Varanasi, they added. Health officials here began testing frontline workers, including doctors, nurses and police personnel using rapid testing kits which were brought to the district on Monday. A total of 500 rapid testing units have been received, while more will be distributed if the need arises. District Collector V. Santha initiated the testing using the kits at the District Collectorate.  Pudukottai A 23-year-old man tested positive, the first in the district, after coming in contact with a family member who had attended the single source event in New Delhi in March. The family was previously tested and the results were negative late last month. However, the patient rushed to the hospital on his own on Sunday night after experiencing fever and cold symptoms, A.L. Meenakshi Sundaram, Dean, Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital said. The patient hails from Merattunilai in Arimalam and the entire locality has been cordoned off. Nagapattinam A middle-aged woman who had been working as a tour guide in Velankanni has tested positive on Monday. The woman, a resident of Pookkara street, had suffered from fever and cold for a few days and had visited the Government Headquarters Hospital here where she tested positive, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ten-more-positive-cases-in-central-region/article31393016.ece
21 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Crackdown on violators continues in Tiruchi||Crackdown against violators found defying the prohibitory orders continues with the number of cases booked exceeding 10,000 in Tiruchi Rural Police limits alone. The figures of those arrested have crossed 11,000. The cases came to be registered ever since the prohibitory orders were clamped late last month to check the spread of COVID-19. Police sources said the number of cases booked till April 19 was 10,640 with the number of accused arrested being 11,773. Those arrested were subsequently released on bail. Majority of the over 9,000 vehicles confiscated by the police from the violators were two-wheelers. With police personnel being deployed in frontline duty and at identified containment zones, their health condition was being monitored regularly. Tests were conducted on a group of 36 policemen attached to Thuvarankurichi police station using the recently procured Rapid Test Kit. Tests on police personnel in Somarasampet and Tiruverumbur using the Rapid Test Kits would be done on Tuesday. Police sources said tests were carried out on 56 police personnel attached to Tiruchi City Police limits on Monday. The tests were conducted at the Gandhipuram Urban Primary Health Centre, Beema Nagar Urban Primary Health Centre and at Subramaniapuram Urban Primary Health Centre. The tests turned negative for all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crackdown-on-violators-continues-in-tiruchi/article31393017.ece
21 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Convicts making masks in Central Prison||Prisoners lodged in Tiruchi Central Prison have been making around one lakh masks in the wake of spread of COVID-19 pandemic. A group of 21 convicts were engaged in the task of making masks after being imparted necessary training. The convicts were being subjected to medical screening daily and the entire place where the three-layered masks were being made was being kept clean, a press release from the Central Prison here said. The masks were being sold at a price of Rs. 10 per piece to health officials and police personnel. They were also being sold to general public, service organisations and private units. Those wishing to buy in bulk or in retail could purchase them from the prison. Orders could be placed for purchase of masks by contacting the telephone number 0431- 2333213, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/convicts-making-masks-in-central-prison/article31393031.ece
21 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||7 more COVID-19 patients discharged||Even as no new COVID-19 positive case was reported in Tirunelveli district on Monday, 7 persons from the district, who were undergoing treatment for SARS – CoV – 2 virus, were discharged from Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital today. Of these 7 persons, 5 patients are from Melapalayam and 2 persons are from Tirunelveli Town. Moreover, one more patient from Ayyanarooththu near Kayathar in Thoothukudi district, who was also undergoing treatment in TVMCH, was discharged on Monday. “After these patients tested negative in the tests conducted within a gap of 48 hours, they have been discharged,” said TVMCH sources said. While Tirunelveli district heaved a sigh of relief as no new case was reported Monday, Tenkasi district recorded 4 more new COVID – 19 positive patients taking its total tally to 26. And, Thoothukudi’s tally stood at 27 as one more case tested positive on Monday. “The situation in Puliyangudi in Tenkasi district is really grim. After an old man from Puliyangudi tested positive for COVI D – 19, his two daughters and two more women from his street were infected. As the number of primary contacts with these patients swelled to 90, all of them are being tested. Since most of them are showing symptoms of COVID–19, our worst fears may become true in the days to come,” the TVMCH sources said. Though the Sub-Registrars’ offices returned to business on Monday following eased out 1ockdown, response from the public coming for registration of documents was very poor as only one document was registered on Monday. “We also received applications for 10 copy documents and 26 encumbrance certificates,” said sources in the Sub-Registrar Office on Tirunelveli Collectorate premises. Officials attached to other Sub-Registrar’s Offices across the district said that they had registered only one or two documents due to COVID–19 scare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/7-more-covid-19-patients-discharged/article31392984.ece
21 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Increased toll on national highways irks doctors, farmers, and govt. employees||Farmers, who have already been hit hard by the lockdown as they could not send their produce to the markets here and also in neighbouring Kerala as they were doing in the past, now face another irritating problem – hike in toll being collected in the toll plazas along the national highways. Of the 44 toll plazas across Tamil Nadu, toll has been upwardly revised in 24 tollgates with the increase ranging from Rs. 5 to Rs. 25. When lockdown was eased on Monday (April 20) as announced by the Union Government, most of the vehicles crossing these toll plazas were carrying farm produce to the consumers in lockdown areas. As the vehicles reached the Nanguneri toll plaza, the southernmost tollgate of the country, in the early hours of Monday, they were shocked on coming to know that toll ranging from Rs. 5 to Rs. 25 (round trip) had been hiked as it was re-opened in the midnight. Since a good number of villages around Palayamkottai, Nanguneri, Kalakkad and Cheranmahadevi are producing vegetables, especially bananas, the farmers had to pay the increased toll on Monday. “The procuring price of banana has fallen as we’re selling it for the throwaway price of Rs. 100. At the same time, we’ve to pay high tariff for mini lorries or lorries based on the quantum of harvest. The increase in the truck tariff is due to the fuel price hike. Now, the Union Government has allowed the collection of increased toll which has hit the farmers again,” says farmer P. Perumbadaiyar of Communist Party of India. He says the toll collection should be waived at least the lockdown was lifted. Tirunelveli district secretary of Communist Party of India (Marxist) K.G. Bhaskaran said the district administration should come to the farmers’ rescue. “Farmers are now transporting fruits and vegetables to consumers even as Tirunelveli district has been categorized as red zone.” The farmers, who are facing loss ever since the COVID – 19 pandemic triggered scare everywhere, the toll hike will be an additional burden to the farmers who are fulfilling the basic needs of the public at this crucial juncture. Hence, the Collector should waive the collection of toll from the vehicles carrying farm produce, said Mr. Bhaskaran. While the farmers are facing the heat at toll plazas, the doctors and the government employees travelling in their vehicles for official work, particularly anti-COVID-19 work, are also being fleeced in the toll plazas, they complain. “Since the doctors of Public Health Department have not been provided with official vehicles, we’re travelling in our vehicle and hence have to pay the increased toll. So the collection of toll should be waived until the end of lockdown,” said a senior doctor from Valliyoor, who is working with Department of Public Health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increased-toll-on-national-highways-irks-doctors-farmers-and-govt-employees/article31392985.ece
21 April 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||A shelter for the homeless||As they wandered along the deserted roads of Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai in search of a handful of food and a glass of water, the homeless might have thought that the lockdown was the end of the road for them. Though she was rushing to the Collectorate to chair a meeting with the officials to discuss anti-COVID – 19 operations, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish pushed her agenda aside when she saw one of the homeless searching a garbage bin in front of a closed eatery. Ms. Shilpa immediately asked officials to take all efforts to rescue the homeless and the mentally ill wandering along the streets. The very same evening, the mentally ill were taken to the homes being maintained by social service organisations and the homeless were accommodated in the Corporation’s home and also in the temporary relief camp created at Kallanai Corporation Higher Secondary School in Tirunelveli Town. After hairdressers were pressed into service, the rescued persons were given bath and new clothes besides hot food. All of them were screened for viral infection, if any. While efforts were on to send people from other districts and other States back to their home after the end of the lockdown, the mentally ill patients would be given medical care and counselling. “I humbly request everyone who happens to see the homeless or the mentally ill wandering along the roads to inform toll-free 1077 or the tahsildars concerned. Our people will come to the spot and rescue them,” Ms. Shilpa said. When she visited the rescued people at the relief camp at Kallanai Corporation Higher Secondary School on Saturday afternoon with new clothes, the inmates were overwhelmed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-shelter-for-the-homeless/article31392978.ece
21 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur district gets 2,400 rapid test kits||A total of 2,400 rapid test kits have been allocated for Tiruppur district, Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan said here on Monday. Chairing a review meeting on the COVID-19 preventive measures with officials from various departments of the district administration, the Minister expressed hope that these kits would speed up the process of testing and declaration of results, a release said. Mr. Radhakrishnan also inspected the kits. Mr. Radhakrishnan also reviewed the precautions taken in all the local bodies – Tiruppur City Corporation, five municipalities, 16 town panchayats and 13 village panchayats. Isolation wards in hospitals are available in all the revenue blocks in the district, he said. The Minister advised the officials to provide adequate safety equipment to all the conservancy workers, according to the release. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan presided over the review meeting. MLAs from the district, City Commissioner of Police Sanjay Kumar, District Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal, District Revenue Officer R. Sukumar, Tiruppur Government Hospital Dean S. Valli and Deputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur) K. Jegadeesh Kumar were among the officials who participated in the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-district-gets-2400-rapid-test-kits/article31392753.ece
21 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested for liquor sale||Tiruppur North police arrested four men on charges of illegally selling liquor amid the lockdown in Rayapuram, Tiruppur city on Monday. The arrested were D. Muthukumar, D. John, R. Selvakrishnan and S. Dhanapal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-arrested-for-liquor-sale/article31392754.ece
21 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Wild elephants damage house in Gudalur||A house was damaged by two wild elephants that have recently ventured out from the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) into human settlements along the boundary of the reserve. Forest Department officials said the elephants damaged the house of a farmer in Echamvayal in Srimadurai, Gudalur, on Sunday night. Local residents alleged that the elephants consumed rice and other supplies kept inside the house. This was the third time in the last five days that the two elephants had damaged houses in the area. On April 15 and 16, the elephants allegedly damaged a house in Kunivayal in search of food. Forest officials from both MTR and the Gudalur forest division, including Rapid Response Teams, worked all through the night to drive the elephants back into the tiger reserve. The officials said the elephants damaged the house while they were being chased back into the forest. Teams of forest staff would be stationed in the villages to keep the elephants out of the settlements, they said. The officials in Gudalur are also monitoring the movement of a carnivore which has preyed on two cows in Srimadurai last week. Camera traps have been set up to identify the animal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wild-elephants-damage-house-in-gudalur/article31392741.ece
21 April 2020||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||Special police team to prevent illicit liquor trade in Vellore district||A special branch police team destroyed 3,000 litres of fermented wash and 500 litres of illicitly brewed liquor, which they seized from Kundrani hill near Odugathur in Vellore district. Ever since the lockdown was announced, the scramble for liquor has been on the rise and people trying to cash in on this opportunity indulged in illegal activities to fetch them the stock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-police-team-to-prevent-illicit-liquor-trade-in-vellore-district/article31392712.ece
21 April 2020||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested for murdering rowdy in Vellore||Police arrested four persons in connection with the murder of Udhayakumar, an anti-social element, in Kosapet on Sunday. The arrested were Appu alias Emmanuel, Andhriyas, 34, Attappa, 30, and Nirmal, 23. Vellore South Police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-arrested-for-murdering-rowdy-in-vellore/article31392711.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stroke is an exception, rush to hospital||The COVID-19 pandemic has changed patient care protocols at hospitals all over the world. However, it is important that, in these difficult times, we do not forget the basics of staying healthy and safe. Stroke or brain attack still remains one of the main causes of death and disability, even during the pandemic. One should not forget the basic concept – time is brain or golden hour – emphasising that time is crucial in any brain emergency. The reason for this emphasis on time is because the brain is extremely dependant on a constant supply of oxygen and nutrition, as it does not have any storage capacity. Its requirements are also very high – almost 20% of the blood that is pumped from the heart goes to the brain. A stroke may occur because adequate amount of blood does not reach the brain, or because there is bleeding in the brain. Stroke recognition Remember the mnemonic B (Balance), E (Eyesight), F (Face), A (Arms and legs), S(Speech) T (Time to go immediately to the hospital) – this will help in the early recognition of a stroke. Add to this severe headache and loss of consciousness or fits. The question asked is – should we go to hospital even when there are only mild symptoms? The answer is that one has to go to the appropriate hospital even when there is a doubt of symptoms. These should be taken as a warning and treatment started immediately. While going to the hospital for minor ailments has been discouraged currently, please remember that a stroke is an exception. It is an emergency and therefore, even when in doubt, one has to rush to hospital. What happens when a patient reaches hospital? A CT scan is done to see if there is bleeding, and depending on the clinical status of the patient and the time from onset of symptoms, a clot dissolving medicine can be given intravenously. A CT angiogram is also done which will show if there is any involvement of a large vessel. If yes, then the patient will be immediately shifted to the cath lab for a procedure called Mechanical Thrombectomy, where through a small catheter placed into the artery in the groin, the clot is removed. Remember, for this to happen the patient must reach the hospital at least within 4 hours from the onset of symptoms. Occasionally, surgery may be indicated as a life saving procedure, to remove a large blood clot or to prevent bleeding from happening again. Decisions and actions are taken in a very short period of time. For this to be effective it is necessary for the concerned hospital to have not only the equipment and infrastructure but also a comprehensive stroke team including specialised doctors in Neurology, Neuro Critical Care, Neuro Radiology, Neuro Intervention and Neurosurgery, other than specialised nursing and technicians.  Currently many stroke teams are working on the concept of tele-stroke, where the stroke team leader at the hospital can remotely direct the general practitioner or family physician on starting the treatment even before the patient reaches the designated hospital. Education of, and good communication between the different health care professionals is key to the success of this initiative that promises to reduce the time taken to initiate treatment of a stroke. Safety in hospital All hospitals are taking precautions to keep patients and healthcare workers safe. Limitations on visitors, rational use of PPEs and screening with segregation ensure that the stroke patient is not exposed to a potential COVID-19 positive patient. Sometimes patients may hesitate to go to the hospital for fear of getting infected with corona virus, or that doctors would be too busy treating COVID-19 patients. Both assumptions are untrue. People in an extremely vulnerable group need to follow the specific advice about their health condition. A healthy diet, regular physical activity (at home) and reduction of anxiety and stress will help maintain your brain health. Smoking and alcohol are to be avoided at all costs. While the anxiety of contracting the virus is understandable, emergencies like a brain attack or stroke cannot wait – prompt attention at the earliest is the only way to achieve the best outcomes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stroke-is-an-exception-rush-to-hospital/article31392710.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Government issues 300 kits to Nilgiris||The State government has issued 300 rapid testing kits to the Nilgiris district for COVID-19 testing. The district administration stated that the kits will be used to test policemen, doctors, nurses and sanitation workers who have been working in the quarantine zones in the initial phase. Testing will gradually be done in all the local bodies in the coming weeks, and additional testing kits can be requisitioned from the government when necessary, a press release said. Testing for novel coronavirus using the rapid testing kits began in the containment zone in Khandal in Udhagamandalam. Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya, Superintendent of Police V. Sasi Mohan, and other officials were present to inspect the testing procedures. The district administration has also warned traders and merchants against profiteering by selling essential commodities at inflated prices. Toll-free number People have been asked to inform the district administration through their toll-free number at 1077 of any such shops or merchants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-issues-300-kits-to-nilgiris/article31392757.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||No takers for Chinnalapatti sungudi saris||At least Rs. five-crore worth sungudi cotton saris manufactured in Chinnalapatti near here are lying in depots and shops for over a month in the wake of lockdown. Popular among women in Odisha, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, production picks up during summer as the high temperature helps in printing dye and weaving the yarn swiftly. On an average, 15,000 to 20,000 saris are manufactured by nearly 2,500 weavers in the region every day during the season. The traditional variety is so famous that even womenfolk in countries such as Sri Lanka, Malaysia and Singapore purchase them online, says R. Janardanan, a producer. Production touches its peak during April and goes on till June 15. Preparatory works such as procurement of raw material, dye and yarn begin from January-end. Since mid-March, however, there has been no activity at all in the wake of lockdown. Weavers are jobless and dyeing units have shut shop. Small yarn merchants have almost become penniless as weavers, to whom they they supplied raw material, have produced the saris but are unable to sell or transport them to other cities, Mr. Janardanan points out. If the situation of merchants and producers is bad, it is worse for weavers. Take for instance K. Nagaraj of Mettupatti, who usually earns Rs. 800 daily as a weaver. “After the lockdown announcement came on March 24, we were able to manage with what we had. From beginning of April, it began to get worse. Private money lenders have made our lives miserable. We received Rs. 1,000 cash relief from the government. But it is insufficient. For a family of six adults, it is a paltry sum,” he told The Hindu over phone. Another weaver-cum-producer, A.S. Suresh of Sourashtra Colony says he usually gives at least 300 sarees daily for dyeing. But with lathe operators shutting shop, the material cannot be processed. “This is prime time for production. And all is gone for now. We do not know when normalcy will return,” he adds. The government through the weavers welfare board should make arrangements for supply of yarn and other raw material. If it is done, many women weavers can at least restart work from their homes. “We can follow the guidelines of social distancing and need not step out of our homes. The raw materials have to be transported from near Palani, Udumalpet and Pollachi. Only the district administration can help us by getting the materials here,” says G. Packialakshmi of Valluvar Colony. DMK MLA I. Periasamy says the DMK government had in the past redressed a number of grievances of weavers. The State government should immediately provide at least Rs. 5,000 to each of the registered weavers by crediting the sum to their bank accounts as relief. Cooptex and Weavers Welfare Board should examine modalities to lift the finished goods worth Rs. five crore from weavers’ cooperative societies, which alone will save the industry from the crisis, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-takers-for-chinnalapatti-sungudi-saris/article31393002.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Burial of youth’s body opposed by locals||Tension prevailed at Nambiyur on Sunday night when local people opposed the move to bury the body of a 20-year-old youth, who died of lung ailment. The youth, who is a native of Avinashi, is residing with his parents at Coimbatore Main Road at Nambiyur for the past six years. He was suffering from lung-related problem for many years and is undergoing treatment. Recently, he was admitted to a private hospital at Coimbatore and was shifted to the District Headquarters Hospital in Erode. But he died on Sunday afternoon. His body was taken to Nambiyur and preparations were on to bury the body at a land located near Eswaran Kovil and Mariamman Kovil streets. Over 50 people gathered on the Nambiyur – Kedarai Road and opposed the move to bury the body. They claimed that he had died of COVID-19. Officials and doctors’ team from Nambiyur Block Primary Health Centre held talks with the people. Meanwhile, the victim’s parents expressed their willingness to bury the body in Gobichettipalayam and officials also gave permission for it. Later, the body was taken to Gobichettipalayam and buried there at 1.30 a.m. on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burial-of-youths-body-opposed-by-locals/article31392748.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman charred to death||An 85-year-old woman was charred to death after her hut caught fire at Ashokapuri, near Periyar Nagar, here on Monday. The police said that she was residing alone. On Sunday night, she had lit the mosquito coil and went to sleep. Next day morning, neighbours found smoke from the hut and alerted fire and rescue services personnel, who put off the fire. But, the hut was completely damaged and they found the charred body inside the hut. The body was taken to the District Headquarters Hospital for post-mortem. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the coil could have fell on to the bed sheet that led to outbreak of fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-charred-to-death/article31392749.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman, live-in partner arrested for murder||The Saibaba Colony late on Sunday arrested a woman and her live-in partner on charges of murdering her six-year-old son, allegedly after the boy became a hindrance to their affair, said the police. The arrested were Divya and Rajadurai, a taxi driver. The duo allegedly tortured the boy Abhishek with ladle, chapati roller and stick apart from branding him with knife heated in fire, said the police. The police said that the woman had separated from her husband, a native of the Nilgiris, and she moved to a rented house near Thudiyalur around six months ago with the six-year-old son and three-year-old daughter. The woman and Rajadurai became friends and they started a live-in relationship. The owner of the house found them torturing the boy and forced them to vacate the house. They moved to a house at Kovilmedu around a month ago where they continued to torture the boy. The duo allegedly beaten up the boy on Saturday after which his body was swollen. The boy’s condition deteriorated on Sunday afternoon and he died before an ambulance they called reached the house. Though the woman and her partner initially claimed that the boy fell from a height and died, they confessed to the police that they had tortured him, following which he fell sick and died, said a police officer. The boy’s body was autopsied at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-live-in-partner-arrested-for-murder/article31392756.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Army trainee commits suicide||A 20-year-old man undergoing training at the Madras Regimental Center was found dead in an apparent suicide on Monday morning. Police identified the deceased as Sampath Kumar, from Madurai. He had been missing since Sunday. A search resulted in MRC officials finding his body near Black Bridge in Wellington. He had apparently hanged himself from a tree. The Sneha suicide prevention helpline can be reached via phone at 04424640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/army-trainee-commits-suicide/article31392758.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||For effective lockdown||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/for-effective-lockdown/article31392764.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||State not to relax lockdown||Officials present at the meeting also cited the decisions taken by governments of Delhi, Karnataka, Punjab, Telangana, Maharashtra and Gujarat to continue with the lockdown. On Monday evening, the State government issued a G.O. to the effect that all restrictions mentioned in the Revenue Department G.O. dated March 25 (G.O. No. 193) would prevail and the G.O. issued on April 15 (G.O. No. 172) would not be applicable in Tamil Nadu. "On April 15, the State government merely endorsed all the guidelines issued by the Centre, which allowed select activities that were to be allowed after April 20. The fresh G.O. will not allow those activities," sources said. Since the lockdown had been imposed under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the SDMA was to decide on whether to continue with it. Though the expert committee was constituted to generate suggestions on the way forward after April 20 and the "strategy to take measures in the post-lockdown period", there was no talk on the latter. "On Monday morning, the immediate issue to be considered was a decision on relaxation, which was not difficult to take. With the prevailing conditions, it was an open and shut case," a senior official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-not-to-relax-lockdown/article31392721.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Doctor’s funeral party comes under attack||An ambulance driver, who was injured in the attack, said he received four stitches on his head at the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, while a colleague received six stitches, also for a head injury. Additional Commissioner of Police (South) Prem Anand Sinha said some locals threw stones, damaging the ambulance. A team led by Kilpauk Deputy Commissioner of Police chased the attackers. The body was buried around 1.30 a.m. amid tight security, he said. The Anna Nagar police arrested 21 persons, including a woman, for rioting and attempt to murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-funeral-party-comes-under-attack/article31392722.ece
21 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Book sedition cases against those who attacked health workers’||“The State government should book sedition cases against those who attacked health workers at Padarayanapura in Bengaluru,” Suresh Angadi, Union Minister of State for Railways, said in Belagavi on Monday. “Derailing COVID-19 management efforts is an anti-national act. Those who are doing anti-national activities should be charged with sedition. I urge Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai to do so,” he told journalists at his residence. He alleged that leaders like B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan, MLA, were supporting the rioters for political reasons. “Mr. Khan should clarify which country he belongs to. He should say whether he supports India or any other country,” Mr. Angadi said.  Zameer Ahmed Khan should clarify which country he belongs to. He should say whether he supports India or any other country.Suresh AngadiUnion Minister of State for Railways||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/book-sedition-cases-against-those-who-attacked-health-workers/article31392841.ece
21 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A business-as-usual budget during a pandemic||The Mayor called the civic budget tabled on Monday “historic” as it was presented and passed through video conferencing amid concerns over the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the budget remained silent on the pandemic itself, and did not address public health measures or the plight of the urban poor who have lost their livelihood because of the lockdown. The budget earmarks Rs. 49.50 crore from ward grants – Rs. 25 lakh from each ward – to the chief minister's discretionary fund to fight COVID-19, but proposes no other measures to be taken up by the civic body. The budget was presented by L. Srinivas, chairman, Standing Committee on Taxation and Finance, BBMP. Activists and citizens groups have criticised the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) for failing to acknowledge the global health crisis and its role in mitigating the impact of the coronavirus in Bengaluru. “The BBMP has abdicated its responsibility. The gaps in the public health infrastructure are now clearly visible. For instance, our primary health centre infrastructure is inadequate and we do not have diagnostic facilities in government institutions. These should have been addressed,” said Dr. Sylvia Karpagam, a community medicine expert. The budget came under criticism from the opposition Congress for the same reason. Keeping in line with previous budgets, the one presented on Monday earmarks 1.2% of the outlay for health. “We have adequate outlay for health, and everything cannot be done in one year,” said Mayor M. Goutham Kumar defending the budget. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa may have expressed concern over the financial situation of the State and indicated a drop in revenue to the exchequer, but the civic body seems to have no such concerns. The BBMP is dependent on grants from the State and Union governments to the extent of 40% of its budget outlay.  With an eye on the upcoming civic polls scheduled for September 2020, the budget lists several social welfare measures. Mr. Kumar said the budget’s focus was welfare and pro-people measures. However, its share has come down from 10% of the outlay last year to 6% this year. Sapna Karim, head, civic participation, Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy, said, “The impact of the pandemic and lockdown is expected to continue for almost a year, and the poor are especially vulnerable. Ideally, there should have been ward level and sector level budgeting to cushion the blow. There is no imagination in the budget.” The welfare sector is headlined in the budget by a universalisation of a free water scheme introduced by the State government in 2017 in urban slums. Any household using less than 10,000 litres of water a month will not be billed. However, those using above the 10,000-litre threshold would be billed for the entire usage. “The universalisation of the scheme will benefit 2.5 lakh new households in 110 villages,” said Mr. Kumar. It will cost the BBMP Rs. 43 crore.  The BBMP has abdicated its responsibility. The gaps in the public health infrastructure are now clearly visible. For instance, our primary health centre infrastructure is inadequate and we do not have diagnostic facilities in government institutions Dr. Sylvia Karpagam, community medicine expert   The impact of the pandemic and lockdown is expected to continue for a year, and the poor are especially vulnerable. Ideally, there should have been ward level and sector level budgeting to cushion the blow. There is no imagination in the budget Sapna Karim, Head, Civic Participation, Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-business-as-usual-budget-during-a-pandemic/article31392656.ece
21 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Strict lockdown: Why it was off and is on again||The State government on Monday did a U-turn and reversed the relaxations it had announced on Saturday on lockdown conditions such as allowing some sectors to work with a third of the workforce. Multiple factors seem to have triggered it. While the Centre has frowned upon States that have eased lockdown, opinion expressed by experts against relaxation and incidents in Padarayanapura where BBMP workers, who tried to take away people to a quarantine facility, were allegedly attacked also contributed to the reversal of decision. These apart, there was simmering discontent over Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday announcing relaxation without consulting the entire Cabinet. The State government’s explanation is that relaxations would increase movement of people between villages and cities and possibly lead to an increase in infections. They realised only after making a hasty announcement on Saturday, that it would difficult to maintain social distancing once lockdown is relaxed, which is critical to flattening the curve. “Several activities such as transportation of employees, production and supply of materials, accommodation and catering to food are interlinked and this would defeat the very purpose of the lockdown,” said a source. A key thing was the possibility of influx from neighbouring States. So, amidst pressure from small and medium industrialists to allow industries to open, health experts and principal Opposition Congress stressed that social distancing must continue at least till May 3, no matter the challenges it brings. Sources said the Centre too has come down heavily on States that announced relaxations. Though there was no specific strictures to Karnataka from the Centre, sources said several Cabinet Ministers themselves opposed relaxation moves. They even argued that the Opposition Congress would use it to target the government in case the number of positive cases increase in the post-relaxation period. The Congress had already questioned the government’s “selective approach” while it announced relaxation to the IT/BT sector on Saturday, by ignoring the needs of smaller businessmen and occupations. KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar termed Mr. Yediyurappa’s decisions on Saturday as “shocking news”, which contradicts Centre’s lockdown norms imposed till May 3. This was one of the points they raised during their meeting with the Chief Minister on Sunday. Government sources say that an immediate trigger was also was the ruckus in Padarayanapura in Bengaluru city on Sunday night. This issue was debated intensely in the State Cabinet on Monday and some Ministers and leaders questioned what they called “soft approach” adopted by the government on lockdown norms and those violating it. A few days ago, ASHA workers were allegedly attacked in Sadiq Nagar in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/strict-lockdown-why-it-was-off-and-is-on-again/article31392675.ece
21 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||All 18 new cases are from NK||Eighteen new COVID-19 cases were detected in the State on Monday, taking the total number of positive cases to 408. All the new cases are from North Karnataka — 11 from Vijayapura, five from Kalaburagi, and one each from Gadag and Bidar. All the cases have contact with a previous patient, said Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar on Monday. These cases are a continued chain of the Vijayapura’s two families, which had 17 cases totally. In Nanjangud, which has now become a cluster concern, 2,098 persons have been quarantined. Of these, 1,960 were tested and 69 were positive while 1,891 were negative. The results of 138 samples are still awaited. Of the total 84 cases in Mysuru, 69 have emanated from a pharma company. The Minister pointed out that some districts have continued to remain COVID free. While Kodagu, for the last 32 days has not seen even a single positive case, Chitradurga has not seen a positive case for the last 26 days. Similarly, Davangere and Udupi have not seen cases in the last 25 days and 22 days, respectively. As on today, there are 10 COVID-19 free districts: Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Haveri, Kolar, Koppal, Raichur, Ramanagaram, Shivamogga, and Yadgir. Stringent action Warning hospitals that do not report COVID cases to the government of stringent action, the Minister said 80% of the 16 persons who succumbed to the disease in the State are aged above 60. Eleven of the deceased had Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and most had reported late. Overall, 29 SARI patients and two ILI patients have tested positive in the State. As many as 20 positive patients are those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event and they have spread the infection to 103 persons, who have also tested positive. ICMR random testing Meanwhile, to study the spread of COVID-19 and ascertain if there was community transmission, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will take up random testing in 82 districts from 25 States in the country. In Karnataka, ICMR has chosen three districts of Kalaburagi, Bengaluru, and Chitradurga. “The study will also analyse the spread based on population and guidelines for the same are being framed,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-18-new-cases-are-from-nk/article31392666.ece
21 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Toll collection resumes on national highways; truck owners unhappy||The National Highways Authority of India’s (NHAI) decision to resume toll collection from Monday has not gone down well with truck owners, who have demanded that the Union government continue the exemption for as long as lockdown is in place. At toll plazas on the outskirts of the city, toll collection resumed from 12 a.m. on Monday. At Sadahalli toll plaza, three lanes have been opened on either side (one for cash or two for FASTag). President of the Federation of Karnataka State Lorry Owners and Agents’ Association G.R. Shanmugappa told The Hindu that this decision will be an additional burden on truck owners who are already in financial distress due to lockdown.“The truck owners have extended all support to the governments in transporting essential commodities despite shortage of drivers. A majority of the vehicles are returning without load. A short Bengaluru to Chennai trip alone requires around Rs. 4,000 in toll. We are hoping that the Union government will listen to us and stop toll collection for as long as lockdown is in force,” he said. Mr. Shanmugappa added that the Southzone Motor Transporters’ Welfare Association had approached the Centre to give an exemption from paying toll for a period of six months after lockdown gets lifted. An official of the NHAI said: “At present, movement of is less than 20%. To maintain social distancing, we are employing 33% of the workforce at toll plazas.” The NHAI had temporarily suspended collection of toll on highways from March 25 to ease movement of essential commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/toll-collection-resumes-on-national-highways-truck-owners-unhappy/article31392678.ece
21 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Padarayanapura residents blame breakdown in communication||A day after miscreants allegedly incited violence in Padarayanapura on Sunday night, residents stayed indoors out of fear on Monday, while the police deployed around 500 personnel to maintain law and order. The violence allegedly erupted after BBMP officials attempted to escort secondary contacts of a deceased COVID-19 patient into quarantine. Many residents blamed a break down in communication between the authorities and the residents for the violence. “People were being taken to quarantine without any prior notice or proper information. At first, only primary contacts were to be taken, and then the rules changed to include secondary contacts. This naturally created confusion and fear among people, most of who are from lower socio-economic strata,” Saddam Baig, an advocate and a resident of Padarayanapura. Padarayanapura, along with a neighbouring ward, Bapujinagar, had been sealed and barricaded ten days ago, after a spurt of COVID-19 positive cases were reported in the area. Syed Ahmed, another resident of Padarayanapura said “Many people demanded that they be taken to quarantine only in the presence of elected representatives or after informing them. That did not happen on Sunday,” said Syed Ahmed. BBMP officials said the reason for shifting people into quarantine centres was made as the area was densely populated. BBMP commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said: “On Sunday evening, 22 people were shifted out of the ward for quarantine. At 6 p.m., the team returned to collect the second batch but some residents objected,” he said. Health officials alerted the commissioner who asked them to return the next morning. “They left by 6.30 p.m. by when a crowd had gathered and tried to follow the health workers. But the workers left the ward. Around 7.30 p.m., when health workers were not at the spot, violence erupted,” said Mr. Kumar. On Monday, the remaining 36 contacts were taken to quarantine centres peacefully amid tight police security. Chamarajpet MLA B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan said the BBMP officials had informed him that they would take people to quarantine on Sunday morning. “However, due to some problem, they could not come,” he said, adding that the team went to the ward in the evening without his knowledge. He took to Twitter to condemn the ruckus created by a few. “Since many in Padarayanapura are illiterate, they have resisted appearing for testing. Awareness should have been created... Since the authorities went there in the evening, people have panicked,” he said. Residents of Padarayanapura told The Hindu that when the ward was being sealed the authorities had assured them that pushcarts would be deployed for the sale and supply of essential commodities. However, shortage and irregular supply of milk, vegetables and groceries still remained a problem. “When they sealed down the area, it is their responsibility to provide us with all basic amenities and it is the right of the people to to get them at their doorstep which has not been happening regularly,” said a resident of Padarayanapura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/padarayanapura-residents-blame-breakdown-in-communication/article31392653.ece
21 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP MLAs get lion’s share of funding||BJP MLAs have walked away with the lion's share of funding under the 15th Finance Commission Grants. The only non-BJP MLA to get any grant is Ramalinga Reddy who represents BTM Layout. Padmanabha Nagar, represented by R. Ashok, has got the highest allocation of Rs. 25 crore. The party hoppers, who won the bypolls and have become ministers in the BJP government, have also got high allocations. Yeshwantpur, represented by S.T. Somashekhar, was allotted Rs. 20 crore while K.R. Puram, represented by B.A. Basavaraja, and Mahalakshmipuram, represented by K. Gopalaiah, were allotted Rs. 10 crore each. Responding to criticism that the budget has been partial towards assembly segments represented by BJP, Revenue Minister R. Ashok hit back at the opposition saying that they had been made keeping in mind the allocations made to each constituency during the last four years when the Congress-JDS coalition was in power. However, Abdul Wajid, Leader of the Opposition in the BBMP Council, pointed out that in no year had the coalition not earmarked funds to opposition constituencies at all. “Except for BTM Layout, no constituency has been given any funds,” he said. This discrepancy in fund allocation plays out among wards with BJP councillors. Mayor M. Goutham Kumar's ward, Jogupalya, has been allotted Rs. 40 crore, ruling party leader Munindra Kumar's ward Rs. 25 crore, deputy mayor's ward Rs. 10 crore. Wards represented by opposition leaders Abdul Wajid and Netra Narayan have been allotted Rs. 7 crore and Rs. 5 crore, respectively, which are relatively more than others.  Except for BTM Layout, no constituency has been given any funds Abdul Wajid, Leader of the Opposition, BBMP Council||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-mlas-get-lions-share-of-funding/article31392658.ece
21 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Testing senior citizens with comorbidities||The State government has decided to test senior citizens with comorbidities for COVID-19 if they come forward. Speaking at a press conference, K. Sudhakar, Medical Education Minister, said that those who died after being tested positive for COVID-19 were between the 55 to 80 age group. He said that people in this age bracket should stay at home till the curve flattens. He said that those with the slightest of symptoms such as cold, breathlessness and comorbidities such as asthma, lung problems, tuberculosis, liver diseases, cancer or HIV/AIDS need to be careful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/testing-senior-citizens-with-comorbidities/article31392676.ece
21 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka Civil Services rules to be changed||The State Cabinet has decided to bring changes in the Karnataka Civil Services rules for not considering employees of boards/corporations and public enterprises as government employees. Employees of hundreds of boards/corporations and government enterprises go to different government departments on deputation and later seek regularisation of their postings in departments. Law and Parliamentary Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said several petitions are pending in court seeking regularisation of postings of employees in various departments. But till the necessary changes are made in the law, an ordinance would be promulgated so that employees of the boards/corporations and public enterprises would not be treated as government staff, he said. The Cabinet decided to go with the court ruling that the land occupied by Mysore Minerals Ltd. belonged to the Revenue Department and not Forest department. The Cabinet has decided to withdraw 152 cases registered against people protesting against the Tipu Jayanti celebrations and protests related to irrigation projects. A medical college was sanctioned to Chikkamagaluru and it would be developed at a cost of Rs. 438.75 crore. Both the Union and State governments would contribute to the development of the college. It was decided to extend the 7th Pay Commission payscale to 2,800 teaching and non-teaching staff of the Medical Education Department and this would burden the State exchequer Rs. 137 crore a year, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-civil-services-rules-to-be-changed/article31392673.ece
21 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Driver rescues abandoned newborn from dogs||A 32-year-old cab driver rescued a newborn boy who had been abandoned on the roadside and was being attacked by stray dogs in the wee hours of Sunday. According to the police, Nagaraju, R., a resident of Subedarpalya was walking in the area when he heard a baby crying. He went to investigate and found the infant wrapped in a cloth. A pack of stray dogs were trying to drag the baby, said a police. With the help of police, he took the baby to K.C. General Hospital for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/driver-rescues-abandoned-newborn-from-dogs/article31392665.ece
21 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Stop issuing inter-city passes’||Taking exception to the increase in vehicle movement, the State police chief has directed the city police to stop issuing inter-city and inter-State emergency passes till further orders. In a letter to city Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao, Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Praveen Sood said that he had noticed absence of traffic police at junctions. Checking passes, especially those issued by Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police of other districts, should be intensified, he said in the letter. Emergency day passes could be issued only to those with genuine concern, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stop-issuing-inter-city-passes/article31392662.ece
21 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Meeting with pvt. hospitals||Coming to the aid of those who are being refused treatment for non-COVID ailments, the State government will hold a meeting with representatives of private hospitals in a day or two. “We have got several complaints about non-COVID patients being made to run from one hospital to another. We will soon publish a list of hospitals where non-COVID treatment can be availed. We will also hold a meeting with private hospital representatives in a day or two,” said Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meeting-with-pvt-hospitals/article31392672.ece
21 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Don’t give communal colour to incident: Cong.||KPCC leaders have condemned the alleged attack on BBMP officials and ASHA workers at Padarayanapura. They appealed to not give the incident a communal colour. KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar convened a meeting of leaders of the minority community at his residence in Sadashivanagar on Monday and asked the State government to take stringent action against all those individuals who committed the crime. “We stand by you (CM). The people who indulged in the attack must be punished,” he said. He also appealed to the government to refrain from giving it a communal colour. He urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to pay attention to inflammatory comments being made on the incident by some BJP legislators and leaders and demanded action against them. He appealed to the leaders of minorities to persuade people to assist in identifying patients. Congress leader Siddaramaiah tweeted, said, “Sunday night’s skirmish in Padarayanapura ward is unfortunate. All those responsible should be punished.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-give-communal-colour-to-incident-cong/article31392659.ece
21 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pourakarmika welfare given priority||The budget probably has the highest allocation made for pourakarmika welfare – Rs. 77 crore, which includes Rs. 36 crore assistance for housing, Rs. 5 crore for health kits, Rs. 15 crore for mid-day meals. BBMP Pourakarmikara Sangha welcomed the allocation. They requested the council to also consider bringing in pay parity among permanent and contract pourakar-mikas, ensure all EPF arrears are paid by contractors and provide mechanised pushcarts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pourakarmika-welfare-given-priority/article31392660.ece
21 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Book attackers for sedition: Kateel||BENGALURU  Expressing anger over the Sunday’s alleged attack, BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel demanded that attackers be booked for sedition. “The attacks against doctors, nurses, ASHA workers and officials are incidents of sedition. Karnataka should follow U.P. model of confiscating properties of law breakers besides filing cases of sedition,” he said and added that he had already spoken to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai in this regard. He also asked people not to paint the incident in communal colours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/book-attackers-for-sedition-kateel/article31392651.ece
21 April 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Death of 13 wild boars causes worry||The death of 13 wild boars reported in a gap of 20 days in the backwaters of Bhadra Reservoir in the Bhadra Wildlife Sanctuary has caused worry among officials and people nearby. Since April 1, the forest officials have noticed carcasses of 13 wild boars in an area of 500 hectares in the sanctuary. The staff members noticed five carcasses on April 1 and one more the next day. The officers called in veterinarians to conduct post-mortem and take the samples for further examination. The doctors had difficulty in collecting samples as most of the carcasses were decomposed. However, a couple of samples were sent to the Veterinary College and Hospital at Hebbal for examination. S. Dhananjay, Director of Bhadra Tiger Project, told The Hindu that the tests reported negative of viral infection or poisoning of animals. “There is no alarming situation. The deaths have been noticed only in 500 ha, roughly 1% of the total sanctuary area. We collected one more sample on Sunday and it has been sent for tests and results are awaited,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/death-of-13-wild-boars-causes-worry/article31392671.ece
21 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Health command centres start functioning||Health command centres set up to prevent the further spread of coronavirus and gather health data on vulnerable groups have begun functioning in Dharwad district. A release from the district tuberculosis control officer Tanuja K.N. stated that these centres would collect health data of patients suffering from ailments such as cancer, diabetes, tuberculosis, HIV, patients who have undergone organ transplantation, pregnant women, newborns and such vulnerable groups and advise them regarding the required treatment and care to be taken. The contact persons and their phone numbers are Navalgund — Hamida 9916846134; Kundgol — Netravati 9986680590; Kalghatgi — Hemaraddi 9535772610; Hubballi — Prakash Hasani 9986057066 and Nagaraj Kendarinari 8277511265.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/health-command-centres-start-functioning/article31392829.ece
21 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Conditional permission likely for factories to resume work||Deputy Commissioner of Uttara Kannada district K. Harish Kumar has clarified that the lockdown restrictions in the district would continue without any changes till May 3 and has appealed to the people not to heed to rumours about relaxation on the movement of two-wheelers and four-wheelers. Addressing presspersons at the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Karwar on Monday. Mr. Harish Kumar clarified that reports about allowing only one rider per two-wheeler and two persons in a car were nothing but rumours and that he would request the people not to pay heed to them. However, he said that while permission had been given to traditional fishing, permission would be given to factories to start functioning after April 21. But there would be various conditions, including daily health check-up of workers at factories and submitting the records to the district administration. This apart, permission would be given to take up civil works. However, the contractors would have to compulsorily conduct health check-up of workers daily through thermal scanners. They would also have to provide accommodation to workers at the worksite. They would not be allowed to ferry workers from one place to another, he clarified.  Likely discharge Regarding the remaining two COVID-19 positive cases in the district, he said that a pregnant woman being treated in a Udupi hospital was recuperating and she was likely to be discharged in two days. “Her husband who is being treated at the Naval Hospital Patanjali in Karwar too has shown signs of improvement. On April 27, his throat swabs will be sent for tests and if the result is negative, he will be discharged from hospital,” he said. To a query, the Deputy Commissioner said that already in-principle approval has been given for setting up a virology laboratory in Karwar and there was no shortage of funds. “After inspection by Karwar Institute of Medical Sciences and ICMR, the laboratory will be set up,” he said. Superintendent of Police Shivaprakash Devaraju said that as Ramzan was beginning, people were requested to stay indoors and not to hold mass prayers and Iftar. Those violating the order would be dealt with strictly, he said. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer M. Roshan said that private medical professionals have been requested to join hands with the government in the fight against the pandemic. They should offer healthcare to the public by keeping their clinics and nursing homes open, he said. Mr. Roshan said that gram panchayat task forces were doing a good job and senior citizens could contact the panchayat development officers in case they required medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/conditional-permission-likely-for-factories-to-resume-work/article31392831.ece
21 April 2020||HYDERABAD,KARNATAKA||NGO joins hands with marketing department to supply fruit packs||Overwhelmed by the response to its initiative of doorstep delivery of fruit packs — a basket of six varieties of fruits weighing nearly 11 kg in all for Rs. 300 — the Agricultural Marketing department has roped in one more partner for the purpose. In addition to the call centre numbers — 7330733212 and 9114445555 — for placing order for fruit packs, the department has roped in Walk for Water, an NGO that educates farmers on conservation of water in agriculture. So far, a farmer-producer organisation (FPO) Crop to Kitchen has been supplying the fruits by tying up with farmers for supply of fruits from their farms. The new partner would supply fruit packs by taking orders from consumers seeking fruits with a missed call on number 8875351555, Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy said, adding that the initiative has been a boonnot only for people unable to purchase fresh fruits during the lockdown but helpful to farmers too, who had been facing problems in marketing their produce. According to the marketing department officials, after giving a missed call on the new number, the consumers would get an SMS with a web link to take the details of the consumer along with the number of fruit packs required. The orders taken in that manner would be fulfilled within 78 hours. They have already supplied fruit packs to over 30,000 consumers in the city in a week’s time. Orders placed on the two call centre numbers and the new number would be delivered free of cost if there are orders for a minimum of 30 fruit packs in residential colonies, gated communities and apartment complexes and some service charges would be collected for fewer orders. The consumers who place the order for packs below 30 would get a phone call from the initiative partners indicating the amount of service charges. Complimenting the founder of Walk for Water B. Karunakar Reddy for joining the initiative, the Minister said purchase of fruits as part of the initiative was directly helpful to farmers who were worried about suffering losses unable to market their produce. He also appealed to philanthropists and others to give bulk orders for fruit packs so that they could be supplied on their behalf to the front line warriors in the fight against coronavirus such as sanitation workers besides orphanages and old age homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ngo-joins-hands-with-marketing-department-to-supply-fruit-packs/article31392661.ece
21 April 2020||HYDERABAD,KARNATAKA||‘Lockdown necessary to consolidate containment’||Asserting that the lockdown measures already in place across the State will continue to apply till May 7, the State government said these measures should continue to be in place to consolidate containment measures in the State. As part of the measures, containment zones where there is incidence of coronavirus (COVID-19) cases would be demarcated by the authorities concerned and none of the activities allowed under the revised guidelines issued by the Central government will be permitted in these zones except delivery of essential services/goods. There should be strict perimeter control in these zones to ensure that there is no unchecked inward/outward movement of people except for essential services, including medical emergencies. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar issued order for strict implementation of the lockdown guidelines stating that strict lockdown measures that had been implemented since March 22 played an important role in slowing down the spread of COVID-19 in the State. Central guidelines The order comes in the light of Central government’s decision to permit additional activities from Monday after examination of the additional activities permitted under the Centre’s guidelines with reference to the local area. The Ministry of Home Affairs said in its directions that governments of States/Union Territories should not dilute the guidelines under the Disaster Management Act 2005 in any manner and should strictly enforce the same. “State/Union Territories governments may enforce stricter measures that these guidelines as per the requirement of local areas,” the directive said. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla cited the observations made by the Supreme Court claiming that it expected that all the concerned, including the State governments, would faithfully comply with the directives and orders issued by the Union government in letter and spirit in the interest of public safety. “The observations must be treated as directions of the Apex Court,” Mr. Bhalla said on Sunday. Mr. Somesh Kumar said all religious places and places of worship would remain closed to prevent congregations leading to the spread of COVID-19 and religious congregations would be strictly prohibited. E-Commerce companies and app based/online platforms would not be permitted to deliver cooked food during the lockdown period as part of the containment measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-necessary-to-consolidate-containment/article31392664.ece
21 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi district records five more positive cases||With five more people from Kalaburagi testing positive for COVID-19 on Monday, the total number of coronavirus-infected persons in the district rose to 27, including three deaths and three recovered persons. The surge in new cases has created a fresh wave of panic among the people and forced the district administration to implement more intensified preventive measures. As per a media bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, all the new cases were the contacts of the previously infected persons. P391 is a 17-year-old male patient from Qamar Colony in Kalaburagi and a contact of P175 (a 57-year-old male who has been admitted with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness). P392 is a 13-year-old female from Khadri Chowk in Kalaburagi and a primary contact of P205 (a 55-year-old male who was admitted for Severe Acute Respiratory Illness and who died on April 14). P393 is a 30-year-old female from Mominpur in Kalaburagi and the secondary contact of P205. P394 is a 50-year-old male and a contact of P177 (a 65-year-old male from Kalaburagi who was admitted for Severe Acute Respiratory Illness and who died of the disease on April 8. P395 is a 19-year-old male from Mominpur in Kalaburagi and a contact of P205. The new cases, depending on the location of their residences, may lead to the creation of more Containment Zones. The district administration has already created 14 Containment Zones around the residences of infected persons and covered 32,181 houses in the house-to-house survey by Sunday evening. Of the 1,516 samples sent, the results of more than 800 are still awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-district-records-five-more-positive-cases/article31392825.ece
21 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Parcel train||The Railways is operating a pair of scheduled parcel Special Train between Okha and Thiruvananthapuram to transport essential commodities. Train No 00933 Okha-Thiruvananthapuram Parcel Special left Okha at 1.10 p.m. on Monday to reach Thiruvananthapuram at noon on April 22. Train No 00934 Thiruvananthapuram-Okha Parcel Special would leave Thiruvananthapuram at 11 p.m. on Wednesday to reach Okha at 9.40 p.m. on April 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/parcel-train/article31392833.ece
21 April 2020||MANGALURU/Hassan,KARNATAKA||Leopard rescued from open well, released||Amid lockdown, Forest Department officials rescued a leopard which had fallen into an open well on a farmland at Thumbe village on the outskirts of the city on Monday. Range Forest Officer, Bantwal and Mangaluru, P. Sridhar, said that the beast was found in the well on the farmland of Monappa at Maji at about 9 a.m. It must have come in search of food and fallen accidentally and could not come out. There were complaints from the people in the village earlier that a leopard had taken away some domestic dogs. It could be this animal. The three-year-old male leopard was rescued from the 10-ft.-deep well which had about four ft. water. Later, it was released in the Western Ghats as it had not sustained any injury. Local people also joined in the rescue operation.  Caught In Hassan district, Forest Department officials caught a two-year-old male leopard at Kembalu village in Channarayapatna taluk on Monday morning. Residents of the village noticed the animal trapped in a cage kept by the department and informed the officials. The department had placed the cage after the residents complained of the animal’s movement around the village. Deputy Conservator of Forests Sivaram Babu told The Hindu that the animal had been shifted to Gulasinda Park in Channarayapatna. It would be released in a forest area later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leopard-rescued-from-open-well-released/article31392839.ece
21 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Petrol, diesel sales plummet||The strict implementation of the lockdown and the general adherence to restrictions is evident in the plummeting sale of petrol and diesel across the State. With industries shut, vehicles off the roads, and only trucks transporting essential supplies, consumption of petrol and diesel has ebbed to a new low. The combined sale of petrol and diesel of the three major public sector oil marketing companies – Indian Oil Corporation, Bharat Petroleum Corporation, and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation – have shown a drastic fall for the period April 1 to 14. Industry executives, who shared the details with The Hindu, said the combined sale of petrol by the oil companies put together in Bengaluru Urban showed decline by almost 80%. 5,200 kilolitres (kl) of fuel was sold between April 1 and 14 against an average of 26,500 kl for the same period. Similarly, the sale of diesel during the same period in Bengaluru Urban was down by almost 87% from April 1 to 14 and only 5,100 kl was sold as against 38,100 kl during the corresponding period last year. Across Karnataka, the sale of petrol declined by 58.4% and 36,304 kl was sold as against 87,222 kl during the corresponding period last year. Sale of diesel declined by 63.9% and was down to 73,587 kl against 2,04,000 kl sold during the corresponding period last year. For Mysuru district – urban and rural put together – the combined sale of petrol was 2,300 kl against 5,000 kl sold in the same period last year. Diesel sales was 2,800 kl against 6,000 kl during corresponding period last year. The lockdown came into effect from March 25 and the drop has been steady since then. But the higher sale of diesel has been attributed to the movement of trucks transporting essential commodities and partially by the uptick in agricultural activities in rural areas. There is decline in the sale of commercial LPG cylinders and a distributor in Mysuru, who used to get 22,000 bookings a month, reported less than 150 bookings since the lockdown. “Hotels and restaurants were the mainstay but now they are shut,” sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/petrol-diesel-sales-plummet/article31392682.ece
21 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Elephant deaths spook Forest Dept.||Death of seven elephants since the last few weeks in the MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary and Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary landscape has left conservationists and Forest Department personnel perplexed. These deaths are unrelated but Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF) of Chamarajanagar Manoj Kumar said it was worrying because they have taken place in quick succession. While two elephants were electrocuted in the Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary, two others in MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary are suspected to have fallen off the cliff as evident in the remains of the broken skulls and bones. But in case of three elephants, there is no clue as to what led to their death and whether they were due to natural factors. One of the elephants was found dead in a gorge at Dodahalla while a female elephant in an advanced stage of pregnancy had died in GJ Goudanahalli, said Mr. Manoj Kumar. “We want to discuss the issue with experts and are collecting all possible evidences so as to ascertain the reason why elephants were dying in quick succession,” he said. If these are natural deaths, nothing can be done about it but in case managerial intervention can reduce the fatality rate then it will be worth giving a try, according to the official. A section of conservationists have also faulted the Forest Department for the delay in discovery of the carcasses and said it reflected on poor patrolling in the area. As a result of the delayed discovery, even the cause of death cannot be ascertained, they said. Mr. Manoj Kumar admitted that both Cauvery and MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuaries had not received much attention in the past and it was also out of bounds being the den and terrain of forest brigand Veerappan. However, things changed in the last 15 years and patrolling has been stepped up in the forests, all of which has resulted in high detection rate of animal deaths, say the officials. Besides, the terrain is so inhospitable and inaccessible that patrolling is not easy in certain areas, according to DCF V. Yedukondalu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elephant-deaths-spook-forest-dept/article31392670.ece
21 April 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Demand for domestic LPG remains steady||While petrol and diesel sales have gone down, there is no change in the demand for domestic LPG cylinders nor is there any shortage. The delivery schedule has not changed and IOL officials said LPG production has increased and there were no hassles in transporting them from bottling plants and delivering it to end-users.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demand-for-domestic-lpg-remains-steady/article31392685.ece
21 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||School providing free face masks||Through mobilisation of locally available resources in a shrewd manner, this school development monitoring committee (SDMC) of the government higher primary school in Kendalabailu village in Tirthahalli taluk is providing free face masks for those in the forefront of the battle against COVID-19. SDMC president Nithyananda told The Hindu that after the lockdown was enforced to prevent the spread of COVID-19, he came across news reports on shortage of face masks. The issue was discussed with members of the SDMC during which it was decided to make arrangements for producing face masks locally and supply them to the needy. Initially, the SDMC faced shortage of raw material. Raghavendra Naik, a well-wisher, suggested that archaks can be requested for unused and new clothes that they had received as gifts for performing pujas and homam. The SDMC contacted archaks in Tirthahalli, Hosanagar, Sringeri and Koppa taluks. Mr. Nithyananda said that the request evoked good response and the archaks donated clothes that they had received as gifts. A team comprising 30 persons, including local women with sewing machines in their houses and tailors in the vicinity, was formed to stitch the masks. Mr. Nithyananda said that the work started on April 10 and 3,000 face masks have been produced so far. On hearing the initiative taken by the SDMC, a Bengaluru-based organisation has come forward to pay Rs. 7 to tailors for each mask.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/school-providing-free-face-masks/article31392837.ece
21 April 2020||Tumakuru,KARNATAKA||ASI dies in crash||Assistant sub-inspector of Chelur police station in Tumakuru district, Bhuvaneshwar Kumar, 58, died after his bike collided with a lorry near Uddehosakere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/asi-dies-in-crash/article31392679.ece
21 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||No COVID-19 positive case in Udupi in last 22 days||Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Monday that there had been no positive case of COVID-19 in Udupi district for the last 22 days. Speaking at a function held to distribute an incentive of Rs. 2,000 was given to 169 Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) by the Asare Charitable Trust and Kadiyali Sarvajanika Ganeshotsava Samiti here, Mr. Jagadeesha said that if the same situation continued and no new COVID-19 positive cases were reported for the next six days, then Udupi district would be placed in the Green Zone. “We are all waiting for this to happen. We need the cooperation of all the citizens to achieve this,” he said. Mr. Jagadeesha said that to check the spread of COVID-19, all the borders of the district had been sealed. None other than those involved in essential supplies was being allowed into the district. Only three COVID-19 positive cases had been reported in the district last month and all of them had recovered and were in home quarantine, he said. As many as 100 foodgrains kits were distributed to physically challenged persons, while 200 foodgrains kits were distributed to the poor and needy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-covid-19-positive-case-in-udupi-in-last-22-days/article31392835.ece
21 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Five with symptoms of COVID-19 admitted||As many as five persons with symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to the isolation wards of hospitals in Udupi district on Monday. According to a press release issued here by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, of the five persons, four were suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and one from Influenza Like Illness (ILI).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-with-symptoms-of-covid-19-admitted/article31392834.ece
21 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Vijayapura reports 11 fresh positive cases||Vijayapura district recorded the highest COVID-19 positive cases in a day so far with 11 persons getting infected in the district on Monday. Of the 11 cases, three are minors. With this, the total number of positive cases has gone up to 32. Among the 32, two persons have died. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Y.S. Patil said that all the positive cases have been reported from the containment area. “This is a matter of some relief as such cases have not gone out of the containment area,” he said. Mr. Patil said that 345 persons have been kept under quarantine and 1,274 are under observation. Of the total 917 samples sent, 605 are negative, 32 positive and the results of 280 are awaited Mr. Patil, however, made it clear that there was no need to panic as the situation is being effectively handled by the administration. He issued strict warning to private hospitals to attend to all emergency cases such as pregnancy. “If any hospital rejects any such case, action will be taken against it,” he said He added that after the warning was issued, 50 % of the nursing staff have started attending work. To a question, he clarified that all people in quarantine centres and in hospitals are cooperating with the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vijayapura-reports-11-fresh-positive-cases/article31392826.ece
21 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Officials to be quarantined if they are found travelling unnecessarily||Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao has warned government officials who are travelling from neighbouring Kalaburagi and Raichur districts to Yadgir to discharge their official duties that they will be put under quarantine if they did not stop such travelling immediately. He was addressing a meeting of officials who are on the committee formed to prevent the spread of COVID-19, in Yadgir on Monday. Mr. Rao said that all government officials have already been directed to stay at the district headquarters in Yadgir and work to prevent the spread of COVID-19 effectively and avoid travelling from Kalaburagi and Raichur. However, most of them are travelling to Yadgir despite there being a strict implementation of lockdown guidelines. Thus, this was the final warning to them. If they were found travelling unnecessarily, they would be sent to quarantine facilities as per protocol, he added. Making it clear, the Deputy Commissioner asked the officials and emergency service staff to show their identity cards and special passes issued them at check-posts set up across the district as it was the duty of the officials deployed there to inspect every vehicle passing through. Mr. Rao specifically directed the committee members to take action to ensure supply of essential commodities to people. He said that Commercial Tax Department officials should register cases if anyone was found selling commodities at a high price. Officials told the Deputy Commissioner that there was no shortage in stocks of eggs, milk and fodder for animals. Passes are being issued to farmers to carry on with their agriculture activities. An assessment survey on crop losses due to rain will be completed in two or three days. Mr. Rao suggested to the officials to ensure that social distancing is maintained at banks and fair price shops. Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane said that there is no need to have a special pass for a vehicle if the owner or driver has already a pass. Shilpa Sharma, CEO, Prakash Rajput, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Shankaragowda Somanal, Assistant Commissioner of Yadgir sub-division, and district-level officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-to-be-quarantined-if-they-are-found-travelling-unnecessarily/article31392828.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Going about||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/going-about/article31392668.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Work from home||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-from-home/article31392684.ece
21 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||2 discharged in Alappuzha||Two persons treated for COVID-19 were discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha on Monday after samples collected from them tested negative for the disease. With this, the district has zero positive case of COVID-19 as on date. Both are from Chengannur taluk and had attended the Tablighi conference at Nizamuddin in Delhi. They were tested positive for the disease on April 4 and April 8 respectively. The district has so far witnessed five COVID-19 cases and all of them have been fully recovered. All the five who contracted the disease in the district had a travel history. Officials said that no contacts of the positive cases had contracted the disease so far in Alappuzha. There was also no community outbreak of the disease in the district. Officials said that three persons remained under observation at hospitals with symptoms of the disease. Quarantine Meanwhile, the mandatory quarantine period has ended for 1,002 people in the district. However, 87 people were newly put under home quarantine taking the total number to 2,970. Officials said that strict measures would continue to remain in place in three hotspots of Chengannur municipality, Cheriyanad and Muhamma grama panchayats. The inclusion of Muhamma in the list has created a furore as the place has not reported a single COVID-19 positive case so far. However, Thanneermukkom grama panchayat with Muhamma shares its boundary reported a case earlier this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-discharged-in-alappuzha/article31392963.ece
21 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Radio Scientia sheds its science-only tag||When the Science Initiative, a collective of science teachers in Haripad educational sub-district, launched Radio Scientia (internet radio) in 2014 its sole purpose was to popularise science. The online radio station used to broadcast scholarship classes, speeches and programmes related to science on an occasional basis to a relatively small number of students. But ever since the lockdown came into force, the Radio Scientia has shed its science only tag to broadcast a wide range of programmes every day by utilising the talent, knowledge and creativity of students, teachers and experts in its network and outside with an aim to cope with the stay at home period. Different strokes For the past three weeks, the radio ( http://www.radioscientia. caster.fm ) has been broadcasting storytelling, poetry recitation, book reviews, folk songs, music, documentaries, speeches and so on mostly produced by students and teachers for an hour from 8.30 p.m. to 9.30 p.m. Apart from that, it has been transmitting programmes related to education, science, agriculture along with psychological and motivational classes. “These are extraordinary times. It is important students and teachers use their time effectively and remain motivated. Through Radio Scientia, we are helping them to share their talents and knowledge to a wider world while giving the audience something to overcome and keep engaged during the lockdown. Our targeted audience includes students, their parents and teachers,” says C.G. Santhosh, programme coordinator, Radio Scientia, who is also district coordinator of educational technology club under the SIET. Immense Asisa Khader, State resource person with the Career Guidance and Adolescent Counselling Cell of the Department of General Education who takes motivational classes in Radio Scientia says that the response to her programme is immense. All those presenting programmes on the radio record it using mobile phones at their home and send them to the programme coordinator through the internet. Mr. Santhosh and his small team edit, mix and process the recordings before broadcasting it. “Apart from Alappuzha, a number of teachers from Kasaragod, Wayanad and other parts of the State are now producing programmes for the radio. It has around 5,000 regular audiences, a majority of them gained in recent weeks, including in the U.S. and GCC countries,” says Laly S., a member of the Science Initiative and a programme presenter at Radio Scientia.  It has been transmitting programmes related to education, science, agriculture along with psychological and motivational classes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/radio-scientia-sheds-its-science-only-tag/article31392932.ece
21 April 2020||Chennai,KERALA||Stalin launches helpline, website||The city’s Mayor called the civic budget tabled on Monday “historic” as it was presented and passed through videoconferencing, amid concerns over the COVID-19 pandemic. But it remained silent on the pandemic itself, and did not address public health measures or the plight of the urban poor during the crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/business-as-usual-budget-during-a-pandemic/article31392648.ece
21 April 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Youth succumbs to injuries||A youth, who tried self-immolation after the police seized his motorbike for violating the lockdown guidelines on Sunday, died at the Kottayam Medical College Hospital on Monday. The victim was Suryanelly resident Vijayaprakash, 23. Santhanpara police caught Vijayaprakash, who was riding the motorbike violating the speed limit and lockdown guidelines at the Suryanelly town. They seized his motorbike and told him that he could collect the key in the afternoon. Provoked Provoked by the police action, the youth poured petrol on his body and set it on fire. The police and the local people doused the fire. A seriously injured Vijayaprakash was taken to the Kottayam Medical College Hospital. But he died on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-succumbs-to-injuries/article31392964.ece
21 April 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Confusion about relaxation in Idukki||There was confusion about relaxation in the district, a green zone, on Monday. In Thodupuzha and Kattappana municipalities a large number of shops were opened in the morning and people turned up in large numbers. The police reached the shops and closed them down. By afternoon, the towns slowly came back to the lockdown mode. Owner of a furniture shop in Kattappana said that the shop was opened in the morning as most of the shops in the town limit were opened, However, he said that by noon the police reached there and asked the staff to close the shop. District Collector H. Dinesan said that the areas already declared as hotspots, the relaxation announced by the government would not come into effect. The hotpots in the district were Thodupuzha municipality, Kanjikuzhy, Mariyapuram, Adimali, Bisonvalley and Senapathy grama panchayats. In addition, curbs were in effect on all wards of the grama panchayats bordering with Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/confusion-about-relaxation-in-idukki/article31392965.ece
21 April 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Misuse of relaxations will invite stringent curbs: Minister||Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran has appealed to the people that the relaxations announced by the government in lockdown norms should not be misused. Speaking to mediapersons here on Monday after attending a meeting to assess the situation in the district following the relaxations announced by the government, Mr. Saseendran said if the public misused the relaxations, the government would be forced to reimpose stringent restrictions. Many among the public thought that the relaxations were similar to the freedom they enjoyed before the lockdown, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/misuse-of-relaxations-will-invite-stringent-curbs-minister/article31392922.ece
21 April 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Six more test positive in Kannur||Kannur recorded an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases with six more people from the district testing positive for the infection on Monday. According to District Collector T.V. Subhash, five of those affected had returned from Dubai and are residents of Madayi, Iriveri, Velapuram, Cheruvancheri, and Kunnothuparamba, while a resident of Peralassery contracted the disease from an affected person. The 22-year-old patient from Madayi arrived at Karipur airport on March 19, while the 25-year-old from Iriveri arrived in Nedumbassery on March 20. Three patients reached the district on March 22, including the 36-year-old Velapuram resident who arrived in Bengaluru and took another flight to Kannur, and two 27-year-old residents of Cheruvancheri and Kunnothuparamba, who were working in Dubai but took a flight from Abu Dhabi and arrived at Karipur airport. The 34-year-old Peralassery resident contracted the infection from an affected person. All six underwent swab examination on April 17. With this, the total number of COVID-19-affected in the district has reached 94. Of them, 42 have been discharged from hospitals. A total of 5,133 persons are under observation in the district. Of them, 49 are under observation at the Kannur Government Medical College, eight at the District Hospital, three at Thalassery General Hospital, 43 at the COVID-19 Treatment Centre and 5,030 are under home observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-more-test-positive-in-kannur/article31392919.ece
21 April 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||19 more recover from disease in Kasaragod||While no positive cases of COVID-19 were reported in Kasaragod on Monday, 19 patients who were cured of the disease were discharged in the district on the day. The district had come in the spotlight when the largest number of positive patients for the disease were reported in the State. However, the effective measures adopted by the district administration and special officers deputed for the purpose curtailed the COVID-19 cases. 4,700 in quarantine In the district, 4,754 people are in observation. Of these, 4,700 are in the home observation and 54 in hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/19-more-recover-from-disease-in-kasaragod/article31392920.ece
21 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Chellanam braces for another rainy season||The coastal village of Chellanam is edgy at the prospects of having to face the rough seas and high tidal waves post COVID-19 even as a three-year-old promise to build shore protection walls using geotextile tubes remains on paper. The village has, however, seen some action as decongestion of some of the key stormwater canals has gotten under way this week. The delay in fulfilling the promise to build seawalls after the December 2017 Okhi cyclone has triggered a slew of protests. The latest to join the fray is Chellanam Janakeeya Vedhi, which says that the authorities are not waking up to the reality of the coastal village. Joseph Arakkal, general convener, said that memoranda had been sent to the Chief Minister as well as the Minister for Irrigation and other authorities concerned about the coming rainy season and the woes it will bring for the people of Chellanam. “At least, a kilometre of the seawall has been destroyed. There are smaller such stretches from Fort Kochi to Chellanam south end. This is causing a lot of worry,” he said. The Janakeeya Vedhi also enlisted the help of writers like M.K. Sanoo, Meena Kandasamy and Kureepuzha Sreekumar, who are among the signatories to a petition sent to the State government pleading for immediate action to build the seawall using geotextile tubes. The petition pointed out that about 2,500 families would face the wrath of the rough seas, and that the work must be expedited. Mr. Joseph said that the government had promised to complete the work by April 2018. However, nearly three years have passed now. During the period, he said, several rounds of inauguration of the work had been done by different authorities, including the Fisheries Minister and the local MLA. Jinson Veluthamannungal of Paschima Kochi Theera Samrakshana Samithi said that nothing appeared to be moving forward. He said that work to decongest and desilt the Uppathakkadthodu, a major canal that drains stormwater into the sea, had been started and expressed hope that some relief would be brought by the work while the answer would still evade people regarding the possibility of flooding of homes in high tidal waves once the rain begins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chellanam-braces-for-another-rainy-season/article31392926.ece
21 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Hotspots in Ernakulam district to be under strict surveillance||Lockdown will be implemented strictly in COVID-19 hotspots in the district even after April 24, Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar has said. No one would be allowed to go out of hotspot areas, he said in a press meet on Monday. Kochi Corporation areas and Mulavukad panchayat are the hotspots in the district. Lockdown restrictions would be followed strictly in all other areas in the district till April 24, he added. Action would be taken against those found violating norms. No one would be allowed to enter hotspot areas except essential services, the Minister said. Barricades and police check-posts would be set up to control the movement of people, he said. Wearing a mask was important while going out after April 24. People should use either a handkerchief or a home-made mask or other disposable ones to cover mouth and nose. Action would be initiated against those not wearing masks, he said. Panchayats and municipalities had been asked to ensure cleanliness in their areas before April 24, the Minister said. The district was planning ahead for measures to be undertaken for the opening of the airport even though there was no move to open airports yet, he said. A drill would be held on Tuesday in this regard, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hotspots-in-ernakulam-district-to-be-under-strict-surveillance/article31392918.ece
21 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Experts dispel fears about possible floods||Weathermen and disaster management experts have dispelled apprehensions about a possible flood in the State during the upcoming monsoon season even as the observations of an independent weatherman has triggered panic in the State. Tamil Nadu Weatherman, an independent observer, had noted on his Facebook page that he “will not be surprised if Kerala again records over 2,300 mm rainfall for the present year, based on the past statistics.” ‘Too early’ Responding to the developments, M. Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences, said the observations of the independent weatherman was just a climatological probability, which lacked scientific basis. It is too early and risky to predict that Kerala would witness another floods and that too based on climatological probability. The Indian Meteorological Department had forecast normal monsoon for the country. The IMD would update its forecast during the last week of May, Dr. Rajeevan said. Though one might not be able to precisely predict the amount of rainfall, alerts could be issued at least 48 hours before the extreme events he said. Better prepared Sekhar L. Kuriakose, member secretary of the State Disaster Management Authority, said Kerala was better prepared than the 2018 and 2019 situations to meet the floods. The Authority would wait for the IMD predictions to act. Disaster preparedness had been activated at taluk levels and officials had been put in charge, he said. The roles and responsibilities of various departments on such situations had been fixed and the system activated. Though work on 15 of the 100 weather stations of the IMD began, it was put on hold following the COVID-19 outbreak, he said. The Dam Safety Authority of Kerala was yet to take stock of the situation, said C.N. Ramachandran Nair, chairman of the agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/experts-dispel-fears-about-possible-floods/article31392955.ece
21 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Boost for waste removal activities||The government has extended the viability gap funding earmarked by local bodies to the Haritha Karma Sena members engaged in collection of non-biodegradable waste by another six months in view of the COVID-19 situation. The Department of Local Self-Government had permitted the civic bodies to use the viability gap fund from the annual plan fund to sustain the activities of the Haritha Karma Sena. For wages The fund is used by local bodies whenever they are unable to meet the wages for the green volunteers from the user fee collected from the waste generators. A municipality can earmark Rs. 46,350 per ward as viability gap fund for six months while the corresponding figure for grama panchayats is Rs. 23,175. The latest order to extend the funding by another six months will help local bodies that are actively involved in collection and disposal of non- biodegradable waste from households and establishments utilising the services of the Haritha Karma Sena members. The earlier government order permitting the use of the fund had expired recently. According to the LSG Department order issued on April 11, the civic bodies can submit projects seeking relaxation of norms for undertaking emergency initiatives during this crisis period. These include procuring gum boots, masks and gloves for sanitation workers in various civic bodies. Officials of the department pointed out that the nominal user fee collected from the waste generators was not sufficient for meeting the wages of the members of the Haritha Karma Sena. Most of the local bodies had used the government assistance for ensuring the sustainability of such projects. The local bodies had fixed user fee varying from Rs. 30 to Rs. 50 from each household for collection of non-biodegradable waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boost-for-waste-removal-activities/article31392938.ece
21 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cong. alleges scam in telemedicine project||The Congress on Monday alleged irregularities in the telemedicine services launched after the outbreak of COVID-19 by involving a private company that had no prior experience in the field. V.D. Satheesan, MLA, alleged a data scam similar to the Sprinklr deal in the telemedicine project. QuikDr Healthcare Pvt Ltd engaged for the telemedicine services was incorporated on February 19 this year and it was the maiden project of its two directors as per the records available with the Ministry of Commerce. The website of the company was registered on April 7 though the Chief Minister had announced the initiative on April 1, he alleged. Mr. Satheesan alleged that the medical history of the callers collected would be stored into the company’s server. The Indian Medical Association, which had provided the services of its doctors initially, decided not to cooperate with it, he said. Mr. Satheesan accused the government of having denied several start-ups that had approached the government for undertaking the telemedicine services while zeroing in on company that was formed only two months ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-alleges-scam-in-telemedicine-project/article31392956.ece
21 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Firm claims support of Kerala Startup Mission||In the wake of the allegations raised by the Opposition against QuikDr, a press release issued for the company said that Tranzmeo IT Solution Pvt. Ltd., which developed the product, had been incorporated as a start-up company in 2017 and was registered with Startup India and the Kerala Startup Mission. It was working in NASSCOM 10K Warehouse with different technology products. They were evaluated by the Kerala Startup Mission and their product QuikDr was selected for the scale-up grant programme in January 2018. The same was built and implemented in hospitals in Kochi. The Kerala Startup Mission reviewed the progress of their product and granted Rs. 9 lakh for scaling up. The company got funding for their IOT product from HPCL, the release said. As QuikDr is a health-care technology product with a track record of implementation, the company launched a separate start-up with the name QuikDr Health Care Pvt. Ltd. to focus on that sector alone. The product was offered for free to support the State government, the release said. “Since QuikDr was a product supported and evaluated by the Kerala Startup Mission, it was recommended by the mission to Kerala IT Mission and the product was selected after due evaluation,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/firm-claims-support-of-kerala-startup-mission/article31392941.ece
21 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Massive clean-up drive in Kottayam||In view of the partial easing of lockdown restrictions in Kottayam, a massive cleaning and disinfection drive was carried out across the district on Monday. While the Fire Force team by district fire officer K.V. Sivadas disinfected the government offices including district collectorate, court complex and other offices using sprayers and fogging machines, owners and employees of various business establishments including restaurants cleaned up their respective workplaces prior to commencing operations from Tuesday. Orders repealed As part of lifting the lockdown restrictions, District Collector P.K. Sudheer Babu repealed the prohibitory orders, issued under section 144 of CrPC, with effect from Tuesday. The order, however, will remain in Payippad and Erattupetta till May 3. Meanwhile, the Collector also called on the people to strictly follow the guidelines issued by the Health Department to prevent the spread COVID-19. According to the Collector, maintaining social distancing and avoiding unnecessary movements have to be continued, even though Kottayam is included in the green zone for COVID-19 outbreak. The official also requested to avoid unnecessary gathering in public places and commercial establishments and visiting patients in hospitals. Restrictions as part of ‘Break the Chain’ campaign should be continued in government institutions, markets and public places. Elderly people and children should not step out of houses while family members should avoid shopping together. The people have been advised to be careful in washing hands with sanitizer or soap at all the places of visits. Health tips “Try to avoid lifts in the buildings. While coming back home, wash hands, take bath and change dress before making any contacts with other family members. Visit government offices, universities and banks only for necessary purposes. Employees of government and private institutions should avoid eating together,” he said. Home quarantine Giving a major relief to the Health workers in the district, only 603 persons are remaining in home quarantine as on Monday. Moreover, no person is under surveillance in any of the hospitals in the district with suspected symptoms of COVID-19. The district has not reported a single case since March 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/massive-clean-up-drive-in-kottayam/article31392967.ece
21 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Chazhikadan interacts with expatriates||As the COVID-19 crisis deepens its footprint across the globe, Thomas Chazhikadan, MP, has kick-started an online interaction drive with the Non-resident Keralites community to take stock of the problems faced by the Indian diaspora. So far, the Mr. Chazhikadan has completed interactions with as many as 427 expats in 32 countries. The interaction, through video conferencing, is scheduled and conducted by classifying the countries into four categories based on their time zones. Commenting on the initiative, Mr. Chazhikadan said the interaction assumed significance considering the substantial presence of Keralite emigrants across the world, especially in the Gulf Countries. Among those who interacted with him included people who have lost their jobs, critically-ill patients, pregnant women and even school students. “In this hour of global crisis, the priorities and concerns for the Keralites living and abroad vary from person to person. There are people who have been unable to take advantage of the amnesty scheme offered by the Kuwait government and over hundreds of teachers are stuck in Maldives ,” the MP said. Israel issue He also highlighted the plight of a 70-member group in Israel, who have lost their jobs in the COVID-19 crisis but are unable to return home Mr. Chazhikadan also urged the State and Centre to initiate urgent steps to bring Indians stuck in different countries on a priority basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chazhikadan-interacts-with-expatriates/article31392934.ece
21 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Debate over incubation period||On April 19, a 48-year-old man from Thekkil in Kasaragod tested positive for COVID-19. What made his case unique was that he had arrived in Kerala from a Gulf country on March 16. The infection was detected a good 34 days after he returned from an area considered to be at high risk for COVID-19 transmission. Does it mean that the infection in a patient can manifest even after the 14-day incubation period and the 28-day quarantine period? Not necessarily. Ignored An epidemiologist in the Health Department, who requested anonymity, told The Hindu on Monday that current evidence on COVID-19 did not support the demand for extension of the quarantine period. “A few cases have now come to light where reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests are turning positive three or four weeks after the patient’s presumed initial contact with another infected person. In such cases, the presumed time of contact may not have been correct or the infection could have been acquired later,” he pointed out. Otherwise, the patient might have ignored early symptoms or passed them over so that the real incubation must have been shorter. The patient might be asymptomatic or some symptoms might have been because of other causes. RT-PCR tests detect the presence of viral RNA in human samples. PCR is a process where a few copies of DNA are amplified to produce millions of copies. “RT-PCR tests turning positive are not synonymous with infectivity, the ability of a microorganism to cause infection. Viral RNA The test turns positive when viral RNA sequences are present in the sample and can be amplified and detected. This can happen three days after the infection and can persist several days after the onset of the disease or even days after the patient becomes asymptomatic,” the epidemiologist pointed out. Usually in cases where the sample tests positive after 28 days, the viral RNA copy numbers are low, less than a lakh. Such cases do not represent the infective stage. “Infectivity of a sample is indicated by the ability to culture the virus from it. RT-PCR tests to identify subgenomic mRNA, smaller sections of RNA strand, can detect cells in the active replicating phase and presume that they are infective. Studies indicate that infectivity does not extend to more than eight days after the onset of symptoms,” he said. Two weeks In such circumstances, extending the mandatory quarantine beyond 14 days or continued isolation of a patient beyond two weeks after recovery does not seem to be necessary. Extending quarantine to 28 days despite lack of evidence may prove counterproductive because of non-compliance, he added.  Samples testing positive after 28 days do not represent infective stage||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/debate-over-incubation-period/article31392933.ece
21 April 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||934 released from quarantine||Another 934 persons were removed from home quarantine for suspected COVID-19 in Kozhikode district on Monday. There are no new SARS-CoV-2 positive cases. In a release, District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said that 7,494 people were now under observation. This included 22 persons in the isolation ward of the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. Seven were discharged on the day. Twenty people from Kozhikode district and two each from Kannur and Kasaragod had been tested positive for the virus here. Of them, nine from Kozhikode and two from Kasaragod have recovered and others are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/934-released-from-quarantine/article31392915.ece
21 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||AAI office reopens||The Airports Authority of India (AAI)’s office at the Calicut International Airport, which ceased operations last month following the COVID-19 lockdown, resumed functioning on Monday. “Fifteen senior personnel attached to the AAI will now be on duty during the lockdown period. All officers in the Deputy General Manager and above rank are on the list. Already the Union government has given instruction to all institutions to function with the presence of 30% support staff,” K. Srinivasa Rao, Airport Director, told The Hindu.  This apart, officers of the other wings such as the Customs and Immigration were reporting for duty. The cargo section, which resumed activities on a low-key last week, has got into full swing now. At present fruits and vegetables and medicines were exported to Gulf destinations. Cargo flights of both Indian and foreign airlines including flydubai and Air Arabia were regularly operating flights to Dubai and Sharjah. Regarding the operation of passenger flights, Mr. Rao said the counters of the airlines would not function till further notification. All airline companies had been directed to refrain from booking tickets, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aai-office-reopens/article31392913.ece
21 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Unorganised workers left in lurch: AMTU||Despite the State government’s decision to pay a dole of Rs. 1,000 to the labourers in the unorganised sector to tide over the lockdown period, a large section of them is still left out, according to P. Viji, secretary of the Asanghatitha Meghala Thozhilali Union (AMTU). Most of the labourers were unaware of the existence of a welfare board on their behalf and hence had not registered in it. “The AMTU is an organisation formed in 2014 solely for the labourers in the unorganised sector. Yet, the authorities have not bothered to inform us when the board was formed in 2017.” she said. Most people in the unorganised sector were unsure of whether they would be retained by their employers or not after the lockdown. At present, most of them were facing poverty as their earnings were not enough to tide over a month of unemployment. The AMTU had appealed to the government to make arrangements for an interim relief for these labourers using the thrift fund from their respective Kudumbashree neighbourhood groups. However, the plea had fallen on deaf ears, she said. Fear of job loss “It is very difficult for the employees in the unorganised sector to join any welfare fund even if they are aware of it. “Most employers were reluctant to admit that these labourers work for them, fearing that they will have to pay a percentage of the monthly payment to the fund,” Ms. Viji said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unorganised-workers-left-in-lurch-amtu/article31392923.ece
21 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Stop demurrage collection: MP||M.K. Raghavan, MP, has sought the intervention of the Union government to stop the collection of demurrage and ground rent from importers and exporters at the Vallarpadam Container Freight Station as they are helpless to ship the containers by road or through any other channel due to the lockdown regulations. Mr. Raghavan, who took up the issue following importers’ petition, also pointed out that the charge was being collected unmindful of the waivers already announced by the Ministry of Shipping on March 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stop-demurrage-collection-mp/article31392916.ece
21 April 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||COVID-19 lab opens at Manjeri today||A real-time polymerase chain reaction laboratory will start functioning at Government Medical College Hospital at Manjeri from Tuesday. District authorities said the laboratory would facilitate testing of COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-lab-opens-at-manjeri-today/article31392924.ece
21 April 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||Partial lifting of lockdown leads to chaos in Palakkad||Confusion and chaos prevailed in the town as people started pouring in when the authorities relaxed the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions on Monday. Although the government had issued guidelines about the controlled relaxation in the district, which was declared an orange zone, people in general were confused and desperate. The declaration of Palakkad Municipality and places like Karakurissi, Kottopadam and Kanhirapuzha as red zones did not have any impact as people started coming to the town from all sides. The district administration had to virtually close the town by afternoon to control the movement of vehicles, leaving only two entry points. Vehicles coming from Olavakode, Malampuzha, Puthur, Kalpathy, Kallepully and Chittur were given entry into the town only through Kalmandapam. Vehicles coming from Kallekkad, Kodunthirapully, Pudoor and Tirunellai were given entry only through Meparamba. The closure of roads made it difficult for ambulances and other emergency vehicles. Although there were restrictions on the functioning of shops in the town, many functioned without caring for the guidelines. Banks and government offices functioned normally, but with minimal attendance. The police had a tough time restricting the people misusing the relaxation given to them. Many reached the town with the thought that the lockdown was over. “I thought it was over in Palakkad. I came to the town to go to the bank in connection with my agricultural loan, but got stuck in traffic,” said Manoj Kumar from Kinassery. The police said people would not be allowed to travel without pressing reasons from Tuesday. They said checking would be tightened. One third of the companies in Kanjikode industrial sector functioned on Monday. Several of them were engaged in cleaning work. Steel industries did not function as they did not get the raw materials. In other towns like Mannarkkad and Ottapalam too, people crowded the streets violating the restrictions. There was rush in Mannarkkad town as people did not care for the police guideline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/partial-lifting-of-lockdown-leads-to-chaos-in-palakkad/article31392928.ece
21 April 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||135 held for violating norms||The police registered 123 cases in the district on Monday in connection with lockdown violation. As many as 135 were arrested and 106 vehicles were seized until 5 p.m. on Monday. The police said they would tighten the regulation in Palakkad town on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/135-held-for-violating-norms/article31392929.ece
21 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||No new cases in Pathanamthitta||No new COVID-19 case has been reported from any part of Pathanamthitta on Monday. Only six persons remain at the isolation wards of the Pathanamthitta General Hospital (5) and at the District Hospital (1) in Kozhencherry as on Monday evening, according to a medical bulletin released by District Collector P.B. Noohu here. Home quarantine The Collector said the number of home quarantined persons in the district too had come down, as only nine persons from abroad and 983 came from other States remain in quarantine at their homes in different parts of the district. This was besides the 20 home quarantined persons who came from Nizamuddin after attending the Tablighi meet, Mr. Noohu said. The Collector said 69 throat swab samples sent for clinical examination at the Virology Laboratory in Alappuzha too tested negative for the disease on Monday. A total of 2,848 samples sent from the district were tested negative, while 17 samples tested positive for the virus infection so far, he said. 38 results The district Health authority was yet to receive the clinical examination result of 38 throat swab samples, Mr. Noohu said. The Collector said a total of 157 persons, including 11 patients cured of the disease, had got discharged from the isolation wards of various hospitals as on Monday evening.  Nine persons from abroad and 983 from other States remain in home quarantine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-new-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article31392968.ece
21 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||People of Ranni confident but cautious||People in Ranni are cautious though seven persons from Aythala village who tested positive for COVID-19 have returned home after being cured of the disease. The town has been in a virtual lockdown since March 7, much before the nationwide lockdown that came into force on March 24 to prevent the spread of the disease. “A pall of gloom fell over the hill tracts and panic gripped the town as the people here, having a good number of relatives and friends in pandemic-hit countries, were aware of the disease and its impact,” said Raju Abraham, MLA. He said the entire Assembly segment complied with the directives of District Collector P.B. Noohu and District Medical Officer A.L.Sheeja. “People did not venture out as they were afraid of contracting the disease. All these days, we have been reassuring them as the State has an excellent public health support system,” Mr. Abraham said. However, the homecoming of all the seven persons from Aythala has infused a new sense of confidence in the people here. “We should be proud of our public health-care system. The care and treatment we received at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital was like that of any super-specialty hospital in Italy,” says Rijo Moncy, a 26-year old X-ray technician in Italy, who was cured of COVID-19 last month. The recovery of his 96-year-old grandfather and 90-year-old grandmother after treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam, had raised the morale of the State’s health-care sector. But, people in Ranni are still cautious, as evident from the deserted town and village roads. “We do not want to take risks and will continue to observe social distancing and other precautions as directed by authorities,” said Thankachan, a hotelier at Mamukku in Ranni. “Over 15,000 migrant workers have returned to their home States by March 10, bringing down their numbers in Ranni,” says Anilkumar, a building contractor from Kattoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/people-of-ranni-confident-but-cautious/article31392962.ece
21 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. mulling options for paying salary||The State government is learnt to be weighing different options for disbursing salary in May to ease the stress on resources. The alarming dip in the State’s own tax revenue, the alleged refusal of the Centre in providing financial assistance to manage the crisis, and the rather lukewarm response from a large section of employees and teachers to the government’s call for a Salary Challenge are understood to have forced the government to explore tough options to disburse the salary from its available resources. Basic salary Finance Department sources told The Hindu that deferring the payment of dearness allowance till the State’s finance returned to the pink of its health is one alternative. The measly resources at its disposal may be used for paying the basic salary alone. This would offer some leeway to meet other recurring commitments too. Recovering salary The State government may opt for recovering a month’s salary of the employees in 12 equal instalments so that the employees would not feel the pinch of the deduction. The amount thus recovered would be directly channelled to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund. The outgo from the fund is audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General and is open to public scrutiny, sources said. Disbursal of salary in instalments is yet another solution. Rather than distributing in one tranche, the disbursal may be split into instalments so that the government could ease the strain on resources and it would be spared of the burden of garnering resources for making the payments in first 10 days of the month. Averting pay cut Such options are being considered to avert a pay cut as announced by other States. The revenue loss for April on account of lockdown has been pegged at about Rs. 10,000 crore and it is likely to go up further. A positive response from all service organisations to the Salary Challenge would help the government do away with all such measures, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-mulling-options-for-paying-salary/article31392947.ece
21 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||News of lockdown ease crowds roads||There was confusion on the roads of the capital city on Monday when motorists took their vehicles out under the impression that the lockdown restrictions have been partially lifted. Lack of clarity and prior notice by the district authorities contributed to the chaos. The situation threatened to undo the restraint shown by the State in containing the COVID-19 pandemic. While the public was under the impression that the entire district was categorised as an Orange-B zone with partial relaxation of restrictions, many people remained oblivious to the late-night declaration of the Corporation limits as a hotspot, virtually turning the region into a Red zone where lockdown restrictions will be implemented in its entirety. Odd-even scheme The odd-even scheme that was planned by the police to streamline traffic was also rendered irrelevant with the restrictions being reinstated. Varkala municipality and Malayinkeezhu grama panchayat are the other hotspots identified by the Health Department in the district. During the day, police struggled to regulate the long queues of vehicles gathered before the entry and exit points of the city limits including Pappanamcode and Vazhayila. Many motorists, including government employees, were turned back as policemen tried to restore calm with some people entering into arguments. Soon, additional teams had to be deployed to control the traffic. Drones were also brought in at various spots to detect lockdown violations. District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay has clarified that the restrictions will continue and travel will only be permitted for emergency purposes. The odd-even scheme, announced in other areas, has yet to come into effect in the city. Permit for travel The public will be permitted to travel only to get food materials and other essential commodities, purchasing medicines, and to seek medical care in hospitals. Passes will be issued only for funerals and other unavoidable purposes. Stringent checks will continue in the borders of the city. Entry will be permitted only through six points viz., Maruthoor, Vetturoad, Vazhayila, Kundamankadavu, Pravachambalam and Mukkola. The City police registered cases against 118 people for violating lockdown norms. As many as 93 vehicles have also been confiscated. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police also registered 358 cases, arrested 356 people, and seized 302 vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/news-of-lockdown-ease-crowds-roads/article31392973.ece
21 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘No time to waste on baseless charges’||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday reacted sharply to the allegation of the Congress-led Opposition that his family had “profited” from the government’s arrangement to “share” the personal medical information of COVID-19 vulnerable citizens with the controversial US-based data firm, Sprinklr. When asked why his daughter, a software entrepreneur, had shut down her website after the Sprinklr controversy broke, an irate Mr. Vijayan countered by asking whether this was the “serious allegation you are harping on about to divert public attention”. The Chief Minister said he was in the thick of the battle against a deadly epidemic. “I have no time for controversies. I have other issues that require my attention. I will not respond to vicious insinuations targeted at the government, which has achieved hard-won success in keeping the virulence at bay,” he said. Fake news Mr. Vijayan said the capital was once the hub of fake news. A coterie of “four to five” mediapersons unleashed a fake news campaign against the Communist Party of India (Marxist) under the banner “Save CPI(M) Forum”. Mr. Vijayan said he had assigned the group a name then, which he did not want to repeat. “I was sitting in a different chair at the time,” he said. He said that one of the group members, in a particular circumstance and frame of mind, had then publicly named the persons behind the vicious fake news campaign. Mr. Vijayan said he saw the trend of synchronised dissemination of fake news on multiple media platforms simultaneously emerging after a hiatus. “Not all journalists, but a few seem to have other agendas. I have weathered the assault of such persons earlier. I can still endure such false campaigns,” he said. ‘Free to probe’ Mr. Vijayan declined to reply to repeated questions whether the government had violated rules of business and other regulations when it had engaged Sprinklr to store and analyse health data collected from COVID-19 vulnerable persons in the State. He said the media was free to probe the State’s charge-free agreement with Sprinklr to crunch massive amounts of personal health data to identify epidemic patterns so the the government could formulate a well-informed containment strategy. They could consult the IT secretary, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-time-to-waste-on-baseless-charges/article31392945.ece
21 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bus operators take ‘Form G’ route to avoid paying tax||The private bus industry in the State that is in dire straits due to the lockdown has put the government in a fix with the operators submitting Form G to evade motor vehicle tax. Motor vehicle tax is one of the major sources of income for the government with a quarterly tax of Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 45,000 for a bus. The move of the private bus industry in the beginning of the financial year has badly hit the State exchequer that is facing a crisis. This is despite the government extending the date for remitting the quarterly tax for stage carriers in the wake of services coming to standstill due to the lockdown. An operator who submits Form G for the stage carrier and contract carriage that is not operating will not have to pay the tax. The bus operators can retain the permits and the government cannot take action against them. Insurance need not be paid if the bus has submitted Form G and has not plied for 60 days or more. Around 80% “Around 80% of the 15,000-odd stage carriers plying in the State has submitted the Form G to the respective Regional Transport Officer. Many have submitted the Form G for one month to a year,” general secretary of the Kerala State Private Bus Operators Federation Lawerence Babu said on Monday. The operators are of the view that the services will not be viable in the post-lockdown period as social distancing norms and other curbs will continue for the public transport system to contain COVID-19. Instructions like one person per seat, two persons in a seat that can accommodate three and that passengers will not be allowed to travel by standing have come as a setback for private buses. Mr. Babu says only 19 passengers will be able to travel in a 38-seater private bus that has permit to carry 57 in the city, if the social distancing and other norms are followed. Not feasible “How will we run a bus with 19 passengers when the operating cost for a km, including fuel and salary, comes to Rs. 51,” he asks. The operators say they fear that patronage will be less in the days ahead in the wake of the fear over corona virus and closure of the educational institutions in the State. Seeks waiver The Kerala State Private Bus Operators Federation has demanded waiver of motor vehicle tax, provision of high speed diesel at half the price, extension of certificate of fitness for six months after its expiry and waiver of payment of contribution of the employee and employer to the Motor Transport Workers Welfare Fund Board among other demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bus-operators-take-form-g-route-to-avoid-paying-tax/article31392935.ece
21 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Four months of isolation in the Arctic, home quarantine in Canada||Vishnu Nandan has been on a different kind of isolation for four months, aboard the German research vessel Polarstern, anchored on a large sheet of sea ice in the Central Arctic, in the pitch black polar winter. When he got back home last month, almost the entire world was in isolation. He also had to remain in home quarantine in Canada. A native of Thiruvananthapuram, the 33-year-old polar researcher was the only Indian among 300 scientists from across the world aboard the Multidisciplinary drifting Observatory for the Study of Arctic Climate (MOSAiC) expedition, aimed at getting a better understanding of the impact of climate change and aid in improved weather projections. The largest ever Arctic expedition in history, it is also the first to conduct a study of this scale at the North Pole for an entire year. 24-hour darkness “We were right in the middle of the Arctic Ocean, surrounded by ice, and in 24 hours of darkness for four months, with temperatures going down to minus 56 degrees. Even for medical evacuation, it would take days for help to reach,” says Dr. Nandan. When he joined the expedition in November, the world was yet to hear about COVID-19. The crew first heard about it when two Italian researchers on board spoke of the deaths back home. “But we did not take it seriously initially. Since we had access to WhatsApp texts, I was getting constant updates from home, and the true intensity of the crisis hit us. At one point, while returning, we were even worried whether we would be allowed to dock in any port in Europe, as Norway refused docking at Tromso port. Later, Germany had to negotiate with Norway to secure a special permission to dock,” Dr. Nandan says. Flight by chance With no permission to set foot in Norway, they flew to Germany in a chartered flight. As international flights were getting cancelled every other minute, his partner booked for him five tickets, out of which one luckily did not get cancelled. “Isolation is not new for me, as it was something I have experienced in previous expeditions too. So, it is easier to cope with this home isolation. The stress factors are less too. This expedition was a once-in-a-lifetime experience for me, as I got to experience the polar winters and the midnight sun, celebrated my birthday at the northernmost point and cooked for the entire crew twice,” he says. The aim of the expedition, which has a few legs remaining, is to parameterise the atmospheric, geophysical, oceanographic and all other possible variables in the Arctic, and use it to more accurately forecast the changes in our weather systems. Remote sensing specialist Dr. Nandan’s role as a radar remote sensing specialist is to deploy radar sensors on the sea ice surface and accurately measure the ice thickness and its variations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-months-of-isolation-in-the-arctic-home-quarantine-in-canada/article31392950.ece
21 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cured of COVID-19, Italian tourist bids adieu||For 57-year-old Roberto Tomasso who bid farewell to the State on Monday after recovering from COVID-19, ‘Kerala is safe.’ The Italian tourist was diagnosed with the infection on March 13 when he was at the hotel in Varkala after his second throat swab sample tested positive. Soon, he was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital. Contract tracing proved to be a difficult task for the district administration, considering the tourist had travelled extensively. Nonetheless, a contact list comprising 126 people was prepared, following which they were all placed under quarantine. Leaving nothing to chance, the Health Department constituted a medical board to monitor Mr. Tomasso. Besides having contracted the disease, he was found to suffer from other ailments. He was finally discharged on March 25 after his test sample was COVID-19 negative. The government subsequently chose to place him under further observation at the Nedumangad District Hospital and the General Hospital. It was from here that he was sent off with warmth in the presence of Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, V.K. Prasanth, MLA, District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan, Mayor K. Sreekumar, and other officials. He also interacted with Health Minister K.K. Shylaja over video call. The Italian was also gifted an Aranmula ‘kannadi’ and other memorabilia. “I have visited the country many times. Unluckily, I was affected with the disease this time. The doctors and nurses of all the three hospitals where I stayed took good care of me. I was provided good food and treatment. Once everything is over, I hope to come back. Kerala is in my heart and is a home to me,” he told media persons. The tourist later headed for Bengaluru from where he will return to Italy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cured-of-covid-19-italian-tourist-bids-adieu/article31392970.ece
21 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||67 under quarantine||The district administration have placed 67 more persons under surveillance as part of the ongoing efforts to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. A total of 1,510 people remained under observation in the district. Among them, 1,356 were quarantined in their homes, 97 in hospitals, and 57 in a corona care centre that functions at the Mar Ivanios College hostel. The authorities also removed 327 people from quarantine after they completed the mandated period in isolation. While 18 people were admitted to hospitals, 31 people were discharged after recovery. Forty nine samples were collected to be sent for laboratory tests, while 52 others came out negative on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/67-under-quarantine/article31392974.ece
21 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Attack on Excise team: hunt on for gang||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police and the Neyyattinkara Excise circle office have begun efforts to apprehend a gang that attacked an Excise team and enabled the escape of an accused who was caught for hooch sale late Sunday. Around 30 armed people, including women, surrounded the official vehicle of the Excise party and unleashed violence on the officers at Aryancode to free 47-year-old habitual offender, Saji Kumar of Chemboor. He had been earlier caught with alleged possession of nearly 50 litres of arrack. The gang destroyed the evidence and attacked the officers using iron rods and sharp objects before fleeing from the area. The Excise team members, led by Kattakada Excise inspector Swaroop, are being treated at the Neyyattinkara district hospital. Absconding According to the Aryancode police, the gang purportedly included Saji Kumar’s children and relatives. The accused have remained absconding since the incident took place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attack-on-excise-team-hunt-on-for-gang/article31392975.ece
21 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BSNL offers its buildings for rent across State||The Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL), Kerala circle, is offering its buildings on rent to Central and State government departments, public sector units, banks and other financial institutions. These properties are in prime locations across the State, in the surplus space available at almost all telephone exchanges, administrative buildings and staff quarters. According to an official communique from the BSNL, there has been a drastic reduction in the staff strength in the Kerala circle, immediately after the implementation of the VRS package in January this year. Also, the implementation of the new technology switches (NGN switches), which are highly compact in nature, is another reason for renting out the built- up spaces. The BSNL Kerala Circle is in possession of such properties in all the districts from Kasaragod to Thiruvanthapuram. For detailed information please visit BSNL website –www.kerala.bsnl.co.in. See the details under the link “renting out of vacant space in BSNL Buildings, Office space, Living space”. Last year, the BSNL had identified land parcels in its possession across the country, which are suitable for monetization, to tide over the mounting losses. Support Employee unions had at that time said that they would support any move to lease out to generate revenue, but would oppose plans to sell the lands belonging to the public sector company. The BSNL, has in recent years been struggling to compete with private players, as the Central government has not yet allotted 4G spectrum to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bsnl-offers-its-buildings-for-rent-across-state/article31392936.ece
21 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Case not witch-hunt: Pinarayi||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday dismissed the allegation that the government had launched a witch-hunt against Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) legislator K.M. Shaji. Mr. Shaji had irked Mr. Vijayan by claiming in a Facebook post last week that the government had illegally diverted Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF) to help party sympathisers meet their mortgage payments. Mr. Vijayan had reacted sharply to Mr. Shaji’s comment at his customary news briefing. Soon after the controversy broke, the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau registered a case against Mr. Shaji. Mr. Vijayan said the case against Mr. Shaji was long coming, and the VACB had been processing the petition against the MLA since 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-not-witch-hunt-pinarayi/article31392946.ece
21 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mayor’s help desk evolves good response||City Mayor K. Sreekumar directly interacted with the public over telephone on Monday through the civic body’s help desk. A total of 28 calls were received at the help desk, which were mostly about treatment of senior citizens. The Mayor said the public should access services through the help desk, as the Corporation area is a COVID-19 hotspot. Till now, 808 calls have been received. The Mayor will be on call from 11 a.m. to 12 noon on Wednesday too. The help desk will be functional from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Contact 9496434409, 9496434410. It could also be accessed through www.covid19tvm.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mayors-help-desk-evolves-good-response/article31392976.ece
21 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kudumbashree supplies over 20 lakh masks||Till Saturday, Kudumbashree tailoring units run by women have stitched more than 20 lakh face masks to aid the fight against COVID. According to Kudumbashree, 306 units across the State have, till Saturday, produced 20,25,998 masks. The women had started work on the reusable cotton masks on March 15, after shops began to report a shortage. The units had catered to individual orders and orders placed by institutions including the Kerala Medical Services Corporation, Tourism Department, Indian Oil Corporation, Airports Authority of India, Food Corporation of India and banks. The masks were priced between Rs. 10 and Rs. 15 depending on the layers on them. The 38 units in Kollam produced more than 3.37 lakh masks, while the 26 units in Kottayam contributed 2.64 lakh pieces and the ten units in Kozhikode, 2.10 lakh pieces. Many of the Kudumbashree unit members had worked from their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-supplies-over-20-lakh-masks/article31392937.ece
21 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kerala CM conveys Rahul Gandhi’s praise||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that Congress leader and Wayanad MP, Rahul Gandhi, had praised the State’s achievement in keeping the COVID-19 epidemic at bay. He said Mr. Gandhi’s pat on the back was a tribute to doctors, health workers, volunteers, caregivers and others in the frontline of the battle against the Pandemic. Mr. Vijayan reiterated his demand for special planes to bring back Keralites stranded in the Gulf. He said they included pregnant women, those who had gone on a short visit and a large number of blue-collar workers seeking to come back home due to loss of employment and lack of wages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-cm-conveys-rahul-gandhis-praise/article31392930.ece
21 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Award for best nurse||As a mark of honour towards the service of nurses in Kerala who have relentlessly fought against the COVID-19 pandemic, Tomyas Advertising will present Rs. 1 lakh in cash as award for the best nurse in the State every year. The presentation of award will be held every year on August 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-best-nurse/article31392921.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Holidays in lockdown||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/holidays-in-lockdown/article31392940.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Help at hand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/help-at-hand/article31392959.ece
21 April 2020||ADILABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naqash artisans of Nirmal town hit hard by lockdown||The lockdown has artisans and craftsmen in old united Adilabad district at their wits’ end. With no work and faced with an uncertain future, the Naqash artisans of Nirmal town and the dhokra metal casters of Adilabad and Kumram Bheem Asifabad districts are pleading for help from the government. There are about 50 families of Naqash artisans based at Nirmal district headquarters town specialising in making the famous softwood toys known as Nirmal toys and the unique Nirmal paintings. About 160 families of Ojha craftsmen at Belsari Rampur in Adilabad and Jamgaon and Ushegaon in KB Asifabad districts make dhokra brass metal artefacts. While the Nirmal artisans work under the cooperative organisation called The Nirmal Toys and Arts Industrial Cooperative Society Ltd., the Ojha craftsmen work as individual enterprises. “The suspension of all tourist activity and closure of the Golconda Handicrafts Emporia in Hyderabad has had a big impact on our lives,” lamented Society manager B.R. Shankar. “We used to sell toys worth Rs. 15,000 every day only to tourists,” he said. “I stand to lose work worth Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 35,000 per month,” said Uike Indrajeet, an Ojha metal caster from Belsari Rampur. “If work does not resume, we will be in dire straits,” said Madavi Tulsiram, a dhokra craftsman from Ushegaon. Being white ration card holders, the artisans and craftsmen families get 12 kg rice, apart from the Rs. 1,500 and Rs. 500 aid from State and Central governments respectively for their sustenance. “But this will not ensure survival of our traditional profession,” the Ojha craftsmen pointed out. “We will need some kind of financial aid from the government if the traditional art and craft are to survive. The government should not leave us in a financial crisis but provide us work,” Mr. Shankar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naqash-artisans-of-nirmal-town-hit-hard-by-lockdown/article31392592.ece
21 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||No relaxation in lockdown till April 25 in Anantapur||There will be no relaxation in the lockdown in Anantapur district till April 25 and a decision on whether there should be any relaxation until May 3 will be taken on Saturday by the District Task Force comprising the BC Welfare Minister, the District Collector, and the Superintendent of Police. At a joint press conference on COVID-19 operations in the district, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said that District Industries Centre(DIC) general manager has been asked to survey and enlist the readiness of the industries, which were permitted to resume operations from April 20 by the Central government. But as of now, no activity is allowed.  Rapid testing On Monday, however, packing, loading and sale of sweet lime began at the Agriculture Market Yard on a big scale and a few farmers were seen taking out their bullock carts to ferry agricultural goods and their rabi crop produce from the farms to their storage spaces.  In all 7,000 rapid testing kits, purchased from Korea, will arrive in the city on Tuesday, and a plan has been drawn to conduct tests in select zones within three or four days. Training was being given to paramedical staff on using IgG and IgM kits for testing anti-bodies, he said. Despite the steep rise in the number of tests being per day all over the State, we were conducting less than 5 tests per 1,000 population, he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-relaxation-in-lockdown-till-april-25-in-anantapur/article31392617.ece
21 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||KIA Motors India, Arjas Steel employees’ gesture||The KIA Motors India Legal Department Head Jude Lee on Monday handed over one lakh surgical masks to medical, paramedical and police personnel during the COVID-19 operations. Handing over the consignment to District Tourism Officer V. Vijayalakshmi, in the presence of the District Collector and Superintendent of Police, the company assured the district administration of all help during this difficult time. The cost of the surgical masks was Rs. 15.80 lakh The Tadipatri-based Arjas Steel Private Limited employees contributed Rs. 10 lakh toward the relief operations in Anantapur district and the company gave a matching grant of Rs. 10 lakhs. Arajas Steel representative said it had also ordered five ventilators for GGH at a cost of Rs. 25 lakh and would very soon get them installed there. In addition to this, the company representative K.M. Ram had handed over a cheque for Rs. 1 crore to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday as its contribution for CM’s Relief Fund, Mr. Devraj said. Meanwhile, the A.F. Ecology Centre handed over sanitisers, gloves and face masks valued at Rs. 5 lakh to the disrict authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kia-motors-india-arjas-steel-employees-gesture/article31392616.ece
21 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leopard attacks couple in Bukkapatnam||A leopard allegedly attacked a couple at Butchaiahgari Palli in Bukkapatnam mandal on Monday. As per SI Vijay Kumar, they were asleep in a mango garden, when the leopard pounced on the woman and inflicted injuries on her head. On hearing her cry for help, the man shouted aloud, which forced the feline to retreat into the nearby forest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/leopard-attacks-couple-in-bukkapatnam/article31392618.ece
21 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka extends lockdown till May 3||The State Cabinet has decided to continue observing a strict lockdown till May 3, without any relaxations in movement of people or the functioning of industries in either rural or urban areas. Following unruly incidents in Padarayanapura in Bengaluru, where Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike workers were allegedly attacked when trying to take people to a quarantine facility, the government has decided to promulgate an ordinance giving special powers to enforcement authorities and providing protection to frontline health workers. The Cabinet on Monday also withdrew all partial lockdown relaxations announced by Chief Minister B.S.Yediyurappa on Saturday. It shelved some relaxation measures, including allowing a maximum of one-third of the workforce in the IT/BT sectors and government officesto resume work. With this, all types of industries and services will remain closed across Karnataka till May 3. However, relaxations will continue for agriculture- and horticulture-related activities and agricultural marketing. Briefing reporters on the Cabinet decisions, Law and Parliamentary Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said, “Today’s situation will continue till May 3. We are awaiting fresh guidelines from the Centre, and if any relaxation can be given, the Chief Minister and the task force will discuss it in three or four days. But in principle, the lockdown will continue till May 3 and there will not be any relaxation for now,” he said. Consolidation Several other States, including Delhi and Telangana, have decided to implement the lockdown norms strictly till May 3. On the ordinance, Mr. Madhuswamy said it would unify and consolidate the laws related to the regulation and prevention of epidemic diseases. The Minister said that the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Ordinance would be drafted based on the Uttar Pradesh and Kerala models. The Kerala Ordinance, 2020 empowers the government to prohibit any usage or act it considers sufficient to spread or transmit epidemic diseases at any gathering, celebration, worship or other such activities. It also allows the inspection of persons arriving in the State by air, rail, road, sea or any other means, or in quarantine or in isolation, as the case may be. It makes way for the sealing of State borders and the imposition of restrictions on the operations of public and private transport. Mr. Madhuswamy said the ordinance would also include the imposition of a penalty and allow for imprisonment if any person/institution/company is not bound by the regulations of the government. The major objectives are to control the spread of the disease and to provide security to the police and frontline health workers. The ordinance aims to punish those spreading fake news, abetting offences, and not cooperating with the government. It will come into effect after Governor Vajubhai R. Vala gives assent to it. On export The Cabinet also resolved to exert pressure on the Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry on the export of spices and coffee from Karnataka. “All markets have closed, so it has been decided that this issue will be raised with the Commerce Department,” Mr. Madhuswamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-extends-lockdown-till-may-3/article31392585.ece
21 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala residents refused entry into State at border||A group of 12 Kerala residents, who tested negative after 28-day quarantine at two facilities in Bengaluru, were recently denied entry back into their home State. They are now back in the quarantine facility. The Karnataka government had on April 14 arranged a mini-bus to take them back to their home towns of Palakkad and Ernakulam. However, the bus was stopped at the Wayalar checkpost on the outskirts of Pallakad on April 14 evening and refused entry. They have since returned to Haj Bhavan in Bengaluru, one of the quarantine facilities. Haj Bhavan Nodal Officer Syed Aijaz Ahmed said that several rounds of communication between officials from the Bengaluru Urban district and authorities at Palakkad till late in the night did not help. The bus driver was forced to bring back the group to Bengaluru. With announcements What has irked officials of Karnataka is the manner in which they were allegedly escorted back till the Karnataka border. The bus was sent with two escort patrolling vehicles — one leading the bus and another following. “The escort vehicles travelled with the mini-bus till up to 450 km from Palakkad to Hosur. All through the way, announcement was made through a loudspeaker, alerting people that a Karnataka quarantine vehicle was passing through the stretch and that they should stay away,” said Zabiullah Khaleel, driver of the mini-bus. As the bus neared Erode on its way back, it ran short of fuel, complicating matters. “Although I managed to drive up to a petrol bunk, I did not have money for fuel. It was 11.30 p.m. and there was no way I could arrange for money. Mr. Aijaz Ahmed, who was in touch with me from the time they sent us back at Wayalar checkpost, told me to find out if the fuel station accepted payment through G-pay. And then he transferred Rs. 6,000 to my account from his daughter’s mobile phone,” said the driver, who alleged that the police harassed him not to stop anywhere till he entered Karnataka limits. “The police escorted us till Hosur border. We managed to reach Bengaluru at 3.30 a.m. on April 15 and I dropped the Kerala group back to Haj Bhavan,” he said. Unable to convince Mr. Aijaz Ahmed told The Hindu that the Bengaluru Urban Deputy Commissioner and officials from the Disaster Management Cell tried their best to convince Palakkad officials that these people had completed even the secondary quarantine of 14 days (after testing negative after the first 14 days) and that they were residents of Kerala. “But the officials were adamant and said not a single person could be allowed entry. They are at Haj Bhavan now,” he said. He said a similar incident had happened a week prior to April 14 when two persons from Kerala, who had tested negative, were sent to Palakkad. “Although they were denied entry then, our officials managed to convince the District Collector and they were finally allowed to go home,” he said.  The escort vehicles travelled with the mini-bus from Palakkad to Hosur. Announcements were made using a loudspeaker, alerting people that a Karnataka quarantine vehicle was passing by. Zabiullah Khaleel Driver||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-residents-refused-entry-into-state-at-border/article31392583.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘India must focus on health over defence’||After holding Prime Minister Narendra Modi responsible for the plight of migrant workers across the country in the face of the COVID-19 lockdown, Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Monday said that a post-COVID-19 India should focus more on the public health and sanitation sectors rather than the defence sector. In a video released by the party, Mr. Haasan said that he wanted to find workable solutions to water-sharing issues, ethnic hate, difficulties faced by migrants, women’s safety, public health issues and the treatment of waste. ‘Health for all’ “The defence budget is increasing year-on-year compared to the health budget. We have spent 2% of our GDP — Rs. 4,71,378 crore — on the defence budget while India’s health budget is just 1%. United States allocates 8% of its GDP towards public health and 3.1% towards the defence budget. True patriotism is ensuring good health for the people of India,” said Mr. Haasan. Ensuring adequate funding for public health and medical services is essential to rehabilitate the country, he emphasised. With “economic migrants” returning to their native homes due to the economic issues surrounding COVID-19, the State governments should create jobs within the respective States, he said. “After the green revolution, we need a green revolution-plus. We need a revolution in agriculture and all industries allied to agriculture. In India, we need to use science and technology to revitalise agricultural lands that have not been used for agriculture and increase production on war footing. We also need to bring youngsters back into agriculture,” said Mr. Haasan. Mr. Haasan pointed out that 80% of the Indian workforce belonged to the unorganised sector. ‘Streamline unorganised’ “We have ignored the strength of unorganised workers who have built the fifth largest economy in the world. We need to streamline them. This will also increase the income tax revenues,” he said. He further said that “vast income inequality should be addressed as 77% of the India’s wealth is owned by 10% of the people”. “The inequality must be addressed, not by taking wealth away from the rich, but by implementing economic policies in favour of the poor. Our leaders should address the issues of the poor. Relief measures are only to address the mistakes,” said Mr. Haasan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/india-must-focus-on-health-over-defence/article31392596.ece
21 April 2020||CHITTOOR/ Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srikalahasti reports 14 fresh cases, takes district tally to 53||The latest tally of 53 COVID-19 positive cases in Chittoor district has prompted the district administration to declare three more mandals red zones, including Narayanavanam and Pitchatur of Satyavedu assembly constituency and Nindra mandal of Nagari constituency. According to information, 25 cases have been reported in the district till 9 a.m. on Monday, and 14 of them are from Srikalahasti alone. The tally at the temple town has now reached 24. Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta clarified that of the new positive cases here, eight of them were government employees and workers engaged in or monitoring COVID-19 relief operations in the town. They were most likely to have had contact with the primary sources connected to Tabhligi Jamaat, he said. Contacts isolated The Palamaner assembly constituency, which recorded three positive cases last month, has come up with a fresh case of a 26-year-old youth. He was shifted from a quarantine facility at Palamaner to SVRR Hospital in Tirupati. One case of a revenue staff, who works in Srikalahasti mandal and a resident of Koppedu village, withdrew to his village with high temperature and spent four days with the family members and neighbourhood. All 25 persons who maintained contact with him were shifted to a quarantine facility in Tirupati. Speaking to the media here, the Collector said as people from Kuppedu village depend on the neighbouring Narayanavanam and Pitchatur mandals to meet their requirements, they were also declared red zones. Though the two mandals are under the purview of authorities, the area has not reported a single positive case so far. Inspections Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar issued instructions to the field staff to be doubly cautious in maintaining the lockdown norms till deadline. He made random inspections at several localities in Chittoor. With three more mandals turning into red zones at the eastern side, the SP spoke to the officials of Puttur sub-division and asked them to mount vigil at these places and erect additional barricadea at vulnerable points. One of the Srikalahasti-based employees who tested positive resides in New Indira Nagar area of Tirupati, which was marked as red zone on Sunday and as such inward and outward public movement is strictly banned in STV Nagar, Bairagipatteda, Kesavayanagunta, Hathiramji Colony, SBI Colony, D.R.Mahal Road, Green Park, Annamayya Road etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srikalahasti-reports-14-fresh-cases-takes-district-tally-to-53/article31392623.ece
21 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur registers 20 cases in one day||After a brief lull, the number of COVID-19 positive cases spiked in the district with 20 recorded on Monday, taking the total cases to 149. The number of tests went up to 4,682 and 43 of them on Monday. Cases were registered in parts of Old Guntur and Narasaraopet. However, on a positive note, 17 people were discharged from the isolation centres and 226 from quarantine centres. Meanwhile, the district administration has announced new measures demarcating Red, Orange and Green zones in the district. Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said that Guntur West, Guntur East, Pedakakani, Chebrolu, Tadikonda, Phirangipuram, Karempudi, Ponnur, Krosuru, Atchempet and Mangalagiri come under the Red Zone and the lockdown would be enforced strictly. All forms of travel between two mandals had been prohibited and farm-related activities would resume soon, he said. The district administration conducted medical training sessions on COVID-19 protocols for doctors from government and private hospitals, following its earlier announcement of taking over all 82 Arogyasri network hospitals for treatment of coronavirus cases. The NRI Hospitals at Chinakakani and the Government General Hospital in Guntur have been designated as the frontline COVID-19 hospitals. The Collector said that duties were allotted to private doctors and they were asked to attend training classes. The latest medical bulletin said out of 4,682 tests conducted so far, 3,015 reported negative. With the availability of rapid test kits and TrueNAT centres, the number of tests is likely go up. The district administration is also gearing up for random tests in red ones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntur-registers-20-cases-in-one-day/article31393049.ece
21 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man’s death triggers protest in Sattenapalli||A 35-year-old man died in suspicious circumstances at Sattenapalli on Monday but the relatives of the man claimed that he died after the police assaulted him at a check-post. The man identified as Sk. Ghouse went out of his home at Venkatapathy Nagar colony in Sattenapalli when he was stopped by the police at a check-post around 8 am. He had a known history of cardiovascular disease and was going to a medical shop on Narsaraopet Road to get medicines. He was stopped by the police and asked to go back. The relatives of the man alleged that he was beaten by the SI, Sattenapalli, Ramesh but the police were quick to deny. Later, protests rocked the town. The incident has raised questions about the behaviour of the police during relaxation hours of the lockdown. The government announced that a relaxation of three hours would be given from 6 am to 9 am, but on the condition that reasonable restrictions would be in place. The police have been restricting the movement of people beyond the 3 km buffer zone outside their home, but there have been instances of rough behaviour by them. IGP denies charge Hours after the incident, Inspector General of Police, Guntur J. Prabhakara Rao told reporters that the man had collapsed on the road and denied that the police had assaulted him. He, however, said the SI had been placed under suspension and a sub-divisional magistrate asked to conduct an inquiry. A case under Section 151 Cr.P.C had been registered. The postmortem was videographed and if the reports suggested that the man was indeed assaulted by the police, action would be taken against those responsible, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/protests-rock-ap-town-after-mans-death/article31392587.ece
21 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM appeals to people to observe Ramzan at home||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has appealed to Muslims to observe the holy month of Ramzan at home in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy held a video-conference with the district Collectors, and the religious heads on Monday. “These are difficult times. We were forced to celebrate Ugadi, Sri Rama Navami and observe Good Friday and Easter at our homes. I urge you to pray at your homes,” he said. Earlier in the day, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the government had been working for the welfare of all communities. The old-age pension has been enhanced to Rs. 2,250 per month, and welfare schemes such as Amma Vodi and Rythu Bharosa have been introduced for the benefits of farmers and women. The Chief Minister also promised that arrears to mosques would be cleared soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-appeals-to-people-to-observe-ramzan-at-home/article31392663.ece
21 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ANU supplies essentials to outsourcing, contract staff||Advisor, Public Affairs, Government of Andhra Pradesh, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy on Monday gave away essential commodities bags to contract and outsourcing employees of Acharya Nagarjuna University. At a programme organised at the administrative block of the university, Mr. Reddy gave away 500 packets to the workers of the university. Thanks to the commitment shown by Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy, the State is gearing up to face the COVID-19 pandemic, said Mr. Reddy. “We are fighting an invisible enemy but soon we will be able to overcome it. The medical facilities and testing labs have been spruced up to meet the new challenge,” said Mr. Reddy. Vice-Chancellor of ANU P. Rajasekhar said that the university has decided to provide essential commodities of 5 kg rice, dal, cooking oil etc., to contract and outsourcing staff and soon they would extend it to the villages near the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anu-supplies-essentials-to-outsourcing-contract-staff/article31393050.ece
21 April 2020||Hyderabad/Chennai/ Thiruvananthapuram/ Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two more COVID deaths in Telangana||Andhra Pradesh reported highest number of fresh cases in a day with 75 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours on Monday. Tamil Nadu reported 43 new cases, Karnataka 18, Telangana 14 and Kerala six. The overall case count in Andhra Pradesh rose to 722 and the death toll touched 20 with Anantapur, Krishna and Kurnool districts each reporting one death. With 25 new cases, Chittoor district reported a doubling of cases in just one day. Guntur district reported 20 cases and Kurnool district reported 16. Meanwhile, 27 persons, including 15 in Guntur, 10 in Krishna and two in Visakhapatnam were discharged after recovery, The government has tested 3,775 samples in the past 24 hours, and the total number of samples tested so far has reached 30,733. The number of cases in Tamil Nadu touched 1,520 with 1406 active cases. The total number of deaths stands at 17. With no declining trend in the number of new cases, the State government announced that the lockdown would continue till May 3 without any further relaxation. The decision not to grant any relaxation from the lockdown was made during a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority, of which Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami is the chairperson. Telangana saw two more deaths taking the total number of casualties to 23. With 18 new cases, the number of cases in Karnataka stood at 408 All the new cases were from North Karnataka — 11 from Vijayapura, five from Kalaburagi, and one each from Gadag and Bidar. All the cases have contact with a previous patient, said Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar. These cases are a continued chain of the Vijayapura’s two families, which had 17 cases totally. In Nanjangud, which has now become a cluster concern, 2,098 persons have been quarantined. Of these, 1,960 were tested and 69 were positive while 1,891 were negative. The results of 138 samples are still awaited. Of the total 84 cases in Mysuru, 69 have emanated from a pharma company. The Minister pointed out that some districts have continued to remain COVID free. While Kodagu, for the last 32 days has not seen even a single positive case, Chitradurga has not seen a positive case for the last 26 days. Similarly, Davangere and Udupi have not seen cases in the last 25 days and 22 days, respectively. As on today, there are 10 COVID-19 free districts in Karnataka. Kerala reported six new positive cases while 21 patients were discharged after recovery. All six cases were reported from Kannur, five of whom had returned from abroad while one had developed the disease through contact with an imported case. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said despite the exemplary manner in which Kerala’s health system has managed the outbreak, the State was very vulnerable to a resurgence of the disease once lockdown ends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/andhra-pradesh-sees-spike-with-75-fresh-cases/article31392599.ece
21 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials want to speed up Polavaram rehab works||The East Godavari district authorities on Monday set a target of completing construction of houses in the stretch of six villages in Devipatnam mandal by the end of July as part of the rehabilitation project of the Polavaram irrigation project. The rehabilitation facility in the Devipatnam mandal was supposed to be completed by May 2020. However, it has been delayed due to various reasons, including general elections and formation of the new government in the State. On Monday, District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha and Rampachodvaram Sub-Collector Praveen Kumar reviewed the possibilities of completing the construction of houses in the stretch of villages, that have partially been submerged during the last monsoon near the Polavaram project area, by the end of July. In Devipatnam mandal alone, 5,567 houses are being built in the 44 habitations in the 16 villages, that fall in the submerged area. Mr. Muralidhar has said, “The project should be completed as floods in the Godavari are expected by July. The government will ensure availability of sand, gravel and other support to complete the project by July.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-want-to-speed-up-polavaram-rehab-works/article31393075.ece
21 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for ‘sexually assaulting’ minor girl||The Disha police arrested a 25-year-old man for allegedly sexually assaulting a minor girl while the victim was watching television along with him here. According to Disha police station In-Charge DSP B. Rama Krishna, the incident took place on April 16 and the accused was taken into custody on April 18. Police took action based on a written complaint lodged by the victim’s parents. “A case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 has been registered,” said Mr. Ramakrishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-girl/article31393077.ece
21 April 2020||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to file graft case in Sprinklr deal||A petition was filed on Monday in the High Court seeking a directive to the police to register a corruption case in connection with the issues relating to the signing of a contract by the State government with Sprinklr, a U.S.-based company, for collection and analysis of data of COVID-19 patients. In a petition, Abdul Jabbarudeen M. of Kollam and another person said the action of the IT Principal Secretary in entering into a contract with Sprinklr for transferring data without consulting the departments of Law, Finance, and General Administration amounted to a corrupt practice. The police should immediately register an FIR and investigate. It was a clear violation of the right to life of the patients as the data was collected without their consent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-file-graft-case-in-sprinklr-deal/article31392588.ece
21 April 2020||KURNOOL / ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anxiety mounts in Kurnool as 16 new cases are recorded||Fear and anxiety continue to grip the people in Kurnool district as the number of positive cases is rising by the day. As of Monday morning, 16 new cases were recorded, taking the tally in the district to 174 with five deaths. Out of them, the district headquarters alone has recorded 81 positive cases, followed by 39 in Nandyal town and the remaining are spread over other places in the district, as per a list given by District Collector G. Veerapandian. There are 168 more patients still undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the Kurnool district, he said. At a press conference along with Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath and COVID-19 Special Officer Ajay Jain, the Collector said 50% of the district was marked as red zone and under strict lockdown. 33 cases in Anantapur In Anantapur four new cases were recorded pushing the total number of positive cases up to 33. There are three deaths and two persons were discharged after treatment. Currently 28 persons are undergoing treatment at two COVID-19 hospitals. While the majority of positive cases were confined to Hindupur and Anantapur city so far, the last five positive cases recorded were from Guntakal, Kalyandurg and Hindupur. Three cases in Hindupur were related to workers from Gujarat. Meanwhile, in Kurnool district, a Venereal Disease Research Laboratory test (VDRL) demonstration is in progress and once the laboratory gets ICMR approval, it will start functioning giving a boost to the sample testing capacity, District Collector G. Veerapandian said. The capacity of testing was being increased by the day and from 50 samples a few days ago, it has reached 500 now and with the rapid testing kits also arriving, the number of samples to be collected per day would be increased to 1,000, the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anxiety-mounts-in-kurnool-as-16-new-cases-are-recorded/article31392620.ece
21 April 2020||MANGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police book doctor who treated deceased victim||The Bantwal Town Police on Monday registered a case against Sadashiva Shenoy of Navadurga Clinic in the town who had treated the 50-year-old woman who died of COVID-19 on Sunday on the charge of a negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life. A communique from the Dakshina Kannada district police here said that Dr. Shenoy had treated the victim on April 15 for fever. The doctor was duty-bound to inform the administration under the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments Act. Despite knowing this and having treated the victim for four days, Dr. Shenoy failed to inform the Health Department about the patient’s ailment and also did not refer her for further treatment. His negligence has resulted in the death of the woman due to COVID-19, the Taluk Health Office, Bantwal, said in a complaint to the Bantwal police. The Health Officer had inquired with members of the victim’s family who revealed that the woman was suffering from pneumonia and had been treated at many places. She was taken to Navadurga Clinic on April 15, they told the health officer.  Seven booked The Bantwal Town Police have registered a case against seven persons, including a shopkeeper, on the charge of assaulting a government driver who was on duty on Monday. The police gave the name of the shopkeeper as Rafeeque (48) of Barekadu in the town. A police team on duty that was in a car being driven by Veerappa, driver of Bantwal Town Municipality, found a shop open at 1 p.m. and about 10 people assembled there without maintaining social distancing. Though there were instructions to close shops by noon and to maintain social distancing to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the shopkeeper had violated the instructions. Upon being told to shut the shop, one person in the group allegedly assaulted the driver, the police said. The police gave the name of the one who assaulted the driver as Khader and the others in the group as Hanif, Badru, Haris, Imtiyaz and Rahamathul. A case under various provisions of IPC was registered against the accused, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-book-doctor-who-treated-deceased-victim/article31392832.ece
21 April 2020||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Control room operator sacked for cautioning caller against Muslim vendors||The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has sacked an operator of its control room after she was found to be cautioning a caller to be careful while purchasing vegetables and fruits from Muslim vendors. When a resident of the city called the MCC control room to find out whether the civic body had issued any identity cards to vendors selling fruits and vegetables in their vehicles in residential areas, the lady operator said the MCC had issued passes to such vendors. The caller said the vendors, who were selling fruits and vegetables in a van at low price, appeared to be Muslims and were showing a letter issued by the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee. She asked the caller to be careful before purchasing anything from Muslims. When an audio of the interaction between the caller and the operator was shared with the MCC authorities to confirm its veracity, MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde said the “operator had been removed from duties because of the incident and behaviour”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/control-room-operator-sacked-for-cautioning-caller-against-muslim-vendors/article31392586.ece
21 April 2020||Santosh Patnaik,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag startup makes face shields for frontline staff||To contribute its bit to those fighting COVID-19 pandemic, a startup, incubated by Startup Accelerator India (SAI) in the city, has come forward to make face shields using 3-D printing technology. The startup has already commenced supplying a few samples to Brandix India Apparel City, Atchutapuram, which is producing personal protective equipment (PPE) for the State government. The startup, at present, is making 50 to 60 units per day. “We are getting a lot of enquiries for bulk supply. Once we get orders, we will scale up the production up to 1,000 units per day,” K. Harsha Vardhan, CEO and founder of the startup, BotClub, told The Hindu.  He said face shields were useful for frontline workers such as doctors, paramedical staff and medical equipment manufacturers, and the COVID testing staff. The shield will have a stretchable band – an overhead protection sheet of 125 to 150 microns. Owing to the outbreak of COVID-19, the startup decided to use its infrastructure to make face shields. In each unit of face shield pack, the startup is offering alcohol wipes. Mr. Harsha Vardhan said one should wear a face mask and a fresh pair of gloves when collecting each batch of printed parts. The parts need to be stored in a sealable bag.  Precaution He said there was a debate on how long the virus could survive on plastic but most reports confirmed that it would last for two to three days. “That means by letting packaged face shields stay for three days before distributing them, one would greatly reduce risk of transmission. He said as a precaution the entire stock should not be kept at one place. “The manufacturing of face shields has just started. The response has been encouraging,” said SAI founder and CEO Anand Govindaluri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-startup-makes-face-shields-for-frontline-staff/article31393068.ece
21 April 2020||Special Correspondent VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Using art to defeat the virus||Art can influence the way people think. There can be no two opinions about the fact that art can be used as an effective tool to usher in social change. Kesineni Swetha, the young Telugu Desam Party candidate for Mayor’s post in the local body elections, who has been actively involved in spreading awareness about the need to strictly adhere to the guidelines issued by the governments to keep the dreaded COVID-19 virus at bay, has taken to her Twitter handle to throw an “Art 4 Awareness” challenge, a platform made available to all people from every walk of life. The challenge is to show through art the best way to fight coronavirus. The contest is open to people of all age groups. Interested can submit their work by replying to her post and the winner will be announced at 8 p.m. on April 22. “In the honour of the winner, we will donate grocery kits to the poor and the needy,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/using-art-to-defeat-the-virus/article31393042.ece
21 April 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||7,423 rapid testing kits reach East Godavari||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Monday said that the first bunch of 7,423 COVID-19 rapid testing kits has been received from the State government, kick-starting the tests on the suspected persons. “Nearly 4,300 persons in the home quarantine will be tested with the rapid test kits. The other groups of people — 2,123 persons suffering from fever and at least 1,000 health workers — will also be tested with the rapid test kits in the first phase,” he said. As many as 17 teams of doctors are engaged in the COVID-19 assignment, attending the patients and those suffering from the suspected symptoms. The majority of them are being deployed in the testing across the district. Those who are reporting symptoms of COVID-19 could also directly undergo the medical test at the Collectorate. The persons reporting negative for twice in a row would be declared healthy during the tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/7423-rapid-testing-kits-reach-east-godavari/article31393076.ece
21 April 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 more patients discharged from GIMSR||Two more COVID-19 positive persons were discharged from GITAM Institute of Medical Science and Research (GIMSR), late on Sunday night. This takes the total count of discharges so far in the Visakhapatnam district to 18. So far, 21 patients had tested positive and with the discharge of 18, there are only three active cases undergoing treatment at GIMSR. As per sources in GIMSR, both the women who were discharged on Sunday were picked up from Narsipatnam and had a travel history to New Delhi. Both are from Tamil Nadu and had attended a religious congregation in New Delhi, and after discharge from the COVID-19 ward they are housed in a different ward in GIMSR. They will be kept there for a few more days on their request, as they belong to Tamil Nadu and do not have any home here and as lockdown is in force both in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, said an official from the Health Department. Treatment According to Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, all patients from the district were given supportive or symptomatic treatment for a period of about 14 days and the disease waned off in its natural course. None were required to be put on ventilator so far and we took care off their co-morbidity if any, he said.  With effect from Tuesday, the testing modalities in the district will be changed, as large-scale testing will begin. “Apart from RT-PCR and Truenat testing, which we have been following so far, we will now incorporate rapid testing with the help of the kits received from South Korea and also begin the Chemiluminescent Immunoassay (CLIA) testing,” said Prof. Sudhakar. The district has received about 17,000 South Korean kits. Testing modalities Elaborating on the changes in testing modalities, he said that people with symptoms, direct contacts of positive patients, frontline health workers and policemen who are in the direct frontline or with symptoms will have to undergo RT-PCR test. People from remote or inaccessible areas or from containment zones will be subjected to the Korean test kits or Truenat test and other health and sanitary workers or people working in the wards will be put to CLIA test. “We anticipate a spurt, but we are ready for it and the rapid mass testing is the need of the hour. We are also going to enhance our testing capabilities in our labs,” said Prof. Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-more-patients-discharged-from-gimsr/article31393084.ece
21 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||A robot to fight COVID-19 in Kannur||In February, COVID-19 hospital wards in China staffed by robots had created headlines. The robots were used to supply food and medicines to COVID-19 patients, since humans could approach them only by donning personal protective equipment. Now, the district COVID centre at Ancharakkandi, Kannur, also is making news by deploying robots to fight the Novel Coronavirus. The robot deployed assists health workers in caring for COVID-19 patients, taking food and medicines to them and aiding interaction between the patients and the staff. Christened ‘Nightingale-19’, the robot has been designed by the students of Vimal Jyoti Engineering College, Chemberi. Health Minister K. K. Shylaja launched the robot via video-conference from Thiruvananthapuram. Nightingale-19 can carry food and water weighing 25 kg for six persons at a time. It can be remotely controlled over a distance of one km. Video system An interesting feature of this robot is that patients can interact with the hospital staff via an inbuilt video system. After every assignment, the robot is disinfected. Dr. Narayana Naik, District Medical Officer, Kannur and other senior officials attended the launch event from the District COVID Centre, Ancharakkandi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-robot-to-fight-covid-19-in-kannur/article31392590.ece
21 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Court refuses to pass interim orders in SEC case||The High Court on Monday posted the final hearing on the batch of petitions that had questioned the propriety of the ordinance and G.O.s through which the term of the State Election Commissioner (SEC) has been curtailed from five to three years, and a new SEC was appointed, to April 28 . Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and Justice M. Satyanarayana Murthy heard the arguments through video-conferencing and insisted that all the parties should conclude their arguments by April 27 to decide the matter on April 28. According to Advocate-General (A-G) S. Sriram, the court refused to pass interim orders as requested by N. Ramesh Kumar who is the main petitioner, and also rejected the pleas that notices be served to the offices of the Governor and Chief Minister. The A-G was directed to file an additional counter by April 24. Common counter A common counter-affidavit was filed by Principal Secretary (Panchayat Raj) Gopal Krishna Dwivedi on April 17. He stated that the primary objective of the ordinance was to reform the local body election process by altering the composition of the office of SEC and the cessation of office of Mr. Ramesh Kumar was by virtue of a change in policy. It may be noted that Mr. Ramesh Kumar ceased to be SEC upon the promulgation of the ordinance (No. 5 of 2020) and was quickly replaced by V. Kanagaraj, retired judge, Madras High Court, who is also supposed to file an affidavit by April 27. In his petition, Mr. Ramesh Kumar alleged that the ordinance was issued with the mala fide intention to remove him for allegedly not consulting the government before announcing deferment of the civic polls and for taking certain other decisions that were not to its liking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-court-refuses-to-pass-interim-orders-in-sec-case/article31393064.ece
21 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Locked rythu bazaars come as a shock to citizens||The people who visited the rythu bazaars in the city on Monday were in for a shock as many of them remained closed during the lockdown relaxation period from 6 am to 9 am. Officials had made no prior announcement regarding the closure of the markets, which led to many people coming on to the roads, headed for the bazaars. In addition to the relocation of major rythu bazaars the government has set up mini rythu bazaars at multiple locations in the city to ensure people do not travel long distances. When contacted, Marketing Department Deputy Director Diwakar Rao said that they were not completely closed, but there was a miscommunication. Police suggested that the markets be closed as they suspected that these could be a source of transmission of coronavirus in the wake of a huge number of cases being reported in the city recently, he said.  Mobile bazaars Further, they were busy making arrangements for mobile rythu bazaars and couldn’t inform people about the closure of the markets, Mr. Rao added. From Tuesday the markets would be open as usual, he said. Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha, in a release, said due to miscommunication between departments 20 of the 25 rythu bazaars were closed on Monday. She said simultaneously 105 mobile bazaars were made operational and 2,688 quintals of vegetables were sold. The municipal officials clarified that they too were not aware of the closure of the markets. Meanwhile, some people on their scout for vegetables faced troubled from police for violation of lockdown rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/locked-rythu-bazaars-come-as-a-shock-to-citizens/article31393045.ece
21 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to wind up ‘non-viable’ courses in degree colleges||In a significant development, the government has identified certain ‘non-viable’ combination of courses offered by government degree colleges in the State and has asked the Special Commissioner of Collegiate Education to close these courses and also to reduce the intake of students in certain other combination of courses. The list of the combination of courses proposed to be wound up and the colleges offering them include: History-Economics-Computer Applications (BA) in the Government Degree College (GDC) at Srikalahasti in Chittoor district, History-Political Science-Computer Applications (English Medium-BA) and also Micro Biology-Chemistry-Computer Applications (EM-B.Sc) at GDC, Piler in Chittoor district, Biotechnology (B.Sc) at GDC, Nandikotkur in Kurnool, Mathematics-Economics-Computer Science (B.Sc) at GDC, Udayagiri in Nellore and Math-Physics-Chemistry (Telugu Medium - B.Sc) and History-Political Science-Computer Applications (Urdu medium - BA) at GDC, Rayachoti in Kadapa. The other combinations proposed to be done away with are History-Economics-Spl. English (BA) and Maths-Statistics-Computer Science (B.Sc) in GDC (W) at Ongole, Computers (BA) at GDC, Kaikaluru and Maths-Physics-Chemistry (B.Sc) at GDC, Bantumilli in Krishna, Social Work-Education-Psychology (BA) at GDC, Visakhapatnam, Computer Application (B.Com) at GDC, Gummalakshmipuram, Vizianagaram, Maths-Physics-Computer Science (B.Sc - EM), Maths-Physics-Chemistry (B.Sc - TM) and Biotechnology-Zoology-Chemistry (B.Sc - EM) at GDC, Koduru in Kadapa. B.Com courses Similarly, Biotechnology and Micro-biology courses offered in the B.Sc course by the GDC (W), Madanapalle in Chittoor district are proposed to be closed as also General Maths-Physics-Chemistry in B.Com and B.Sc and Botany-Zoology-Chemistry (B.Sc) at GDC, Gudur in Nellore district, General B.Com course in GDC, Rapur in Nellore, History-Economics-Political Science (BA - TM) at GDC (W), Kadapa, Maths-Physics-Electronics (B.Sc), Maths-Physics-Chemistry (B.Sc - TM), Taxation (B.Com) and Economics (MA) at GDC, Movva in Krishna district and Maths-Physics-Chemistry (B.Sc) and History-Economics-Computer Applications (BA) at GDC, Valmikiuram in Chittoor district. At GDC, Tekkali in Srikakulam, the courses of Biochemistry and Economic Politics offered in B.Sc and English-History-Economics-Rural Industrialisation in BA will be wound up, general B.Com course at GDC, Satyavedu in Chittoor, History-Political Science-Sociology (BA - TM) and Maths-Physics-Chemistry (B.Sc - TM) at GDC, Dharmavaram in Anantapur district and general B.Com and Zoology-Chemistry-Fisheries (B.Sc) at GDC, Vidavaluru in Nellore district will be chucked out. The government has also suggested that intake of students be reduced in 15 different courses offered by various colleges across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-to-wind-up-non-viable-courses-in-degree-colleges/article31393043.ece
21 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to spend Rs. 1,400 crore on SHG zero interest loan scheme||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday said that the government would spend Rs. 1,400 crore on the zero interest loan scheme meant for the Self-Help Groups (SHGs) in the State. At a review meeting on Monday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the amount would be credited to the accounts of SHGs members on April 24. The scheme would benefit 93 lakh women, he said. “The government is losing Rs. 150 crore per day on account of the fall in revenues. Despite financial constraints, the government has paid Rs. 1,000 per family as assistance, and is also giving ration thrice a month. Already two rounds have been completed” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The zero interest scheme benefits about 8.78 lakh SHGs in the State. Of this, 6.95 lakh SHGs are in rural areas, while 1.83 lakh are in urban areas. The SHGs in rural areas would receive benefits to the extent of Rs. 975 crore, while those in urban areas would get Rs. 425 crore. Guidelines soon The Finance Department on Sunday issued a G.O., allocating Rs. 765.19 crore to implement the zero-interest loan scheme for SHGs. Further guidelines for the implementation of the scheme will be released soon, said a release issued said here on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-to-spend-rs-1400-crore-on-shg-zero-interest-loan-scheme/article31393055.ece
21 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Remove colours identified with YSRCP from all govt. buildings’||The High Court (HC) on Monday directed the State government that the colours identified with the YSRCP should be removed from panchayat and other government buildings within three weeks of the lockdown being lifted, during a hearing of a supplementary petition. It may be noted that in its verdict last month, the HC gave 10 days for removing the ruling party colours from the government buildings. The government filed a review petition in the Supreme Court, which agreed with the HC’s view that the said buildings should not be painted with colours identified with a particular party. Alleging that the government has been delaying the implementation of the HC order, the supplementary petition was filed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remove-colours-identified-with-ysrcp-from-all-govt-buildings/article31393062.ece
21 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flower growers down in the dumps||There are chrysanthemums. There are roses. There are marigolds in full bloom everywhere. Brightly coloured blooms that might normally have been destined for markets are either wilting or being thrown into garbage. The flower farmers are, apparently, not happy due to the lockdown. With markets shut for many days now, agricultural labourers are hardly available, leaving the farmers clueless. “Unless we harvest flowers at regular intervals, we cannot save the orchard. First, we don’t find labourers. Even if we pay double wages to cut the flowers, it will be in vain as the markets are shut,” says Sonti Ram Mohan, who has a rose orchard in 90 cents at Mallempudi village in Guntur district near here. There are many farmers like him who have lost all hope. The plight of traders associated with the floriculture business is no different. The coronavirus outbreak has grounded deliveries and shipments. It will be a minimum loss of Rs. 30,000 per acre and it can go up to Rs. 60,000 per acre, says P. Srinivas Reddy, a farmer. The situation is so bad that it has become difficult to pay the wages of labourers.  Timing it right  “To tide over the problem, the government should allow us to sell the produce in local markets. The situation would have been different had the wholesale flower market in Vijayawada been functioning. The market should function from 10 am or 11 am as plucking of flowers is done in the early hours and transported immediately,” opines Sambi Reddy, another farmer. “This is really the first time that we are cutting the flowers only to dump them. The season is passing away without joy. If local markets are open, we will get to recover our costs,” adds Mr. Ram Mohan. According to information, the farmers have grown, among others, chrysanthemums, jasmine, marigold, rose and tube rose, in 28,553 hectares in the state. The total production is estimated to be 5,68,397 tonnes. Of this, rose, cultivated in 715 hectares, accounts for 2,703 lakh numbers, say officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flower-growers-down-in-the-dumps/article31393041.ece
21 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sex workers seek ration cards, medicines||Members of Vimukthi, an NGO, working for sex workers in the State, haves appealed to the government to issue ration cards and supply essential goods and medicines during the lockdown period. In a representation to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, the sex workers said many families were on the verge of starvation as they do not have ration cards. More than 50,000 women were involved in sex work in the State and many victims were children. As most of the sex workers were suffering from HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases, the families need immediate support from the government, they said and asked the Chief Minister to ensure supply of medicines to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sex-workers-seek-ration-cards-medicines/article31393052.ece
21 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Forest officials raise guard to protect wildlife||The forest authorities are taking steps to prevent the spread of coronavirus to animals in the sanctuaries and the national parks in the State. They are conducting awareness programmes in villages and appealing to the local people not to venture into forests. With tiger Nadia reportedly testing positive in New York’s Bronx Zoo, and a few other animals showing symptoms of COVID-19 in the zoo a few days ago, forest authorities sounded an alert in the State. Rich biodiversity The wildlife management officials have given instructions to the staff of all the zoos, sanctuaries, national parks and tiger reserves to wear gloves and masks and take all precautionary measures to prevent the spread of virus to animals. There are 13 wildlife sanctuaries, three national parks, four deer parks and two zoo parks in the State, and many wild animals, including rare and endangered species, were spotted in these places in a recent survey. “We have Coringa, Kolleru, Rajiv Gandhi Wildlife Sanctuary, Krishna, Rollapadu, Gundla Brahmeswara, Sri Lankamalleswara, Nelapattu, Pulicat, Kaundinya, Sri Venkateswara, Penusila Narasimha and Kambalakonda wildlife sanctuaries, and three national parks – Papikonda, Sri Venkateswara and Rajiv Gandhi National Parks, and Seshachalam Biosphere Reserve – in Andhra Pradesh,” said Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) D. Nalini Mohan. Instructions have been issued to the DFOs, flying squads, forest range officers and other staff to take measures to prevent entry of villagers into forests and hold awareness meets in hamlets in this regard, he said. The flying squad personnel, beat officers and guards have been told to intensify patrolling deep in the forests and prevent tribal people from venturing into forests on the pretext of collecting firewood and grazing cattle. “The staff while going into forests to fill saucer pits (to arrange water) for animals should maintain personal hygiene and wear gloves,” Mr. Nalini Mohan told The Hindu . “We are visiting the hilly and inaccessible villages and appealing to the residents not to move in forests by explaining the COVID-19 situation. The cooperation from the tribal people has been good,” said Polavaram Forest Range Officer (FRO) N. Daveed Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/forest-officials-raise-guard-to-protect-wildlife/article31393072.ece
21 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Donations pour in for COVID fight||Chittoor District Cooperative Central Bank (CDCCB) has donated Rs. 1 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) for the rehabilitation of the poor affected by the lockdown. CDCCB chairperson M. Redemma and other management representatives handed over a cheque for the amount to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday, a release said. Palasa MLA S. Appala Raju presented a cheque for Rs. 53,03,343 to the Chief Minister. The money was donated by the people, commercial establishments and other organisations in his constituency. Guntur District Rice Miller’s Association donated Rs. 25 lakh to the CMRF. Association president V. Bhaskar Rao presented a cheque to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The Federation of A.P. Granite Industries , Road Metal Lease-holders’ and Crushers’ Association, Piduguralla and Dachepalli Sector Mine Owner’s Forum, Galaxy Granite Association, Colour Granite Quarry Owners of A.P., Federation of A.P. Granite Industries and Parasakti Cement Industries and Bhavya Cements donated Rs. 2,59,85,000 for the COVID relief measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/donations-pour-in-for-covid-fight/article31393056.ece
21 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam to distribute 2.5 lakh masks||Telugu Desam Party national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Monday said that the NTR Trust was distributing 2.5 lakh masks (1,000 masks in each Assembly constituency). The masks would be distributed to ANMs, ASHA workers, doctors, sanitation staff and other frontline workers. During a video-conference with the party leaders, Mr. Naidu expressed shock over the death of a Muslim youth in Sattenapalli town after he was allegedly attacked by the police over the violation of lockdown norms. “Police should not act with high-handedness and treat all sections of people with empathy. Ex gratia should be paid to the family of the deceased,” said Mr. Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-desam-to-distribute-25-lakh-masks/article31393060.ece
21 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telemedicine helpline receives 8,243 calls in 4 days||Dr. YSR Telemedicine programme has evoked a good response as 8,243 people have made calls seeking medical advice in just four days. Of them, 4,732 have availed of medical assistance from doctors, a press note issued by the authorities said here on Monday. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has launched the initiative in order to provide medical assistance to the people. As of now, 286 doctors have registered themselves for the initiative. People need to give a missed call to helpline number 14410 and the doctors on board will reach out the callers through voice or video calls. People with COVID symptoms or those suffering from other ailments will get prescription and healthcare staff will deliver medicines at their doorstep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telemedicine-helpline-receives-8243-calls-in-4-days/article31393061.ece
21 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kits bought at competitive price: Health Minister||Dismissing the allegations made by BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana on the procurement of COVID rapid testing kits, Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas on Monday said that the government had bought one lakh rapid testing kits from a South Korean company at Rs. 730 each as per a prior agreement. The price fixed by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) was Rs. 795. Addressing the media, Mr. Srinivas said that the agreement contained a clause that if the testing kits were sold at a price lower than Rs. 730, the varied amount should be paid to the Andhra Pradesh government. Referring to the COVID containment measures, Mr. Srinivas said that a comprehensive family survey had been conducted thrice and enough numbers of personal protection equipment (PPEs) and N-95 masks were available to meet the demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kits-bought-at-competitive-price-health-minister/article31393066.ece
21 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Swiggy to deliver vegetables, fruits in State||Food delivery service Swiggy will soon start delivering fruits and vegetables to the people at their doorsteps in the State. The firm has announced the same on its official Twitter handle on Monday and also thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and other officials concerned for giving them the opportunity to serve the customers in the State during the tough times. “The e-pass system of A.P. is very user friendly. Soon we will be delivering fresh fruits and vegetables at your doorstep in partnership with the Department of Agriculture Marketing, AP so that you can stay home and stay safe,” the message said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/swiggy-to-deliver-vegetables-fruits-in-state/article31393046.ece
21 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Solve problems of maize farmers: Kanna||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana wrote a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy requesting him to instruct the Agriculture Department and Markfed to take steps that would enable the maize (corn) farmers in Krishna western delta to realise Minimum Support Price (Rs. 2,550) fixed by the Central government and solve the problems faced by them in marketing their produce. Mr. Lakshminarayana said the whole problem was due to the failure of Agriculture Department in recording lands under maize cultivation. He said that only 25% of the lands were recorded / registered as on date. On the other hand, Markfed is insisting that the farmers should furnish certificates issued by the Agriculture Department if it were to buy the crop at Rs. 2,550. Due to the problems, the farmers were resorting to distress sale of their produce for Rs. 1,400 to middlemen, who were “colluding with ruling party leaders” and obtaining certificates from the Agriculture Department and selling the same produce to Markfed at Rs. 2,550. The CM should therefore do justice to the beleaguered farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/solve-problems-of-maize-farmers-kanna/article31393051.ece
21 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. unable to handle pandemic: TDP||A silent protest was organised by Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders to highlight the ‘failures of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government’ in handling COVID-19 pandemic and to demand a better deal to the poor, at the party office here on Monday. Former Minister Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy, MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar and party leaders Peela Govind Satyanarayana, Rama Naidu and V. Anita participated in the protest. They said that TDP cadres were distributing sanitisers and essential commodities to the public, responding to the call given by the party chief and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu. They also stayed away from the birthday celebrations of Mr. Naidu. They alleged that the Chief Minister and YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) leaders failed to meet the needs of the people but were criticising Mr. Naidu all the time. They explained that the Centre had given Rs. 12,000 crore to the State to meet the medical needs in view of the pandemic. In addition to this Rs. 6,000 crore was released under the 14th Finance Commission funds and the RBI was also ready to extend funds. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had spoken to all leaders, irrespective of the political affiliations, and sought their cooperation in checking the spread of COVID-19. The TDP chief had spoken to the people thrice on the crisis. They wondered as to what the State government was doing except paying salaries of the employees. How can a family survive on the Rs. 1,000 being doled by the government? Even if Rs. 5,000 was given to each family, it would amount to a mere Rs. 4,000 crore. Masks were not yet ready and no funds were given for rural development, they alleged. The TDP leaders also alleged that positive cases were growing but the District Collector was not declaring them and the medical officials were behaving like YSRCP workers. They demanded release of a White Paper on positive cases in Vizag. They alleged that the YSRCP leaders were trying to declare Vizag as a green zone and execute the decision to make the city as the capital of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-unable-to-handle-pandemic-tdp/article31393080.ece
21 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo authorities take steps to keep animals cool||The management of Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) has taken all measures to keep the animals cool during the hot summer months. The measures initiated, include laying of pandals with palmyrah leaves in all day crawls, provision of kus kus mats in the aviaries, water sprinklers in all day crawls, provision of water tubs, succulent vegetables and fruits to herbivores, electrolytes to carnivores and herbivores, according to a statement issued by the zoo Curator here on Monday. In view of the lockdown, tyres of vehicles entering the zoo are being given a tyre bath with 4 % formalin wash and zoo staff are being checked for any illness before entering the premises to prevent spread of COVID-19. Meanwhile, the Lions Club of Visakhapatnam donated provisions to animal keepers of the zoo, who are attending to emergency duties during the lockdown period. In all, 60 packets containing rice and oil were distributed to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zoo-authorities-take-steps-to-keep-animals-cool/article31393082.ece
21 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No relaxation in red zones, partial in other areas: Collector||The lockdown, being implemented to check the spread of COVID-19, will be continued and police bandobast will be in force in the containment zones in the city and district till May 3. There are six containment zones in the 98 wards in Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) apart from Elamanchili and Narsipatnam municipalities and Bheemunipatnam and Padmanabham mandals in the district, according to District Collector V. Vinay Chand. The essential commodities will be available in the containment zones from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m. Medical, pharmacy, permitted government departments, police, home guards, fire, municipal and electricity services will continue. The emergency passes issued by the Collector’s office in the past will be valid till May 3.In other areas in the district, apart from the red zones, the orders issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on April, 15, 2020, will be implemented. Industries located in areas other than containment zones can apply to the District Industries Centre (DIC) through email for permission to operate their facilities. They would be allowed in accordance with the guidelines. The owners of the industries should arrange buses for transport of their workers. The district-level committee would inspect the industries from time to time to oversee the implementation of social distancing norms. Industries which are allowed to operate can apply for vehicle passes online onhttps://gramawards achivalayam.ap.gov.in/ CVPASSAPP /CV/CVOrganization Registration. Discharge of patients Mr. Vinay Chand said positive patients, who recovered after treatment, should be tested again for reconfirmation before they are discharged from hospital. Speaking at a review meeting here on Monday, he said the patients should be discharged as per the protocol of the Centre. Persons who have come from outside places should be compulsorily quarantined and RT-PCR tests should be conducted for them. He said as a part of the fourth phase door-to-door survey from April 21 to 25 Aasha, ANM, village and ward volunteers, and field surveillance teams will identify persons suffering from cold and fever and will conduct tests. Stickers will be pasted on the houses covered under survey. No house should be left in containment zones in GVMC area, Narsipatnam, Yelamanchili and Padmanabham mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-relaxation-in-red-zones-partial-in-other-areas-collector/article31393079.ece
21 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister hits out at Telugu Desam leaders||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Monday came down heavily on TDP leaders accusing them of shedding crocodile tears for the migrant labourers and other poorer sections suffering during lockdown and trying to mislead the public with false allegations against the State government over handling of situation arising out of COVID-19 pandemic. Addressing a press conference along with YSRCP MLAs A. Adeep Raj and T. Nagi Reddy, city president Vamsi Krishna Srinivas, VMRDA Chairman Dronamraju Srinivas and former MLA Malla Vijaya Prasad here, he said they should remember that nobody dreamt of the virus turning into a pandemic and creating havoc world-over. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said the lockdown was being implemented strictly to contain the spread of the virus and refuted the TDP charge that the number of positive cases was downplayed by not conducting tests on people showing symptoms. On the allegations that party national general secretary V. Vijaya Sai Reddy was bringing pressure on various organisations to donate to Pragathi Bharat Foundation formed by a group of entrepreneurs, the Minister said there was no truth in the allegation. He said Mr. Reddy was rendering yeoman service in mobilising resources to provide succour to all those who lost their livelihood during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-hits-out-at-telugu-desam-leaders/article31393087.ece
21 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vedanta’s gesture||Vedanta-Vizag General Cargo Berth (VGCB) has provided N95 masks, sanitisers and hand gloves to Harbour Police Station. The material will help ensure the safety of police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vedantas-gesture/article31393085.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Testing kits were purchased in transparent manner: Jagan||In an apparent reaction to the BJP’s criticism that there was no transparency in the purchase of rapid testing kits, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday said the State government had followed the due procedures while placing orders with the South Korean company. Also, he asserted that the Health Department officials deserved praise for trying to save public money while placing orders to purchase rapid testing kits. Health officials get a pat “I congratulate the health officials. They had placed orders in a most honest way,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The Chief Minister’s appreciation comes in the wake of BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana’s allegation that the government had spent Rs. 640 excluding the GST on each kit, while Chhattisgarh had purchased the same at a cost of Rs. 337 plus GST. The Chief Minister sought to turn the tables on the BJP, saying the Central government was not in a position to supply the kits. The Centre had asked the States to purchase the kits if available anywhere in the world. Also, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had purchased each kit at Rs. 795. The State government purchased the kits from a company permitted by the ICMR, he said. ‘25% of bill paid’ “It is laudable that the officials have got the kits without delay. They did not compromise on the State’s interests while placing the order. In case the company sold the kits at a rate lower than that was offered to Andhra Pradesh, that rate would be taken into consideration while making the payments. This clause was inserted in the purchase order. Only 25% of the total bill has been paid,” said the Chief Minister.  War of words Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy further said that the prices had come down due to the conditions imposed by the State government. When the government placed the orders, the kits were manufactured outside India. Now, the ICMR had given permission and kits were being manufactured in the country. Now, the government condition would bring down the cost further. Even the company had agreed in this regard, said the Chief Minister. Purchase of kits by the government has led to a war of words between YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy and Mr. Lakshminarayana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/testing-kits-were-purchased-in-transparent-manner-jagan/article31393059.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Precautionary measure||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/precautionary-measure/article31393054.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown travails||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-travails/article31393089.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Food chain||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/food-chain/article31392594.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Duty calls||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/duty-calls/article31393070.ece
21 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Will migrant workers return when normalcy returns?||Will the thousands of migrant workers come back to work in Telangana once normalcy gets restored and will they do it soon enough to be of consequence? In areas like construction industry, 90 % of the work depends upon workers from other States, according to builder K. Ashwin Rao who also says that their presence is necessary no sooner the lockdown is lifted and the government gives the go ahead to start work. He has an estimated 500 workers from other States on his construction site who are being provided with food during the lockdown period. “This is to ensure that there is no delay in resuming work,” he pointed out. Most of the workers who have set out for their distant homes in other States on foot had been involved in a plethora of activities in the both formal and informal sectors and were literally thrown out from their places of work. Bitter experience The hardships faced by them during the last few weeks have made them sufficiently bitter to vow never to come back, evident from the talk that The Hindu had with many of them passing through Adilabad on the NH 44. “The labour contractor simply abandoned us. We are on the road since 15th of this month with hardy any money or food,” observed a resentful Md. Asjad Azam and Md. Zahoor, a duo from Arariya in Bihar who used to work in the packing section of a fodder plant in Reddipally of Medak district. “Our employers got their photos clicked while handing us food packets for the one time which they did to impress the government that they were feeding us. They simply vanished after that photo session,” lamented Deepak Kol Adivasi from Ladiari Karshana in Uttar Pradesh who used to work in a chocolate factory in Katedan in Hyderabad and is headed home, totally dependent on the philanthropic donors providing food along the NH 44. Not willing Komal Ahirwar of Bagroi village in Sagar district of Madhya Pradesh is among the four families of masons who were working on a site in Goudelli near Medchal. He did praise the food and other facilities being provided by the Adilabad district administration in the camp near Chanda (T) village in which he is lodged at present, but was not receptive of the idea of returning for work here. The frame of mind that the migrant workers are in at present indicates that it will take a lot of persuation for them to come back. This could even mean a slow start to the economy whener it happens. Mr. Ashwin Rao, however, holds a different view. “The dismal employment situation in their States will have them return to work here,” he asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/will-migrant-workers-return-when-normalcy-returns/article31392896.ece
21 April 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Online bookings for sevas in Bhadradrachalam temple||As the historic temple dedicated to Lord Rama in Bhadrachalam continues to remain shut for devotees due to the COVID-19 lockdown, the temple authorities have come out with an online initiative to provide an opportunity to devotees get pujas performed on their behalf, without their presence in the shrine, by the temple priests. Devotees can book various sevas and pujas of the temple deity online through https://ts.meeseva.telangana.gov.in/ , said temple Executive Officer Narasimhulu in a statement issued on Monday. Those interested can log onto the Meeseva website and select “ENDOWMENT-ONLINE SEVA/POOJA BOOKING” option to furnish their full details and make payment of the prescribed amount for various sevas/pujas online. Those who avail this online facility will get text messages on their registered mobile phones after the conduct of the sevas/pujas in their names by the temple priests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/online-bookings-for-sevas-in-bhadradrachalam-temple/article31392907.ece
21 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID-19 centre at Gachibowli opens||The 1,500-bed COVID-19 centre at Gachibowli, which will later be turned into Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, started functioning on Monday. Day 1 saw zero admissions. Plans to turn the 14-floor building into a hospital dates were mooted in 2017 when the State government announced four multi-speciality hospitals around Hyderabad. In fact, officials from the Health department had also inspected it then. Upgrade of plans Following a spike in COVID-19 cases in the State, the building, which was unused for over a decade, was identified as one of the facilities to quarantine asymptomatic air passengers who had returned from foreign countries. However, plans were soon upgraded. After taking up works to establish a quarantine centre, the building located in the sports complex at Gachibowli was converted into a COVID-19 centre. Recently, officials of Health department said it may be converted into a fully functional hospital. On Sunday, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced that Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (TIMS) would be established in the building. Each floor in the building has 36 rooms with attached bathrooms and halls. Currently, two beds are arranged in each room with a distance of eight feet between them. If need be, another bed might be accommodated. An ICU with over 41 beds is also being arranged. Oxygen supply pipes and other resources are available. Six elevators, including two stretcher lifts, are arranged too. For this facility, doctors and staff nurses have been drawn from primary health centres from across the State. Duty roster chart with names of the healthcare professionals had been prepared last week and at least 23 doctors and 46 staff nurses were allotted duties at the COVID-19 centre from April 13 to 26. Osmania General Hospital superintendent B. Nagender is the nodal officer of the COVID-19 centre. Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy said the centre is in addition to the largest isolation facility at Gandhi Hospital. “We will use it when the need arises,” he added. Refurbished in 3 weeks Around 1,000 workers, engineers and officials from Telangana State Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSMIDC) worked round the clock to refurbish the building into a COVID-19 centre in close to three weeks. Painting, plumbing, electric works, water supply, repairs, and others works were taken up in all floors. A private firm which executed double bed rooms project was roped in to complete the works. “Four engineers were assigned each floor. At least one of them was available at every hour. Our civil, equipment and other wings worked in synergy,” said TSMIDC managing director Chandrasekhar Reddy. However, Health officials still have more work to do. They have a list of requirements to convert the COVID-19 centre into TIMS. Existing top-notch medical institutes would be studied to chart the plans. In addition to the nine acres, 10 to 15 more acres might be added to construct more buildings, hostels and quarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-19-centre-at-gachibowli-opens/article31392860.ece
21 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Do not violate 3-km radius norm, warns DGP||Carrying an ID proof with current address while coming out on the streets has been made mandatory by the Telangana police as part of its measure to ensure that people do not violate the 3-km radius norm and help them in strictly implementing the lockdown restrictions. People who come out to purchase groceries and other essential commodities should carry an address proof and they must travel within 3-km radius from their house, said Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy. Addressing a press conference here on Monday, Mr. Reddy said the move was also aimed at restricting people from stepping out as more number of people were found to be venturing out on the streets without a valid reason. “If people are found violating the norm, cases will be booked and their vehicles will be seized,” he said. When asked if one doesn’t have a current residential proof, as Hyderabad is a hub for IT employees and people from different districts and various States come here for employment, he said that he/she can carry alternative documents, such as a certificate or phone number on which police will verify if they are stopped at check-posts. Further, he said people who want to go to a hospital must visit the nearest one by carrying address proof. “If people want to visit a superspeciality hospital away from their house, they must carry doctor’s prescription or other documents issued by the hospital,” he said. Stating that more and more people are coming out ignoring the lockdown restrictions, Mr. Reddy said that from Tuesday they have decided to enforce the lockdown more strictly. According to him, the effectiveness of the lockdown had reduced and as people are misusing the essential services passes, they have decided to review and issue new passes. “We have issued over 15,000 passes and all of them will be reviewed case by case and new passes will be issued to every individual mentioning his origin, destination, route, and work timing, so that they are not misused by the individuals,” Mr. Reddy said, adding that deviation from the designated route will result in cancellation of passes. As some government employees were found to be coming out in the name of attending duties, the police have henceforth decided to ask their department heads to issue colour-coded passes. “As each employee is working only on a few days during this lockdown, we will write to all department heads and Chief Secretary for issuing different colour passes each day, for permitting them at check-posts,” the DGP said. Stressing on the need of maintaining social distancing while at a store or in the house to contain the spread of coronavirus, the top police brass said that residents’ welfare association should monitor the movement of people in their area and keep a tab on youngsters who try to venture out for no reason. He said that all Tablighi Jamaat returnees are identified and sent to the government hospital. Since Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced that house rents should not be collected from tenants, police received 36 Dial 100 calls and local teams were sent to address the issue and the owners were counselled, Mr. Reddy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/do-not-violate-3-km-radius-norm-warns-dgp/article31392872.ece
21 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cadets at TSPA made to cook, clean toilets||Cadets at RBVRR Telangana State Police Academy are worried a lot these days, as their training continues without any break, with no regard for social distancing or health precautions during the coronavirus pandemic. On the other hand, these trainees are having to fetch groceries from mandi in Mehdipatnam and other places and even cook, as the absence of their regular cooking staff has made things worse. A few trainee sub-inspectors told The Hindu that there was no restriction on entry/exit on the campus, and most officers live outside of it and come and go any time, without there being any check or restriction for masks or social distancing in place. And the fear of infections reaching and spreading in the police academy keeps young cadets on the edge, as there is no restriction on the movement of faculty and other senior officers coming to the campus every day. “In addition to not restricting their movement, the officers are making us go out and get vegetables. All top rank faculty, including the director, deputy directors and additional directors live outside the campus and come every day, making our lives more vulnerable to the virus,” a trainee sub-inspector said. Apart from cooking, washing utensils, and maintenance of campus, the cadets are forced to clean the bathrooms and toilets, another trainee SI said. He said when they requested the staff for masks and sanitisers, a senior officer in an internal WhatsApp group threatened them with a criminal case and termination from training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cadets-at-tspa-made-to-cook-clean-toilets/article31392855.ece
21 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lawyer wants govt. to supply protective gear at PPCs||A lawyer’s letter to Telangana High Court Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan over precautions to check spread of Coronavirus at Paddy Procurement Centres (PPCs) across the State has been taken up as a PIL petition. Lawyer J. Venudhar Reddy, in his letter, stated that nearly four lakh people would be assembling at nearly 4,000 PPCs in the State for the next few weeks. He sought a direction to State government to supply sanitisers, masks and other protective gear to all people gathering at the PPCs. He said that government is duty bound to supply the protective gear as it had opened the PPCs all over the State to purchase paddy from the farming community. There is likelihood of the virus spreading its tentacles if farmers, workers and others assembling at these centres are not supplied with masks and sanitisers. Observing that it was a matter of urgent importance, the lawyer said the government had failed to supply any such gear so far. Citing his personal experience, the lawyer from Kannekal village of Madugulapalli mandal of Nalgonda district said he had harvested paddy from his fields on April 6. Two days later, he went to the PPC run by Indira Kranthi Patham. To be purchased, the paddy had to be dried to comply with the required moisture levels before being filled in gunny bags. This process requires a couple of days. The lawyer said that he had to be at the PPC for three days for that purpose. On an average, nearly 100 persons, including farmers and workers, move in the vicinity of the PPC. They all have to move in close proximity and chances of contracting virus is higher. None of them was seen wearing masks or using sanitisers at the PPC, the lawyer said. The PIL is likely to be heard by the court in a day or two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lawyer-wants-govt-to-supply-protective-gear-at-ppcs/article31392862.ece
21 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP for all-party meeting on lockdown||Bharatiya Janata Party State president Bandi Sanjay on Monday demanded Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao call an all-party meeting to discuss various issues that are cropping up due to lockdown clamped to contain coronavirus. He criticized the government for not taking necessary steps to help the farmers who have incurred heavy loss due to the damage to standing crops from untimely rains that battered for the last three days. Many farmers have also lost their lives due to the lightning strikes in several districts. The BJP chief charged the officials with having an indifferent attitude towards farmers, migrant labour and the poor who are facing hardships following the lockdown. “It is unfortunate that the Cabinet meeting held on Sunday did not discuss the farmers’ issues and untimely rains. There are poor people dependent on their daily wages and it is strange that the Cabinet instead of discussing their welfare had asked members of woman SHGs to repay their loans and people to pay their property tax,” said Mr. Sanjay. Demanding that the government reverse these decisions, he expressed concern over the Revenue and Panchayat Raj staff being denied incentives that were being given to health, police and municipal staff, since they were also in the forefront in the fight against coronavirus. He found fault with the government for announcing a cut in the pensions and wanted the sanitary workers too be taken care of as they have been ignored so far as also the construction sector workers despite the Centre allowing extension of financial assistance of up to Rs. 1500 to each worker from the building cess fund. The payment has been cleared by the Labour Board yet the government has not taken a step forward. The field assistants serving in the villages should be immediately drafted into work during this hour of need, the party president added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-for-all-party-meeting-on-lockdown/article31392891.ece
21 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||DRDO to put up mobile viral research lab at ESIC Hospital||Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO), which has joined the battle against COVID-19 with gusto, is planning to introduce yet another novel facility — a viral research lab. It is going to be bio-safety level 3 lab with self-locking doors, negative pressure, high efficiency filters, ante-room etc. Now that testing has become an important feature to control the pandemic spread, scientists say the clinical specimen inactivation should be performed in such a Bios-afety Level-3 (BSL3) laboratory as the pathogenicity of COVID-19 is not completely known yet. Since constructing a permanent fixed bio-safety facility will take much time and resources, the premier defence lab has configured a mobile BSL3 with both bio-safety and flexibility urgently needed to handle the pandemic. Two local companies — ICOMM specialising in fabrication of shelters and iClean, a turnkey design and build company with years of experience in building the containment facilities — have been identified to build the lab. Work is in progress at iClean to build mobile mobile BSL-3 lab for the ESIC Hospital in Erragadda to start screening patients immediately and it will also be useful for conducting research projects related to drug discovery, therapeutics and vaccine development in collaborations with other scientific organisations. “BSL3 lab is mandatory for live virus cultures and having this facility is the main criteria to get funding from research projects,” they explained. With viral outbreaks pretty frequent, there is a need for timely diagnosis for an appropriate public health response to prevent any epidemics and this is where biosafety labs play a key role in diagnostics. “This first of its kind mobile lab can be moved and scaled up quickly to speed up COVID-19 screening as we have only four BSL3 labs in the country,” they informed. This mobile lab is capable of screening 1,000 samples a day, provides safety to the personnel and helps identify unknown viruses causing significant morbidity in the community due to epidemics and/or potential agents for bio-terrorism. Public health authorities can also understand and conduct surveillance of existing and new viruses, develop diagnostic kits and undertake research for identification of newer genetically active/ modified agents, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drdo-to-put-up-mobile-viral-research-lab-at-esic-hospital/article31392853.ece
21 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC invites fresh tenders for 201 bus shelters||After failing at construction of the much vaunted swanky, modern bus shelters across the city with state-of-the-art facilities, the GHMC has, nevertheless, called for another round of tenders now for construction of new bus shelters at more locations. That the tenders were called during lockdown, and despite a crisis situation precipitated by the alarming spread of COVID-19 in the city is raising many eyebrows. As per the tender notification, bus shelters are to be constructed at a total of 201 locations across the city, after demolition of the existing shelters. The work has been divided into three packages of 50 shelters each and one of 51 shelters, which are to be constructed, operated and maintained by the concessionaire. The concessionaire may derive advertisement revenue by operating the bus shelters, against payment of concession fee to GHMC. The concession period will be three years starting from the date of agreement and inclusive of the construction period of eight weeks. At the end of the concession period, the shelters should be handed over to GHMC. April 30 has been fixed as the last date for filing bids. GHMC had, two and a half years ago, awarded works for construction of modern bus shelters at 826 locations, of which only 479 have been constructed as of now. In the completed shelters too, concessionaire agencies could not provide facilities as promised, say officials. Of the 826, a total of 396 were to be constructed after demolishing the existing shelters, while 430 were to be built at new locations. A predominant majority of the completed shelters were constructed at the location of existing shelter. Right of way and other problems were encountered at new locations chosen by TSRTC, in coordination with ASCI, officials informed. Several shelters were uprooted after being erected, as they came up on the Hyderabad Metro Rail route. A few more were vetoed by the Traffic Police for various reasons. “A total of 336 were Grade I and Grade II shelters, which were to have toilet facilities. But to my knowledge toilets were built only at few locations due to space constraints,” shares an official under the condition of anonymity. Instead, the agencies offered to build equal number of community toilets elsewhere in the city if GHMC provided them space, to which the authorities agreed. Notwithstanding any of these constraints, the fresh bids for construction of shelters included toilet facilities yet again. Officials informed that the new lot of shelters are to be constructed after demolition of the existing shelters, for which the concessionaire period with previous agencies has recently expired. However, they have no clue as to how many of them have space enough for construction of toilets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-invites-fresh-tenders-for-201-bus-shelters/article31392876.ece
21 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State reaches out to IT industry to make big ticket contributions||The State government has reached out to the IT industry leaders with a suggestion if the sector can make some big ticket contributions under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), and one or two day salary contribution by the IT sector workforce - to purchase high-end Covid testing and medical diagnostic equipment for government hospitals. IT department officials on behalf of the government made this proposal while acknowledging the charity extended by the IT/ITES sector to provide food to the needy and poor daily wagers affected by the lockdown in the State to curb the transmission of COVID-19. The Health department apparently sought the help of Information Technology & Communications department in raising CSR and individual contributions to acquire high-end diagnostic equipment like CT scan, MRI, rapid testing machines for covid confirmation. The department now apparently has enough masks and Personal Protection Equipment and more orders were also placed for delivery. “Thus it is now looking for high-end equipment. Even a rapid high volume COVID-19 testing machine is on the wish list of Medical and Health department,” said Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary, IT and Industries. Mr. Ranjan had an online meeting with representatives of Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA), NASSCOM and others to understand their concerns in the wake of lockdown and explain them about the preparedness of government in tackling spread of COVID-19 on Monday. The high volume rapid testing machines like cobas SARS-CoV-2 will enable expedited COVID-19 testing and it could test 5,000 samples in one go and give results in five hours. In about 20 hours, it could give 20,000 sample tests. Mr Ranjan said that the suggestion got a positive response. In the State there are six testing centres that test 1,500 samples, apart from CCMB that can do rapid testing. A local manufacturer is also permitted by ICMR to make 1,000 to 1,500 Covid medical kits per day, he said. No Swiggy, Zomato Mr Ranjan made it clear that food delivery companies like Swiggy and Zomato would not be permitted to deliver during lockdown but IT companies can run their own canteens and supply food to 5% of employees working from offices and also supply food to those IT employees living in hostels. He said the IT companies by and large managed to make bulk of their employees work from home. Some bandwidth and power outage issues in some localities raised by them are being addressed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-reaches-out-to-it-industry-to-make-big-ticket-contributions/article31392868.ece
21 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HRC steps in to help local horse owners||Hyderabad Race Club (HRC) has stepped in to help the private owners of horses in the twin cities facing acute hardship during the current lockdown. HRC chief operating officer Veerendra Kaja told The Hindu that they have identified 20-30 horses at Begum Bazaar and Chaderghat which were starving since the owners were not in a position to feed them as they had no income from their normal business of hiring them for weddings, functions and shootings. “Since our chairman Mr. Surender Reddy and the board of directors/ stewards were very particular that the horses should not starve, HRC provided feed and other essential items to the owners so that they can take care of the horses for the next three weeks,” he said. “HRC resolved to supply feed to these starving horses and help their owners who have no income right now,” Mr. Kaja said. Further, there is also help coming in from animal lovers/rescue groups in the city headed by Rebecca Gupta who has supplied wheat bran to the horses along with the feed supplied by HRC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hrc-steps-in-to-help-local-horse-owners/article31392864.ece
21 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MPs distribute groceries in Suryapet district||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president and Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy on Monday distributed groceries and vegetables to the needy families at Huzurnagar in Suryapet district. According to the MP’s office, he distributed the material to auto drivers, municipal sanitation workers, ASHA workers in government hospital at Huzurnagar and also served food to municipal staff at Nereducherla. He also enquired with the branch manager of SBI there about the receipt of Rs. 1,500 credited to the bank accounts of below poverty lines families by the State government. Meanwhile, Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy also distributed groceries purchased with Rs. 10 lakh of his personal funds to every household in Vardhamankota village of Nagaram mandal in Suryapet district, which was declared as red zone due to number of COVID cases there, on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mps-distribute-groceries-in-suryapet-district/article31392887.ece
21 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Address health care needs of workers, officials told||Minister for Industries K.T. Rama Rao has asked the officials of the Industries and Labour departments to conduct joint inspections of factories and workers’ camps to check if the necessities and healthcare needs of workers are being taken care of during the lockdown period. Telangana Labour department has set up a State-level help desk with cell number: 9492555379 - to address issues related to wages and migrant workers. Mr. Rama Rao has asked officials to respond to distress calls from migrant workers immediately and ensure that their food and healthcare needs are met. Private doctors may be engaged if ESI and government healthcare facilities are unable to meet their needs due to overcrowding. During a video conference with district-level officials, along with Minister for Labour and Employment Ch. Malla Reddy, the Minister asked both the departments to work in tandem to attend to the issues of migrant workers as well as local workers. In view of stoppage of work for the last one month, Mr. Rama Rao appealed to the IT and industry heads to ensure that no employer -- regular, contract or outsourced -- loses his employment. He reminded them that they are getting several relaxations in payment of power bills and property tax.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/address-health-care-needs-of-workers-officials-told/article31392877.ece
21 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Collegium clears lawyer’s name for HC||Supreme Court Collegium on Monday approved the proposal to elevate lawyer B. Vijaysen Reddy as judge of Telangana High Court. The decision was taken by the Collegium at a meeting. Having secured LLB degree from PPR College of Law, advocate Vijaysen Reddy got enrolled with the AP Bar Council in 1994. Initially, he practiced in subordinate courts and tribunals before taking up cases in the High Court. He practiced in different branches of law for over 25 years. His father late B. Subhashan Reddy had been chief justice of the high courts of Madras and Kerala. He was the first Chairman of Andhra Pradesh State Human Rights Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/collegium-clears-lawyers-name-for-hc/article31392889.ece
21 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Mock NEET, JEE, EAMCET tests||Students preparing for JEE, NEET and EAMCET can take over 50 mock tests on the TOSO App, developed by a start-up GRK Technologies based out of IIIT-Hyderabad. GVS Giri, director, GRK Techhnologies, said that the application has over 50 mock tests with each question provided with a detailed solution and the key. Test takers can get analysis of section-wise performance. More details can be had onhttps://tosoapp.com/2020or on 8008503613.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mock-neet-jee-eamcet-tests/article31392874.ece
21 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress for rapid tests on all people||The Congress party has demanded that the State government conduct rapid coronavirus tests to all people or else they would approach the court with a plea to give such directions to the TRS government. In a statement issued here on Monday, TPCC treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy sought to know why the government was not allowing the private diagnostic centres to conduct coronavirus tests. He requested the government to conduct rapid COVID-19 tests of all people in the containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-for-rapid-tests-on-all-people/article31392885.ece
21 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mahabubnagar gets a sample collection booth||A specialised protective booth, a portable isolation box, for sample collection from the suspects of coronavirus infection was inaugurated at Mahabubnagar by Minister for Excise V. Srinivas Goud on Monday. The booth donated by its manufacturers, Sagar Asia, was inaugurated at the government general hospital in the district headquarters town. The isolation booth is expected to help healthcare professionals to collect samples from coronavirus suspects without any threat of contracting it. The booth also minimises the use of personal protective equipment by the sample collectors.  The testing lab would help conduct more tests in the district and the capacity of the lab would be conduct about 120 to 150 tests every 24 hours. Results of sample testing would be known within a day after collection. It would also be helpful in conducting tests for swine flu and other infectious diseases that are prevalent in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mahabubnagar-gets-a-sample-collection-booth/article31392857.ece
21 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No passes for NGOs and philanthropists, says Mayor||Starting from April 21, passes issued to philanthropists and NGOs will not be valid, and they will have to distribute food and groceries only through the GHMC and police departments, Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan announced on Monday. The purpose of lockdown gets defeated if people come in large numbers on the roads, and distribute food and essentials, he noted, and asked the NGOs and individuals to contact GHMC and the police for donating. Crowding Distribution on the roads is leading to crowds as several people who are not in distress too are coming to avail the benefits. The GHMC has established 25 shelter homes for orphans and beggars where a total 1,428 persons are being provided shelter. Mr. Ram Mohan urged the non-governmental organisations and individual philanthropists to provide food and essentials to the inmates of the shelter homes through officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-passes-for-ngos-and-philanthropists-says-mayor/article31392878.ece
21 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Change in Annapurna canteen timings||Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration, Arvind Kumar, has instructed to GHMC officials to slightly alter the timings of Annapurna canteen in view of summer. During a tele-conference on Monday with zonal commissioners, Mr. Arvind Kumar asked them to take measures to change the lunch hours between 11 a.m. and 12 noon and wind up serving dinner by 7 p.m. Reviewing the initiative, Mr.Arvind Kumar said the canteens may be established at new locations too in view of the 17 remaining days before the lock down ends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/change-in-annapurna-canteen-timings/article31392879.ece
21 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Class X student dies in accident||A Class X student was killed after he came under a container lorry that fell on its left side after its driver lost control at Bowenpally on Monday. The boy, Awaiz (17), from New Sector Colony, was returning home on foot after purchasing vegetables when the accident took place around 2.30 p.m. near Bowenpally police station. “While negotiating the turn the container driver lost control and it fell on its side -- and the boy, who was walking in the same direction, came under the vehicle resulting in his instant death,” inspector C. Anjaiah said. He said that the vehicle carrying groceries was going to Balanagar from Kompally. A case was registered and the driver was taken into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/class-x-student-dies-in-accident/article31392873.ece
21 April 2020||INDERVELLI (ADILABAD DISTRICT),TELANGANA||COVID-19 impact on Indervelli homage||The handful of Adivasis who had come to the Indervelli martyrs memorial column on Monday to pay homage to the victims of the infamous Indervelli police firing of April 20, 1981, made the event sombre one as they observed the inevitable social distance related with COVID-19 preventive measures while performing their traditional rituals. The police had kept a close watch on the proceedings in the interest of all concerned by preventing physical proximity between individuals while going about their task. Traditional puja The traditional puja for paying homage to the departed was sans the traditional music and started a little earlier than usual. While elders paid their respects and also performed the puja at the Inderai temple in Indervelli mandal headquarters, Member of Parliament from Adilabad (ST) Soyam Bapu Rao arrived after the ceremonies to offer his homage to the tribal martyrs. Utnoor Deputy Superintendent of Police N. Uday Reddy who was monitoring the event closely also paid a visit to the martyrs memorial column. The police had set up temporary check points on either side of Indervelli mandal headquarters for conducting checks on vehicles passing through the Gudihatnoor-Utnoor main road. Meanwhile, it is learnt that a band of Maoists, reported to be moving in the area since the last few weeks, also paid homage to the police firing victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-19-impact-on-indervelli-homage/article31392898.ece
21 April 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Untimely rain damages paddy||Untimely rains caused a great concern among farmers who have cut paddy and spread it on platforms on agriculture fields and roads for drying before shifting to markets and paddy purchase centers in the integrated old district. Moderate to heavy rain on Sunday soaked the grain at several places. Harvested crop in Mopal, Sirikonda, Nizamabad rural, Indalwai, Varni, Dichpally, Darpally and Bheemgal in the district and in Kamareddy, Ramareddy, Tadwai and Lingampally mandals in Kamareddy district got soaked due to rain. At some villages the crop brought to purchase centers in gunny bags was damaged despite the tarpaulin sheets that were given to farmers to cover the grain. Paddy was transplanted in over 4 lakh acres in the integrated district and crop cutting began in the first week of April where it was transplanted in December. Crop cutting began now where it was transplanted in the month of January. With the shortage of harvesting machines and the farmers are ready to pay higher price for the machines. Deputy Director, Agriculture, Mohammed Wajiuddin, said that damage happened only to the harvested crop and the standing crop remains intact. “However, we are getting details from our field staff, 70 % crop cutting is over in Bodhan division whereas in other divisions only 30 % was cut,” he said. Farmers of Sirikonda area, meanwhile, called upon the authorities to ensure payment of compensation or insurance to the crop as it was damaged. They said that if the crop was damaged to the extent of 30 % it was not being taken into consideration for the calculation of damage and payment of money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/untimely-rain-damages-paddy/article31392900.ece
21 April 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Three more test positive in Nizamabad||Three more COVID-19 positive cases were reported from the district on Monday, taking the total number of positive cases to 61. Of the 13 samples sent to Gandhi Hospital for tests, three persons tested positive for the virus, said Collector C. Narayana Reddy. However, all the 105 samples sent on Friday tested negative, he added. Commissioner of Police Kartikeya L cautioned that if any vehicle is found violating guidelines it would be seized and released only after the lifting of lockdown. The containment areas of COVID-19 are under drone surveillance, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-more-test-positive-in-nizamabad/article31392902.ece
21 April 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Quarantined person escapes, nabbed||A Vemulawada resident of Subashnagar locality, who was put in quarantine in the isolation ward of a government hospital along with 20 others from April 10, following his close association with a person who tested positive after returning from markaz prayers, escaped in Sircilla textile town on Monday morning. However, the geo-tagging helped the police nab him within a few hours on the outskirts of Vemulawada. He was again shifted to the quarantine in Sircilla. Meanwhile, the police deployed additional forces at the quarantine centre to avoid such incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/quarantined-person-escapes-nabbed/article31392880.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Without Taraweeh congregations, imams stare at hard times||Come Ramzan, huffaz (those who memorise the Quran) heave a sigh of relief. For, the holy month means a deferral of financial constraints. They lead Taraweeh or special night prayers across mosques in the State, leading to an augmented income. But, with the COVID-19 lockdown in place and with masjids shutting doors to congregants, the situation seems bleak. Ramzan is expected to begin on April 24. Mohammed Abdur Raham, one of many huffaz , is worried. The honorarium from the masjid in Toli Chowki would help him to buy ration and also pay fee of his school-going children. “This is the first time in my life that Ramzan will be so subdued. These are testing times not only for us, but for the whole country,” he said. Explaining the situation of huffaz , who double up as Taraweeh imams, Mufti Omar Abedeen, deputy director of the seminary Al Mahad ul Aali Al Islami said, “Imams are paid a pittance, a few thousand a month. During Ramzan, when they go to different masjids , they are paid for reciting the Quran in its entirety for which they are appreciated and paid an honorarium of, say, Rs. 5,000 or Rs. 10,000. They need this money so that they can make ends meet. With no Taraweeh congregation, it obviously is a troublesome situation for them.” The honorarium paid to the huffaz depends on the mosque and the neighbourhood, Mufti Abedeen opines. “Some mosques are in affluent areas. Here, the congregants are big businessmen or work in IT sector and are well-off. Honorariums in such masjids is higher and can go up to Rs. 50,000. This takes care of a lot of expenses of the huffaz ,” he said. The State government has been paying honorariums to the imams and muezzins across the State through the Telangana State Waqf Board. But this financial assistance has been erratic. “There are approximately 10,000 beneficiaries across the State. But honorarium payments happen once in two or three or four months, as and when the budget is released. There is a proposal to clear dues of the past two months before Ramzan so that beneficiaries do not have to struggle,” a senior TSWB staff said. Meanwhile, former legislator and president of pan-India body of clerics, Jamiat-e-Ulama Hind Telangana Andhra Pradesh, Maulana Hafiz Peer Shabbir confirmed that Taraweeh congregation will not be organised in mosques. “Social distancing should be practised, so please pray at home. Those who are huffaz can pray at home with their immediate families. No outsider should be allowed at home for Taraweeh. No rule of the Health department and the government should be violated,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/without-taraweeh-congregations-imams-stare-at-hard-times/article31392866.ece
21 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||No relaxation in lockdown restrictions in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddha Nagar on Monday reported four and three COVID-19 cases respectively on Monday. The District Magistrates of both areas, which have been marked unsatisfactory in an internal assessment report of the State government on the implementation of the lockdown, said the lockdown would continue as before. Traffic restricted Late on Monday evening, District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey issued an order whereby the traffic between Ghaziabad and Delhi was further restricted. Ghaziabad saw a spurt in cases on Sunday with 12 persons testing positive. The district has 33 active cases and 15 hotspots. In Gautam Buddha Nagar, the total number of cases is 100 out of which 57 are active. District Magistrate Suhas L.Y. has described the recovery rate as higher than the State and national average. He added that 4,53,822 houses have been visited in containment zones and over 14 lakh people have been screened. “Whenever a positive case is found, we try to reach the primary contacts in two hours and the secondary contacts in the next few hours,” he said. He added that relaxation would be provided in rural areas, which are out of containment zones, for those in agriculture, husbandry and fisheries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-relaxation-in-lockdown-restrictions-in-ghaziabad/article31392818.ece
21 April 2020||New Delhi,||Two deaths, 78 new COVID-19 cases; govt. begins rapid testing||Two deaths and 78 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Monday, taking the toll 47 and number of cases to 2,081. Of the 2,081 cases, 431 people have recovered and there are 1,603 active cases. “A death audit committee has been constituted for the daily audit of each and every death in which the COVID -19 test is positive,” an official statement read. It added that an advisory has been issued to incorporate the services of AYUSH doctors as well as modalities of AYUSH system for the “prevention and health promotion” during the COVID-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, five more areas have been declared containment zones, taking the total to 84. The Delhi government on Monday also started testing people in containment zones using rapid antibody test kits. The test uses blood samples of a person and gives results faster compared to RT-PCR (real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) tests, which uses nasal or throat swabs. The rapid antibody tests, however, will not replace RT-PCR tests as the latter is more accurate. Rapid antibody tests will be used for surveillance and monitoring, and not for diagnosis, the Indian Council of Medical Research has said. “Sixty-two rapid tests were done on Monday in Nabi Karim containment zone. All tested negative. People having symptoms were tested,” said District Magistrate (Central District) Nidhi Srivastava.  Delivery boy After a 19-year-old pizza delivery man in south Delhi tested positive for COVID-19, 16 people who were “high risk contacts” have tested negative for the deadly virus, said B.M. Mishra, District Magistrate (south Delhi) on Monday. “All high risk contacts (16 people) of the pizza delivery boy, including the owner of the eatery where he worked and other workers, have tested negative,” the DM added. No person in the 72 houses within a five-kilometre radius of Malviya Nagar, where he had delivered food, has developed any symptoms, Mr. Mishra said. Staff accommodation The Delhi government has also issued an order stating that doctors on COVID-19 duty will be given accommodation in “four or five-star hotels”, supporting staff will be put up in “dharamshalas”, while nurses and paramedics will be provided “hotel accommodation”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-deaths-78-new-covid-19-cases-govt-begins-rapid-testing/article31392808.ece
21 April 2020||New Delhi,||Kin of infected man seek help, govt. responds||Hours after the daughter and wife of a person infected with COVID-19, admitted at Delhi government-run hospital, sought help in a video posted on social media stating that he was suffering from high fever and the hospital was not taking care of him, the government stepped in to provide help. In a video posted on Monday, the family appealed to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to help them. “After admission at Lok Nayak Hospital on April 18, he was not given food till next afternoon. He is a patient of diabetes and hypertension,” the patient’s daughter said in the video posted on Twitter. She said that they got a call from her father at 5 a.m. where he complained that he had high fever and could not even stand, and that the hospital was not taking care of him. “What is shown on the news and the ground reality is very different. We are ready to take him to a private hospital, but they are saying that there are no guidelines for it,” the patient’s daughter and wife said in the video as they broke down in tears. After the video went viral, the Delhi government swung into action. “If you can share ward details of the patient, I will ensure that he gets proper care,” AAP MLA Dilip Pandey replied to the video. “He got food and medicines. Treatment has started,” said the daughter in a video posted in the evening. “He has been shifted to a separate room. The doctors said that he will be kept under supervision,” she added.   A Delhi Health Department official said that an infected patient can choose to be admitted in a government or private hospital. “We have different facilities. At every COVID Testing Centre we have two wards: confirmed and suspected. Once a case is confirmed, then he is sent to a COVID Care Centre, COVID Health Centre or to a hospital, in increasing order of severity of the case,” the official said. “If we are referring him to a hospital, then the person can pick a government or private hospital. If the person picks a government hospital, then he cannot pick a specific one. We will assign according to availability of beds,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kin-of-infected-man-seek-help-govt-responds/article31392812.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Infants and lactating mothers get special food in Madhu Vihar||In addition to the two meals being provided per day to the needy, their infant children are also being taken care of in east Delhi’s Madhu Vihar. A list of 103 breastfeeding toddlers as well as lactating mothers was prepared by Station House Officer of Madhu Vihar police station Rajeev Kumar. The officer said he realised that infants need special nutrition when he visited the areas where migrant workers and daily wage labourers were being fed. “I was on duty when the lockdown started and scores of migrant workers gathered at Anand Vihar in an attempt to go back to their villages. The biggest worry for them was how to manage their next meal. In Madhu Vihar, a few areas were identified where daily wage labourers lived following which they were sent two meals a day,” he said. Mr. Kumar said that when he went to the areas, “I saw many kids who were a few months old, and realised that they cannot eat the food we were delivering. Their parents too had no money to buy milk or baby food. The lactating mothers too needed nutritious food,” he said. After this, the beat staff was asked to make a list of such children and their mothers. On March 28, the police started providing half-a-litre of milk for the infants and a loaf of bread for their mothers, he said. Four days ago, the police started sending baby food to these areas as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/infants-and-lactating-mothers-get-special-food-in-madhu-vihar/article31392816.ece
21 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Allow policemen to return to city for duty’||Delhi Police on Monday wrote to its counterparts in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to allow its personnel living in these States to travel to the Capital for duty. The letter was written on Monday by Special Commissioner of Police (Operations) Muktesh Chander to the DGPs of the three States. A number of Delhi Police personnel, residing in adjoining districts of Delhi-NCR, commute daily for duty, the letter read. It has been observed that at some places in NCR, they are not allowed to come to Delhi, it added. “In the fight against COVID-19, Delhi Police cannot afford to lose manpower. It is, therefore, requested that these Delhi Police personnel should be permitted to come to the city for duty,” it stated. A place to stay Last week, Delhi Police identified 57 locations to accommodate its personnel who are deputed in sensitive areas. A letter had been written in this regard by Special Commissioner (Armed Police) Robin Hibu to all the Deputy Commissioners, Special Commissioners and Joint Commissioners. Police personnel whose houses are in COVID-19 hotspots in Delhi can also stay at the identified locations. The details of these locations are available with the Deputy Commissioners in all the districts of Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/allow-policemen-to-return-to-city-for-duty/article31392817.ece
21 April 2020||New Delhi,||10-month-old baby who tested positive now stable||The condition of a 10-month-old infant, who was admitted at Kalawati Saran Children Hospital (KSCH) and tested positive for COVID-19, is now stable, said officials at the hospital on Monday. On Saturday, a 45-day-old infant died from COVID-19. The infant was the youngest victim to the virus in the city so far, said officials. At the hospital, a total of nine healthcare officials, including a doctor, tested positive for the virus. On Monday, officials said the ICU, where both the infants were admitted, has been sanitised. However, the ICU was still functioning from a different location at the hospital, they added. “Both the infants were admitted with SARI [Severe Acute Respiratory Infection] and could have been COVID-19 positive at the time of admission itself. The IDSP [Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme] is inquiring into the matter,” the official told The Hindu . Some services shut “This is for the information of all concerned that all lab services in KSCH, including 24X7 Emergency Laboratory, will not be functional from April 21 at 8 a.m. to April 27 at 8 a.m. due to COVID-19 positivity among technical Staff and quarantining of first contacts, as per guidelines,” an order issued by the hospital on Monday read.  Both the infants were admitted with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection and could have been COVID-19 positive at the time of admission itself. The matter is under investigation An official at KSCH||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/10-month-old-baby-who-tested-positive-now-stable/article31392815.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Seven more policemen test positive||Seven more policemen from two police stations in Central District have tested positive for COVID-19, an officer said on Monday. A total of 11 personnel posted at the Chandi Mahal and Nabi Karim police stations are confirmed to have been infected till now. Sanjay Bhatia, DCP (Central), said that after Chandni Mahal and Nabi Karim were declared containment zones, they had ordered compulsory testing of staff in both the police stations. On Saturday, three personnel in Chandni Mahal police station and one in Nabi Karim had tested positive for the virus. Following the results, the entire staff was quarantined and the police station was sealed. The personnel who tested negative have been ordered to work from Jama Masjid police station. “Out of the total 80 police staff in Chandni Mahal, eight have tested positive. Three policemen in Nabi Karim have tested positive but reports of many personnel there is still awaited,” said Mr. Bhatia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/seven-more-policemen-test-positive/article31392813.ece
21 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi Police receives 969 calls on its helpline regarding lockdown in 24 hrs||The Delhi Police received over 900 calls on its 24x7 helpline number from 2 p.m. on Sunday and the same time on Monday, seeking assistance on issues faced during the lockdown, officials said. A total of 25,680 calls were received by the police on its helpline (011-23469526) till Monday, they said. Police received 969 calls from Sunday 2 p.m. to Monday 2 p.m. Out the of 969 calls, 53 were related to areas outside Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-police-receives-969-calls-on-its-helpline-regarding-lockdown-in-24-hrs/article31392809.ece
21 April 2020||New DELHI,||Sanitization drive in containment zones||Intensive mass sanitisation drives were carried out at containment zones under the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Monday to curb the spread of COVID-19, the civic body said. Special focus was put on sanitisation of shelter homes, food distribution centers, quarantine centers and community toilets, it added. Over 600 sanitation workers, 24 sprinkling tankers, eight fire tenders and 16 jetting machines were deployed for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sanitization-drive-in-containment-zones/article31392819.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Protecting the future||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/protecting-the-future/article31392811.ece
21 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Three killed in accident as curbs relaxed||Relaxation of lockdown in Odisha to provide some respite to the working class started with an accident in Ganjam district early on Monday morning, claiming the lives of three labourers. Eleven other labourers were also injured in this accident. A van transporting them skidded off road and overturned on Khandadeuli-Biruligada road.The injured were admitted in MKCG medical college and hospital in Berhampur. Condition of four of the injured was stated to be serious. As no COVID-19 positive case have been identified in Ganjam district till now, district administration had declared some relaxation in the lockdown norms from Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/three-killed-in-accident-as-curbs-relaxed/article31392803.ece
21 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Rajya Sabha MP urges Centre to release arrears for Punjab||Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa has asked the Central government to release all arrears for Punjab immediately to help financially secure the State. Mr. Bajwa in a letter to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that the ongoing national lockdown has brought the country to a standstill. “While the lockdown was necessary to ensure that COVID-19 could be managed, it has also caused a massive economic slowdown, the brunt felt by the States,” he wrote. Pointing out that the State Finance Ministry had revised its revenue receipts from Rs. 88,000 crore for FY21 as announced in the State budget to Rs. 66,000 crore, Mr. Bajwa said, “That is a revision of Rs. 22,000 crore. A border State like Punjab seeing such a revision outlines the challenges of the post-lockdown economy this country is going to face. This loss of revenue will negatively impact the financial security of the State.” Mr. Bajwa said that the Central government has released arrears including financial compensation for the loss of revenue due to the adoption of GST (Rs. 1,237 crore) which is due to the State as per the GST Act. “This and any money released under the Disaster Management Act, MNREGA and other schemes are those that were already promised in the Union Budget. In fact, the Central government has still not released Rs. 4,386.37 crore the State is entitled to from the GST pool,” he wrote. ‘Act quickly’ “The Centre must also come up with a State Economic Stimulus Plan at the earliest. The Union government must act quickly to ensure that the States are in a position to emerge from the national lockdown with the capability to restart their economy,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajya-sabha-mp-urges-centre-to-release-arrears-for-punjab/article31392805.ece
21 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana govt. failed farmers, says Congress||The Congress on Monday alleged that the ruling BJP-JJP government is Haryana had failed the farmers on account of mismanagement at wheat procurement centres all across the State. ‘Strike by traders’ “The farmers of the State are suffering due the mismanagement and carelessness of the government, while the traders remained on strike in many places like Kaithal, Guhla Cheeka, Uchana, Narwana, Jind, Safidon, Narnaud, Mahendragarh, Ballabhgarh,” Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said. The State government meanwhile, which started wheat purchase on April 20, said in a statement that 9,729 wheat farmers reported at the procurement centres on the first day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-govt-failed-farmers-says-congress/article31392796.ece
21 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Compulsory respiratory tests for pregnant women||One of the many mysteries that surround COVID-19 is its impact on pregnant women and vertical transfer to the newly born. Recently, a woman in Ghaziabad was found positive after giving birth to a baby boy. As pregnant women grope in the dark, the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Aligarh Muslim University, has made periodic evaluation of their respiratory status compulsory. For their safety and for lessening their pent-up anxiety, it has established a new labour room and operation theatre for the purpose. The Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, headed by Professor Tamkin Khan, has released the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and guidelines on the recommendations of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the World Health Organisation Obstetricians and Gynaecologists to prevent the transmission of COVID-19 infection from mother to baby. “These SOPs and guidelines have been duly adopted at JNMC keeping in mind the infrastructure and resources available supported by evidence-based medicine,” said Prof. Tamkin. She said that AMU Vice-Chancellor Professor Tariq Mansoor has also allowed the use of the Regional Resource Training Centre (RRTC) as a COVID-19 isolation unit and a new fully functional labour room and an OT complex has been established in less than a week. “In line with the SOPs, the interns and counsellors at the COVID-19 screening desk will screen the patients to get information about their travel history, and whether they belong to the hotspot areas,” said Prof. Tamkin, adding that the testing procedures for pregnant women are same as for others. She further said that both suspected COVID-19 positive pregnant women and COVID-19 positive women would be made to deliver the babies in the cubicles they are admitted in order to avoid cross infections. For Caesarean sections, these women will be shifted to seaparate maternity OTs. Prof. Tamkin added that there would be periodic evaluations of the respiratory status of pregnant women to search for symptoms of breathing difficulties and regional anaesthesia instead of general anaesthesia will be given to COVID-19 positive and COVID-19 possible pregnant women.  Risk factor She pointed out that the evidence so far, limited to a small number of cases, seems to suggest that pregnant women are not at a higher risk of developing complications from the virus. “However, we do not yet know what long-term impact, if any, COVID-19 could have on their babies, if they catch the virus during pregnancy,” said Prof. Tamkin.  In line with the SOPs, the interns and counsellors at the COVID-19 desk will screen the patients to get the information about travel history, and whether they belong to hot spots areas Professor Tamkin khanHead, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/compulsory-respiratory-tests-for-pregnant-women/article31392798.ece
21 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Mathura folk artistes curse virus in Braj Bhasha, spread awareness through music||Known for capturing bucolic settings and spiritual meanings in sweet Braj Bhasha, folk singers, composers and poets in Mathura have found a new theme to express their creativity: COVID-19. In one such song, “ corona tero nash jayego, toku koi thor milego na ”, which has gone viral on social media, poet Bharti Sharma curses the virus that it will not find any place to hide. What makes the song so special is the way Ms. Sharma brings out the problems being faced by the people in the region, which is popular for its food and pilgrim centres. “Instead of being preachy like government advertisements, I have tried to humanise the problem. We are missing our jalebi and kachodi breakfast and, of course, our peda and pan masala . So, I have tried to bring this out in the folk song which is like giving an ulhana (a curse) to coronavirus for making us miss the little joys of life,” says Ms. Sharma who writes on social themes like dowry and gender equality. “My daughter suggested that I should write something on the problems of the lockdown. People of Mathura are avid foodies. I can’t finish my meal without a sweet. Now, I have to prepare it myself,” chuckles Ms. Sharma, who teaches in a private school. Instead of creating fear about the disease, she says, the song tries to ease its pressure by talking about the vicissitudes of life during the lockdown. “I have also tried to convey how the devotees are missing their Krishna and Yamuna ghats,” she says. Lokesh Sharma, who has composed and rendered the song, says he has been flooded with calls from different parts of the country since the song has gone viral. “Somebody forwarded the poem of Bhartiji on my WhatsApp. I found the lines compelling and as I had no work during the lockdown, I composed it on a traditional track that is sung during weddings. With no singer available, I decided to give it my voice as well. In a couple of days, it went viral and requests for interviews from local channels started coming.” At a time when urban India is trying to fight the COVID-19 fear through online violin and piano classes, Mr. Sharma, who runs an audio studio in Mathura, says it is a kind of social charity. “I have heard some playback singers are singing their popular songs to entertain viewers on television. We have created something fresh for the rural and small-town audience in our language. We might not gain anything monetarily, but it has given us fame outside Mathura,” he says. Mr. Sharma has already composed three more songs in different rasas and is looking forward to creating an album on the contagion. Meanwhile, Pramod Kumar, who works in the local court in Mathura and is a graded artist at All India Radio, has come up with a ‘Languriya lok geet ’ to convey the dangers of COVID-19 to the local people. “Languriya songs are usually sung during navratra in Braj region, where the male devotees of Hanuman and Durga are addressed as languriyas. Taking the tune of one of the popular songs, I wrote, composed and sang ‘ ghar ke bahar phire corona, ghar mein hi rahiyo Languriya ’.” It was noticed by Ashok Chakradhar. He shared it on his Facebook page and soon it became viral. Inspired, Mr. Kumar has now composed songs taking tunes from the traditional dhola and rasiya genres of Braj folk music. “The idea is to entertain and inform people in rural areas,” he says. Neetu Goswami, a professor of Hindi at RCA College in Mathura, has composed a folk song in raas style to address the problems arising out of the disease. In the song, “ sun le bhori gwalin pyari, phaili karan corona bimari ”, she urges a gopi — Dr. Goswami says in Mathura every girl is a gopi and every boy is Krishna — to keep her beloved indoors.  ‘Not just a dialect’ “The region has given us great poets like Surdas, Ghananand, Raskhan, Amir Khusrau and Kaka Hathrasi. Most of the Bhakti poetry is in Braj Bhasha and is spoken by around 1.5 crore people. With its well-established grammar and syntax, it is no longer just a dialect and should be considered a language. In the last few decades, Awadhi has received more attention. This unforeseen situation has given poets of Braj Bhasha a chance to revive interest in the sweet language of the common man,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mathura-folk-artistes-curse-virus-in-braj-bhasha-spread-awareness-through-music/article31392802.ece
21 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam government caps funeral attendance at 20||The Assam government on Monday capped the number of people attending funeral or burial services to 20 for the rest of the COVID-19 lockdown period and beyond.  Slew of decisions This was among a slew of decisions, including conditional inter-district and inter-state travel, to be applicable from Tuesday. “All officers will be attending office while only 33% grade 3 and grade 4 staff will join duty on a rotation basis from Tuesday toward gradually normalising the situation,” State Chief Secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna told newspersons. All educational institutes, commercial passenger services, shopping complexes, cinema halls, gyms, entertainment parks and other centres where people tend to gather would remain closed until further orders, he said. “There will be no inter-district and inter-State passenger travel by rail or road except for medical services and government-approved movement for emergencies,” Mr Krishna said. “All religious gatherings and social functions have been prohibited while last rites must be performed by 20 people at most after maintaining social distancing,” he added. ‘Farming allowed’ The Chief Secretary said there will be no restrictions on farming and farm-related activities, fishing, dairy and food-processing units. Brick kilns, electronic and mobile phone technicians, masons, plumbers and automobile mechanics have also been allowed to provide their services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/assam-government-caps-funeral-attendance-at-20/article31392797.ece
21 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan government releases 630 inmates to decongest jails||Over 630 inmates of various jails in Rajasthan have been released in compliance with the Supreme Court’s recent direction to decongest prisons for preventing the spread of COVID-19. The District Legal Services Authorities filed applications for bail and parole on behalf of prisoners in the courts. The Prisons Department has also shifted over 2,200 inmates from overcrowded jails and sub-jails to less crowded prisons. Besides, there is no inmate diagnosed with COVID-19 or showing symptoms of virus infection in any of the jails in the State. State Legal Services Authority member-secretary Ashok Kumar Jain told The Hindu here on Monday that the bail and parole had been granted to the first-time offenders and those booked in connection with the crimes punishable with the sentence of imprisonment up to seven years.  Petty offences The Undertrial Review Committees, headed by District & Sessions Judges, have also released the jail inmates booked for petty offences. Mr. Jain said the committees were holding weekly meetings to identify the accused who could be released during the COVID-19 pandemic. The State government amended the Rajasthan Prisoners (Release on Parole) Rules, 1958, through a Gazette notification earlier this month by inserting a provision for special parole of four weeks for certain categories of prisoners and “deemed extension” till May 3 for the prisoners already on parole. A high power committee headed by State Legal Services Authority’s executive chairman Justice Sangeet Lodha has issued directions for taking measures, such as creation of isolation wards in the jail, quarantine of new prisoners, including the foreign nationals, for 14 days, and inclusion of nutritious food in the dietary chart of prisoners. 98 new cases Meanwhile, with 98 new COVID-19 positive cases detected in the State on Monday, the tally has increased to 1,576. Fifty of Monday’s cases were found in Jaipur alone. Twenty-five patients have died so far, while 205 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajasthan-government-releases-630-inmates-to-decongest-jails/article31392793.ece
21 April 2020||Patna,||Inquiry ordered into travel pass issued to Bihar BJP MLA||The Bihar government on Monday ordered a probe into how a pass was issued to a BJP MLA to bring his ward back from Kota in Rajasthan to Nawada during lockdown. The local administration of Nawada had issued a travel pass from April 16 to 25 to Hisua MLA Anil Kumar Singh. Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav and poll strategist Prashant Kishor slammed Chief Minister Nitish Kumar over his “double policy” on the issue. State Congress leaders demanded that the government make arrangements to bring back other students who are stuck in Kota. Sources told The Hindu that nearly 6,500 students from Bihar are currently stranded in Kota. The Nitish Kumar-government had earlier said that no one would be brought back due to the lockdown. Meanwhile, Mr. Singh told journalists that he had gone to Kota after taking due permission and pass from the district administration. “My daughter who is preparing for medical entrance examinations there was not well ... so I fulfilled all formalities to get a vehicle pass from the Nawada district administration and went there and came back in three days ... what’s wrong in it?” asked the MLA. State Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Amir Subhani said that an inquiry has been ordered by the General Administration Department to “look into aspects whether the pass was issued by a competent authority or in accordance with the norms laid down for the purpose”. He added said that “action may be taken against officials concerned, if any anomaly was found in issuing the pass”. The State Assembly is said to be probing how the driver took the MLA to Kota without the Assembly secretariat permission. State Congress in-charge Shaktising Gohil alleged that the vehicle in which Mr. Singh travelled to Kota is registered in the name of an “Under Secretary”. The MLA, however, claims he had gone in his own SUV with all the papers “in order”.  I fulfilled all formalities to get a vehicle pass... I went there and came back in three days ... what’s wrong in it? Anil Kumar Singh Hisua MLA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/inquiry-ordered-into-travel-pass-issued-to-bihar-bjp-mla/article31392806.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Business goes on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/business-goes-on/article31392795.ece
21 April 2020||Leipzig,||Europe begins easing lockdown steps||Germany and other parts of Europe took tentative steps to ease lockdown measures on Monday but officials warned the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic was far from over. Some shops reopened in Germany and Denmark and parents dropped their children off at nurseries in Norway as tight restrictions were lifted in parts of the continent. But Chancellor Angela Merkel urged Germans to stay disciplined, warning: “We stand at the beginning of the pandemic and are still a long way from being out of the woods.” After being hit hard by the virus that emerged in China late last year, Europe has seen encouraging signs in recent days, with death rates dropping in Italy, Spain, France and Britain. Fears of a ‘new wave’ The hope is tempered by fears of new waves of infections, warnings that life will not be back to normal for many months and deep concern over the devastating impact the virus is having on the global economy. But even the smallest return to normalcy was welcome. Governments around the world are mulling how and when to ease lockdowns that have kept more than half of humanity confined to their homes. The virus has so far infected more than 2.4 million people globally and killed more than 1,65,000, with nearly two thirds of the victims in Europe, according to an AFP tally. Germany, which has been hailed for keeping fatalities low despite a significant number of cases, was allowing smaller shops to reopen in some regions from Monday. Larger shops and those in major German cities will open later as part of an attempted phased return to a more normal existence that will also see some students go back to school from May 4. Denmark also reopened some small businesses, including hair salons, massage and tattoo parlours and dentists, while Italy allowed bookshops to open doors.  Hard-hit Spain, where a nationwide lockdown has been extended, also said it would ease some restrictions to allow children time outside. Spain on Monday recorded 399 deaths in the last 24 hours, its lowest daily count in weeks, and authorities are starting to shut some makeshift facilities set up to relieve the overburdened health system, including a morgue at a Madrid ice rink. “Today for the first time we’ve fallen under 400 deaths... these figures give us hope,” said Fernando Simon, the Spanish Health Ministry’s Emergencies Coordinator. France, which on Sunday recorded its lowest number of hospital deaths since March 23, also said a nationwide lockdown in force for a month was beginning to bear fruit. “We are scoring points against the epidemic,” French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe said. Australia opens beaches In Australia, the authorities in Sydney reopened three beaches for walking, running, swimming or surfing, while New Zealand announced it will ease a lockdown next week, with Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern saying: “We have stopped a wave of devastation.” And in the U.S. — the country with the highest number of deaths and infections — the Governor of New York, Andrew Cuomo, said the outbreak was “on the descent”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/europe-begins-easing-lockdown-steps/article31392516.ece
21 April 2020||Colombo,||Reconciling with loss and pain, one year since a tragic Easter||Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa has called on all citizens to remember the victims of the Easter terror blasts that shook Sri Lanka on April 21 last year, claiming over 270 lives and injuring more than 500 persons. The serial blasts, which was carried out by an apparently IS-inspired squad of suicide bombers, targeted three churches in and near Colombo, and in the eastern Batticaloa district, and three luxury hotels in the capital. Coming exactly a decade after Sri Lanka’s brutal civil war the ghastly Easter Sunday attacks delivered a major blow to the island’s hard-won, relative peace. Intelligence lapse “The intelligence service of a friendly country had provided advance warning to the then Sri Lankan government... this attack could easily have been prevented,” Mr. Mahinda Rajapaksa said in a statement. Weeks before the attacks, India is said to have alerted Sri Lankan authorities at the highest level of possible terror attacks in the island. Following the bombings, at least three different committees — a parliamentary select committee and two commissions appointed by former President Maithripala Sirisena and President Gotabaya Rajapaksa who succeeded him in November —have been tasked to probe the terror attacks. Based on testimonies it collected from 55 persons over 24 mostly public hearings, the parliamentary panel accused Mr. Sirisena of “actively undermining” government and security systems, leading to serious lapses ahead of the Easter terror attacks. It also blamed Sri Lanka’s intelligence chief for “failing to act on multiple terror warnings” received in advance. Police action While the Rajapaksas have squarely blamed Mr. Sirisena’s government for negligence leading to the terror attacks — President Gotabaya Rajapaksa contested the November presidential election mainly on the plank of national security — Mr. Sirisena and his Sri Lanka Freedom Party have since politically re-aligned, joining the Rajapaksa brothers in power. The former chief of the State Intelligence Chief has been transferred to the Eastern Province as senior DIG. Following regime change, a new team in the police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has been assigned the probe. The team that worked under the previous administration arrested some 200 persons linked to Easter attacks mastermind Zahran Hashim’s jihadist network. Twenty-six of them were identified as “highly involved” in the plot, a source familiar with the investigation told The Hindu . The current CID team has made “key arrests” recently, including that of a prominent lawyer Hejaz Hisbullah. His family has denied he was involved in any terrorist activity, and the Bar Association of Sri Lanka has expressed concern at his arrest whose reason, it said, was unknown. Police on Sunday said ongoing investigations have revealed “a second attack” had been planned by perpetrators, but it is unclear what specific evidence prompted the inference. Healing with time Even as investigations take their course, those affected by the deadly attacks are still struggling to cope. “When I think of that morning, I am terrified even now. It is only prayer that is helping us survive,” said Fr. Jude Fernando, pastor who narrowly escaped the bombing at the St. Anthony’s shrine in Colombo. Michelle Mahesan went even closer to danger. As she spotted a young man on the church premises on Easter Sunday, she went up to him and invited him for the service, barely minutes before he blew himself up. “I went to our house a few feet away and heard this deafening noise. Even our home’s ceiling came crashing,” said Ms. Mahesan, wife of the church’s pastor Roshan Mahesan, who was abroad then. Dozens, including at least 14 children at Sunday school, died at the Zion Church in Batticaloa. “It has been a year, but neither our church nor our home has been rebuilt,” she said. The church has been providing counselling services to the affected families for a year now. “It is not easy reconciling with this sort of pain. We believe that the victims are in the hands of God. That belief is our only assurance,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/reconciling-with-loss-and-pain-one-year-since-a-tragic-easter/article31392520.ece
21 April 2020||Kunduz,||23 Afghans killed in Taliban attacks||The Taliban have killed at least 23 Afghan troops and nine civilians, officials said on Monday, as a fresh wave of violence grips Afghanistan despite a deal with the U.S. and a worsening coronavirus crisis. Under the terms of the U.S.-Taliban deal, the Afghan government and the insurgents were by now supposed to have concluded a prisoner exchange and started talks aimed at bringing about a comprehensive ceasefire. But the stalled prisoner swap has been beset with problems — with Kabul claiming the Taliban are demanding the release of some of the group’s most notorious warriors — and peace talks seem as elusive ever amid ongoing attacks. Late on Sunday night in Takhar province in northeast Afghanistan, the Taliban struck an Afghan army base, killing 16 soldiers and two policemen, said provincial police spokesman Khalil Asir. The Governor’s spokesman, Mohammad Jawad Hejri, confirmed the attack and also blamed the Taliban, putting the death toll at 19. Violence in rural areas In the south, the Taliban attacked a police checkpoint near Tarin Kot, the capital of Uruzgan province. “Five Afghan policemen were killed and three others were wounded,” said Zilgai Ebadi, the provincial Governor’s spokesman. The toll was confirmed by the head of Uruzgan provincial council, Amir Mohammad. In the northern province of Balkh, the Taliban killed nine civilians after they resisted when insurgents tried to extort money from them, said district Governor Sayed Arif Iqbali The Taliban did not immediately comment, but it has previously complained that its fighters are still being targeted by U.S. and Afghan forces. The violence has mostly been limited to rural areas and small towns. Under the framework of the U.S.-Taliban deal, the insurgents have agreed not to attack cities. Under the U.S.-Taliban deal, American and other foreign forces are meant to quit Afghanistan by July 2021, provided the Taliban stick to several security guarantees and hold talks with the Afghan government. Fighting has continued even as COVID-19 spreads throughout Afghanistan. It has so far seen 1,026 cases of COVID-19 and 36 deaths, though real numbers are feared to be much higher as the impoverished country has only limited testing capabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/23-afghans-killed-in-taliban-attacks/article31392512.ece
21 April 2020||Washington,||Hindu groups in U.S. launch helpline||A group of Hindu organisations in the U.S. has launched an exclusive helpline to address the issues faced by Indian students amidst the unprecedented COVID-19 crisis that has left a large number of them stranded and without accommodation. The COVID-19 Student Support Network helpline, 802-750-YUVA (9882), is a collective initiative of Hindu Yuva, Bharatiya, Vivekananda House and Sewa International. Being run by 90 student volunteers, the helpline will assist Indian students in distress in various areas including delivery of essential supplies and accommodation, said Prem Rangwani, one of the organisers from Washington.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hindu-groups-in-us-launch-helpline/article31392521.ece
21 April 2020||Washington,||Map powered by FB unveiled||Researchers on Monday unveiled a “heat map” powered by Facebook data which is aimed at helping track the spread of the disease. The Carnegie Mellon University project offers “real-time indications of COVID-19 activity not previously available from any other source,” according to a university statement. The map was developed with millions of responses to surveys of Facebook and Google users as part of an effort to monitor the spread of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/map-powered-by-fb-unveiled/article31392522.ece
21 April 2020||Beijing,||Beijing, April 20, 2020 (AFP) -||China on Monday rejected Australia’s call for a probe examining the global response to the pandemic — including Beijing’s early handling. Washington and allies have accused China of failing to adequately respond to the threat in the weeks after it was detected in Wuhan late last year.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/beijing-april-20-2020-afp/article31392513.ece
21 April 2020||Damascus,||Damascus, April 20, 2020 (AFP) -||Iran’s Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif met Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in Damascus on Monday to discuss regional developments in light of the COVID-19 outbreak. Mr. Assad criticised the U.S. for keeping economic sanctions in place on countries like Syria and Iran. AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/damascus-april-20-2020-afp/article31392518.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The occasion to revisit the sovereign’s role||Let us make no mistake. COVID-19 is forcing a paradigm shift. We are unlikely to return to a pre-coronavirus homeostasis after the war against it is won. No section or sector is going to remain untouched and unaltered by the devastation the novel coronavirus is now unleashing. The virus is going to stay around for a while. Its annihilation in the near future is not on the cards. Vaccines are going to be slow in coming; therefore, its taming is not immediate. A second wave of outbreak is a realistic probability. Unlike other threats to humanity such as global warming and a nuclear armageddon, this threat is now, not in the future; it is here simultaneously for everyone, not for someone else and somewhere else; its casualties are around us, not in far away battlefields or polar regions and coastal areas. No country can rescue another; it is each one fending for itself. Defining moment COVID-19 threatens to push the world into a deep recession. If the lockdown continues, the world economy will contract by as much as 6% according to the International Monetary Fund. If it is not extended, the loss of human lives could be of unacceptable proportions. The global community will be fortunate if it does not spiral into depression. Both demand and supply contractions are likely to be severe. They are not going to be short-lived. Political systems, economic architectures and cultural mores are on trial. Work patterns, production and distribution practices are up for redefinition. Denial and wishing away unpleasant, yet probable, realities by governments, global organisations and public intellectuals will only compound economic, social, political and human costs. We must now be quick in seizing lessons from the present crisis and get ready to embark on measures to build a new paradigm of life, work and governance. The enlarged economic role of the state in the aftermath of the Second World War came under major assault since the 1980s. Leaders who asked ‘where is society?’ rode to power on ‘cut the damn government down’ ticket. Systems that were putative alternatives to capitalism fell into disgrace. Entrepreneurs heading unicorns and ‘soonicorns’ have become the new demigods. Minimum governance became the mantra. India too willy-nilly signed up to this creed. But COVID-19 is beginning to challenge the political economy of this creed. Very soon the full scores of the performance of state and non-state actors in the COVID-19 stress test will be available across the globe. The Indian state will also have to give answers as far as its report card is concerned. The retreat of the state India embarked on the path of trimming the role of the state, initially, with such caveats as ‘safety net’ and ‘reform with a human face’. Gradually, those caveats fell by the wayside. The lurch became sharp, unapologetic and full-throated. The Indian state’s role in health care, education, creation and maintenance of infrastructure and delivery of welfare has shrunk or become nominal, half-hearted, inefficient, and dysfunctional. Of course, it is true that it did not give a great account of itself in these sectors even before the 1991 departure. Disappointment with the dismal performance in its economic and administrative functions in the backdrop of a changing global ideological ecosystem encouraged a sharp de facto downsizing of the Indian state’s role. Its retreat from vital functions and abdication of its social responsibility have gained acceptance and legitimacy among the articulate upwardly mobile. While retreat and abdication found influential and forceful evangelists, selective retreat had few advocates. This departure, however, was not vigorously interrogated. When it was, it was limited to the broad ideological opposition from the left which defended the discredited position of the Indian state occupying the commanding heights of the economy. Supporters of the departure, on the other hand, had little engagement in giving shape to the new policy. Nor did they worry about calibrating the architecture of the emerging role for the state. As a result, ‘private sector’ became the new holy cow in place of the ‘state sector’. What made matters worse is the culture of a simplistic and shallow discourse of public policy that took hold in civil society. It mindlessly privileges the agenda of corporates. It transacts in the idiom of stock exchanges and international rating agencies. Lost voices Therefore, those with no social media handles, who cannot organise annual ‘thought’ conclaves, who are incapable of highlighting their problems with impressive presentations are rendered voiceless. Today, those who bear the brunt of the consequences of shrunken and unresponsive state are the farmer and farm labour, the migrant worker, the unemployed, those in the unorganised sector, the rural poor, and the small entrepreneur. They are paying the highest price for the necessary but unbearable lockdown. They are either stranded far away from home, or confined to their homes with no work and incomes, unsupported by the state. Underfunded public health systems are unable to serve them. Tips on how to beat lockdown blues, how to work from home, use Zoom, spend quality time with family that fill our pullouts are irrelevant for them. But the dominant strand of public discourse is out of its depth. It has no time for these concerns. Worse, this discourse can be gamed from time to time. And the alternative discourse is too feeble to draw the attention of the government to the grave implications of COVID-19 for the weak in our society. Time for tough questions But the state’s first responsibility is the marginalised. They are also the crucial part of our economy. They lubricate its wheels and generate demand. Announcing stimulus packages that address the supply side alone without beefing up the demand side will be self-defeating to corporates. Prioritising the needs of corporate entities will lead to convulsions in our body politic in the wake of COVID-19. The state is in danger of forfeiting legitimacy if it does not ensure the survival and revival of the marginalised sections. This is the appropriate context to revisit the political economy of the Indian state and its role. The country should begin a vigorous discourse on redefining every aspect of its involvement in our collective political, economic and social life. The relation between the state and economy, its role in allocating resources and addressing questions of inequality, its duty to provide basic human needs, the extent of the market’s role in providing services such as health, education, civic amenities, and the responsibility of the state and private enterprise towards deprived sections, need urgent attention. We should re-examine the efficacy of our political structures too: the equation between citizens and government and what its implications are for individual freedom, privacy and national security; the equation between legislature and executive; the balance of administrative and financial power between provinces and the union on the one hand and provinces and local bodies on the other. The way we elect our representatives to legislatures must also come under the lens. The issue of atrophied local authorities and enfeebled legislatures needs attention. For, they are at the coalface, delivering the state to the citizen. The way legislatures are elected and governments are made and unmade must be scrutinised. Our outrage at the power of big money in our electoral system has not arrested its growth. The role of serving and retired members of higher judiciary ought to be a part of the debate. We had an opportunity for intensive debate when the Justice Venkatachaliah Commission submitted its report in 2002 (to review the working of the Constitution). We missed it. The opportunity that COVID-19 provides should not be squandered. The Indian state should be strong so that the weak in our society can lean on it. Our rishis told us: durbalasya balam Raja . The strength of the weak is the Sovereign. Not the market. Parakala Prabhakar is former Communications Adviser to the Government of Andhra Pradesh and is Managing Director of RightFOLIO, a knowledge enterprise based in Hyderabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-occasion-to-revisit-the-sovereigns-role/article31392499.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Nurturing air power to meet rising demand||In early April, Pakistan Air Traffic Controller sent a laudatory message to Air India for operating special flights to Frankfurt with relief material and evacuated European nationals. This is indicative of the important role of Indian air power, which has been particularly visible in the last two months. Air power is the total aviation capability of a nation, military and civilian put together. Soon after the novel coronavirus began spreading, Air India evacuated Indian nationals from Wuhan, China. India’s flag carrier has since continued its yeoman service by evacuating Indians from other countries as well as foreign nationals from India on the request of their embassies. C-17 Globemasters and IL-76 aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) have been on the job too. While going where national interests require them to, they are also showcasing Indian air power subtly. This was seen recently when India’s Consulate staff from Herat in Afghanistan were evacuated by a C-130 Super Hercules aircraft in secrecy. Incidentally, 58 IAF aerial assets (transport aircraft and helicopters) are carrying out internal COVID-19-related tasks like transporting medicines, equipment and medical samples for evaluation from inaccessible areas. While the civilian fleet is an important adjunct, it’s the IAF’s aerial assets that constitute the potency in national airlift capability. This piece is about the importance of nurturing India’s air power assets. Rescue efforts Recent history is witness to their untiring work in building brand India. In 1957, and then in 1978, the IAF was sent to Sri Lanka for flood relief efforts, as it was to Bangladesh in 1991 after the cyclone. Following the Indian Ocean tsunami of December 2004, 30 transport aircraft and 16 helicopters flew round the clock in India’s island territories; two IL-78 aerial refuelling tankers were stripped of their fuselage fuel tanks overnight and the aircraft pressed into relief. In addition, six Mi 8 helicopters were sent to help Sri Lanka. In the international academic circuit, however, the Berlin airlift is quoted as the gold standard for an air logistics campaign. True, it was staggering — 2.3 million tonnes of load were transported into West Berlin between June 1948 and September 1949. However, a modern-day airlift of greater proportions has not been heralded as much. Following Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait in 1990, Indian nationals were flown out via Amman. Air India, along with IL-76s of the IAF, flew home 1,11,000 Indians (some documents say 1,76,000) in 488 flights from Amman to Mumbai in just two months. Translated to tonnage, that is almost 10 million tonnes! It’s true that the circumstances were different, but this brought to fore the airlift capability of India’s air power. And only Air India was used. The civil airline fleet has grown manifold, and when required, more, literally all, aircraft can be requisitioned. The IAF transport fleet was in the forefront to retrieve casualties from Kabul following the 2008 bombing of the Indian embassy. The only delay then was the clearance from Islamabad to overfly Pakistan. The Uttarakhand flash floods in 2013 saw what was perhaps the biggest helicopter evacuation in history, with 23,892 pilgrims evacuated in only a week. At any given time during that calamity, there were 54 helicopters of all types, of which 45 were from the IAF. The trajectory of the COVID-19 infestation in India is still unknown, so the IAF will surely be called into action many more times. The IL-76 fleet of 10-odd aircraft has been around for almost four decades now. The same is true for the short haul An-32s, which number 100. While these will soldier on for a few more years, it is the fleet of the eleven C-17s that will shoulder the responsibility of national tasks. In some humanitarian assistance and disaster relief (HADR) tasks, the C-130J Super Hercules have also been pressed into service. While there is no doubt that emergency situations demand all hands on deck, the temptation of using these aircraft with their superb short-field operations capability, but whose primary role is covert special operations, needs to be really thought through. Utilising their flying hours for sub-optimal tasks would be operationally and financially unviable. The helicopter fleet is well placed with around 250 Mi-17 series helicopters, about 80 ALH Dhruv, and 15 new Chinook heavy-lift machines. The Chetak/Cheetah fleet will be around for a few more years and will be indispensable for narrow valleys and high-altitude operations. With the capability of a C-17 to carry a Chinook in its hold, Indian air power can, quickly, come to the aid of friends in the neighbourhood, and at some distance too. The foresight exhibited by the civilian and military leadership in the past to equip the IAF with these assets, as a result of which India can confidently claim to be a regional HADR provider, is now bearing fruit. The same far-sightedness is required to meet the challenges of the coming decades. Challenges The biggest challenge is that all of India’s medium- and heavy-lift assets are foreign sourced, except the Dhruv and Chetak/Cheetah helicopters. The IL-76 and An-32, which have been the IAF’s workhorses, will be phased out soon and so will the short haul Avros. Finances will have to be found for their replacements. Planning for this must happen now. Despite the fact that the latest parliamentary committee report has adversely commented on the funding for capital acquisitions in FY-2019-20 being just 65% of projections, the government has to take a call. As India takes on a greater regional leadership role and as climate change results in an increase in the frequency and number of natural calamities, the demands on Indian air power for HADR will mount, including from countries in the neighbourhood. The requirements for internal law and order and air maintenance airlift for the Army for forward areas, both of which are substantial, will also continue. Increased utilisation of airlift assets would mean higher maintenance requirements, and since most are foreign sourced, they will have to be sent abroad for major servicing. This will result in reduced aircraft availability for long durations. If we look at India’s forward planning, the scene isn’t very rosy. The COVID-19 crisis will demand massive financial resources to be transferred to the social sector for the next few years — and rightly so. The GDP’s downward trend may only get steeper as manufacturing, agriculture and employment take a hit. The Ministry of Defence will need all its persuasive powers to generate the required monies from the scarce resources with the Finance Ministry, if Indian air power’s HADR capability is to be in the forefront of its military diplomacy. There is no other alternative considering the intense ongoing geopolitical power play in the region. We also need to spare a thought for Air India: where would Indian air power be without it in times of calamities? Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (Retd) is Additional Director General, Centre for Air Power Studies, New Delhi. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/nurturing-air-power-to-meet-rising-demand/article31392509.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The invisible face of the fallout||The world has suddenly woken up to the reality of a virus ravaging it. While catastrophes affect people at large, the economical, sociological and psychological impact that each catastrophe has on women is profound. Data indicate the need to address this during and after these catastrophic episodes. Crises and gender In the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, the coastlines of countries in the region, including India, were affected and more than 2,00,000 people were killed or listed missing; a fourth of them were women. The traditional ‘care giver’ role that women play has much to do in explaining this. Women stay around looking for their loved ones in order to see them safe. Besides this, women lack many life skills such as swimming and climbing. During tsunami recovery phases, aid organisations and governments house the homeless in camps where women face many difficulties including abuse by men. Gender-skewed tsunami deaths resulted in a disproportionate gender ratio where men largely outnumbered women. Women also faced hygiene challenges in these camps due to inadequate sanitation facilities. In the United States, which has a high incidence of tornadoes, families headed by women are affected the most. Women often are engaged in sector-specific employment which when impacted result in unemployment. Women are also engaged in post-calamity care, missing job opportunities. An economic slowdown also leaves women with additional wage cuts, on a paradigm where pay disparity between genders is a norm. In Kerala, after the floods in 2018-19, thousands were housed in relief camps. Experts observe that relief measures focus on livelihood and assets, compelling aid agencies to focus on restoring livelihoods. Flood-destroyed kitchens forced women to cook in the open air with whatever they were left with. There was considerable added domestic work by women, which went unnoticed. Issues faced in the pandemic Coming to the current COVID-19 pandemic, its impact on both genders is beyond the mere death statistics. According to World Health Organization data, around 70% of the world’s health workers are women, 79% of nurses are women. Health workers in general are highly vulnerable and not ensuring their safety is a high risk that can severely impact the health system. India has a million-plus accredited social health activist (ASHA) workers who are an integral part of its health system. ASHAs, who work at the ground level, are reporting incidents of attacks while on COVID-19 duty. Stringent action against their tormentors is needed to ensure their professional safety. In many households where both partners work, the work from home (WFH) concept is now common. The entire family is now together within the limited space of their dwellings. As traditional roleplay is still prevalent in most sections of Indian society, the equal division of household responsibilities among couples is still distant. Women from all strata face substantial additional household work. Alongside this is the fear of job loss and reduced income which can create mental pressure on women, in turn affecting their physical well-being. The lower income groups are already facing job losses and anxiety is leading to domestic tensions and violence against women. A large number of daily wageworkers resort to alcohol consumption. The ban on alcohol sales, as a part of the national lockdown, is contributing to domestic tensions, leading to women abuse. Hormone-induced depression among women is another key point that needs to be understood and acknowledged. Women are twice as likely to face depression when compared to men. Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) among re-productive age groups, pregnancy-related depressive conditions, postpartum depression (PPDs) among new mothers as well as premenopausal and menopausal symptoms are common, interfering in every day life and relationships. The lockdown is adding more intensity to these conditions. These are not discussed as women are trained to follow the ‘culture of silence’. Awareness among men about these conditions women experience is low. Even in these disruptive times, women’s safety should become a priority. Be it domestic violence, women’s depression and anxiety-related matters, or their safety while at work, all these issues need to be addressed and responded to. According to 2015-16 National Family Health Survey, around 30% of women in the age group 15 to 49 years face domestic violence. A recent report highlighted how the National Commission for Women has received 587 complaints relating to crimes against women from March 23 to April 16, out of which 239 were related to domestic violence. Assigning ASHA workers to specifically address women’s welfare during this pandemic, setting up exclusive cells to quickly address domestic violence and women’s health-related issues, including men in conversations, and even online counselling for alcoholism in men are not difficult to implement. Steps such as roping in non-governmental organisations, psychology students, teachers and volunteers and also using technology platforms would help speed action. What is important is to develop a culture of including women’s safety in the planning phase itself irrespective of whatever the nature of the crisis is. On helplines Gender parity needs to be a conscious act and this observation is related to those who answer helplines. When only women attend these calls, we are reinforcing the stereotypical ‘care-giver’ role of women. Instead, we need to have a well-trained and gender-inclusive team which can handle such calls well. Bindu Sivasankaran Nair is a diversity and inclusion expert. She is the founder of BEYOND Pink App||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-invisible-face-of-the-fallout/article31392502.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Implement Aarogya Setu, but only through law||It is only a matter of time before the lockdown starts to ease. The threat of COVID-19, however, will continue. Studies say that there will be multiple waves of infection following the first wave. This will lead to a fundamental transformation in the role of the state in regulating society. Heightened epidemic surveillance by the government could lead to an increased risk of institutionalised surveillance of individuals. To protect large swathes of the population from possible exposure to the infection, the movement of individuals will also be heavily regulated. Purpose limitation At present, the movement of individuals is subject to permits in various parts of the world, including India. In China, it’s alarming to note that a phone app was started as a voluntary service for informing users of their potential exposure to infected persons, but soon began to be used as an e-pass for allowing access to public transport. The situation in China raises similar concerns in India. The Aarogya Setu app launched by the government is designed to enable users who have come in contact with COVID-19 positive patients to be notified, traced and suitably supported. It has been criticised for not complying with data protection principles of data minimisation, purpose limitation, transparency and accountability, all of which are crucial to protecting the privacy of its users. According to the app’s privacy policy, Aarogya Setu collects the personal data of its users and allows the disclosure of such data to the government to provide it with necessary details for “carrying out medical and administrative interventions necessary in relation to COVID-19.” Such vague articulation weakens the app’s purpose limitation. The government is also at liberty to revise the terms of the privacy policy at its discretion (and has done so) without notifying its users. Given the design of the app, it is not difficult to conceive of the wide dangers of its misuse to carry out surveillance of users. Concomitantly, the app also equips the government with an instrument for restricting and regulating the right of freedom of movement of citizens, especially due to its fluid terms of service. Some reports suggest that the government is considering using the app as a criterion for restricting users’ movement. The potential restriction on freedom of movement will have considerable impact on an individual’s access to basic government benefits and services, thus endangering citizens’ right to life. For example, entry into banks and access to PDS may become subject to the colour coding of the person on the Aarogya Setu app. There is no limitation on the gamut of restrictions that may be imposed using the app. The resultant impact will be disproportionately higher on the most vulnerable sections of the society. The unconstitutional bargain A seemingly benign app based on voluntary consent is thus loaded with potential to be used as a tool to violate fundamental rights. Individuals may be forced to download the app to be able to access basic amenities and services. This situation could posit the problem of an unconstitutional condition or barter — a situation where citizens are forced to give up their rights (right to autonomy and privacy in this case) in exchange for government benefits. Further, the existing users of the app could be subject to arbitrary restrictions in their fundamental rights without their informed consent as they would not have foreseen such restrictions at the time of giving their consent to downloading the app. The situation bears resemblance to Aadhaar. Originally designed as an optional programme to provide government benefits to citizens based on their voluntary consent, Aadhaar was later made compulsory, even for private services such as banking and mobile phone registrations. The Supreme Court then disallowed private parties from using Aadhaar for authentication on grounds that it exceeded its intended purpose. To avoid unforeseeable dangers of mass surveillance and disproportionate restrictions of fundamental rights, it is therefore imperative that the Aaorgya Setu app is implemented only through law, especially since India lacks a comprehensive data protection or surveillance law. It is already a settled legal principle that any limitation of fundamental rights must be implemented only through a law pursuing legitimate state interest. Enacting such a law will not only subject government actions to limitations but will also facilitate its constitutional scrutiny. Kashish Aneja, a practising lawyer in New Delhi, specialises in global health and privacy law; Nikhil Pratap is a practising lawyer in New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/implement-aarogya-setu-but-only-through-law/article31392506.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,||To Kerala, from Singapore||Over the past three years, Kerala has suffered the Nipah virus outbreak, two floods, and the COVID-19 pandemic. The State has won worldwide acclaim for its deft handling of these catastrophes by mostly deploying domestic resources. But its troubles are not over, and Kerala needs to continue harnessing its capabilities to withstand recurring disasters. The response of Kerala’s political leadership, its healthcare professionals, and the public to the COVID-19 crisis has been breathtaking. The State has an impressive tracking and surveillance system. It has set up testing kiosks; it has institutes that are ready for plasma trials; and it has also enacted a law on epidemic control. The Kerala government has been distributing food through community kitchens and is running the highest number of relief camps for migrant workers in the country. It is not only these immediate steps that explain why the State has a low death rate and a high recovery rate in India during the pandemic. The credit also goes to decades of past investments in health and education by both the public and private sector. This has produced a robust health system. This is why Kerala was able to implement the ‘break the chain’ campaign so swiftly and effectively. In view of the high uncertainty associated with this new virus, Kerala’s leadership knows well that it is crucial to stay vigilant, as Singapore’s experience illustrates. Singapore did very well in putting a firm lid on new infections, but it has subsequently seen an explosive uptick in cases and even deaths. Two major challenges Two eventualities from Singapore’s experience are pertinent for Kerala. The first challenge is the plight of returning students and workers as foreign countries become inhospitable for non-nationals. Singapore saw returning travellers bring back the infection, even as it employed a sound and well-tested screening and quarantine system. Kerala handled the returning population well, starting with the first cases from Wuhan. But the stakes will be high going forward. The International Monetary Fund projects that in West Asia output will decline 3% in 2020; nearly one million Keralites work in the United Arab Emirates alone. Lakhs of people from West Asia are scheduled to return home to Kerala. The second challenge for Singapore is the explosive spread among foreign workers, most of whom are from South Asia. A society can be only as strong as its weakest link, as illustrated by the thousands of workers in dormitories testing positive for the virus. A good measure of income equality and inclusion are vital for the resilience of a society to calamities. Low income groups and marginalised groups deserve attention, not least in withstanding extreme events. Drawing parallels On income and distribution, there is a parallel between Singapore and Kerala. Singapore is a high-income economy. Despite recent progress, it has among the highest income disparities in Asia. Kerala too has a high per capita income compared to other States. But while it scores high on education and health, Kerala also ranks high in income inequality among the States. To respond to COVID-19, Kerala will need to go full scale in testing, and implement isolation and better hygiene practices. When the pandemic ends, it would be a mistake for activities to return to business as usual. This is a great opportunity for Kerala to redouble its focus on health, education and the environment, which will decide its trajectory of health and climate calamities. Given its topography, fragile ecology, and high population density, Kerala is highly exposed to health and climate disasters. If the State can revive economic growth in more environmentally and socially sustainable ways, it would not only be more resilient to extreme events but also have a greater chance of using the rich human and natural endowments for the betterment of its people. Vinod Thomas is a Visiting Professor, National University of Singapore and formerly a Senior Vice President at the World Bank||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/to-kerala-from-singapore/article31392510.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Takeover fears||The government’s decision to ban foreign direct investments (FDI) through the automatic route from neighbouring countries that share a land border with India has raised eyebrows. This is mainly because the move is seen as aimed at Chinese investors who could exploit cheap valuations in the depressed economic conditions post-lockdown to pick up equity interest in select companies. India is not alone in this fear of “opportunistic takeovers”, as Press Note 3(2020 Series) of the Commerce Ministry described it. Italy, Spain, France and Australia have already taken similar action to protect their businesses from foreign (read Chinese) investors fishing for distressed entities in need of cash in the post-COVID-19 scenario. China’s investment in India has been on a sharp upcurve in the last five years. According to a Brookings India study, the total current and planned investment by Chinese entities is over $26 billion. Chinese capital is invested not just in brick-and-mortar industries but in technology and fintech start-ups where Alibaba and Tencent have funded a host of Indian names such as Paytm, Swiggy, Ola, Zomato and BigBasket. It is quite possible that a move to curb or control Chinese investment in Indian companies was always on the cards and that COVID-19 was a good excuse to pull the trigger. There has always been unease over the fact that there is a thin line that divides the state sector from private enterprise in China and several companies there trace linkages back to the security apparatus of that country. So, while the decision to introduce a layer of government approval is probably valid in the current circumstances, the government could have adopted a more nuanced approach. Greenfield investments should have been kept out of the purview as they do not pose a threat of takeover of existing business; to the contrary, they create new capacities and businesses in the country. A distinction should also have been made based on the class of investors: venture capital funds are financial investors who may not necessarily be interested in taking over and running a business. While the FDI route has been plugged, it is not clear what happens to investments that come through the market route. SEBI has already sent out missives to custodians asking for details of Chinese holdings in listed entities. How will this be regulated? And again, what happens to FDI that comes in through entities registered in countries that do not share a land border with India but which may trace their beneficial ownership to China? And, now that the wall has been raised, approvals should be quick for investment proposals in the technology start-up space, where cash burn is high and existing investors are often tapped for a top-up investment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/takeover-fears/article31392494.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Moon rising||South Korea’s President Moon Jae-in, whose government’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic won acclaim, scored a political victory last week as his Democratic Party (DP) swept the parliamentary elections. Despite the health-care crisis, he decided to go ahead with the poll, with stringent precautionary measures in place. While the DP won 163 seats, up 43, the progressive coalition it leads commanded 180 seats in the 300-strong National Assembly. The Opposition United Future coalition got 103 seats. The results marked a substantial turnaround in public sentiments from last year when protests broke out amid a slowing economy and corruption allegations. With more parliamentary seats, the President, who is into the third year of his five-year presidency, can follow his reform agenda and North Korean rapprochement without legislative bottlenecks. But tackling these challenges arguably poses an even greater test of his leadership and political will than his government’s effective handling of the disease. The desire for normalcy with the North is evident among other things from growing impatience to end the disruption of business activity across the border. Since the thaw in ties between the neighbours began in 2018, Mr. Moon and Pyongyang’s leader Kim Jong-un have also met on the Demilitarised Zone before a global media blitz. But the endeavour for peace is fraught with challenges, not all of which seem entirely amenable to Mr. Moon’s control. Foremost, he would have to consider the implications of his initiatives towards Pyongyang for Seoul’s military alliance with Washington. Besides the suspension of their annual military exercises in South Korea, Seoul and Washington have been unable to agree on more substantial measures to ease tensions with the North. Moreover, the formal declaration of an end to the Korean war of the 1950s, where the U.S. was involved, is hostage to the more recent international demand for the Korean Peninsula’s denuclearisation. But progress on the North’s nuclear stand-off has been stalled ever since the Trump-Kim Hanoi summit, in February 2019, broke down. Their meeting, in Singapore in June 2018, resulted in no more than vague promises to end the long deadlock. Pyongyang insists on crippling economic sanctions ending as a precondition for any meaningful reduction of nuclear testing in the future. Washington has, meanwhile, harped on access to the North’s nuclear sites in exchange for a relaxation of sanctions. Mr. Trump, himself facing re-election in November and focused on combating the pandemic, is unlikely to renew attention to the dispute with North Korea. Paradoxically though, the collective desire among nations to confront the unfolding health emergency could open avenues of cooperation, even defying the ordinary operation of realpolitik. Therein lies a ray of hope. Mr. Moon must make the most of the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/moon-rising/article31392495.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,||President Gives Evidence in Court||President Giri to-day (April 20, New Delhi) created history when he gave evidence before the Supreme Court in the Presidential election case. This was the first time that the nation’s President had appeared before a court of law. The appearance of the President, the authority for appointing Supreme Court Judges, in the court was noted as highly significant in legal circles. One senior advocate said it signified “the majesty of law and the utmost respect the Head of the State shows to the supreme judiciary of the land and to the rule of law underlying the basic fabric of our Constitution.” Though Mr. Giri as Head of State was entitled to be examined on commission, and the Court had granted the plea for such an examination in Rashtrapati Bhawan, Mr. Giri gave up the privilege and submitted himself to the jurisdiction of the court, as any other witness. There was speculation earlier if the Judges would rise when Mr. Giri entered the courtroom. They did not. Nor did they acknowledge Mr. Girl's namaste. They maintained their usually dispassionate composure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/president-gives-evidence-in-court/article31392503.ece
21 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Infosys Q4 net rises 6%, revenue up 8%||Following in the footsteps of Wipro, India’s second-largest IT services firm Infosys, too, on Monday did not give any guidance for fiscal 2021 while announcing its fourth quarter results for FY2020 “Considering the business uncertainty emanating from COVID-19, the company is unable to provide guidance on revenue and margins for FY21 at this stage. The company will provide guidance after visibility improves,” said Infosys. Infosys CEO and MD Salil Parekh, while speaking about the mitigatory steps taken due to the pandemic, said, the Infosys’s team has achieved 93% remote working to ensure consistent service delivery for clients in this rapidly-changing environment. “While the immediate short-term will be challenging, looking ahead, we can see that there is a strong interest to consolidate with partners with high-quality and agile service delivery and strong financial resilience. I am confident we will emerge from this stronger,” he added. ‘Displacement in model’ Infosys COO Pravin Rao, too, while speaking on the results, said the impact caused by the COVID-19 over the last weeks of March has led to a “significant displacement” in the operating model while severely testing the business continuity plans of companies. Meanwhile, Infosys reported a 6% rise in its consolidated net profit to Rs. 4,335 crore for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. Infosys’ revenue grew 8% to Rs. 23,267 crore for the quarter under review from the Rs. 21,539 crore of the corresponding period of the last fiscal, the company’s statement added. Infosys’ FY20 net profit was up 8% to Rs. 16,639 crore, while revenue rose 9.8% to Rs. 90,791 crore from the previous fiscal. The company declared a final dividend of Rs. 9.50 per share. Commenting on the future of business, Mr. Parekh said, “Clients want to consolidate with stronger players like us. “We feel well-positioned in terms of staying relevant to clients globally in helping them in their digital play, cloud virtualisation, automisation and cost-cutting initiatives.” “Clearly, there is a concern across industries and around the globe. Some discretionary work has come under pressure which is visible in Q1, Mr. Parekh added. Responding to a query on the impacft of COVID-19’on business, Mr. Rao said, “Several sectors are under pressure. There is a struggle in the cards and the payment space.” ‘Supply chain broken’ “Manufacturing is under huge challenge in terms of both demand and supply. The industrial supply chain has completely broken down. Aviation, media and entertainment sectors are going through tough times. Communication is doing reasonably well; however, 5G roll-out will be delayed,” he added. All sectors are under pressure currently from the crisis emanating from the pandemic; the IT sector another d export sectors more so because of their exposure to the markets most impacted by the virus.  Pandemic is severely testing the companies’ business continuity models Pravin Rao Infosys COO||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/infosys-q4-net-rises-6-revenue-up-8/article31392489.ece
21 April 2020||Mumbai,||Finance Ministry sets time frame for banks to disburse loans||As business activities resumed on Monday after a nationwide lockdown, the Finance Ministry swung into action to ensure credit flow to companies and set a specific time frame for banks within which a loan needs to be disbursed. In a communication to State-run banks, the government said the move is aimed at ensuring credit flow for economic activities and the guidelines come into effect from Monday when the business activities resume. “In the context of resumption of business activities w.e.f. 20.4.2020, timely origination, sanction and disbursement of fund-based and non-fund based credit is critical for revival of economic activity,” the communication from the Finance Ministry said. Risk aversion The move comes as banks have turned risk averse to extend loans amid an uncertain economic outlook caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. As per the indicative time frames, from processing to disbursement of COVID-19 emergency credit lines, the Ministry said banks have to complete the disbursement within six to nine working days of working capital loans to existing micro, medium and small enterprises; corporate and agriculture borrowers as well as financial assistance to self-help group borrowers. Working capital reassessment of up to Rs. 5 crore for existing borrowers have to be processed within six to nine days, while facilities of Rs. 5 crore and above need to be processed within 12 to 15 working days. “Banks are advised to draw a detailed activity-wise time frame to achieve the turnaround time sought,” the Ministry said in the communication which has been reviewed by The Hindu.  The Ministry has also asked banks to ensure wide publicity of the details of the COVID-19-related credit schemes, checklist of documents required for each scheme and time frames for communicating decisions regarding sanctions. This information needs to be tweeted by banks and tagged to the Twitter handle of the Department of Financial Services (DoFS). “Banks should ensure that relevant internal communication of the above mentioned schemes along with clear responsibilities and defined time frames are conveyed to the field-level functionaries and monitored on an ongoing basis,” the Ministry said.  Details of COVID-19 credit schemes must be tweeted by banks and tagged to Twitter handle of DoFS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/finance-ministry-sets-time-frame-for-banks-to-disburse-loans/article31392491.ece
21 April 2020||mumbai,||SEBI surveillance till May 28||The tightened surveillance measures for stock markets, introduced on March 23 for a period of one month, have been extended until May 28. In a statement on Monday, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) said the stock markets are expected to remain volatile in the near future on account of COVID-19 pandemic and hence, the measures had to be extended. “As the stock markets (both domestic and global) are expected to be volatile in the near future owing to concerns relating to COVID-19 pandemic and the resultant fear of economic slowdown, keeping in view the objective of ensuring orderly trading and settlement, effective risk management, price discovery and maintenance of market integrity, it has been decided that the measures implemented since March 23, 2020 will continue to be in force till May 28, 2020,” stated SEBI. On March 20, the capital markets regulator announced an increase in margins in the cash segment while tightening the norms for position limits in the derivatives market as volatility continued to surge. As part of the measures, the so-called market-wide position limit in some stocks in the derivatives segment were revised to 50% and the penalty on an entity found to exceed the permissible limits was enhanced to 10 times the current minimum and five times the maximum penalty structure.  Meanwhile, foreign portfolio investors and mutual funds, among others, were allowed to take short positions in index derivatives only to the extent of the notional value of their holding in the underlying stocks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-surveillance-till-may-28/article31392476.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Open up e-com services: IAMAI||The Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) on Monday said it had requested the government to open up e-commerce services, adding that the online vs offline debate is an ‘incorrect portrayal’ of the ground reality as lakhs of sellers from the physical markets also sold online. This follows the ‘last-minute announcement’ by MHA on Sunday, limiting e-commerce to supply of essential goods even as companies prepared to scale up operations based on an earlier order. “The IAMAI, on behalf of e-commerce platforms, has requested the government to open up e-commerce services,” it said in a statement, adding that medium and small offline enterprises were powering the online e-commerce in a significant way. “This is especially true for products like apparel, footwear, small electronic items and household goods, including utensils etc.”  “Today, the only priority is to emphasise on ‘social distancing’ and e-commerce can support India’s fight against COVID-9. After nearly a month of lockdown, the debate is not necessarily between what is ‘essential’ and what is ‘non-essential’. The real debate is how not to choke demand completely when the country is going through a health crisis,” the industry body said. Consumer demand It added that the key to returning to normal was the fulfilment of consumer demand, which, under the present public health crisis, could be effectively done through e-commerce.  “Preservation of consumer demand is of prime importance that will keep the economy chugging along as the country starts the difficult process of economic recovery. This demand needs to be met and nurtured towards restoration rather than being suppressed to a future date,” Subho Ray, president, IAMAI, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/open-up-e-com-services-iamai/article31392487.ece
21 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Infosys suspends promotions, increments||Infosys will honour 35,000 job offers that it has already made for fiscal 2021. The company, however, said it won’t opt for any fresh hiring this year. It also has suspended all increments and promotions this year. This year’s hires comprise freshers, including from campuses and laterals, the company said on Monday. As of December 31, 2019, the company had hired 34,000 people of which 18,000 were freshers. Nilanjan Roy, CFO, Infosys said under the current environment the company was forced to take some ‘no regret’ steps. “However, we will honour all job offers given out. Onboarding was happening on schedule and we have even onboarded some people remotely during the lockdown,’’ said Pravin Rao, COO, Infosys. Further, commenting on the success of work-from-home environment, Mr. Rao said, both employees and clients have gotten used to it and the remote working arrangement has been a success. “We are not in a hurry to come back to office. We will do it gradually, may be 5% of our workers in two to three weeks, another 10 to 15% of workers in three to four weeks. We will have a high standard of sanitation, hygiene and social distancing for employees while working and while on the commute.’’ Responding to a query on a recent ransomware attack, the IT services firm said it had taken all precautions, invested in protection software in advance and also engaged threat detection advisories and agents who would look for any possible cyber danger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/infosys-suspends-promotions-increments/article31392474.ece
21 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Rudratej Singh, CEO, BMW India, passes away||Rudratej Singh (46), president and CEO, BMW Group India, passed away on Monday, the company said. “The cause behind the sudden and unexpected demise is yet to be ascertained. Our prayers are with his family and loved ones during this difficult period,” BMW Group India said. Mr. Singh had joined BMW Group India on August 1, 2019. Earlier, he was global president of Royal Enfield and vice-president with Unilever in Singapore. He had also worked with Dabur India. “His demise comes at a juncture when BMW Group India is in the midst of implementing strategic measures for strengthening the dealership network across India,” the firm said. It is believed that Mr. Singh was fine in the morning as he had interacted with his leadership team through text messages before heading to the gym inside his house in Delhi for a workout. At around 10.30 a.m., he reportedly collapsed and his family took him to a hospital where he was declared dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rudratej-singh-ceo-bmw-india-passes-away/article31392478.ece
21 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Dassault Reliance resumes operations||Dassault Reliance Aerospace Limited (DRAL), a joint venture between Reliance Infrastructure and Dassault Aviation, has resumed operations, at MIHAN SEZ, in Nagpur. “As part of the the government’s initiative to restart operations in phased manner, Dassault Reliance Aerospace Limited (DRAL) has resumed operations today, at MIHAN SEZ, in Nagpur,” the company said in a statement adding that all precautionary measures had been taken to ensure safe working environment under the prevailing circumstances. In the first phase, DRAL will operate at 25 to 30% of its current strength and plans to gradually scale up operations in consultation with district administration and Mihan authorities. DRAL has been supplying aero structure assemblies for Falcon 2000 business jets and also components for Rafale aircraft, as part of the global supply chain for Dassault Aviation. Reliance Infrastructure holds 51% stake in the joint ventures with Dassault Aviation holding 49% in DRAL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dassault-reliance-resumes-operations/article31392485.ece
21 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Tata Motors’ sales slide 35% in Q4 FY20||The Tata Motors Group global wholesales in Q4 FY20, including that of Jaguar Land Rover, stood at 2,31,929 units, lower by 35% when compared with Q4 FY19, Tata Motors said. Global wholesales of all Tata Motors’ commercial vehicles and Tata Daewoo range in Q4 FY20 were at 72,608 units, lower by 49% over Q4 FY19. Global wholesales of all passenger vehicles in Q4 FY20 stood at 159,321 units, lower by 26%. Global wholesales for Jaguar Land Rover stood at 1,26,979 vehicles (number for Q4 FY20 includes CJLR volumes of 6,288 units).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-motors-sales-slide-35-in-q4-fy20/article31392479.ece
21 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Amway, TCS ally for global operations||Amway, a global leader in direct selling, has entered into a strategic partnership with Tata Consultancy Services to transform its global technology operations. “TCS will leverage its Business 4.0 framework to deliver a new operating model by consolidating and standardising IT operations, implementing TCS’ Machine First Delivery Model (MFDM), powered by ignio, its cognitive automation software, continuing Amway’s journey from a reactive to a proactive and predictive model,” TCS said in a statement. The transformed operating model will feature chatbots, self-help and improvement of its service desk mobile app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amway-tcs-ally-for-global-operations/article31392483.ece
21 April 2020||Mumbai,||RBI raises WMA limit for April-Sept.||The RBI has decided to increase the ways and means advances limit for the April-September period of the current financial year to Rs. 2 lakh core from Rs. 1.2 lakh crore due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “To tide over the situation arising from the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, it has been decided, in consultation with the Government of India, that the limit for Ways and Means Advances (WMA) for the remaining part of first half of the financial year 2020-21 (April 2020 to September 2020) will be revised to Rs. 2,00,000 crore,” the RBI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-raises-wma-limit-for-april-sept/article31392482.ece
21 April 2020||New Delhi,||Expand list of essentials to include laptops, routers to facilitate work from home: Nasscom to govt||Industry body Nasscom has urged the government to expand the list of essential items to include products like laptops and routers to facilitate work from home amid the lockdown. Four days after allowing e-commerce firms to also deliver non-essential items such as electronic goods and readymade garments, the government on Sunday said non-essential items will continue to be prohibited during the lockdown till May 3.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/expand-list-of-essentials-to-include-laptops-routers-to-facilitate-work-from-home-nasscom-to-govt/article31392473.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||We conquered the world: Bhupathi||It was high voltage entertainment as former National champion and doubles star Purav Raja engaged with multiple Grand Slam champion Mahesh Bhupathi in his 30-minute ‘Chai with Raja’ show on Instagram. “I am honoured to be your first guest,” said Bhupathi even as he teased Raja by asking him not to interfere during his two-minute monologue. Ever the professional, Raja played the Davis Cup tie against Canada with Rohan Bopanna as partner under Bhupathi’s captaincy and was equally comfortable playing the professional Tour with Leander Paes. Bhupathi praised Raja for his “ability to get along with everybody.” When queried about his relationship with Paes, Bhupathi was candid. The peak “At the peak of our partnership, we conquered the world — won two Grand Slams in 1999, and made the finals of all four Grand Slams. We were No. 1. This year has been the second most exciting year, with our frying pan challenge that was watched by about 70,000 people. A few abuse us, for not playing together and winning more Grand Slams. [But] We won three Grand Slams, were No. 1,” said Bhupathi. Terming that partnership as the high point of Indian tennis, Bhupathi touched on the influence of their combination saying, “We conquered the white man’s game. Sania [Mirza], Rohan and all of you guys go there now, believing you can win.” Bhupathi was quite thrilled while recalling the country’s first Grand Slam title, the 1997 French Open mixed doubles title with Japan’s Rika Hiraki. “I was ranked No. 52, and we were the last team to get into the draw, because Rika Hiraki was No. 30.” Better backhand volley He also said that Novak Djokovic could end up with the most Grand Slams, and that Nick Kyrgios had it in him to win one. He acknowledged that Paes had the better backhand volley and ducked a question as to whom he would not like to meet ever again, stating it was not the right thing “to say on an open platform”. Winding up the lively show, Bhupathi said that his mantra was to “keep working”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-conquered-the-world-bhupathi/article31392645.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Milkha Singh’s daughter doing her family proud||Legendary athlete sprinter Milkha Singh’s daughter and ace golfer Jeev Milkha Singh’s elder sister has been running a “marathon” in New York — not on a track but at a hospital, battling the COVID-19 pandemic that has ravaged the world. Mona Milkha Singh is a doctor at the Metropolitan Hospital Center in New York, attending to emergency patients of coronavirus, which has so far claimed more than 40,000 lives in the US alone. “She is basically an ER (Emergency Room) doctor in Metropolitan Hospital Center in New York city. “So, when someone comes with the coronavirus symptoms, she has to treat them,” Jeev told PTI. “She checks the patients, stabilises them, performs intubation (insertion of artificial ventilation tube into a patient) before they are sent to special wards to quarantine the COVID-19 patients,” he added. The 54-year-old Mona passed out of Patiala Medical College before moving to the USA in the ‘90s. She has been working there for more than 20 years. “I am so proud of her. She says it is like running a marathon every day. “She has been working five days a week, sometimes day shifts, sometimes night shifts, 12-hour shifts and it is tough but she has to do the job as best as she can.” “We keep asking how she is feeling and if there are any symptoms. “I tell her to stay positive and boost her immune system,” said Jeev.  I am so proud of her. She says it is like running a marathon every day Milkha Singh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/milkha-singhs-daughter-doing-her-family-proud/article31392639.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Academies thrown out of gear||Former India footballer Sabir Pasha said the absence of summer camps due to lockdown is a big setback. “I feel sorry for them. They are sharing their videos, playing football on the terrace,” he said. Fitness issue The 47-year-old assistant coach of Chennaiyin FC said he is bothered about the fitness of his boys. “There are many promising players in the u-15 age category. When they come back after the lockdown, in what shape they return, I don’t know. I am sure they will get back to fitness once they start the routine,” he said. Pasha said it’s a loss for those who depend on the summer camps — there are quite a few in the city. “I am employed with Indian Bank so it is not a big monetary loss for me,” he said. Badminton coach Aravindan Samiappan, who runs the Fire Ball Badminton Academy, said he has suffered a loss of Rs. 2.5 lakh, but for the facilities including residential it offers, the loss is something he can manage. Not in our hands “My Academy will incur a loss of Rs. 2-2.5 lakh in the two months due to non-conduct of summer camp, but there is hardly anyone can do anything,” said V. Chandrasekar, three-time National table tennis champion and Director of SDAT-Chandra Academy. He requested that academies which run with the support of the government, can get relief on things like water tax, sewerage tax and electricity bills to tide over the crisis. City’s table tennis coach M.S. Ashok Kumar said, with the new season set to unfold, the players will not be adequately prepared due to COVID-19. He insisted that his club (MAK Academy) has not suffered monetarily at all. “We are a growing club, so it doesn’t matter,” he said. “In the first few State-ranking tournaments, players’ game and fitness level will, obviously, be quite low. Much will depend on how he/she picks up.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/academies-thrown-out-of-gear/article31392687.ece
21 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘We will now have time to adjust to a new doubles coach’||The 19-year-old R. Satwiksairaj and partner Chirag Shetty are widely tipped as strong contenders for a medal at the Tokyo Olympics when it is held in 2021. Satwik feels that neither the current lockdown nor the postponement of the Games is a setback for him. “With our doubles coach Flandy Limpele quitting recently, it would have been difficult for us to train even if there was no lockdown — we were so used to his training methods,” he says in a chat with The Hindu . “He made a huge difference to us. Made us mentally stronger, taught us to be fearless,” said the doubles specialist who has created a ripple in the company of Chirag. Invaluable tips “Limpele’s invaluable tips — like telling me not to go for smashes continuously and to tighten the defence — made me a much better player,” Satwik said. “Now, once this lockdown is lifted, we will have a lot more time to adjust to any new doubles coach,” he said. The World No. 10 in men’s doubles said he was “feeling relaxed” and revealed that the two video sessions everyday (monitored by chief National coach Gopi Chand) ensured that he maintained the desired body weight and stamina. He said he stayed in touch with the game through wall practice. “In fact, I have friends who have played at the State- and University-level who I can train with,” said Satwik, who is now in Amalapuram (East Godavari) with parents Viswanadham and Rangamani. Satwik welcomed the BWF decision to freeze the rankings, and felt it was inevitable as the international schedule had gone haywire because of COVID-19. “The only thing we should be careful about is the high-intensity training sessions. We shouldn’t start them immediately after we resume our regular sessions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-will-now-have-time-to-adjust-to-a-new-doubles-coach/article31392627.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Visualisation an effective tool, says Soumyadeep Roy||Soumyadeep Roy, former National table tennis champion and one of the National coaches of the senior teams, said it was important to maintain a positive outlook to life during lockdown. Mental strength He urged the paddlers to employ visualisation techniques to improve their mental strength. “Visualisation is an effective tool in modern-day sport. Players could do visualisation where they can think of going to the academy and playing their shots, or playing in top tournaments.  “To begin with, it can be once a day for 10 minutes and twice a day for around 30 minutes for the seniors,” said the 36-year-old on Monday while interacting online with the Sports Authority of India coaches and players on the topic of ‘mental health during the present time and the importance of change and adaptability’. Soumyadeep said it took him nearly a year to change a few things in National champion Sutirtha Mukherjee’s game. Giant leap “It won’t happen overnight, We worked on a lot on her game. “We were thrilled when she reached the [women's] top-100 in the World rankings this month for the first time in her career after being in the 500s last year,” said Soumyadeep about his ward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/visualisation-an-effective-tool-says-soumyadeep-roy/article31392642.ece
21 April 2020||KOLKATA,||Archer Talukdar happy to resume outdoor training||After battling past a brief spell of loneliness, seasoned archer Jayanta Talukdar has begun anew. Talukdar, who is employed with Tata, was asked to go on self-isolation on reaching Jamshedpur on March 24 following the break in National camp in Pune. He was happy to resume outdoor training on Monday following a partial relaxation in the lockdown. “I don’t know how and when the Archery Association of India (AAI) will conduct the selection trials for the Olympics. I should stay prepared so that I can attend the trial any time,” Talukdar told The Hindu . Talukdar, who competed in the 2012 London Olympics, said the break disturbed his rhythm. “I was doing well in the camp and had a close competition with Tarundeep Rai for the third spot (in the men’s team event) after Atanu Das and Pravin Jadhav. After the lockdown, there was no scope to step out. “Inside the house, I did some exercises, yoga and bow control. If you don’t practice bow control, then it will take you one month to regain control. Since I was practising it indoors, I will get back my touch in 10 to 15 days.” For 34-year-old Talukdar, the biggest challenge was his mental agony. “It was frustrating, I had several sleepless nights. My wife (Pallavi Bora), who is a dentist based in my hometown Guwahati, tried to motivate me over phone. She advised me to try out different things, like writing down good memories and drawing sketches. It helped me channelise my energy positively.” Besides, Talukdar tried new things in the kitchen. “I learnt some new items, such as white-sauce pasta, poori-subji and egg roll. Interestingly, I started making pasta by watching a video but I was not convinced about it. Then I completed it by watching another video. Thankfully, the pasta turned out to be quite yummy,” said Talukdar, looking forward to brighter days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/archer-talukdar-happy-to-resume-outdoor-training/article31392766.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Contrasting wins for Caruana, Vachier-Lagrave||Top-ranked American Fabiano Caruana proved a lucky winner against Russia No. 1 Ian Nepomniachtchi while Frenchman Maxime Vachier-Lagrave cruised to an easy victory over Dutchman Anish Giri in first round encounters of the $250,000 Magnus Carlsen Invitational online chess on Sunday. Caruana, in serious danger in the first two games, was lucky to draw both games. After drawing the third, Caruana nailed a frustrated Nepomniachtchi in the fourth for a 2.5-1.5 result. Against Giri, Vachier-Lagrave raced away to victories in the first two games and drew the next two.   The results (first round): Fabiano Caruana (USA) bt Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) 2.5-1.5; Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra) bt Anish Giri (Ned) 3-1; Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Hikaru Nakamura (USA) 3-2; Ding Liren (Chn) bt Alireza Firouzja (FIDE) 2.5-1.5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/contrasting-wins-for-caruana-vachier-lagrave/article31392628.ece
21 April 2020||TIRUCHI,||Keeping masters of the 64 squares busy||Chess activities have been buzzing online ever since the COVID-19 lockdown began. The tournaments that are being conducted through online platforms chess.com and lichess.org by the academies have kept the players busy. Significantly, these tourneys have been attracting a good number of Grandmasters. “Online tournaments during lockdown is a wonderful initiative. Players do not have to worry about lack of practice,” said GM R.R. Laxman, who takes part in the online events regularly. He felt that the tournaments provide up-and-coming players a good chance to compete with Grandmasters and higher-rated players. “You get to learn more only when you play. In these times, the online competitions are a boon,” he said. Different timings “The duration, which is for a minimum of one hour, varies between tournaments,” explained international arbiter V.L. Anandh Babu of the Lesunathan Chess Academy. “In most cases, players are allotted three minutes each for a game. The person with maximum points emerges victorious. In the event of players finishing on equal points, tie-breaker methods decide the winner,” added Anandh, whose academy has so far conducted around 50 tournaments during the lockdown period. “Rarely do budding players get the opportunity to compete with GMs. This is one main reason they expect us to conduct more online events,” said S. Ganesh Babu, secretary, Golden Knights Chess Academy (GKCA).  He said GKCA has also been organising intra-academy tournaments. “We have students here and abroad. Apart from attending classes online, they also compete among themselves with interest,” added Ganesh Babu, an international arbiter. Laxman said that he comes across a lot of promising talent during the online competitions and believes that the exposure they gain now will stand them in good stead once regular tournaments resume. And the arbiters could not agree more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/keeping-masters-of-the-64-squares-busy/article31392632.ece
21 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Nikhil extends HFC contract||International Nikhil Poojary signed up with Hyderabad FC in the Indian Super League football championship, extending his contract for the next three years, according to a media release here on Monday. The 24-year-old Nikhil was the only player to have played in all 18 games for the Hyderabad team, operating both as a winger and full-black to clock an amazing 1555 minutes on the pitch. “I’m very excited about the future with Hyderabad FC. We have been working with a new philosophy in the latter part of the season and with Albert Roca joining in, it will help all of us immensely,” Nikhil said in a statement. Nikhil was also one of three Hyderabad players to be named in the National team camp which was to be held in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nikhil-extends-hfc-contract/article31392843.ece
21 April 2020||CHENNAI,||TNBA to conduct month-long camp||Tamil Nadu Badminton Association (TNBA) will organise a month-long camp here for all top juniors (under-17 and 19) and seniors once the lockdown is lifted, Aravindan Samiappan, Secretary, Chennai District Badminton Association, told The Hindu.  Aravindan, speaking on behalf of the Tamil Nadu Badminton Association (TNBA), said the camp would be held at Smashbounce, FireBall Academy, or both. “It is mandatory to attend the camp as none of the top players have been playing and it will be helpful to them. The camp will be completely funded by TNBA,” said Aravindan. Tamil Nadu has 15 nominated coaches and a few of them will be involved in the camp. “When the top players, around 20 of them, start playing after a break, they will be full of enthusiasm and energy. We will follow the guidelines once we get permission from the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu. If all goes well, we may start the camp at the end of May or the beginning of June,” said Aravindan. For the camp, TNBA is also planning to get the girls onboard. “We are thinking of how to accommodate them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tnba-to-conduct-month-long-camp/article31392686.ece
21 April 2020||New Delhi,||ICC CEC to meet on Thursday||The ICC’s Chief Executives Committee (CEC) will discuss the financial implications of COVID-19 over a conference call on Thursday in which the World Test Championship and ODI league schedule will also be debated upon. Called off The ODI league was to start in June but the first series under it — South Africa’s away three-match rubber against Sri Lanka in the first week of June — was cancelled on Monday due to the pandemic. It is clear that no concrete decision can be taken unless the ICC is able to figure out how many events it is going to lose due to the global lockdown. India will be represented at the CEC meet by secretary Jay Shah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/icc-cec-to-meet-on-thursday/article31392633.ece
21 April 2020||BELGRADE,||Djokovic against forced vaccination||Novak Djokovic said he was against a compulsory coronavirus vaccination if it became a requirement for tennis players to travel to tournaments. “Personally, I’m against vaccination. I wouldn’t like that someone forces me to get a vaccine in order to be able to travel,” he said. “I think it will be the number one challenge.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-against-forced-vaccination/article31392640.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Parental concern||Periyazhvar sang pallandu for Lord Narayana. These verses were to ward off evil eyes! Periyazhvar’s concern for the Lord was that of a parent, and so, naturally, he was anxious about the safety of the Lord. His Pallandu verses reflect this anxiety, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. Periyazhvar sees every aspect of the Lord as cause for worry, even the ones that inspire us with awe! We see this clearly in his words about the Narasimha avatara. But what is there to worry about the avatara that was taken in an instant, and where the Lord destroys Hiranyakasipu in the most terrible manner. In fact, the avatara was taken to save the boy devotee Prahlada, and shows His mercy towards His devotees. But it is in the details of the avatara that Periyazhvar’s worry lies. Hiranyakasipu had obtained certain boons, one of which was that he should not be killed during the day. Devas are powerful during the day, but the Lord came during twilight. Demons become powerful as it gets closer to night-time. So Periyazhvar wants to know why the Lord took risks by coming when daylight was fading! Periyazhvar uses a very interesting word — bandanai. Periyavachan Pillai says this means a shiver. Periyazhvar prays that Narasimha’s shivering should stop! But how can the Lord shiver, and why should He? Here again, it is the parental attitude of Periyazhvar that is the cause for such an expression. Krishna killed Kamsa when He was 16 years old, and Rama was much older than that when He killed Ravana. But Narasimha faced a demon soon after His appearance. So Periyazhvar sees Him as a just born infant. A baby just entering the world shivers, because it has exited the warmth of the mother’s womb. And Periyazhvar prays that this shivering should be absent in Narasimha!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/parental-concern/article31392568.ece
21 April 2020||April 21 2020 07:52 IST,||Sudoku - April 21, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-21-2020/article31393287.ece
21 April 2020||New Delhi,||Yamuna water quality improves during lockdown: govt. report||The quality of water in the Yamuna has improved along the Delhi stretch during the nationwide lockdown, compared to April last year, according to a report by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC). An increased flow of water in the river has also contributed to less pollution, the report said. But the report noted that the Yamuna has still not met the “water quality criteria”. Reduced pollution According to the report, the pollution has reduced by 21% at ITO Bridge, 20% at Nizamuddin Bridge, and 18% at Okhla Barrage. Also, pollution has reduced in five out of the six major drains, which flow into the Yamuna, that the DPCC measured. A National Green Tribunal (NGT)-appointed monitoring committee had earlier this month asked the DPCC and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to measure the quality of water in the Yamuna. Water from Haryana Last week, a report by the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) had also shown the quality of water has improved during the lockdown and DJB officials had said that it was also due to increased discharge of water from Haryana. On April 6, the DPCC had collected water samples from nine locations along the Yamuna and 20 locations of drains and compared the different parameters with values from April 2019. Of the nine locations of the river, an increase in pollution was observed only in Khajuri Paltoon Pool, according to the report. “In April 2019, the average flow was 1,000 cusecs compared to the average flow of 3,900 cusecs in April 2020. Therefore, the dilution is also contributing to the improvement of water quality,” the report noted. Of the nine locations from where the DPCC took samples, five have shown 18%-33% reduction in biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) levels. The rest of the four locations have shown slight to considerable increase in BOD levels. BOD is the amount of oxygen needed by microorganisms to decompose organic matter (waste or pollutants) under aerobic reaction (in the presence of oxygen). A higher BOD level means that more oxygen is needed to decompose a large quantity of organic matter (waste or pollutants) present in the water. So, a higher value of BOD means that the water is more polluted. Dissolved oxygen According to the report, four of the nine locations where dissolved oxygen (DO) was nil in 2019 showed DO levels of 2.3-4.8 mg/l. Dissolved oxygen is the amount of dissolved oxygen present in the water which is needed for aquatic life to survive. The quality of water increases with an increase in DO levels. A DO level of 5 mg/l or above is the recommended level for bathing in a river and DO levels over 5 mg/l were found only in two locations closer to where the river enters Delhi, as per the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/yamuna-water-quality-improves-during-lockdown-govt-report/article31392770.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Arrests in Jamia, north-east riots cases impartial: police||The Delhi police on Monday said that the arrests made in connection with Jamia violence and north-east Delhi riots were based on evidence and were impartial. In a tweet, the police said, “...Delhi Police has done its job sincerely and impartially. All the arrests made have been based on scientific and forensic evidence including video footage, technical and other footprints.” They said they are committed to upholding the law and bring conspirators and culprits to justice. “It will not be deterred by the false propaganda and rumours floated by some vested elements who try to twist facts to their convenience,” they said. Over 800 arrests The police have made more than 800 arrests in connection with the recent riots. Advocate Abdul Gaffar, who is counsel for several accused in the riots cases, said, “Delhi Police is selectively lodging FIRs. In various cases, either the victims are behind the bar or FIRs have not been registered on their complaints. In some cases, miscreants are visible in videos, but no arrest has been made. There are various videos on social media where police officers destroyed CCTV cameras. Why have they destroyed important evidence? In India, conviction rate is very low due to the lack of evidence and defective investigation.”   Delhi Police has done its job sincerely and impartially. All the arrests made have been based on scientific and forensic evidence including video footage, technical and other footprints||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/arrests-in-jamia-north-east-riots-cases-impartial-police/article31392772.ece
21 April 2020||New Delhi,||Azadpur Mandi to remain open round-the-clock from today||The Azadpur Mandi will remain open round-the-clock from Tuesday, said Cabinet Minister Gopal Rai on Monday. The decision has been taken in the view of ensuring that the social distancing norms are being practised and to provide relief to the fruit and vegetable traders, he added. The mandihas been catering to people and procuring produce from farmers across the country, he said, adding that after the lockdown, there was an issue in ensuring social distancing in the mandi and measures like the implementation of the odd-even rule were taken to adhere to the norms. There was a decline in the volume of fruits and vegetables flowing through the market and arrivals in the market dropped by nearly 50% post lockdown. “This led to two major problems — we observed that the prices of fruits and vegetables were rising in other areas and the farmers were also facing an issue in supplying their produce to the markets,” he said. “To eradicate all such issues, it has been decided that the mandi will remain open for 24 hours from tomorrow [Tuesday]. Our primary motive is to maintain social distancing. Vegetables and fruits will be sold from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. Every four hours, the entry of 1,000 people will be allowed through the coupon. From 10 p.m. till 6 a.m., truck movement will be allowed in and out of the market,” he added. Mr. Rai said arrangements have been made to ensure hygiene and proper sanitation in the area. For this, he said, 600 sanitation workers will be deployed and monitoring in-charges have also been appointed to ensure the smooth functioning of the mandi. Disciplinary action would be taken against traders not ensuring social distancing and the going-on of the mandi, he said, would also be recorded to identify those who were not following prescribed operational norms. “I have also held meetings with the traders of the mandi, and they have also been asked to maintain social distancing at all costs. The odd-even rule will remain implemented for now, and the trader’s license of all those who are not able to maintain social distancing will be cancelled,” he added. “We have installed cameras for the daily recording of activities in the mandi and strict actions will be taken against those who defy social distancing norms,” he also said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/azadpur-mandi-to-remain-open-round-the-clock-from-today/article31392779.ece
21 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Sale deeds registration, toll collection resume in Gurugram||The registration of sale deeds resumed at five tehsils and sub-tehsils in Gurugram on Monday, almost a month after the day-long “janata curfew” followed by the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19. However, a maximum of 24 sale deeds are allowed at each tehsil and sub-tehsil daily to maintain social distancing norms and the staff strength has also been curtailed to one-third. Also, toll collection resumed at Kherki Daula toll plaza. In view of dwindling revenues due to the lockdown, the authorities decided to allow the registration of sale deeds at Gurugram, Sohna, Pataudi, Wazirabad and Badshahpur. Issuing a set of guidelines to prevent the spread of COVID-19 with the resumption of revenue work, Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri said only buyer, the seller and the witness will be allowed inside the office. District Revenue Officer Manbir Singh said no other revenue activity such as gift deeds, mortgage, transfer deeds and General Power of Attorney were allowed for the time being. Low traffic At the Kherki Daula toll plaza, the traffic remains abysmally low. Assistant Manager Toll Operations, Millennium City Expressway Private Limited , Mohammad Sohrab Khan said that around 2,000 vehicles crossed the toll during the first eight-hour shift after the resumption of toll collection on April 20 midnight. The toll charges for Light Commercial Vehicles and Multi-Axle Vehicles have been increased by Rs. 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sale-deeds-registration-toll-collection-resume-in-gurugram/article31392780.ece
21 April 2020||New Delhi,||Hold meeting on steps to curb domestic violence: HC||The Delhi High Court has directed the Centre and the city government to hold top-level meeting to deliberate on measures to curb domestic violence and protect the victims during the ongoing lockdown. A Bench of Justice J.R. Midha and Justice Jyoti Singh directed that a decision be taken in three days and “the fresh steps required for protection of the victims of domestic abuse/violence be implemented immediately”. The High Court order came on a plea by an NGO — All India Council of Human Rights, Liberties and Social Justice (AICHLS) — seeking effective measures to be put in place as the cases of domestic violence are on a rise on account of women being confined to their homes. The Bench which heard the case through videoconferencing on April 18, also issued notice to the Centre, the Delhi government and the National and Delhi women commissions seeking their stand on the petition by April 24. The NGO, represented by advocates Arjun Sayal and Mithu Jain, sought strict enforcement of the provisions of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005. During the hearing, the Delhi government and Delhi Commission for Women said that there are sufficient measures in place to safeguard victims of domestic violence and child abuse amidst the lockdown. ASG Maninder Acharya submitted that the Ministry of Women and Child Development has also noticed that a quick response mechanism is required for special circumstances that are prevailing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hold-meeting-on-steps-to-curb-domestic-violence-hc/article31392768.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Relief from soaring heat throughout the week||After the mercury touched 40 degrees Celsius last week, thunderstorms and cloudy weather has brought relief to Delhiites. The respite is likely to continue this week with more cloud cover, thunderstorms and gusty winds, the weather department has said. The maximum temperature on Monday settled at 34.1 degrees Celsius, which was four degrees below the average for the season, and the minimum, 20.2 degrees Celsius, was two degrees below normal. The forecast for Tuesday reads “partly cloudy sky with possibility of very light rain/thundershowers. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to stay between the 34 degrees Celsius and 20 degrees Celsius mark”. Weather stations at Palam and Lodhi Road at 33.2 and 31.6 degrees Celsius were cooler than Safdarjung, which is the official reading of the Capital. Palam usually recorded a maximum temperature higher that the official reading through the summer months. The Met department said that the sky is likely yo stay partly cloudy till April 26 with thunderstorms accompanied by gusty winds likely on Thursday and April 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/relief-from-soaring-heat-throughout-the-week/article31392778.ece
21 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Exempt municipal staff from surveillance’||North Delhi Mayor Avtar Singh on Monday wrote to the Lieutenant-Governor, requesting the exemption of municipal staff from “additional duties”, such as the ‘Corona Foot Warriors’ team recently formed by the Delhi government.  With a shortage of staff, especially as a consequence of exempting people above the age of 55 from work and with several staff commuting from neighbouring States, the Mayor said that if additional duties were assigned to available staff, it would hamper other work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/exempt-municipal-staff-from-surveillance/article31392777.ece
21 April 2020||New Delhi,||1.6 lakh applications for Rs. 5,000 aid||The Delhi government has received 1,60,000 applications for one-time assistance of Rs. 5,000 from para-transit vehicle drivers and the process of disbursing the amount is under way, the Delhi government said in a statement. Due to the ongoing nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19 people have suffered losses and assistance has been provided so far to 23,000 autorickshaw, e-rickshaw, gramin seva drivers and the verification of 20,000 forms is being processed, the government said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/16-lakh-applications-for-rs-5000-aid/article31392774.ece
21 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||DCW notice to police, AIIMS||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Monday issued notice to Delhi Police and AIIMS over reports of a doctor’s alleged attempt of taking her own life due to “sexual harassment and caste discrimination”. Taking suo motu cognisance of the issue, the DCW in its letter to AIIMS, said, “She [doctor] has stated to have raised the matter before the administration on several occasions in the past as well. This is a very serious matter. It is critical that exemplary action is taken against the perpetrators of caste and gender-based violence.” The women’s panel asked authorities to provide details pertaining to whether the matter was dealt with by the Internal Complaints Committee and also sought details on the steps taken to assist the complainant in seeking legal remedies. It also asked the Delhi Police to provide a status report on the investigation. The authorities have been asked to furnish a report by April 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dcw-notice-to-police-aiims/article31392771.ece
21 April 2020||New Delhi,||Ashoka University to develop simulation model to study spread of COVID-19||Ashoka University on Monday announced a research collaboration to develop an “agent-based” simulation model for the spread of COVID-19 in India, ‘BharatSim’, in collaboration with ThoughtWorks, a software consultancy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ashoka-university-to-develop-simulation-model-to-study-spread-of-covid-19/article31392773.ece
