22 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICMR asks States to stop using rapid tests for the next 2 days||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday directed the States not to use the COVID-19 rapid testing kits for the next two days following reports of wide variations in results. The kits would be tested and validated by ICMR teams and an advisory issued in the next two days. If they were found to be not up to the mark, replacements would be sought from the manufacturers, ICMR spokesperson Dr. R.R. Gangakhedkar said.   The Rajasthan government on Tuesday decided to halt rapid antibody tests after an experts’ team questioned the use of the newly distributed Chinese kits following inaccurate results. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said at a videoconference with journalists in Jaipur that since his request to Prime Minister Narendra Modi a fortnight ago to carry out centralised purchasing of medical equipment was not heeded, the kits of inferior quality had been supplied to the States. “This has seriously hampered our efforts to get fast test results for starting the treatment and contain the spread of the virus.”  Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma said, “We did rapid tests on 168 confirmed cases but only 5.4% tested positive for antibodies. The majority of the confirmed cases tested negative.” The ICMR said of the total COVID-19 tests conducted so far, 69% were asymptomatic cases and 31% symptomatic. India on Tuesday registered over 1,336 new cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total number to 18,985. The total number of deaths stood at 603, while 3,259 people have recovered so far. The country has registered a recovery rate of 17.48%, the Health Ministry said. Reports from the States put the death toll at 647, with 15,497 active cases out of a total of 20,060 cases.  Dr. Gangakhedkar said 80% of cases came with no symptoms or very mild symptoms, 15% with moderate symptoms and 5% needed ICU aid. “Four districts — Mahe [Puducherry], Kodagu [Karnataka], Pauri Garhwal [Uttrakhand] and Pratapgarh [Rajasthan], have not reported any fresh cases in the last 28 days. There are now 61 additional districts from 23 States/UTs that have not reported any fresh cases in the last 14 days,” said Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/icmr-asks-states-to-stop-using-rapid-tests-for-the-next-2-days/article31401479.ece
22 April 2020||Belagavi,||Lockdown has helped achieve significant success, says expert||Lockdown has helped achieve significant success in slowing down COVID-19 infections, according to Debaprasad Chattopadhyaya, director of National Institute of Traditional Medicine, a Belagavi-based Indian Council of Medical Research laboratory. “It has given us a lot of time to prepare for COVID-19 management. That is the idea (behind a lockdown),” said the microbiologist who has worked with viruses and traditional medicine for decades across the country. Lockdown has helped delay the transition of disease transmission to stage three, he said. “The third stage involves social or community transmission. It is a natural course in disease transmission. It can only be delayed but cannot be avoided. However, slowing it down and buying time for solid ground-level preparations will help us face the social transmission stage,” he said. He pointed out that the infected patients recover or their condition deteriorates depending on factors such as age, immunity levels and absence of co-morbidities. “What we should understand is that the rate of COVID-19 spread is fast, but the mortality rate is low. It is, in fact, less than the mortality rate of its cousin virus SARS, which killed many more people and is still killing people after so many years,” he said. Responding to reports that the State government has proposed to set up a COVID-19 test centre in ICMR-NITM in Belagavi, he said that the laboratory was ready with equipment, scientists and trained personnel to handle such challenges. “In fact, the institute has qualified and experienced scientists to find a cure for the disease. With the right equipment and some additional manpower, we could come up with a traditional medicine-based cure for the disease in around two years,” he said. ICMR set up a regional medical research laboratory in Belagavi in 1994. It was renamed as National Institute of Traditional Medicine with an enlarged mandate to nucleate ICMR research on traditional medicine across the country and collaborate research with AYUSH wings. “The Belagavi NITM laboratory is currently working on traditional drugs for dengue and liver disease, among other things,” said S.L Hoti, senior scientist and a former in-charge director of the laboratory. “Efforts to find a cure for COVID-19 are on across the world. Clinical trials are on for drugs such as Remdesivir, Acyclovir, Penciclovir and Favipirvir in the U.S. and other countries. There is some work happening in India too,” Dr. Hoti said. Some existing drugs are being re-purposed for COVID 19, he said.  It has delayed transition of disease transmission to stage three Debaprasad Chattopadhyaya,Director, National Institute of Traditional Medicine, Belagavi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-has-helped-achieve-significant-success-says-expert/article31401701.ece
22 April 2020||Bengaluru,||BBMP cordons off 19 containment zones||With the aim of stemming the spread of COVID-19 and ensuring that lockdowns are effective, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Tuesday cordoned off 19 containment zones identified across the city. Barring Padarayanapura and Bapujinagar wards, which have been entirely sealed, the remaining containment zones have been defined as areas within a 100-metre radius around a COVID-19 positive case region, and if the case is found in an apartment, the entire apartment block/ building will be declared a containment zone. Residents who live within the containment zone will not be allowed to step out of their homes, said civic officials. All entry and exit points and roads to such zones have been barred with only one entrance and exit point for essential services. No business activities will be allowed within the containment zones. Movement within the zone will be restricted. ‘Stricter enforcement’ BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said such premises will be under intensive lockdown until no positive cases are detected for 28 days from the date of the latest reported case. “There will be house- to-house surveillance. Earlier, we had intensified sanitisation of the containment zones with power sprayers and drone sprayers. Now, stricter enforcement of containment measures is being taken. We have also intensified primary and secondary contact monitoring, and tracing wherever necessary,” he said. Apart from completely blocking all the roads to and from the containment zones, a ‘Health Outpost’ with staff for health screening and intensive information, education and communication purposes is being set up outside such zones. In the view of the restriction of movements, the BBMP will ensure house-to-house supply of essentials including groceries, vegetables, meat, milk, newspapers etc. Residents have also been asked to utilise the home delivery helpline started on Tuesday.  COVID-19 updates 119 arrested in Padarayanapura ward violence  Communal spin major roadblock in Padarayanapura Chikkabasti and Doddabasti in Kengeri hobli sealed  COVID-19 home delivery helpline 080-61914960  3 booked for threatening ASHA worker in Mysuru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bbmp-cordons-off-19-containment-zones/article31401527.ece
22 April 2020||Mumbai,||Huge spike in cases likely in Mumbai: Central panel||A five-member Central team has projected that the number of COVID-19 cases in Mumbai will touch an estimated 42,604 by April 30 and spiral to 6,56,407 by May 15. Based on mathematical modelling for Mumbai by the Union Ministry of Health on April 16, the data presented by the team caught the Maharastra government off guard. The State government contested the methodology and tools used for the latest projection and gap analysis. According to the data projections initially put together by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Mumbai’s health infrastructure during this peak would have a staggering shortage of 13,636 ventilators and 4,83,000 isolation beds.   The State government on Tuesday made a detailed presentation of its own to the visiting Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCTs), highlighting the “discrepancies” in the modelling. According to the projections presented on April 16, the shortage of isolation beds without oxygen support will touch 30,481 by April 30 in Mumbai, while beds with oxygen support will fall short by 5,466. As cases cross 40,000, the city will need another 1,200 ICU beds and 392 ventilators. When the case count touches 6,56,407 on May 15, the shortage of isolation beds without oxygen support will be a staggering 4,83,385, and shortage of ICU beds will be 27,688 while the shortage of ventilators will be 13,636, said the report, a copy of which is with The Hindu . The worst affected areas will be Dharavi, Worli-Mahalaxmi, Matunga/Sion, Parel, Andheri West, Govandi-Mankhurd, Nagpada and Byculla. A total of 8,434 volunteers will be needed to tackle the outbreak in these areas, the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/huge-spike-in-cases-likely-in-mumbai-central-panel/article31401484.ece
22 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Hospital in State gets nod for plasma therapy trials||Bringing hope to the battle against COVID-19, the Central Drugs Control Organisation under the Director General of Health Services has approved a research proposal from a hospital in Karnataka to study the use of convalescent plasma therapy in treating COVID-19. The therapy that holds promise in treatment of COVID-19 cases will be tested on at least 10 critical patients in the State in the initial phase. Following the approval granted to HCG Hospitals, trials will begin on critical COVID-19 patients who are currently in ICU and on ventilators using plasma from patients who recovered from Victoria Hospital. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), said following the approval, U.S. Vishal Rao, oncologist at HCG and public health expert, would get into an agreement with Victoria Hospital for taking up the trials. “It will be taken up in collaboration with the State government for the benefit of our patients,” he said. Dr. Rao said the therapy could be used in the category of patients who are battling the disease along with severe comorbidities and respiratory distress. “We have planned a Phase I/II, Open Label, parallel arm clinical trial to assess the safety and efficacy of this therapy in COVID-19 infected patients for free,” he said. The approval has been granted under the provisions of the New Drugs and Clinical Trial Rules, 2019. Describing how the therapy works, Dr. Rao said, “The idea behind this therapy is that immunity can be transferred from a healthy person to a sick patient using convalescent plasma. This therapy uses antibodies from the blood of a recovered COVID-19 patient to treat another critical patient. The recovered patient’s blood develops antibodies to battle against COVID-19. Once the blood of the first patient is infused to the second patient, those antibodies will start fighting against coronavirus in the second person,” Dr. Rao explained. Ashish Dhoot, immunohematologist at HCG, said the plan is to collect 500 ml of plasma from recovered patients from Victoria Hospital and use it on critical patients whose blood group is compatible with the donor’s plasma. “We will first collect a sample and test it before asking the patients to come to the blood bank and donate the plasma,” he said, and added that collected plasma from recovered patients would be stored for use on other patients in future. Use of convalescent plasma has been studied in outbreaks of other respiratory infections, including the 2003 SARS-CoV-1 epidemic, the 2009-2010 H1N1 influenza virus pandemic, and the 2012 MERS-CoV epidemic. In India, currently there is one more registered trial for the same therapy, by Government Medical College, New Delhi. Trials have also begun in Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, Kerala. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute had also sent a research request on behalf of COVID-19 hospitals in Bengaluru to Central agencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hospital-in-state-gets-nod-for-plasma-therapy-trials/article31401525.ece
22 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cremations possible, but not immersions||In these lockdown days, cremations are possible but not immersions. That’s what many have found after they cremated parents, siblings and friends at the Lodi Road shamshan , or cremation ground, in New Delhi.  The Yamuna river in Delhi or the Ganga at Garhmukteshwar, a two-hour drive from Delhi, is used by many Hindus to immerse the ashes of their dead after cremation rites. But, with the strict COVID-19 lockdown in place, many people have opted to delay immersion.  “You can see this room is full of urns containing ashes. People are storing the ashes in an urn (or kalash ) here so that they can do the immersion after the lockdown is lifted,” Dharminder, a pandit at the Lodi Road shamshan , told The Hindu on Tuesday.  “In many cases, the children [of the dead] are abroad and are unable to even perform cremation rites. And, with all flights non-operational, they are doing the next best thing by storing the ash-filled urns for future immersion,” Dharminder stated.  He stands inside a small room with some urns stacked neatly and others placed on the ground as space runs out. All the urns are labelled with the name of the dead person and the address so that there is no chance of mishandling.   According to Dharminder, who has been a pandit at the cremation ground for many years, he has never seen such a situation before. “If this [lockdown] situation continues, we will have to find more space to store these urns,” he added.  Cremations, too, have become small affairs at Lodi Road. Getting to the cremation ground is not easy for most people, but policemen are usually cooperative in letting people through, even without a pass, for funerals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cremations-possible-but-not-immersions/article31401669.ece
22 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID cases surge in Suryapet||After a lull of two days, the State witnessed a steep surge in the number of COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday. As many as 56 new COVID cases were reported during the day taking the total number of affected persons since the outbreak of the pandemic to 928. No deaths were reported on Tuesday and the number of casualties remained at 23 while the number of people discharged from different hospitals rose to 194 from 186 of Monday. According to the bulletin released by the Public Health and Family Welfare department, Suryapet district alone reported 26 cases by evening. The GHMC area reported 19 more cases on Tuesday while three cases were reported from Nizamabad district. Adilabad and Jogulamba-Gadwal districts reported two new virus cases while Khammam, Medchal, Warangal and Rangareddy districts reported one each. The department urged people to wear face masks compulsorily as it was the first line of defence against the infection. Meanwhile, Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao instructed senior officials at the State-level to tour the districts to assess and examine how the decisions taken by the government to prevent spread of coronavirus are being implemented at the field level. KCR held a high-level review meeting at Pragathi Bhavan here on Tuesday on measures taken to contain COVID spread and implementation of the lockdown in the State. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP Mahender Reddy, Medical and Health Principal Secretary Shanti Kumari and others participated. The meeting reviewed the situation in Hyderabad and other areas. It was decided at the meeting that senior officials should make field-level visits and monitor the situation personally. In line with the Chief Minister’s instructions Chief Secretary, DGP, Principal secretary (Health) Shanti Kumari, Medical and Health Director Srinivas will tour Suryapet, Gadwal and Vikarabad districts on Wednesday. Telangana government has deputed IAS officers as ‘Special Officers’ to Vikarabad, Gadwal and Suryapet districts. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar issued orders on Tuesday stating that Rajat Kumar Saini was allotted Vikarabad, Gadwal to Ronald Rose and Suryapet to Sarfaraz Ahmad. They were directed to visit the affected areas and submit reports to the chief secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-cases-surge-in-suryapet/article31401717.ece
22 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Slight increase in COVID-19 cases as 19 more test positive||Bucking the trend of over a week or more, when Kerala had more people on the COVID 19 recovery list than on the positive list, the State reported 19 new cases on Tuesday. The number of patients who were declared to have recovered from their disease was 16. Kannur accounted for 10 of the new cases, Palakkad reported four, Kasaragod three, while Kollam and Malappuram accounted for one case each. Of the 19 new cases, 13 were people who had returned home from abroad, three persons (one each from Malappuram, Palakkad and Kollam) had come from the neighbouring Tamil Nadu, one person had returned from Uttar Pradesh while two were contacts who developed the disease from imported cases. Tighter measures Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, briefing media, said the fact that the cases were imported across the border meant that stricter control measures were needed on the inter-State borders. Kerala has reported 426 COVID 19 cases so far, of which only 117 were currently undergoing treatment in hospitals. The people under the surveillance umbrella in the State has further dwindled to 36,676, of whom, 332 are in isolation wards in hospitals. Among the districts, Kannur now has the maximum number of COVID 19 patients undergoing treatment, at 104. Testing is being intensified in the district and all those who had arrived in the district from abroad since March 12 and their high-risk contacts would be tested for COVID-19. He said that a 62-year-old patient who is a part of the first patient cluster in Pathanamthitta and who had tested positive on March 13 continued to remain positive for the past 36 days at the Kozhencherry district hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/slight-increase-in-covid-19-cases-as-19-more-test-positive/article31401768.ece
22 April 2020||Kolkata/New Delhi,||Ministerial team waits as Centre-West Bengal face off||Almost 30 hours after an Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) landed in Kolkata, the West Bengal government facilitated the visit of the members on Tuesday to take stock of the COVID-19 situation. The team remained at the BSF headquarters in the city and was unable to move out till late in the afternoon. The arrival of the two teams from Delhi on Monday allegedly without prior information to the State government, sparked off a tussle between the Centre and the State. While one team landed in the State capital Kolkata, the other is in Jalpaiguri district in north Bengal. With the team unable to move into the field, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) sent a fresh letter to the State government, asking it to “make all necessary arrangements for the IMCTs” even as the State government maintained its stand that such a team should have been sent only after consultations. In the letter to West Bengal Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said the two IMCTs had not been provided with the requisite co-operation by the State and local authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ministerial-team-waits-as-centre-west-bengal-face-off/article31401482.ece
22 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||5 of those arrested for Moradabad attack test positive for COVID-19||Five persons who were charged with attacking a health department team in Moradabad on April 15 have tested positive for COVID-19. “Eighteen persons were arrested in connection with the attack. As they all hailed from a COVID-19 hotspot, their samples were taken in jail and sent to a government lab in Lucknow. The report has come today [Tuesday] and five of them have tested positive,” said M.C. Garg, Chief Medical Officer, Moradabad. “The police personnel and other staff who came in contact with them have been quarantined.” The 18 persons, including seven women, were arrested for allegedly attacking health workers who had gone to the Nawabpura area in the city to take family members of a COVID-19-positive patient into isolation. They hurled stones at an ambulance, injuring a doctor and three paramedics, and also damaged a police vehicle in the process. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath termed the attack “unpardonable” and said those behind it will face action under the National Security Act. On Tuesday, three more persons succumbed to the contagion, taking the total number of deaths in Moradabad to five. According to a health department official, the district has 73 COVID-19-positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5-of-those-arrested-for-moradabad-attack-test-positive-for-covid-19/article31401667.ece
22 April 2020||CHENNAI,||76 new cases, one death in T.N.||With 76 persons testing positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, the State’s tally of cases has gone up to 1,596. One person died of the disease in Chennai, while 178 persons were discharged from hospitals across the State. A 70-year-old man, who tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), died, taking the total number of deaths due to COVID-19 to 18. Doctors said he had co-morbidities. He was referred from a private hospital and admitted to RGGGH on April 19, according to hospital authorities. Chennai reported the highest number of fresh cases with 55 persons (two primary and 53 contacts) testing positive for COVID-19. This included 27 employees of a television network in Royapuram. With this, the city now accounts for 358 COVID-19 cases, followed by Coimbatore with 134 and Tiruppur with 109 cases. Five persons in Tenkasi, four in Villupuram, three each in Chengalpattu and Thanjavur, two in Kallakurichi and one each in Coimbatore, Namakkal, Tiruvarur and Kancheepuram are among the new cases. Except 10 districts, no new cases were reported in the other 25 districts that have COVID-19 cases. The State has a total of 940 active cases. With the discharge of another 178 persons, the total number of persons who have been discharged after two subsequent tests return negative for COVID-19 has increased to 635. On Tuesday, 48 persons were discharged from the Karur Government Medical College Hospital, 31 from Coimbatore ESI Medical College Hospital, 26 from Government Stanley Medical College Hospital and 20 each from Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, and Government Vellore Medical College Hospital, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. A total of 6,060 samples were tested, taking the total till date to 53,045. Of this, 43,582 samples have tested negative and 1,990 samples are under process. A total of 5,877 samples were repeat samples. With 5,458 individuals tested on Tuesday, the number of individuals tested so far stands at 47,168. A total of 1,917 persons suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to isolation wards of hospitals. Those in home quarantine number 22,254, while 145 persons are in government quarantine facilities. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar held a meeting on the protection of healthcare providers, police and field staff on COVID-19 duty. Representatives of Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association and Indian Medical Association-Tamil Nadu State Branch participated. C.N. Raja, State president of IMA, said that in the event of the death of a doctor in the private or government sector, the last rites should be performed with full police protection. The government should also provide a Rs.50 lakh insurance cover along with solatium in the event of death of a doctor. IMA demanded that those involved in the attack during the burial of neurosurgeon Simon Hercules should be booked under the Goondas Act. Private hospitals that had been closed after reporting COVID-19 cases should be opened after disinfection by health officials, it said, and urged the government to confer special awards on doctors who died fighting COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/76-new-cases-one-death-in-tn/article31401566.ece
22 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Withered roses litter Karnataka fields||Less than six months ago, in November 2019, around 1.45 tonnes of marigold flowers grown on the outskirts of Bengaluru and surrounding districts were flown to the UAE as part of the Dubai Festival City event. Now, the flower farms near Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) in Anneshwara gram panchayat limits are a picture of neglect. The multi-coloured roses, crossandras and golden marigolds that blossomed in the open fields are now infested with pests. The floriculture sector and the rose industry that Bengaluru is famous for are wilting as the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, which will complete 40 days on May 3, have wreaked havoc. In the absence of a market, many farmers on the outskirts of Bengaluru are destroying thousands of rose plants. Guru Kumar, a farmer at Bychapura village in Devanahalli taluk, has destroyed more than 4,000 paneer rose plants. “In the one decade since I entered the floriculture business, I have never faced anything like this. It requires at least Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 10,000 to spray pesticides per week. The daily wage paid to a labourer to pluck flowers is Rs. 500. How can I bear these expenses without any revenue source? I have destroyed all the plants.” Unable to bear the maintenance cost, some farmers have discontinued the weekly spraying of pesticides and the harvesting of flowers. In many places, farmers are dumping piles of flowers. Ramanna, who grows cut roses in Anneshwara gram panchayat limits, said, “This is the season when there is demand for cut roses, not only in Bengaluru, but also in the neighbouring States. Every day, I used to sell more than 100 bunches. I have not been plucking flowers for the past two weeks. My roses are dying in the heat.” The stories of loss barely change from taluk to taluk. Manjunath, a villager at Kambahalli in Hoskote, said, “Like every year, we expected a good market for flowers during Ugadi. But that did not happen. I have dumped all my button roses at a corner of my field.” He scrolled through his phone to show this reporter images of mounds of discarded roses. Across Karnataka, floriculture farming is spread over 11,685 hectares of land, including 659 hectares of polyhouse farming. Arun Kumar and his father Anjanappa, who have polyhouses near the KIA, have discontinued maintenance work. “We grow gerbera and other types of ornamental flowers in the polyhouse. Owing to the lockdown, weddings and other functions are not happening, and thus there is no market for these flowers,” said Mr. Anjanappa. G.M. Diwakar, a floriculture farmer and trader near Sarjapur, pointed out that it was not just farmers who were suffering, but also labourers and others dependent on them. “The lockdown has destroyed the livelihood of thousands of women who make garlands after buying loose flowers from K.R. Market. They have been living without any source of income for a month.” Mr. Diwakar said. He urged the State government to relax the rules at least at the local level to sell flowers. Report soon Rajendra Kumar Kataria, Secretary, Agriculture, Horticulture and Sericulture, told The Hindu that the government was assessing the situation on the ground and a report would be submitted to decide on further action. A senior official from the Horticulture Department said, “We have been advising farmers to retain plants by taking up minimal maintenance work, including reducing pesticide-spraying sessions, so that they continue to rely on the existing plants for revenue sources after the lockdown is lifted.” Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil had said that floriculture farmers in Bengaluru Urban district alone had suffered losses running up yo around Rs. 250 crore after lockdown was imposed. The State government is still buying time to compensate floriculture farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/withered-roses-litter-karnataka-fields/article31401486.ece
22 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||19 of 35 new cases are from Kurnool, Guntur||Kurnool and Guntur districts continue to register new COVID-19 positive cases with each passing day. With two persons succumbing to the disease in Guntur, the toll in the State has gone up to 22. The State registered 35 new cases in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning, and 19 of them were from Kurnool (10) and Guntur (9). The tally in other districts was Kadapa six, West Godavari four, and Krishna and Anantapur three each. With these, the number of positive cases went up to 757. With four persons recovering on the day, the number of those who recovered so far was 96. The number of active cases was 639. Meanwhile, for the second time, the State tested more than 5,000 samples in a single day. So far, Kurnool reported 184 cases and Guntur 158. They were followed by Krishna (83), Nellore (67), Chittoor (53), Kadapa (46), Prakasam (44), West Godavari (39), Anantapur (36), East Godavari (26), and Visakhapatnam (21). PM Garib Kalyan Meanwhile, the State government extended the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package to the 2.6 lakh village and ward volunteers in the State. The Health Department issued a circular in this regard to the Panchayat Raj Department, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/19-of-35-new-cases-are-from-kurnool-guntur/article31401474.ece
22 April 2020||KALABURAGI,||Kalaburagi records fourth COVID-19 death||Kalaburagi district recorded its fourth COVID-19 death on Tuesday, after an 80-year-old resident of the city died of coronavirus infection. The district also recorded two more COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday — P-412 (a 29-year- old male) and P-413 (a 61-year-old male). The officials are now tracing the travel and contact history of both these persons. With this, the total number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district stands at 30. As many as 147 persons, including the 18 on Tuesday, have been admitted to isolation wards till now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kalaburagi-records-fourth-covid-19-death/article31401702.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||2 Cong. rebels find a place in M.P. Cabinet||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday expanded his Cabinet for the first time by inducting five Ministers, two of them Congress rebels who joined the BJP, nearly a month after taking charge. The new Ministers, three of them sitting MLAs and two former legislators, were sworn-in by Governor Lalji Tandon at a low-key ceremony at the Raj Bhawan here. Among the new entrants are former Congress MLAs Tulsi Silawat and Govind Singh Rajput — supporters of former Union Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, who along with 22 MLAs quit the Congress last month to join the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-cong-rebels-find-a-place-in-mp-cabinet/article31401480.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||New drug to be tested||Can a drug used to treat sepsis be deployed for COVID-19 patients? Sepsivac, developed by Cadilla Pharmaceuticals and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, will be tested in 50 patients at the All-India Institute of Medical Scien- ces in Delhi and Bhopal, and the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-drug-to-be-tested/article31401468.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Navy awaits test results||Naval authorities in Mumbai feel that the number of COVID-19 cases among sailors is only going to increase as the test results of several personnel at INS Angre, a  shore-based logistics and administrative support establishment, is expected any time. Last week, 26 personnel had tested positive. The source of the contagion is an ex-serviceman.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/navy-awaits-test-results/article31401469.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Hunger pangs||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hunger-pangs/article31401471.ece
22 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Vizag will be capital, COVID can’t stop it: Vijaya Sai||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is determined to make Visakhapatnam the capital city and there is no stopping it, YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has said. “But when will it happen is for the Chief Minister to decide,” he said on Tuesday. He was reacting to reports in a section of the media that said the government was trying to hide facts on the number of COVID-19 positive cases in Visakhapatnam and purposefully showing it low to enable a swift shift of the capital. ‘False propaganda’ “There is no need to hide facts, or project Vizag as a safe city by showing a low count. Facts cannot be hidden in such a pandemic and, moreover, it has been decided to make Vizag the capital, and even COVID-19 cannot stop it,” Mr. Reddy asserted, and accused TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu of resorting to a false propaganda in this regard. “Lockdown in all the containment zones will continue till May 3, and there will be partial relaxation in the other areas,” he said. On extension of the lockdown, he said, “The Centre has given us broad guidelines, basing on which we have formed ours.” Referring to economic revival, he said efforts were on to shore up revenues and bring down expenditure. “No welfare scheme will be stopped,” he made it clear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vizag-will-be-capital-covid-cant-stop-it-vijaya-sai/article31401475.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||Will provide free ration to half of Delhi: CM||The Delhi government will give 2,000 food coupons each to every MLA and MP in the city for distribution of ration to those who do not have any ID card, said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday. He said the Delhi government will give free ration to an additional 30 lakh people who have applied online for ration cards. “The Delhi government has decided to give free ration to around 30 lakh people who do not have ration cards. This way we will give free ration to around 1 crore people. Delhi has a population of 2 crore and we will give free ration to half of its population,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-provide-free-ration-to-half-of-delhi-cm/article31401670.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||75 new COVID-19 cases reported in Delhi||Seventy-five new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases to 2,156, according to the Delhi government. Of the total cases, 611 have recovered and 1,498 are still under treatment. No death was reported on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/75-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-delhi/article31401663.ece
22 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam begins releasing ‘declared foreigners’||The border wing of Assam Police has begun releasing “declared foreigners” who completed two years. The Gauhati High Court had on April 15 set a seven-day deadline for the conditional release of “declared foreigners”, as per the Supreme Court’s order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-begins-releasing-declared-foreigners/article31401664.ece
22 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Doctor suspended in AMU’s medical college||An associate professor of the Department of Medicine in AMU’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital has been suspended for negligence and misconduct. The suspension has come after a person admitted to JNMC tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/doctor-suspended-in-amus-medical-college/article31401665.ece
22 April 2020||RAICHUR,||Agri War Room inaugurated||University of Agriculture Sciences (UAS), Raichur, inaugurated an Agri War Room on its campus in Raichur on Tuesday, to help farmers of Kalyana Karnataka with solutions to farm-related issues, including marketing. The war room, with toll free number 18004250470, will work between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. The university also launched a Raita Setu Sanchari vehicle (Ph: 741187187) through which vegetables and fruits will be bought from farmers and sold to customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/agri-war-room-inaugurated/article31401704.ece
22 April 2020||UDUPI,||Directive on drugs based on paracetamol||To check the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, the Assistant Drugs Controller has directed all retail chemists in Udupi district against selling paracetamol-based drugs for symptoms such as cough, cold, fever, tiredness, difficulties in breathing without a doctor’s prescription. A press release here on Tuesday said that all chemists and druggists should maintain records such as names of patients, names of doctors, their addresses and mobile phone numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/directive-on-drugs-based-on-paracetamol/article31401705.ece
22 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Schools, colleges told not to demand fees||The State government has directed all private colleges and schools not to compel students or their parents to pay fees for the 2020-21 academic year or collect dues during the lockdown period. It was brought to the notice of the government that some private colleges had been demanding fees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-colleges-told-not-to-demand-fees/article31401570.ece
22 April 2020||Chennai,||CM assures support to front-line staff||A day after the burial of a doctor, who died after testing COVID-19 positive, was violently prevented by local residents, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday assured all governmental support to front-line staff in the fight against the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-assures-support-to-front-line-staff/article31401568.ece
22 April 2020||Chennai,||Committtees to audit COVID-19 deaths||The Health Department has constituted State-level and district-level committees to audit all deaths caused due to COVID-19.This would help to understand the circumstan-ces that led to the death and lapses, if any, in prevention and case management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/committtees-to-audit-covid-19-deaths/article31401569.ece
22 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||CBDT sticks with Budget’s tax target||Even as the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown to combat it has brought the economy to a near standstill, the Centre has gone ahead and set its Income Tax authorities a daunting target of collecting Rs. 13.2 lakh crore for the fiscal year ending in March 2021. In a correspondence to all Principal Chief Commissioners of Income Tax (PCCIT) dated April 16, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has spelt out zone wise targets for the collection of corporate tax, personal income tax and security transaction tax (STT). The figures, which are a reiteration of the revenue receipt estimates spelt out by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the Union Budget presented in February, comrprise a corporation tax component of Rs. 6.81 lakh crore, personal income tax of Rs. 6.25 lakh crore and STT at Rs. 13,000 crore. “The budget target of each cadre controlling PCCIT has been fixed keeping in view the revenue potential of each region, which is based on the weighted average growth rate of net collections of last three years, giving highest weight to the immediately preceding year,” the CBDT said in its letter. After the budget, Revenue Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey had said that a budgeted 12% growth in tax collections may look ambitious to some but was achievable in an economy projected to clock a 10% nominal GDP growth. However, the pandemic has emerged as the single biggest challenge to the economy and the IMF earlier this month cut its projection for India’s annual GDP growth in the current fiscal year to 1.9%, from an earlier forecast for a 5.8% expansion. A senior income tax officer confirmed having received the CBDT letter with details of zone wise targets but declined to comment on whether the target was achievable. “You see the current environment and judge for yourself,” quipped the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Several tax consultants told The Hindu that the Revenue Department and the CBDT would have little choice than to revise downward the zone wise targets handed out to the tax bureaucracy. “No way it can be achieved in such a challenging environment with a variety of factors like the massive hit to the economy and massive lay-offs of employees in the corporate sector,” a top tax expert from Ahmedabad said, declining to be identified. Another expert from Mumbai said that the personal income tax collection would be affected hugely because most of the companies had cut salaries of employees or sent the employees on furlough (leave without pay). “All airlines, hospitality companies and several others have cut salaries and sent the employees on rotation basis on furlough, so that will hit the tax collections very badly,” he added. An entrepreneur running a mid-size manufacturing unit in Ahmedabad even expressed apprehensions of “tax terrorism” if the Ministry of Finance did not revise the targets given to the field offices of the tax department. “I sincerely hope the government will have a second look at the figures, otherwise field officials will go aggressive targeting businessmen and corporates,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbdt-sticks-with-budgets-tax-target/article31401405.ece
22 April 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra records 552 fresh cases||Maharashtra reported an identical surge of 552 new COVID-19 cases in less than 72 hours as its tally soared past the 5,000-mark on Tuesday to reach 5,218 cases, while 19 new fatalities took the State’s death toll to 252. The State had recorded a spike of precisely 552 fresh novel coronavirus cases on Sunday as well, making both instances the highest single-day surge across Maharashtra so far. The State has reported nearly 1,600 new cases over a 72-hour period. Twelve of the 19 deaths were reported from Mumbai city, while four fatalities were reported from Pune district, including one from Pimpri-Chinchwad. Two deaths were reported from Thane district, while State health officials finally confirmed the death of a 47-year-old district cooperative bank official in Sangli in their medical bulletin. The patient had succumbed to acute respiratory failure at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Miraj on Sunday evening. “A total of 63% of the deaths reported had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Despite the rapid surge in cases, 150 patients were discharged from hospitals on Tuesday, taking the number of recovered cases in the State to 722. Overwhelming number In a familiar pattern, the overwhelming majority of new cases (419) was reported from Mumbai alone, as the city’s tally shot to 3,451 cases with 151 deaths. Pune district witnessed another bout of fresh cases, reporting as many as 53 cases to take the district’s tally to 726, with 51 being reported from Pimpri-Chinchwad. The district’s death toll stands at 55, with two fatalities being reported from Pimpri-Chinchwad. According to Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation Commissioner Shravan Hardikar, no fresh case has been reported in the past 48 hours. The second death reported from Pimpri-Chinchwad was of a 62-year-old wife of an ex-Army jawan. A glimmer of hope amid the State’s relentless rise in cases was the fact that no new cases were reported from Latur, Osmanabad, Washim and Hingoli districts in Maharashtra’s rural hinterland. “Currently, 93,569 people across the State are in home quarantine and 7,808 persons in institutional quarantine,” said Dr. Awate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-records-552-fresh-cases/article31401413.ece
22 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Drug for sepsis to be tested for COVID-19||Can a drug used to treat severe sepsis be deployed for critically ill COVID-19 patients? Sepsivac, a drug jointly developed by the Ahmedabad-based Cadilla Pharmaceuticals and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), will be tested in 50 COVID-19 patients at the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi and Bhopal, and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh. Results from a human trial are expected in the next two months, Ram Vishwakarma, Director, Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine, Jammu, told The Hindu . IIIM is a CSIR laboratory and was involved in the early development of Sepsivac. Sepsivac was originally developed for treating sepsis by a class of pathogens called gram negative bacteria, that are known to cause life-threatening infections. Given the similarities in the immune-system response in critically ill COVID-19 patients, it is theorised, the therapy could stimulate a benign response. A large quantity of cytokines, chemicals signalling the presence of an infection, are produced in the early stages of the body’s response against an infection to stimulate the production of antibodies. However, cytokines also cause inflammation of organs and can be counter-productive in protecting the body. Keeping them in check is the goal of so called immuno-modulators, or medicines like Sepsivac. “The advantage is that we have a ready made product and can be put into trials. We already have an approval for phase-3 [large trials] and can be scaled up if it shows promise,” Dr. Vishwakarma added. The drug uses the Mycobacterium w (formally known as mycobacterium indicus pranii) as it produces a different immune-system response. Previous randomised trials in sepsis patients showed 11% absolute reduction and 55.5% relative reduction in mortality. Sepsivac reduces the days on ventilator, in ICU and hospital and incidence of secondary infection, Cadilla Pharmaceuticals have claimed on their website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drug-for-sepsis-to-be-tested-for-covid-19/article31401430.ece
22 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Secularism not subject to politics’||Union Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Tuesday said secularism as an Indian value was a “perfect passion” in the country and not, as some assumed, subject to “political fashion”. Mr. Naqvi’s statement, after he spoke to leaders of Muslim groups to send out messages of “at home” observance of the Ramzan fasting, comes a day after India’s Ambassador to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) Pawan Kapoor defended India’s record on secularism. Mr. Kapoor’s intervention came when prominent sections of the UAE’s ruling class took exception to divisive and anti-Muslim social media posts by Indians. Mr. Naqvi reiterated that constitutional, social and religious rights of all the citizens, including the minorities, were India’s constitutional and moral guarantees. “Traditional and professional bogus bashing brigades are still active in conspiracy to spread misinformation. We should remain cautious of such evil forces and we need to work united to defeat their nefarious misinformation propaganda,” he said. Fake news There was need to remain cautious of any type of fake news and conspiracies aimed at creating misinformation. “The authorities have been working for the safety and well-being of all citizens of the country. Such type of rumours and conspiracies are a nefarious design to weaken the fight against corona. We should work united to win this fight against corona by defeating any type of rumour, misinformation and conspiracy,” he said. “All the Muslim religious leaders, imams, religious and social organisations and the Muslim community have jointly decided to offer prayers and perform other religious rituals during the holy month of Ramzan, which will start from 24th April, staying inside their home,” he said. Ramzan strategy More than 30 State waqf boards had “started working on the strategy to ensure strict and honest implementation of the lockdown, curfew and social distancing during Ramzan with the coordination and cooperation of all the Muslim religious leaders, imams, religious and social organisations, the Muslim community and local administration. The entire country had been fighting united against the COVID-19 pandemic. A decision was taken last week during a meeting of all the State waqf boards through video conferencing under the chairmanship of Mr. Naqvi that all the boards would ensure strict and honest implementation of the lockdown, curfew and social distancing during Ramzan. Regulatory body It is to be noted that more than 7 lakh registered mosques, eidgah, imambada, dargah and other religious and social institutions come under the State waqf boards across the country. The Central Waqf Council is the regulatory body for State waqf boards. “In view of the challenges of Corona pandemic, all the religious-social activities and mass gathering in all the temples, gurdwaras, churches and other religious & social places of the country have been stopped,” he said, highlighting the universal nature of such prohibitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/secularism-not-subject-to-politics/article31401402.ece
22 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Address daily wagers’ problems: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to take steps as it deems fit to resolve “issues” raised by activist Harsh Mander concerning migrant workers, which include lack of basic amenities and payment of minimum wages. A Bench led by Justice N.V. Ramana observed in a two-page order that “taking into consideration the material placed before us, we call upon the respondent, Union of India, to look into such material and take such steps as it finds fit to resolve the issues raised in the petition [by Mr. Mander].” The petition, represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan, had sought the Centre and the States to jointly and severally ensure payments of wages/minimum wages to migrant workers within a week. Mr. Bhushan, in the hearing held through videoconferencing, submitted that despite governmental measures, thousands of labourers still lack access to basic amenities. He further argued that studies conducted by NGOs indicate that there were several areas where the aid was not reaching to migrant workers. On the contrary, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta referred to a status report filed by the Union Home Ministry to submit that measures were in place to address the issues concerning migrant workers. He said helpline numbers had been provided to report issues concerning the implementation at the ground level. He submitted that the authorities will address the issues immediately in case a complaint is made on the helpline. Direct benefit transfer schemes were already in place, he said. At one point, Mr. Mehta asked why the petitioners, instead of filing petitions, are not helping to better the conditions of the workers. Mr. Bhushan replied that the petitioner has already volunteered and helped, but cannot be expected to feed 15 lakh people. He quoted from a study to say 89% of the surveyed people have not received payments since the lockdown was imposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/address-daily-wagers-problems-sc/article31401436.ece
22 April 2020||Kolkata,||Bastar tribes keep virus at bay||In the deepest villages of south Chattisgarh, partly dominated by the outlawed Communist Party of India-Maoist (CPI-Maoist), the people have adopted a plan to resist COVID-19. They have set up makeshift check posts and are not letting outsiders into the village. Instead, they are arranging to quarantine the “outsiders” — local residents who went out to work — on the periphery of the village. The umbrella organisation of the tribals, Sarva Adivasi Samaj (SAS), is in the forefront of the initiative and Maoists are cooperating actively. Not one case of coronavirus infection has been reported from the Bastar division that has a population of about three million. At this time of the year, thousands from the districts of the Bastar Division walk all the way to the Telangana or Andhra Pradesh border to pluck chilli. Following the lockdown, “hundreds returned to their village,” said the vice-president of SAS in Bastar Division, Dhiraj Rada. The tribals kept the outsiders away from the village without being hostile. “In the forest, under a banyan tree, in a school or Anganwadi (rural children’s day care), the villagers set up a shack to house their returning friends and family members. Ration is provided during the quarantine period,” said Mr. Rada. Check posts have been set up to keep them on the periphery of the forest villages. Police posts are on the main road. “Trainings are conducted so that health activists can run awareness campaigns in Gondi and Halbi, two key languages of Bastar,” Mr. Rada said. He, however, claims that it would have been impossible to carry out the programme without the support of the Maoists. “Party people gave us access to forest villages. Usually they do not let us go into areas they control,” he said. He believes that village Sarpanches have had a word with the party people. “Maoists, of course, realised that COVID may affect them as well,” Mr. Rada said. Tribal leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party and former MP Nandkumar Sai and Bastar journalists, Kamal Shukla and Mangal Kunjam, all admitted that “without the tacit support of the Maoists smooth quarantine management would have been impossible. Deputy Inspector General of Bastar Range Sundarraj P, however, disagrees. “The initiative is not influenced by the Maoists. Tribals have a traditional practice of restricting unnecessary movement from one village to another during festivals, which has helped,” asserted Mr Sundarraj. While the forces were monitoring vehicular movements in urban and rural areas, tribals had managed the quarantine well inside the forest, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bastar-tribes-keep-virus-at-bay/article31401449.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Pockets with lower contact intensity can have relatively shorter lockdown’||Vipul Mathur , faculty, Economic Group, Indian Institute of Management-Calcutta, has come up with a formula for exiting the COVID-19 lockdown based on a “contact intensity principle of employees”, which is being widely discussed. Excerpts from an interview.  In your paper, you have spoken of the proximity model for assessing economic activity in order to make a staggered exit from the lockdown. Please explain. Now, there are many ways to slice the question of exit strategy. One of the first things that immediately come to the mind is to identify the geographical hotspots of infections. Districts that have a higher proportion of cases should perhaps continue in a longer lockdown relative to districts which have a much lower proportion of infected cases. Now, this approach largely makes sense but it is an incomplete idea. Let me elaborate. Imagine two districts, A and B, which are almost identical in every dimension but are radically different in two aspects: first, district A has a far higher number of infected cases than district B and second, every person in district A has to go to an office but can accomplish his job without interacting with anyone whereas in district B, everyone still has to go to an office but is required to work in teams in a face-to-face interaction setting. Now if one were to only consider the infections data, it would make sense to keep district A in a longer lockdown and allow the lockdown to be lifted in district B. But what would ensue after the lockdown is lifted in district B? Since people in district B work in a face-to-face setting, they have to naturally interact with each other, and therefore, the originally asymptomatic persons can likely infect their respective team members. And soon enough, the symptomatic infected cases would exponentially increase in district B, forcing it go into lockdown once again. Eventually, the economy gets shut down in both the districts and also there are more casualties in district B. Now imagine if a counter-intuitive policy was enacted: if instead of district B, the lockdown was lifted in district A. Then people in District A would have gone to the offices and got the jobs done, and yet the infected cases would have stayed roughly the same as before because people in District A don’t have to interact with anyone else to perform their respective jobs. The economy would be up and running in District A without the number of casualties increasing in either of the districts. Clearly, the original policy, which was arrived at by only considering the infected cases, leads to a worse situation than what the two districts started with. There is an important message here: by only considering the infection data and without considering the extent of economic interactions, the lockdown policy can lead to contradictory outcomes! So what’s the way out? Now, the actual economy we live in is somewhere in between the hypothetical cases of districts A and B and this economy is composed of myriad of activities. Every such economic activity is different in terms of the frequency with which one has to interact with other economic agents, especially in a face-to-face setting: a barber’s occupation involves more contact relative to say, a mathematician. Of course, in our daily lives we depend not only on our interactions with barbers and mathematicians but also everything in between. I have attempted to quantify the extent of all such economic interactions — formally referred to as economic contact intensity — at the level of the district and economic sector by using firm-level data of the entire universe of Indian firms. I identify pockets which have lower economic contact intensity and, all else being equal, can be preferred to have a relatively lower lockdown. How many districts have low proximity business? I have assessed this via the data provided by the CMIE (Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy). On that basis, district level distribution is relatively more compact than the economy sector-wise distribution, naturally because a typical district contact intensity is an aggregation over a diversified set of economy sectors. However, there are some 85 districts which can be classified to have a very low contact intensity, whereas some 40 districts are really high contact intensity environment. The rest have a combination, and have to be nuanced. Which sectors have low proximity business? Sectors such as forestry, fishing, heavy machinery, machine tools, finance, insurance, business services and consultancy, telecommunications, IT, electricity, gas and water supply are of relatively lower contact intensity. Sectors such as education, banking, while being mid-to-high contact intensive, can be remodelled to a work-from-environment and therefore can be operated with a low contact intensity. How to turn around small businesses like hair salons and restaurants? The data tells us that small businesses have hugely variable proximity numbers. Businesses such as travel agents, photographers, food and beverages, personal care services and restaurants have high contact intensive businesses. Certain other businesses like gems and jewellery, bakery products, computer peripherals and poultry are low-to-mid contact intensive. The small businesses have to obey the usual protocols of temperature check, masks. Are the real estate, commercial and housing sectors dead? Construction is an important employment generator but is also a mid-to-high contact intensity sector. It also relies heavily on allied sectors such as transportation, which are also high intensity. So, there is a multiplier effect here and that makes it a really tricky sector. We might have to keep the lid on it for a relatively longer period of time, and until then, the firms in construction will have to be supported through extension of the moratorium period and workers will have to supported by pure and simple cash transfers. Fiscal transfers, which would redistribute resources from low contact intensity pockets to high intensity pockets, can be instituted to even out the asymmetric cost implications. Malls and retail — how do you see their future? Unfortunately, we will have to be very careful with the malls, merchandise stores and large-scale retail outlets. The crux of their business depends upon the footfall, which makes these sectors highly contact intensive. I think this is where technology will have to step in. The local malls will have to transpose themselves to a virtual space where the consumers can shop in. Instead of the consumers converging at a mall, the mall will have to diverge to the consumers. That is the only way to dilute the contact intensity. Contact intensity cannot be the only variable for opening up the economy, however. I think of the exit plan for lockdown as a number lock which has multiple digits that have to be cued in. The lock gets opened only through the right combination of the digit keys, each set at their respective optimum value or cut-off. The usual standard keys we know of, are indicators such as infection rate, population density, output share, per capita income, etc. The novel digit that I attempt to add to this list, is that of economic contact intensity that reflects the extent of proximity that is required to perform a job. When set right in conjunction with other keys, the magic may indeed happen.  I think of the exit plan as a number lock which has multiple digits that have to be cued in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pockets-with-lower-contact-intensity-can-have-relatively-shorter-lockdown/article31401441.ece
22 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat sees 239 new cases, 19 deaths||Novel coronavirus infections continued unabated in Gujarat, adding 239 cases and 19 deaths on Tuesday, bringing the State to the second position in both the number of cases (2,178) and deaths (90), after neighbouring Maharashtra. On Tuesday, as many as 15 deaths were recorded in Ahmedabad alone, which is the single largest cluster with 1,373 cases and 53 deaths so far, two in Surat, and one each in Bharuch and Bhavnagar. Only eight patients were discharged from the State after recovery, suggesting that the recovery rate is very slow, while new cases and casualties are surging. So far, only 139 patients have recovered and been discharged from hospitals. The pandemic has now spread to as many as 28 out of 33 districts in the State. According to the Health Department’s data, as of Tuesday, there were 14 critically ill COVID-19 patients on ventilator support, while 1,935 are stable. The State has so far tested 36,829 samples. Fourteen government laboratories and four private labs have been approved for carrying out tests by the Indian Council for Medical Research. “The State has been witnessing a spike in infections and deaths, both extremely worrisome factors for Maharashtra,” a State government official told The Hindu . He added that the situation is worsening in Ahmedabad and to some extent in Surat, the largest cities in the State. Expand capacity To deal with the surge in cases, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has now decided to expand the capacity of its main S.P.V. Hospital from 500 beds to 1,000 beds, while it has also created a 2,000-bed COVID-19 care centre at the University hostel campus, where patients with mild symptoms are treated, whereas serious patients are admitted in the SPV Hospital. In Surat, so far, 347 cases have been reported, alongside 12 casualties. Meanwhile, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic spreading to more areas of the State, the government has roped in five senior IAS officers and rushed them to various districts to oversee arrangements, and monitor how the local authorities are dealing with the evolving epidemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-sees-239-new-cases-19-deaths/article31401417.ece
22 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||Death toll in U.P. increases to 21||The COVID-19 death toll in U.P. hit 21 on Tuesday with three cases, two in Moradabad and one in Aligarh, as per the UP Directorate of Health Services. The number of positive cases also climbed to 1,337 with 153 new ones in the last 24 hours. The highest rise was recorded in Agra (65) and Rae Bareli (33), while Kanpur and Moradabad each reported 15 since Monday. Previously negative The fresh cases included 33 from Rae Bareli where persons kept under quarantine who had tested negative earlier now tested positive. Speaking about this at a press briefing here, Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department, Awanish Awasthi said, “[We] got the benefit of keeping people under quarantine as precaution.” Mr. Awasthi, however, did not provide details. With 306 positive cases and six deaths, Agra continues to be the worst-affected district in the State so far while Lucknow is in the second place with 169 cases. The cases have been reported in 53 of the 75 districts. Ten have been declared “corona-free”. Samples tested The State has so far sent 37,933 samples for testing. With 1,154 active cases and after experimenting with pool testing at the King George’s Medical University here, the government has now also started it at the LLRM Medical College in Meerut and plans to have it in the SGPGI Lucknow too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/death-toll-in-up-increases-to-21/article31401419.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||@CovidIndiaSeva launched||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday launched the ‘COVID India Seva’, an interactive platform to establish a direct channel of communication during the pandemic. The initiative is aimed at enabling transparent e-governance delivery in real-time and answering citizen queries swiftly, at scale, especially in crisis situations like the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, an official statement said. Through this, people can pose queries @CovidIndiaSeva and get answers in almost real time. The @CovidIndiaSeva works off a dashboard at the backend that helps process large volumes of tweets, converts them into resolvable tickets and assigns them to the relevant authority for real-time resolution, the statement said. “Trained experts will share authoritative public health information swiftly at scale, helping to build a direct channel for communication with citizens,” the Minister said in a tweet. Over time, Twitter has proved to be an essential service for both the government and citizens to interact and exchange information, especially in times of need,” Mr. Vardhan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covidindiaseva-launched/article31401426.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Why are oil prices in negative terrain?||The story so far: Prices of West Texas Intermediate (WTI), the American benchmark for crude oil, fell to less than zero in Monday’s trade. The price of a barrel of WTI fell to minus, yes, that’s right, minus $37.63 a barrel. What this means is that sellers have to pay buyers to get rid of their crude! This is unprecedented in the oil market, even accounting for its notoriety for being volatile. Why did prices fall like this? We need to understand a bit of oil market and trading dynamics here. WTI oil is traded as futures contracts in the NYMEX (New York Mercantile Exchange) where traders buy and sell monthly futures such as, for instance, May futures, June futures and so on. The sellers of such futures will have to deliver a barrel of crude oil at the contracted price in the contracted month just as buyers will have to take delivery at the contracted date. As with all trading in commodities, there’s a huge speculative participation in oil futures trading too. So speculators buy and sell contracts with no intention of taking delivery (in the case of buyers) or offering delivery (in the case of sellers) of the physical oil, on the contracted date. These speculators have to unwind their “positions” on the contract expiry date. If they fail to do so, they will have to take physical delivery of the crude oil on the contracted date. What happened on Monday was that speculators who had taken large bets on May futures began to unwind their “positions”. This was because the futures contracts are set to expire today, Tuesday. Those not intending to take physical delivery have to square off their contracts before the expiry date. So, speculators who did not want to take delivery in May proceeded to unwind their “positions,” leading to the massive fall in prices. It could be that these were financial speculators who never take physical delivery and hence closed their contracts. Or, these could also be delivery-based traders backing out as the bottom has fallen off demand for oil. In reality, it would be a combination of both categories of traders. The bottomline, though, is that prices fell as demand for oil is falling and the world, especially America, is running out of storage space. May WTI futures prices went negative but June futures prices are still at $20.43 a barrel. Why? This could be due to two reasons. Traders expect demand to recover by June as lockdowns are lifted across the world and economic activity resumes. Second, traders also expect that storage space may be created as existing inventory is drawn down. America is also talking of adding to their strategic storage by taking advantage of the low prices. This could create demand for oil. Finally, contract expiry for June contracts is still a few weeks away, giving speculators that much more time to speculate. Market reports talk about contango trades in the oil market. What do they mean? Simply put, contango kicks in when prices of a commodity in the futures market are considerably higher for deliveries many months later, compared to prices for immediate delivery. For instance, while May oil futures are negative and June is at $20.43 a barrel, November futures for the same grade of oil ended at a hefty $31.66 a barrel on Monday. Contango trades happen when traders anticipate a surge or rise in demand and value the commodity higher for the future. So, why can’t traders buy cheap oil now and store them for release in future when demand and prices rise? That’s exactly what traders are now doing. Such a practice became famous during Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait in 1990 when a trader took massive positions at cheap prices ahead of the invasion and sold them when prices rose after the invasion. Oil was stored in tankers floating on the sea and unloaded at considerably higher prices. Traders are doing the same now. Year-long hiring contracts for VLCC (very large crude carriers) that can store up to 2 million barrels of oil are soaring through the roof. According to a report in the Wall Street Journal , VLCC hiring charges for year-long contracts are now at $72,500 a day, compared to $30,500 a day a year ago.  The prices of Brent grade are still at $20.58 a barrel for May futures. What’s the reason for the difference? Brent oil has traditionally quoted higher than WTI with the gulf being about $6-7 a barrel between the two. Brent is a superior grade produced in the North Sea off the British coast and is the accepted benchmark for this part of the world. The market that it serves is considerably larger than that of the United States and demand is, therefore, higher. Transporting oil from the U.S. to Asia is not economical thus limiting the scope for the WTI grade. Refineries in Europe are configured for Brent rather than WTI. Prices of Brent are therefore always higher than that of WTI. Importantly, unlike WTI futures on NYMEX, Brent futures traded in London can be settled by cash when the contract expires. In other words, a trader who has bought oil for May delivery is not forced to take physical delivery of the oil but can settle the contract in cash. This big difference between WTI and Brent has ensured that Brent futures will not crash like that of WTI. How is India benefiting from this price crash? In two ways. First, the oil import bill will fall sharply this fiscal year, giving tremendous relief to the government on the external account front. With merchandise exports from India badly hit due to the lockdown in the West, foreign exchange earnings are under pressure. With oil prices falling and foreign exchange outgo reducing, the pressure on the current account balance is off. In fact, we may be looking at a positive balance in the current account if global economic recovery is quick and our exports recover. Second, India is quietly building up its strategic reserves, taking advantage of the cheap prices. India has a capacity to hold over 39 million barrels of oil at its strategic reserves in Visakhapatnam, Mangalore and Padur, near Udupi. These are underground salt caverns converted and built to store crude oil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-are-oil-prices-in-negative-terrain/article31401434.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||Withdraw case against The Hindu journalist: Guild||The Editors Guild of India has called the action taken by law enforcement agencies against The Hindu journalist Peerzada Ashiq and freelance photographer Masrat Zahra an “indirect way of intimidating journalists across the country.” The Guild has demanded that the Union Territory administration of Jammu and Kashmir withdraw the charges against both Mr. Ashiq and Ms. Zahra forthwith. Expressing shock at the FIR filed against Mr. Ashiq for a news story and slapping the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act against Ms. Zahra for social media posts, the Editors Guild, in a statement here, said, “Any recourse to such laws for merely publishing something in the mainstream or social media is a gross misuse of power. Its only purpose can be to strike terror into journalists.” Mere social media posts of factual pictures can’t attract the toughest anti-terror laws passed for hardened terrorists. “And in the case of The Hindu reporter, the correct course was to escalate the complaint to the newspaper’s Editor,” the Guild said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/withdraw-case-against-the-hindu-journalist-guild/article31401398.ece
22 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Evacuation of people from the U.S. not possible right now’||The government on Tuesday informed the Supreme Court that it was not possible to evacuate stranded people from the United States at this stage of the COVID-19 pandemic. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the government, however told a Bench led by Justice N.V. Ramana that a representation could be made by petitioners regarding “specific vulnerable people” to designated officers listed by the Ministry of External Affairs within the next fortnight. “On such a representation being filed by the petitioners, the authorities concerned are directed to consider the same on its own merits and take appropriate steps to ameliorate the conditions of those in the U.S.A.,” the court ordered. The Bench was hearing petitions, including one filed by senior advocate Vibha Datta Makhija, seeking evacuation of vulnerable Indian citizens from the U.S., particularly those on temporary visas. The Centre had earlier filed a status report setting out steps already taken by it. The court referred to the government’s measures as a “proactive approach.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/evacuation-of-people-from-the-us-not-possible-right-now/article31401395.ece
22 April 2020||Mumbai,||Navy anticipates a rise in cases among sailors in Mumbai||Naval authorities in Mumbai feel that the number of COVID-19 cases among sailors is only going to increase as the test results of several Indian Navy personnel at INS Angre is expected any time.  INS Angre is the shore-based logistics and administrative support establishment of the Western Naval Command. Located at Kala Ghoda in south Mumbai, it is the base depot ship for the Command. Officials said that after a thorough scrutiny, authorities have identified the source of the virus spread. The source of the contagion is now known to be a 55-year-old ex-serviceman living in Navy Nagar. “The ex-serviceman, who tested positive in early April, had come into contact with a foreign-returned civilian in March. One sailor at INS Angre had met this ex-serviceman. He tested positive on April 7. From him, the virus spread to 26 other sailors,” the official said. Given that the sailors live in barracks and consume food at a mess, the number of cases is expected to rise. Many sailors have been tested and the results are awaited. There has so far not been a single COVID-19 case on board any ship, submarine or air station of the Indian Navy. Aggressive testing “The detection of the coronavirus cases is a result of meticulous contact tracing and aggressive screening/testing carried out by the Western Naval Command after one sailor tested positive on April 7. All these sailors continue to remain asymptomatic and are being monitored at the naval hospital INHS Asvini, under the care of the best medical professionals,” Indian Navy spokesperson Commander Mehul Karnik said. Unit sealed Since the sailor tested positive, the entire unit has been sealed off. The INS Angre now has a skeletal crew. “Containment zones and buffer areas have been designated and frequent disinfection continues to be carried out as per protocol to contain the spread by breaking the chain of transmission,” Commander Karnil said. All other areas within the Naval premises have been under strict lockdown, and stringent quarantine and safety protocols have been enforced for personnel and their families, with door-to-door screening being undertaken for identification of cases, if any.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/navy-anticipates-a-rise-in-cases-among-sailors-in-mumbai/article31401415.ece
22 April 2020||Mumbai,||First lot of Indian crew to return today||A total of 144 Indian crew on board U.S. cruise liner Marella Discovery, anchored off Mumbai, will be the first lot of seafarers to return to land on Wednesday. “These 144 Indians will disembark at the Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) and will be subjected to COVID-19 test and remain in quarantine inside the port premises till their reports are received,” MbPT chairman Sanjay Bhatia said. The Goa government said that it would organise transport to fetch the 90 Goan seafarers back to the State once they were approved for travel. The Ministry of Home Affairs on Tuesday night issued the order allowing the sign on and sign off of Indian ship crew. This order will benefit close to 25,000 Indian seafarers. Earlier on Tuesday, the Indian crew on Marella Discovery appealed to the government of India to announce its policy for seafarers immediately, as their ship would set sail for Europe within the next 24 hours. Chris Dodds, the ship’s captain, in an earlier address to the 750 crew, a video of which was reviewed by this reporter, said that they had to draw the line somewhere and return. “The Indian government has been making promises. But there is no direction. Hence, I recommended to the shipping company that we start sailing towards Europe,” Captain Dodds said. The Captain assured sailors from all over the world that he would disembark only after ensuring that the crew got home, a reason why the ship had been in Indian waters for the last 40 days. In a separate video message, Goan seafarers onboard the ship had appealed to the Goa government as a final cry for help to take them home. “We are now desperate as the government has not done anything to get us back for all these days,” Rudraksha Haldankar, a sailor said in a video message.  Frank Viegas of the Goan Seamen’s Association of India in a press conference had warned that there was only one day in hand. “The Goa government needs to take a stand now or else their [seafarers] coffins will fly back from Europe,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/first-lot-of-indian-crew-to-return-today/article31401450.ece
22 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Exemptions given to caregivers, some food processing units||Caregivers for senior citizens, prepaid mobile recharging and some urban food processing units are among the activities exempted from lockdown restrictions, according to a clarification issued by the Home Ministry on Tuesday. In a letter to the Chief Secretaries, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said queries had been received regarding some of the exempted categories listed in the guidelines issued last week. The States were asked to inform district authorities and field agencies about these clarifications. The letter said bedside attendants and caregivers of senior citizens residing in their homes would be exempted under the social sector clause of the previous guidelines. Recharge facilities for prepaid mobile connections would be exempted under the public utilities clause, said Mr. Bhalla. Under the supply of essential goods category, certain food processing units located in urban areas such as bread factories, milk processing plants, flour and dal mills would also be exempted. All types of rural food processing plants are already exempted. All these exemptions have been permitted so long as the standard operating procedure for social distancing and sanitation are followed, in accordance with the previous guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/exemptions-given-to-caregivers-some-food-processing-units/article31401432.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Huge spike in cases likely in Mumbai: Central panel||“We are taking the projections with a pinch of salt even as we do not wish to discard them completely. The response of the State is now scaled up keeping in mind these numbers. Overall, the basis of using a Doubling Rate of 3.8 days has been questioned by us and not factoring in discharge patients and our methods of isolating high risk patients while drawing these projections,” said a senior Maharashtra bureaucrat. Several models A senior State health official told The Hindu that several models were being used for projections of COVID-19 cases to gauge Maharashtra’s preparedness based on these projections. “All the models have derived varied results. Some predicted at least a lakh cases over the next few weeks while some have predicted a staggering explosion with several lakh of cases,” said the official, adding that some of the figures seemed exaggerated and misleading. “The State, as well as the Centre, is equally puzzled. We are all confused about which estimate to go by. However, it was decided to take a slightly higher projection and work on those statistics in order to be better prepared rather than being under-prepared,” he said. The official also said the Government of India has now made its own tool that is currently being used in Maharashtra. “We are already in the process of carrying out a gap analysis based on the projections made by the new tool,” he said. Epicentre of outbreak Mumbai, which has become the epicentre of the outbreak with the highest number of cases and deaths, is the State’s biggest concern. Of the 5,218 cases recorded in Maharashtra, 66% were in Mumbai alone. The city also contributed to 60% of the 251 deaths in the State. The decision to convert the tertiary care Nair Hospital, attached to a medical college, into a COVID-19 facility taking large empty areas and converting them in quarantine facilities have all stemmed from anticipating the worst. “We are preparing for the worse as Mumbai continues to be at the peak. The city’s density poses a challenge,” said a doctor who is on the newly formed task force by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/huge-spike-in-cases-likely-in-mumbai-central-panel/article31401397.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Ministerial team waits as Centre-Bengal face off||“It was informed that they have been specifically restrained from making any visits, interacting with health professionals, and assessing the ground level situation. This amounts to obstructing the implementation of the Orders issued by the Central Government under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and equally binding directions of the Supreme Court of India,” Mr. Bhalla said. However, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had expressed strong objections to the visit of central teams and wrote a letter to the Prime Minister calling the development “unilateral”. It was only at 4.30 p.m. that members of IMCT were able to leave the BSF headquarters and visit certain areas in southern parts of Kolkata. During the day, the Trinamool Congress leader in Lok Sabha Sudip Bandyopadhyay and leader in Rajya Sabha Derek O' Brien targeted the Centre on the visit of the IMCTs. Party leader in Rajya Sabha Derek O' Brien described the visit as “ adventure tourism” and added that when States including Bengal are going all out in fighting the coronavirus, “Unfortunately, central govt. is going all out-fighting the States!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ministerial-team-waits-as-centre-bengal-face-off/article31401396.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Cong. rebels find place in Madhya Pradesh Cabinet||The other Ministers who took oath are Narottam Mishra, Meena Singh and Kamal Patel, all sitting BJP MLAs. Mr. Chouhan, who took charge on March 23 and was functioning as a one-man Cabinet since then, has sought to strike caste and regional balance. The five Ministers hail from the Gwalior-Chambal, Bundelkand, Malwa, Vindh and Central MP regions. According to sources, Mr. Scindia pushed for induction of most of his loyalists in the Cabinet, but the BJP central leadership agreed to reward only two with ministerial berths for the time being. Six of Mr. Scindia supporters, including Mr. Silawat and Mr. Rajput, were members of the Nath Cabinet also. The three senior BJP leaders inducted as Ministers had been members of the previous BJP governments as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-rebels-find-place-in-madhya-pradesh-cabinet/article31401399.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||ICMR asks States to stop using rapid tests||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has written to the Health Departments of all States/U.T.s to ensure adequate availability of blood in banks in particular, for people in need of regular transfusion with blood disorders, Mr. Agarwal said. “Portal ‘e-RaktKosh’ needs to be used for the real-time status monitoring of the current stock of each blood group. As part of the collaborative approach for COVID-19 management, Indian Red Cross has started a 24X7 control room in Delhi for blood services. The numbers are: 011-23359379, 93199 82104, 93199 82105,’’ the Health Ministry said. Addressing the problem of hospitals getting closed as some healthcare workers are becoming positive and some patients admitted for unrelated disease in non-COVID-19 hospitals becoming positive, the Ministry has issued guidelines for detection of such cases in non-COVID-19 health facilities. “The hospital infection control committee is now responsible for monitoring such issues. It shall ensure that the healthcare workers are oriented on infection prevention and control guidelines. Local health authorities have to be informed about the cases and transfer the patients to be treated in isolation for COVID-19. Such patients should be masked and only dedicated healthcare workers should attend these cases,’’ Mr. Agarwal said, adding, “All close contacts shall be put on HCQ for a period of 7 weeks keeping in mind the contraindications of HCQ also”.  ( With inputs from     Mohammed Iqbal )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/icmr-asks-states-to-stop-using-rapid-tests/article31401400.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||100 families self-isolate at Rashtrapati Bhavan||Over a 100 families went on self-isolation within the President’s Estate after one person tested positive for COVID-19, an official release from Rashtrapati Bhavan said on Tuesday. Confirming the news to The Hindu , the senior official said the main Rashtrapati Bhavan, where President Ram Nath Kovind and his family stay, remained unaffected. “It may be clarified that till date no employee of President’s Secretariat has tested positive for COVID-19 and the Secretariat, along with the local administration, is taking all the preventive measures required under the government guidelines,” said a press release. The official statement, however, said that a family member of an employee of the President’s Secretariat had been in touch with a COVID-positive patient who passed away on April 13. “As required under the guidelines, all the seven members of this family were moved to the quarantine facility at Mandir Marg on 16.04.2020. Subsequently, one of the family members, who was in contact with the deceased, tested positive. All other family members, including the employee of the President’s Secretariat, have tested negative,” the statement said. Following guidelines from the designated authorities, movement of 115 families within the President’s Estate has been restricted. “The residents of these houses are being provided doorstep delivery of essential commodities,” the statement said. In the third week of March, President Kovind too decided to strictly follow the Health Ministry’s protocol after one Lok Sabha member, who was part of a delegation of MPs from Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan invited by President Kovind for a breakfast meeting, announced self-quarantine on March 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/100-families-self-isolate-at-rashtrapati-bhavan/article31401407.ece
22 April 2020||Mumbai,||12 new cases in Dharavi||Dharavi reported 12 new COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday, bringing the total number of cases in the area to 180 so far. It also reported its 12th death, that of a 62-year-old man from Mukund Nagar. In Asia’s largest slum that saw its first positive case on April 1, the number of cases have increased by leaps and bounds, reaching 180 positive cases within three weeks. The majority of these 180 cases are concentrated in five areas of Dharavi, including Kalyanwadi (44), Muslim Nagar and Madina Nagar (23), Mukund Nagar (27), Social Nagar (13) and Dr. Baliga Nagar (6). About 83 cases were found during fever screening. On Tuesday, Dharavi reported 12 new cases, including five from Rajiv Gandhi Nagar and four from Muslim Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/12-new-cases-in-dharavi/article31401411.ece
22 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Why Kandhamal tribes never have a bad hair day||Almost every day, some members of Jagruti, a social organisation, practise a local tribal tradition of trimming each other’s hair at Daringbadi in Kandhamal district of Odisha. Through it, they avoid visits to salons that may lead to spread of COVID-19 infection. According to Jagruti Director Kailash Dandapat, help from near and dear for hair grooming is a long tradition among Kandhamal tribals. Only 5% of tribals of Kandhamal district may be going to barber shops, he added. So, except for urban pockets, the villages of Kandhamal do not have any barber shops. Common phenomenon Disaya Pradhan, a tribal activist, who hails from the remote Banjamaha village, gave a haircut to his compatriot Mahendra Parida on Jagruti campus on Tuesday. And it was reciprocated by Mr. Parida. “At our village, performing and receiving haircuts is a common phenomenon, which may seem awkward for people in other parts of the State,” said Mr. Pradhan. Interestingly, Kandhamal tribals do not tonsure their heads or have haircuts during funeral rituals. Women grow their hair long and trim it among themselves. Unlike other parts of Odisha, tribals of Kandhamal never had a special sect of barbers for hair grooming. People needing haircut get together at a shady place near a stream. Mostly the youths prefer to do the haircut as novelty. Most tribal families have their own set of comb and scissors to provide haircut to each other. “During this time of COVID-19 threat, when villages are obeying lockout norms, this practice of haircut by near and dear surely helps tribal people to block infection,” said Mr Dandapat. But in urban centres such as Berhampur in adjoining Ganjam district, people have started calling up barbers to their homes for haircuts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-kandhamal-tribes-never-have-a-bad-hair-day/article31401447.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Pancharatra defined||Temples like Srirangam and the Varadaraja temple in Kanchi are governed by the Pancharatra agama. P.T. Seshadri elaborated on the meaning of Pancharatra in a discourse. Sri Prasna Samiuta, says ratra denotes ajnana, and pancha denotes that which destroys ajnana. Lord Narayana has five forms — Para, vyuha, vibhava, antaryami and archa — and hence the name Pancharatra. Whatever benefits you get through the Vedas, Vedanta, Puranas, Sankhya and yoga sastra, you get easily through the Pancharatra. So, the name Pancharatra is justified, says Paushkara Samhita. Ratra also means jnana. Jnana is of five types, and this is called artha panchakam. These five are dealt with in Pancharatra texts, which talk of Bhagavath swarupa, jiva swarupa, the means to reach Him, the hurdles in the path, and Purushartham (what you obtain by reaching Him). Narada Samhita has another interpretation of the word Pancharatra. Karmendriyas are five in number, and so are the jnanendriyas. There are also five elements. The karmendriyas, jnananendriyas and elements are fundamental to life on earth. The sabda ‘ra’ means adhara, or that which sustains. The word ‘atra’ means to save. Since the Pancharatra saves us from all these things that lead to repeated births and deaths, it is called Pancharatra. This is the definition given by Viswamitra Samhita. Ahirbuddhnya Samhita says the qualities of the five forms of Vishnu are described in the Pancharatra agamas, and that is why they are so called. Markandeya Samhita says that since the Pancharatra agama was narrated by Lord Narayana to Brahma over a period of five nights, it is called Pancharatra. Alavandar wrote a work called Agama Pramanyaand Vedanta Desika wrote a work called Pancharatra Raksha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pancharatra-defined/article31401439.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||CRPF feeds 2 wedding parties||A CRPF battalion deployed deep inside the Naxal hotbed of Gadchiroli in Maharashtra has been providing meals to two wedding parties for close to a month after they got stuck in the remote location due to the lockdown, officials said on Tuesday. Serving the wedding parties in Desaiganj Tehsil, about 60 km from the district headquarters, is a young ASI of the paramilitary force Sonu Kumar, who had to cancel his leave for travel to Uttar Pradesh. He was supposed to get married on April 5. While the marriages took place, the parties got stuck in the area after the lockdown was declared the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crpf-feeds-2-wedding-parties/article31401442.ece
22 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Citing security, Centre objects to 4G in J&K||The Centre and the Jammu and Kashmir administration objected in the Supreme Court on Tuesday to the idea of restoring 4G mobile Internet connectivity in the Union Territory during the lockdown, saying it would affect national security. However, petitioners said the lack of proper access to 4G Net was handicapping business, education and health services during the lockdown. A Bench led by Justice N.V. Ramana, hearing the case through video conferencing, directed the J&K administration and the Union government to file a counter-affidavit spelling out each and every reason as to why they are averse to restoring 4G in the Union Territory. The court ordered them to file their response by April 26 with further hearing on April 27. Attorney General K.K. Venugopal cited militancy as a major hurdle in restoring 4G in the Valley.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/citing-security-centre-objects-to-4g-in-jk/article31401392.ece
22 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||NHRC notice to DGP over Palghar case||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday issued a notice to the Director-General of Police of Maharashtra over a mob lynching of three persons in Palghar district in the presence of police on April 16. Acting on a complaint, the commission issued the notice and sought a detailed report within four weeks. “The commission has observed that the incident is apparently indicative of negligence by the public servants. The death of three persons in such a cruel manner by the unruly mob, that too during a countrywide lockdown, under extra vigil by the administration and police, amounts to gross violation of the right to life of the victims,” a NHRC statement said. “The video of the attack went viral on April 19, which showed that police personnel were also present when the victims were being attacked,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-notice-to-dgp-over-palghar-case/article31401393.ece
22 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||CEC stuck in U.S. due to travel curbs||Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora, who went on a personal visit to the United States and was scheduled to return to Delhi on April 4, has been stuck in the country since March 23 when all international flights were stopped. He said that he was on leave from March 7 and his return was on April 4. Now, like many others, he is waiting for the resumption of flights. Election Commission officials said Mr. Arora had been working remotely. The two Election Commissioners – Ashok Lavasa and Sushil Chandra – and other senior officials were in touch with him. Mr. Arora said the ECI headquarters in Delhi, including his own office, was operational with a skeleton staff. The decision of the CEC and ECs on a 30% cut in salary for one year to contribute to the COVID-19 response of the government was taken after conversations among the three, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cec-stuck-in-us-due-to-travel-curbs/article31401403.ece
22 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rahul against use of stock for sanitisers||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday took to Twitter to target the government over reports that surplus rice stocks would be used to make ethanol for hand sanitisers. “After all, when will India’s poor wake up? You are dying of hunger and they are busy cleaning the hands of the rich...,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-against-use-of-stock-for-sanitisers/article31401408.ece
22 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Support given to stranded citizens in Iran’||The Centre informed the Supreme Court on Tuesday that the Indian Embassy in Iran is taking care of citizens stranded there, including 860 fishermen, due to COVID-19. However, a Bench led by Justice N.V. Ramana took into consideration a submission made by senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan that the fishermen were unable to procure supplies because of non-payment of bills. The court directed the Centre to look into the grievance and address it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/support-given-to-stranded-citizens-in-iran/article31401409.ece
22 April 2020||Bhopal,||Police official dies of virus in Ujjain||A 59-year-old in charge of a police station in Ujjain died of COVID-19 on Tuesday morning while undergoing treatment at a hospital. “He had contracted the illness during the course of his duty,” said A.G. Sinha, Ujjain Chief Medical and Health Officer. She added that the inspector was posted at the Neelganga station, which fell under one of the containment area where infected cases had been reported. The official, who died at 5.10 a.m. on Tuesday, was admitted to a private hospital in Indore 10 days ago in a serious condition. “He had bilateral pneumonia and difficulty in breathing. Despite continuous treatment, he didn’t show improvement,” said Vinod Bhandari, a doctor who oversaw his treatment. Towards the end, he was put on a ventilator. “Despite all efforts we couldn’t save him,” said Dr. Bhandari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-official-dies-of-virus-in-ujjain/article31401421.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||LS secretariat staff member tests positive||A 58-year-old staff member at the Lok Sabha secretariat has tested positive for COVID-19. He works as a housekeeper and is posted at the printing branch outside the Lok Sabha complex. Official sources said he had been at home ever since the House was adjourned on March 23 during the Budget session. He developed high fever on Friday night. He tested positive on Monday. Officials at the Lok Sabha secretariat said that since none of the 3,000 staff at the Parliament complex came in touch with the patient, there is no question of testing or shutting down the offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ls-secretariat-staff-member-tests-positive/article31401425.ece
22 April 2020||Patna,||Bihar policeman does sit-ups, apologises; probe ordered||The State government on Tuesday ordered a probe into a clip that went viral on social media that showed a policeman doing sit-ups before another official. In the video clip, Ganesh Lal Tatma is seen doing sit-ups and apologising with folded hands before Araria District Agriculture Officer Manoj Kumar. Mr. Tatma had allegedly enraged the officer by stopping the latter’s vehicle and asking for a vehicle pass. He was asked to do 50 sit-ups while someone filmed it. Officials said the incident would be probed and action would be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-policeman-does-sit-ups-apologises-probe-ordered/article31401410.ece
22 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Deceased COVID-19 ‘warriors’ to become ‘martyrs’ in Odisha||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday announced that the martyr status would be accorded to all health personnel and other support services who lost their lives fighting COVID-19. They would be given a State funeral with honours. “We propose to recognise the valiant work being done by our COVID warriors,” said Mr. Patnaik. “The State, in convergence with the Government of India initiative, will ensure that Rs. 50 lakh is given to all health personnel [private and public] and members of other support services who lose their lives in the fight against COVID-19,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deceased-covid-19-warriors-to-become-martyrs-in-odisha/article31401420.ece
22 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab sees 6 fresh cases as tally mounts to 251||Punjab on Tuesday reported six fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the total tally to 251, according to an official statement. The State Health Department said five new patients were from Patiala while one was from SAS Nagar district. Till April 20, Punjab has seen 16 COVID-19 deaths. As many as 51 patients have recovered, it added. In Haryana, four fresh cases surfaced on Monday, taking the total tally to 255, according to a Health Department statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-sees-6-fresh-cases-as-tally-mounts-to-251/article31401423.ece
22 April 2020||Kolkata,||COVID 19- toll rises to 15 in Bengal, NICED withdraws faulty testing kits||As the West Bengal government confirmed three more deaths due to COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking the the toll in the State to 15, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee visited several parts of Kolkata along with senior officials of the police, urging residents not to leave their homes. Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said, “The number of active cases in the State has increased to 274 with 29 cases recorded in the past 24 hours.” He also said the State has significantly increased the number of samples being tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-toll-rises-to-15-in-bengal-niced-withdraws-faulty-testing-kits/article31401424.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||Guidelines issued for handling hospital waste||Using double-layered bags, mandatory labelling and colour coded bins for the management of waste generated during the diagnostics and treatment of suspected and confirmed COVID-19 patients are part of the guidelines issued by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The Board said specific guidelines are required to be followed by all including isolation wards, quarantine centres, sample collection centres, laboratories, ULBs and common biomedical waste treatment and disposal facilities, in addition to the existing practices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/guidelines-issued-for-handling-hospital-waste/article31401427.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. to conduct telephonic survey on COVID-19||The Centre will conduct a telephonic survey on COVID-19, calling up citizens on their mobile phones to obtain feedback on the prevalence and distribution of symptoms. “This is to be carried out by NIC and calls will come from the number 1921,” a release said on Tuesday. “Please be aware of any other calls by pranksters or calls from any other number in the guise of such survey,” the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-to-conduct-telephonic-survey-on-covid-19/article31401428.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||Om Birla discusses COVID-19 crisis with Speakers||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Tuesday said a control room would be set up in Parliament to connect with similar control rooms in the Assemblies for coordination in helping migrant labourers and students stranded due to the lockdown. Mr. Birla was speaking after chairing a video conference of the Presiding Officers of State Legislatures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/om-birla-discusses-covid-19-crisis-with-speakers/article31401438.ece
22 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State govt. will stand by frontline workers: CM||A day after a group of residents resorted to violence to prevent the funeral of a doctor who had died of COVID-19, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday said the government will extend all possible support to the frontline workers battling the spread of the disease. “All those who are engaged in life-saving efforts are equivalent to gods,” he said. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami said he was pained by recent incidents of people preventing the funerals of doctors, and expressed his condolences to the bereaved. “The Tamil Nadu government will take appropriate steps to ensure that such incidents don’t recur. Doctors and field staff need not worry. This government will stand by them,” he said. The Chief Minister also appealed for cooperation from the public as a mark of respect for the medical staff, “who are at the forefront of the fight against COVID-19, extending selfless service to the cause”. Quoting a Tirukkural couplet, Mr. Palaniswami said doctors were serving the people selflessly, adding that he considered them to be “equivalent to the gods”. 20 held The T.P. Chatram police on Tuesday arrested 20 persons for staging a dharna to oppose the funeral of the 55-year-old doctor who died of COVID-19 on Sunday. The police had earlier booked 90 persons for various offences. When the body was brought to the Kilpauk cemetery on Sunday night, over 200 people, residing nearby, gathered on the spot and staged a dharna. A heated argument ensued with health officials. As tension flared, the officials shifted the body to the Velankadu burial ground, where they were able to bury it only after resorting to a lathicharge on another group of people who had raised objections to the burial. Ninety persons were booked under the provisions of the Indian Penal Code. On Monday, the Anna Nagar police had arrested 21 persons who had opposed the burial of the doctor’s body in Velankadu and had even resorted to stone-pelting to prevent it from taking place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-govt-will-stand-by-frontline-workers-cm/article31401598.ece
22 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-panchayat chief designs low-cost disinfectant||R. Elango, a former scientist at Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), who later served as the president of Kuthambakkam panchayat in Tiruvallur district, has come up with a design to manufacture sodium hypochlorite using solar power in a decentralised manner. Considering that sodium hypochlorite is the disinfectant widely used in various concentrations depending on the purpose, he says the design can be used to meet the current surge in demand for the disinfectant in the fight against COVID-19. “Right from floor cleaners and toilet cleaners to sprays used widely now for disinfecting public places is sodium hypochlorite, which is the mother of all disinfectants. It is commonly manufactured in industries through electrolysis,” he says. Explaining the process, Mr. Elango, who is a chemical engineer by qualification, says sodium hypochlorite is made in industries by the simple process of passing electricity through titanium electrodes immersed in sodium chloride (salt) solution. Mr. Elango replaced the conventional source of electricity with a 1 kilowatt capacity solar panel. “In a barrel fitted with the electrodes, one has to fill salt water solution in high concentration and pass the solar-generated power. In about eight hours, you can get sodium hypochlorite from a tap attached to the barrel.” For now, he has designed the unit in two different capacities of a 25-litre barrel and a 210-litre barrel. These units can be easily set up in open at the village or town-level to meet the local demand. V.P. Jayakumar, managing director of Tiaano, a chemical company, who helped Mr. Elango, said excluding the initial cost to set up the unit, one litre of sodium hypochlorite can be produced at a cost of 0.05 paise. “This is inclusive of employing a person for Rs. 500 per day. The input will just be 750 g of salt in 25 l of water for one cycle.” “Floor cleaners we buy from supermarkets cost around Rs. 85 for just 300 ml,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-panchayat-chief-designs-low-cost-disinfectant/article31401596.ece
22 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Spurt in containment zones||The Chennai Corporation has set up 112 containment zones in areas where residents have tested positive for COVID-19, according to Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani. In the past few days, Corporation officials have been releasing data on containment zones, keeping the number unchanged at 84. Tuesday's figure, therefore, represents a significant increase to 112. Mr. Velumani, in an interaction with reporters, said that containment zones in other urban areas of the State numbered 273, taking the total in urban areas to 385. Over 15,000 Corporation workers had been visiting 20.19 lakh households every day to get information from residents about symptoms of COVID-19, he said. The civic body has started testing journalists and other staff of media organisations. As many as 220 persons were tested on Sunday at the Government Multi Super Specialty Hospital, Omandurar. "Allocation of Rs. 19.54 crore has been made for providing food at 407 Amma Canteens in Chennai. Other Corporation Amma Canteens have an allocation of Rs. 11.85 crore. Any person can have food at Amma Canteens without any hindrance. Over 6.25 lakh beneficiaries have been visiting the canteens every day," Mr. Velumani said. A total of 10.28 lakh persons had received food packets from community kitchen in various urban areas. Mr. Velumani directed officials to ensure distribution of groceries to all residents of containment zones. Residents who have been facing difficulties in getting groceries at containment zones as well as other neighborhoods can call the Corporation helpline: 1913.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spurt-in-containment-zones/article31401572.ece
22 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Those blocking COVID-19 victims’ funeral to face Goondas Act||Chennai Commissioner of Police A.K. Viswanathan said on Tuesday that anyone who obstructed the burial or cremation of COVID-19 victims would be arrested and booked under the Goondas Act. Mr. Viswanathan told reporters that 21 persons had been arrested and remanded for rioting and attempt to murder while opposing the burial of Dr. Simon Hercules, who died of COVID-19 on Sunday. “We are searching for a few more persons involved in this incident and all of them will be booked under the Goondas Act. The Corporation and health officials are following WHO guidelines and experts have assured us that the virus will not spread due to burial/cremation of COVID-19 victims. If people continue opposing this, we will take strict action,” he warned. Mr. Viswanathan urged residents to understand the seriousness of the pandemic and not step out of their houses. “Experience from other countries has taught us that only if we fight together can we win against this virus. So all residents should follow the advice of the GCC and Health Department,” he said.  Inspection  held The police and the Chennai Corporation would together provide a three-tier security system in the Royapuram and Mannady containment zones, which have the largest number of COVID-19 cases in the city, he added. Mr. Viswanathan, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash, Additional Commissioner of Police (North) R. Dhinakaran and other police officers inspected the two containment zones. “We wanted to study the zones to decide on what kind of measures need to be taken. There were some irregularities pertaining to personal distancing in the Mannady grain market,” said a senior police officer. At a press meet conducted soon after the inspection, Mr. Prakash said that till Monday, the city had recorded a total of 303 COVID-19 cases, and of those, 92 cases were reported in the Royapuram zone alone. Of the 92 cases, close to 60 were concentrated in four to five wards. “After this analysis, the GCC and the city police decided to take steps to increase security in the containment zones,” he said. The police said that in core areas, residents would not be allowed to come out and steps would be taken to ensure that essential commodities were provided to them. At the next level, people could come out for basic needs, though outsiders would not be allowed. At the final level, vehicle diversions would be effected. Since goods from the wholesale market at Mannady are supplied to different parts of the State, a meeting will be held with traders. “This is to see what kind of protective mechanisms can be put in place in the locality without affecting trade. The plans will be implemented from Wednesday and by doing this, we hope that the spurt can be contained,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/those-blocking-covid-19-victims-funeral-to-face-goondas-act/article31401578.ece
22 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Relief distribution streamlined, say NGOs||Distribution of food and relief material to migrant workers and the needy seems have to become more streamlined in the city, voluntary organisations say. The Greater Chennai Corporation had issued the guidelines on distribution of food and relief material based on a Madras High Court ruling. While many NGOs welcomed the move, some have come under one umbrella to ensure that proper distribution of packages to the needy in the city and peripheral areas. “The new guidelines will reduce crowding and they have actually improved collaboration between the government and NGOs,” said Ravin Carr, founder, The Feed Chennai Initiative — a coalition of NGOs and volunteers. “There are close to 500 NGOs and 3,000 volunteer groups in Chennai. We are trying to coordinate between interested NGOs and volunteers to ensure that no community is left out and to help balance needs in one area with resources available in other areas,” he added. Dilip Srinivasan, a Chennai-based entrepreneur involved in voluntary work, said that although the revised regulations had “unreasonable” conditions such as obtaining permission 48 hours in advance for distribution of food, work of volunteers was not hindered largely. Arun Kumar from No Food Waste (NFW) said: “Importantly, the helpline announced by GCC for distribution of groceries through NGOs has helped groups like us on streamlining relief work.” S. Swaminathan, secretary of JAMBA United Welfare Association, said: “We have not faced any issues so far since we operate with the permission of government departments. Residents contribute to dry ration, including rice, wheat and oil.” The association distributes 500 food packets, thrice a week, to migrant workers and homeless people, field workers in various government departments, including GCC, in the locality. Aruna Subramaniam, trustee of Bhoomika Trust, said that duplication of work could be avoided when working along with the government. Her trust had been helping senior citizens and supported over 15,000 migrants with rations in Tiruvallur district. “A crisis like this can be overcome only with large-scale community initiative. We are looking at continuing support to daily wage earners and migrants and families in need, ” she said. Adopting families Sujith Kumar, founder of Chennai-based Maatram Foundation, has started an initiative called “Adopt a Family” and is reaching out to tribal people in various districts and supporting them with food and other supplies. “Through Adopt a Family scheme, we send monthly stipend to about 300 families,” he said. In Kancheepuram district, Revenue Department officials said that they had shifted to providing dry provisions. “Companies like TVS, Hyundai and Saint Gobain and Rotary Clubs help us,” said an official source. Meanwhile, a Corporation zonal officer said they were ensuring that all guidelines were followed and food was not being distributed within the 2-km radius of a containment zone. “The Food Safety Officials are checking the cooked food meant for distribution ,” he said.  (With inputs from   Vivek Narayanan,   K. Laxmi, S. Poorvaja,   Sangeetha Kandavel,   Pon Vasanth B.A.,   Deepa H. Ramakrishnan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-distribution-streamlined-say-ngos/article31401580.ece
22 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t use Amma Unavagam for political gain’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday objected to what he called the “handing over” of Amma Unavagams to ruling party functionaries in the districts during the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown. He said this was unacceptable and amounted to “nasty politics”. He urged the State government to distribute free meals to the poor through Amma Unavagams instead. “Amma Unavagams are run using the grant given by the State government. It is unacceptable to hand them over to the ruling party. I do not want to go into the issue for now. But do not use them for political mileage,” he said in a statement. Adverting to another issue, he referred to a protest by sanitary workers of the Karur Government Hospital as they had not been paid salaries for a month. He said the government should find out whether similar problems prevailed in other parts of the State. “They are working, unmindful of the risk [posed by the pandemic] to their lives. The government should immediately pay their salary,” he said. Expressing concern over the condition of journalists who had been infected by the coronavirus, he said the government should organise testing for journalists on a war-footing. “Press briefings should be cancelled till the lockdown is lifted and messages can be sent through emails,” he said. Waiver of bills He sought a waiver of electricity tariff for those who had rice ration cards. Mr. Stalin also said that the increase in the toll at NHAI toll plazas during the lockdown was an inhumane step. “It will result in an increase in the prices of essential commodities. Withdraw the hike,” he said. Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri on Tuesday slammed the ruling AIADMK for using Amma Unavagams to distribute free food, and alleged that the party was misusing the government machinery. In a statement, Mr. Alagiri said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had announced that the party will distribute free food through Amma Unavagams in Salem, and Food Minister R. Kamaraj made a similar announcement in Thiruvarur. “It now looks like the AIADMK is going to do this in all districts. It is not clear on what basis this is being done, without any announcement from the Tamil Nadu government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-use-amma-unavagam-for-political-gain/article31401609.ece
22 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Borstal school to be notified as special camp||The Tamil Nadu police have initiated the process of notifying the Borstal school in the Puzhal prison complex as a special camp to accommodate the foreign attendees of an event conducted by Tablighi Jamaat, who were arrested for violating their visa conditions. They will be detained in the proposed camp, pending trial/deportation, police sources said on Tuesday. The prisoners, hailing from Indonesia, Bangladesh and other countries, had come to India on tourist visas to take part in the Delhi conference. Following the event, they visited various districts in Tamil Nadu to preach. Acting on the instructions of the Ministry of Home Affairs, the State police arrested the foreigners. Of the 111 foreign nationals, 11 persons from Bangladesh were shifted to the Stanley Government Hospital on Sunday, after two of them tested positive for COVID-19. Since the Prison Department had taken steps to ensure that newcomers don’t mingle with the existing inmates at central prisons, as part of its efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19, the foreign nationals were housed in the Borstal School, which is located in the Puzhal prison complex, but with no access to the other three prisons or the prisoners lodged there. “Once all the prisoners get bail, the Borstal School will be notified as a special camp, where they will be detained, pending trial or deportation. This is basically to restrict their movement,” a senior police official told The Hindu on Tuesday. Tamil Nadu used to have a few special camps in Tiruchi, Melur, Cheyyar and Chengalpattu to detain Sri Lankan nationals who had been arrested on various charges and later granted bail, or those who were awaiting the government’s clearance for deportation. They were closed down, and now, there is only one operating in Tiruchi. Quarantined jails In a separate development, the Director-General of Police, Prisons, Sunil Kumar Singh, said the number of exclusive jails/Borstal Schools to accommodate newcomers to prisons had been increased from 38 to 65. Foreign nationals with travel histories and others remanded in judicial custody were being accommodated in these facilities and kept under close observation by medical teams. “There is no possibility of old prisoners, including convicts, getting affected by the coronavirus because there is absolutely no chance of their coming into contact with newcomers. The Standard Operating Procedure is that foreign nationals are quarantined at their place of arrest and brought to prison only after they test negative for COVID-19 twice. However, since there is a possibility that they could develop symptoms later, we continue to keep them in separate blocks,” Mr. Singh said.  Once all the prisoners get bail, the Borstal School will be notified as a special camp, where they will be detained, pending trial or deportation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/borstal-school-to-be-notified-as-special-camp/article31401610.ece
22 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Committees constituted at State, district levels to audit COVID-19 deaths||The Health Department has constituted State- and district-level committees to audit all deaths caused by the coronavirus disease (COVID-19). The committees were formed following a proposal from the Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, who had stated that it was pertinent to audit all deaths attributed to COVID-19 and ascertain the medical and non-medical causes of the deaths. This would help in understanding the circumstances that had led to the deaths, and lapses, if any, in prevention and case management. The findings of the audit would help in developing strategies for improving prevention and control measures, and ensuring protocol-based management of COVID-19 cases, the top official had said. In an order issued on Monday, the Department said that in some instances, the circumstances leading to the death and the medical cause of the death could not be accurately determined, for various reasons. Some deaths that were unrelated to COVID-19 were also reported as suspected COVID-19 deaths, it noted. The State-level committee, which will be chaired by the Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, will frame guidelines for the audit of COVID-19-related deaths and the necessary formats for the audit, such as verbal autopsy. It will scrutinise all the reports from the deputy directors/joint directors of health services/deans, review the quality of the COVID-19 death audit and take necessary action. It will analyse the overall trend and the factors that had led to the deaths, and suggest measures for preventing deaths related to severe acute respiratory infection (SARI)/COVID-19. The district-level committee will have the deputy director of health services as its member secretary/convenor. The committee would meet within two days of a SARI death and complete the audit. Details of the proceedings of the committee will be sent to the Director of Public Health on the same day as the audit. The committee should confirm the cause of death and the predisposing factors for the death, and recommend appropriate measures to prevent such occurrences in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/committees-constituted-at-state-district-levels-to-audit-covid-19-deaths/article31401611.ece
22 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||House owners warned||The State government on Tuesday issued an order directing District Collectors, superintendents and commissioners of municipal corporations to take penal action against property owners who try to evict doctors and paramedical staff from their houses. Issuing the order, Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said that reports had been received that house owners were forcing doctors/paramedical staff/healthcare personnel treating COVID-19 patients to vacate the premises. Such behaviour amounted to obstructing public servants from discharging their duty, Ms. Rajesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/house-owners-warned/article31401582.ece
22 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Arrests of foreign preachers condemned||The Federation of Tamil Nadu Political and Islamic Organisations on Tuesday condemned the arrests of foreign Islamic preachers who had come to Tamil Nadu for religious purposes. In a statement, the federation said that those arrested should be released immediately and be treated with respect until they return to their home countries. “Tablighi Jamaat is a spiritual and peaceful organisation, whose members go around the world for spiritual reasons, [and for] preaching within the community. The organisation is not one that preaches to those belonging to other religions. It teaches discipline, cleanliness, honesty and a God-fearing nature,” federation president P.A. Kajamoinudeen Bakavi said. He said that there had not been a single controversy or incident of social tension created by the group’s members. “They had taken visas formally to come to India on a spiritual tour. But they have been projected by the State government as though they came here without visas and are terrorists. This is condemnable,” he said. Mr. Bakavi asked why they were being painted as people who were hiding, despite their having applied for visas by submitting proper documents. “How does staying in mosques and speaking to Muslims become religious propaganda? Has the Tamil Nadu government meted out the same treatment to members of other religious organisations visiting the State?” the federation asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrests-of-foreign-preachers-condemned/article31401602.ece
22 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Acting on ICMR’s advice, State halts rapid testing||With the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) having asked the States to put antibody-based rapid testing on hold for two days, Tamil Nadu, which had launched testing with rapid test kits on Saturday, will halt the exercise for 48 hours. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said the ICMR’s decision was based on test results in Rajasthan and West Bengal. “We have been emphasising that the rapid test kits are only a surveillance tool, and it is the RT-PCR which is the confirmatory test for COVID-19,” he said. Officials of the Health Department said that based on an oral communication from the ICMR, they were suspending the use of rapid test kits for two days. “However, we have had no adverse results from the tests. We have asked 42 deputy directors of health services to collect full reports of the testing, and will compile the details on Wednesday,” an official said.  Mr. Vijayabaskar said the ICMR had granted approval to T.N. for trials of convalescent plasma therapy. “Now, the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital will take up trials for convalescent plasma therapy,” he said. The State plans to provide plasma therapy to critically-ill COVID-19 patients. This involves the collection of plasma from persons who had recovered from the disease, and transfusion to severely-ill patients. When a person recovers from COVID-19, their blood would have antibodies against the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/acting-on-icmrs-advice-state-halts-rapid-testing/article31401613.ece
22 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Policemen over 55 told to stay home||In the wake of a sub-inspector testing positive for Covid-19, the city police have asked policemen between the ages of 55 and 58 to stay home and those between 50 and 55 years to avoid field work. A few days ago, a sub-inspector attached to the Esplanade police station tested positive for COVID-19. All his colleagues underwent checks and tested negative. “He had joined our station a few weeks ago and his colleagues said that he used to take all precautions. We, along with health and Chennai Corporation officials are tracing his contacts,” said a senior police officer. Apart from personnel at the Esplande police station, around 1,000 other policemen underwent tests and the results are awaited. “Considering the present situation, we have decided not to use policemen above the age of 50 for field work,” said a senior police officer. Many said that though the department had provided them with masks and gloves, the danger of contracting the virus remained high. “Mainly during vehicle checks, we have to interact with motorists. We are risking our lives and those of our families, but the public does not seem to be bothered,” said a police constable from Tambaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policemen-over-55-told-to-stay-home/article31401575.ece
22 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Observe Ramzan by feeding the poor, bureaucrats urge Muslims||A group of senior IAS, IPS and IFS officers    has appealed to Muslims to feed the hungry and serve the needy during this Ramzan. In a letter, a group of 16 senior officers said Ramzan this year comes at the time of a pandemic. “May the blessings of this month free humanity from this grave crisis,” they said. Social distancing was very important and most effective preventive measure. “Thus, the Tawaf in Kaba remains suspended for the last two months, and congregation prayers are not held in any mosque. In the month of Ramzan, many of us would be eager for Taraweeh (ritual prayers). We know that it is not Farz (duty). When the Farz Namaz are not being held in Jama’at, there is no justification for Taraweeh either,” they said. They said the Prophet used to tell the muezzin to announce that during bad weather, heavy rain or severe cold, one need not come to the mosque for jama’at and the Farz Namaz to be prayed at home. “Inclement weather is nothing compared to a pandemic. Let’s also remember that causing harm or death by negligent behaviour is a grave crime in law and a grievous sin in religion. Carelessness in times such as these has a severe social and political repercussion,” they said. Requesting everyone to observe lockdown and social distancing as laid down by the Central and State governments, they also asked everyone to help and serve others. “Unemployment, poverty and hunger is haunting the masses. The best way to serve God is to serve humanity,” they said. The letter was signed by the officers, some of whom have retired, Syed Munir Hoda, Qudsia Gandhi, M.F. Farooqui, Alauddin, Md. Nasimuddin, M.A. Siddique, IPS officers M.S. Jaffar Sait, Md. Shakeel Akhter, Najmul Hoda, Anisa Hussain, A. Kalimullah Khan, V.H. Mohammed Hanifa, N.Z. Asiammal, Ziaul Haque, and IFS officers Syed Muzammil Abbas, and F.R. Ikram Mohammed Shah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/observe-ramzan-by-feeding-the-poor-bureaucrats-urge-muslims/article31401574.ece
22 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t compel students to pay fees’||The Tamil Nadu government has directed all private colleges and schools in the State not to compel students or their parents to pay fees for the 2020-21 academic year or collect dues during the lockdown period. A government order, issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, said students or their parents should also not be forced to pay dues for the 2019-20 academic year or be subjected to penalties for delays in making payments during the lockdown period. The government issued the direction under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. “It was brought to the notice of the government that some private colleges/schools have been demanding fees from parents during this period of lockdown,” the G.O. said. The Revenue and Disaster Management Department had, in a G.O. dated April 15, extended restrictions across the State under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, to contain the spread of COVID-19, it pointed out. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had earlier warned of action against the schools that were sending messages to parents, asking them to pay up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-compel-students-to-pay-fees/article31401601.ece
22 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Policemen over 55 told to stay home||In the wake of a sub-inspector testing positive for Covid-19, the city police have asked policemen between the ages of 55 and 58 to stay home and those between 50 and 55 years to avoid field work. A few days ago, a sub-inspector attached to the Esplanade police station tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policemen-over-55-told-to-stay-home/article31401647.ece
22 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Arrangements made to send back UAE nationals||The Chennai Corporation and the district administration of various parts of the State have made arrangements to send foreign nationals from the UAE back home. The State government has directed officials of the Corporation and Collectors of districts such as Kancheepuram, Chengalpet, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Kallakurichi, Villuppuram and Erode to provide relief to UAE nationals stranded in various locations. They will be taken by road to the Kochi international airport from areas such as Chennai, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu to board an Air Arabia flight on Wednesday, it is learnt. The State has directed civic agencies and District Collectors to make road transit arrangements. Those having flu symptoms will not be allowed on the flight. They will be put under quarantine and tested. Officials have been asked to ensure social distancing during transit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uae-nationals-to-be-flown-out-from-kochi-international-airport/article31401593.ece
22 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cancel press briefings: Ramadoss.||In the wake of news reports of several journalists having contracted COVID-19, PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Tuesday said health officials must immediately stop regular press briefings and find other ways to provide information. The PMK leader called on the owners of media houses to take necessary actions, such as ensuring physical distancing in offices, and safeguard journalists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancel-press-briefings-ramadoss/article31401603.ece
22 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||29 more recover from COVID-19 in Coimbatore||Twenty-nine persons were discharged on Tuesday from the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital here after they recovered from COVID-19. This takes the total number of persons discharged in Coimbatore district to 83. Of the 29 discharged, 18 were women and 11 men. They were, however, asked to remain in home quarantine for 28 days. District Collector K. Rajamani visited the hospital on Tuesday evening and reviewed the COVID-19 management situation with Dean A. Nirmala, medical superintendent T. Ravikumar and resident medical officer K. Kulandaivelu. Inspector General of Police (West Zone) K. Periaiah was also present. After seeing off those who recovered, Mr. Rajamani told media persons that 133 persons from Coimbatore had tested positive for COVID-19, as on Monday, and 83 of them recovered from the disease till Tuesday. Fifty patients were still in hospitals. Samples collected from 4,000 persons were tested in Coimbatore so far. Swab samples from eight persons who tested positive on Tuesday in the rapid test would be subjected to PCR-based testing for confirmation, he said. Asked whether the district would put on hold the use of rapid test kits as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday advised States not to use these for the next two days, Mr. Rajamani said the instructions of the ICMR and the government would be followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/29-more-recover-from-covid-19-in-coimbatore/article31401637.ece
22 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Without wages, workers of micro units struggle to meet their daily needs||For 40-year-old Maragatham, feeding her five-member family every day has become an ordeal for the last one month. Residing at Kanuvai, with her husband, mother-in-law and two children, Maragatham used to work in a lathe workshop and was paid Rs. 250 to Rs. 300 a day. Her husband also worked at a workshop. With the lockdown, both of them are without work. “Together, we used to earn about Rs. 15,000 a month. Both my children are studying in government institutions and the family lives in a rented house. We need at least a minimum amount every day to feed the family,” she says. She received her salary a month back and Rs. 1,000 and the provisions that the State government gave through the PDS outlets. “We have gone without work for a few days when the workshop did not get orders. But, the current situation is very bad. There is no certainty of job when the lockdown is lifted. The workshop is at least two bus stops away and if bus service does not resume after May 3, I do not know how I can go to work. My family members and people around us are also facing financial problems and so we cannot borrow much from them,” she says. Though the government has said that house owners cannot demand rent from the tenants now, it will not be possible to pay the cumulative amount later. “I used to go to work at 9 a.m. and return at 7 p.m. So I hardly knew about the government schemes. Now, they say the government is giving Rs. 500 to Jan Dhan accounts and cylinder at subsidised rate. I am unable to avail of these benefits as we did not register for it,” she says. At Kovilmedu, Hari and six others reside in a room that the unit owner has provided them. The seven of them are from Dharmapuri and Thenkasi, and had decided to stay back as they thought the lockdown was only for a week. “The owner arranges for food. We got our salary a month ago. If there is some way to go home, we will feel better. Here, we have no work and no wages,” he says. At Avarampalayam, over 5,000 workers are said to be employed with 2,000 and odd micro units. Venkitapathy works in a unit that produces dyes for candle making industries. He used to earn about Rs. 3,000 a week. He got his wages a month ago. His daughter is at college and he does not know how he is going to pay her annual fees. “If the unit was running, I would have taken an advance. How can I ask for money now ?” he says. Loganathan also works in a micro unit and his brother in a lock repair shop. The two live with their parents at Avaramapalayam in a rented house. “Both of us do not have work now. We got the provisions given in the PDS outlet. I take money from the unit owner now and then. We were hoping to return to work from Monday. But, we need to wait till May 3 now,” he says. Almost all the cottage industries in the district remain shut and the workers of these units struggle to meet their regular expenditure. “It is not just the migrant workers, but even Tamil Nadu workers who are hit. They are not enrolled with any welfare board and do not get any additional support from the governments. Most of the micro unit owners also do not have the resources to continue supporting them,” says one of them here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/without-wages-workers-of-micro-units-struggle-to-meet-their-daily-needs/article31401619.ece
22 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Railway police personnel undergo test for COVID-19||Close to 60 Railway Police personnel were tested for COVID-19 using rapid test kits by a team of nine doctors and paramedical staff from the Coimbatore Corporation on Tuesday. According to sources, the Corporation conducted the test at the Coimbtore Railway Junction based on a request from the senior Railway Police personnel. The men who were tested were from Coimbatore, Podanur and Mettupalayam. The team started testing around 10.30 a.m. and completed the process by 1.30 p.m. Those tested included a deputy superintendent of police, two inspectors, five sub inspectors and personnel from the constabulary, the sources said and added that the team also tested two Railway Protection Force personnel. A Railway Police officer said since the policemen have been travelling on duty and were vulnerable, the senior officers decided to request the Corporation to conduct the test. And, all were tested negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-police-personnel-undergo-test-for-covid-19/article31401643.ece
22 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Private firm drops plan to re-open||An employee of a private manufacturing unit in Coimbatore tweeted on Tuesday that the company he was working in planned to open on Wednesday and that it employed about 100 people. He also said that the company had reduced the salary for March to the employees. The employee tweeted the message tagging the Chief Minister and Coimbatore city police Twitter handles. Following this, some of the officials had contacted the industry owner to find out if there were plans to reopen on Wednesday. The Managing Director of the firm told The Hindu that the company was into agriculture products and was located in a rural area. Based on announcements by the Central Government, there were plans to re-open the unit after April 20 and hence a message was sent to the employees. However, since the State government announced that there would not be any relaxation to industries till May 3, the plan was dropped. Regarding wages, the MD of the company said since the lockdown is in place, the unit faced fund shortage and was unable to pay full wages. It had also said in its message that the workers would be compensated after the lockdown was lifted. District Collector K. Rajamani said if industries are found operating without permission the units will be instructed to stop production. If the situation gets worse, the units will also be sealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-firm-drops-plan-to-re-open/article31401620.ece
22 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Parcel train services transport nearly 40,000 kg of produce||The Daily Parcel Express Special train services operated by the Salem Division of the Southern Railway have transported nearly 40,000 kg of fruits and vegetables among other essential goods. According to the data released by the Salem Division regarding the commodities transported by these parcel train services between April 9 and 20, as many as 885 packages of fruits and vegetables weighing 39,932 kg were transported between Coimbatore and Chennai. The Division earned Rs. 2,01,566 through this in the given period. In terms of quantity, the category of ‘masks, sanitisers and medicines’ for COVID-19 treatment was second in the list, with 28,836 kg transported using 738 packages in the 11-day period. A total of 13 categories of goods were present in the list, which included poultry and eggs, milk and milk products, medical equipment, auto parts and electrical equipment and fertilizers. Sources in the Salem Division said that most of the parcel bookings for essential goods, particularly fruits and vegetables, were from Delhi, Kolkata and Mumbai. The parcels would be transported to these locations once they reached Chennai. The Daily Parcel Express Special trains were operated between Coimbatore and Chennai to facilitate the transport of essential commodities during the lockdown. On April 18, the train services were extended till Shoranur in Kerala. The services began on April 9 and would continue till May 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parcel-train-services-transport-nearly-40000-kg-of-produce/article31401622.ece
22 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Policewoman contracts COVID-19, more from the force to undergo test||A 39-year-old policewoman attached to Annur station has contracted COVID-19, taking the total number of persons tested positive for the disease in the district to 134 on Tuesday. The Health Department is yet to confirm how the policewoman contracted the SARS-CoV 2 virus. It is learnt that she was posted for duty at a vehicle check-point within the limits of Annur police station during the lockdown. The Health Department had collected swab samples from 344 police personnel who worked in areas declared as containment zones in Coimbatore rural police limits a few days ago. Among these, the test result of the policewoman returned positive. Samples were collected from police personnel who worked in places such as Mettupalayam, Annur, Thudiyalur, Pollachi, Anaimalai, Kinathukadavu and Madukarai. According to Coimbatore rural police, swab samples of 42 personnel working at Kinathukadau and Madukkarai are yet to be collected. In Coimbatore city, rapid test was done for 100 police personnel who were on lockdown duty. All the test results were negative.  138 journalists   undergo test  On Tuesday, rapid test was done for 138 journalists working for print, visual and online media in Coimbatore. All the test results were negative. The testing was arranged by the district administration and Health Department on the request of journalists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policewoman-contracts-covid-19-more-from-the-force-to-undergo-test/article31401633.ece
22 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Eight test positive in Coimbatore||Eight persons had so far tested positive for COVID-19 in tests conducted using rapid test kits, Collector K. Rajamani told journalists here on Tuesday. “The administration has so far conducted 1,000 tests using the newly arrived rapid test kits. Of those, eight have tested positive,” he said. The administration had, meanwhile, received 1,200 more kits. Thus far 133 persons had tested positive in the district. They were taken to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. Of those, 54 were cured and sent home. Restrictions The administration’s focus, at present, was to contain the spread of the virus through community transmission as this alone would help ease the restrictions imposed during the lockdown period, Mr. Rajamani said. In response to questions, he said the five-year-old child of a conservancy worker who had tested positive for COVID-19 in Kinathukadavu had no travel history. But the administration was of the opinion that he could have contracted the virus while participating in a function at a wedding hall, where a person with travel history to Delhi also participated. Of the persons who had tested positive in Pollachi and its neighbourhood, three or four persons had travel history and the rest were secondary contacts of persons with travel history, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-test-positive-in-coimbatore/article31401642.ece
22 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Essentials given to tribal people||The Forest Department and good samaritans continue to reach out to residents of tribal settlements in the Coimbatore Forest Division during the lockdown period, supplying them essential commodities. As many of these settlements are located in forest fringes and within forests, the residents were facing hardships to buy essential commodities and collect their free rations. To ease the effect of lockdown on them, the Forest Department tied up with several non-governmental organisations and good samaritans to supply them grocery items and vegetables. On Monday, District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh visited some of the tribal settlements in Karamadai forest range and supplied kits to the residents. Karamadai forest range officer T. Saravanan said that such kits, each weighing around 10 kg, were given to 250 families. Some of the tribal settlements covered were Gundoor, Mel Pillur, Poochimarathur, Veppamarathur and Kadaman Kombai. The Department was making arrangements to supply similar kits to some of the tribal settlements in Coimbatore Forest Division that were not covered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/essentials-given-to-tribal-people/article31401628.ece
22 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Bakeries sealed||The Coimbatore Corporation officials on Tuesday sealed two bakeries after they found violation of personal distancing norms. According to sources, health wing officials on Tuesday spotted a bakery on Vilankurichi Road and another on Sathyamangalam Road violating personal distancing norms. The officials found customers sitting close to one another and the owner supplying tea and snacks to them. Though the police warned the owners a couple of days ago, they refused to listen. Hence, the officers sealed the shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bakeries-sealed/article31401627.ece
22 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Makeshift vegetable markets inspected||Special Monitoring Officer and Principal Secretary to State Government Kumar Jayant on Tuesday inspected the makeshift vegetable markets that the Coimbatore Corporation had set up at various places. A release from the civic body said he visited the markets on Alagesan Road and Gandhipuram Town Bus Stand to see if traders and people followed personal distancing norms. He also inspected the quality of vegetables sold at door steps using vehicles that the Corporation had arranged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/makeshift-vegetable-markets-inspected/article31401626.ece
22 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Over 800 arrested in Coimbatore||As many as 825 persons were arrested in Coimbatore on Monday on charges of violating prohibitory order issued as part of national lockdown. The police seized 746 vehicles from them. As many as 64 persons were arrested by the city police for not wearing mask in public places and they were released on bail. Coimbatore rural police imposed a fine of Rs. 2,08,900 on those who violated the prohibitory order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-800-arrested-in-coimbatore/article31401646.ece
22 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Deputy Speaker’s security escort home quarantined||A sub-inspector of police, who was engaged on escort duty for Deputy Speaker Pollachi V. Jayaraman, was advised to remain in home quarantine after a rapid test result of his blood sample showed a “near positive” for COVID-19. Mr. Jayaraman said the officer had been on leave due to a viral fever for a month, prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, and had reported for duty on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deputy-speakers-security-escort-home-quarantined/article31401607.ece
22 April 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Relief for 824 folk artistes||Collector M. Vijayalakshmi on Tuesday said essential commodities, including vegetables and grocery items, were distributed through 161 vehicles across the district including Kodaikanal Municipality. Presiding over a disaster management review meeting at the Collectorate here, she said the pandemic had resulted in a national lock down and curfew until May 3. The objective was to ensure that social distancing was maintained and people stayed indoors, which would facilitate breaking the infection chain. For the benefit of residents, officials had organised delivery of essential commodities at the door step/streets and other designated locations. Reeling out statistics, she said 85 vehicles were deployed within Corporation limits, Kodaikanal (17), Palani (7), Oddanchatram (3). Forty-nine vehicles criss-crossed town panchayats and panchayats thus covering all pockets. Around 17,000 people from containment zones continued to be under medical surveillance . Pat for officials Appreciating officials for their commendable work in delivering the government's cash relief to beneficiaries in record time, the Collector said Rs. 1,000 had been distributed to 98 % of the eligible persons at their doorstep. Likewise, delivery of essential commodities had also been made to 91% of ration cardholders through PDS outlets in the district. As many as 3,481 autodrivers (72%) had received cash relief. So far, only 36 % of construction workers numbering 17,095 had received the cash. However, 65% of registered road side vendors with the civic body had received the cash relief. Soon, 978 priests registered with the welfare board and another 824 folk artistes would get the benefit, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-for-824-folk-artistes/article31401837.ece
22 April 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||38 patients from Dindigul district discharged after recovery: Collector||Collector M. Vijayalakshmi on Tuesday said the district had 76 positive patients undergoing treatment at Karur Government Medical College Hospital till date. Of them, 38 had been discharged. Presiding over a disaster management review meeting at the Collectorate here, she appealed to residents in containment zones to cooperate with officials by remaining indoors. All arrangements had been made to take essential commodities to the doorstep of residents once in two weeks. Officials and front line workers designated in the cordoned-off zones too were subjected to swab tests. Hence, the challenge was to fight the pandemic and the government stood by the people, which should be well understood by each citizen, she stressed. Police booked cases and seized two-wheelers/four-wheelers only in public interest. People should not venture out even during the day unless it was essential or an emergency, said R. Saktivel, Superintendent of Police. Police personnel were manning vantage locations round the clock despite the steep rise in mercury levels, he added. He appealed to residents to cooperate fully during the ongoing health emergency. DRO S Kandasami, PO (DRDA) Kavitha, DD Health Nalini, District Panchayat Chairman M Baskaran, PA (general) to Collector Rajkumar were and among other officials who attended the meeting. Speaking to reporters, the Collector later said she held a consultative meeting with Muslim leaders from the district and discussed the modalities of distributing rice for gruel to Muslims, who would commence fasting for Ramzan. Rice distribution In the next one or two days, the free rice given by the State government would be delivered to all 77 mosques in the district. Last year, the State government distributed 716.58 tonnes of rice during Ramzan. However, with social distancing being mandatory in the present situation, Muslims had been advised to refrain from organising mass prayers at mosques. SImilarly, the Muslim leaders were told to distribute the free rice to deserving people in the community at their homes directly. The leaders agreed to cooperate with the administration, according to the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/38-patients-from-dindigul-district-discharged-after-recovery-collector/article31401844.ece
22 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Rapid test kits used in Erode’s containment zone||With Erode District receiving 1,500 rapid test kits, health authorities used these on Tuesday to screen people at a primary health centre at B.P. Agraharam, which is one of the 10 containment zones in the city. The district has a total of 18 containment zones. Erode Collector C. Kathiravan, Superintendent of Police S. Sakthivel and health officials were present when the testing was done. Mr. Kathiravan told media persons that the results of the rapid test would be known in 15 minutes. The kits were meant to be used not only for the general public, but also for corporation, municipality, revenue, police and other department staff working in the containment zones. The Collector said that so far in the district samples were lifted from 1,258 persons, of whom 70 had tested positive for COVID-19, and 1,188 tested negative. Thirty-two persons were discharged after treatment. Two Thai nationals were in a separate ward under police protection.  Dharmapuri Special Correspondent adds:  Rapid Testing for COVID-19 was conducted for journalists, police personnel, medical professionals and government officials here at the office premises of District Superintendent of Police on Tuesday. Over 200 people got themselves tested. According to the administration, the district has received 480 rapid test kits. On Tuesday, Minister for Higher Education K.P. Anbalagan, Dharmapuri Collector S. Malarvizhi were among those who got themselves tested. The COVID-19 testing laboratory at the Dharmapuri Government Medical College Hospital has so far tested 1880 samples, of which 1161 were from Dharmapuri and 719 from Krishnagiri and Tirupathur districts. A total of 668 people, who had returned from abroad were quarantined. Of those quarantined, 662 people completed the quarantine of 28 days. Nobody had shown any symptoms of an infection. The Minister said 19 types of groceries were being disbursed to 19,000 beneficiaries in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rapid-test-kits-used-in-erodes-containment-zone/article31401630.ece
22 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Man drowns in Cauvery while trying to swim across to Tamil Nadu side||A 45-year-old man, who attempted to swim across Cauvery to reach Mettur where his pregnant daughter was taken to the Government Hospital, drowned in the river on Sunday. His body was found on Monday. According to police, E. Perumal’s daughter Sumathi had developed labour pain and the family, including him, his wife Kamatchi, Sumathi, her husband Manikandan and his father Venkatachalam, started in a car from Gopinatham in Karnataka to admit her at the Government Hospital at Mettur. At the check post at Palar in Karnataka, the police permitted only Sumathi, Kamatchi and Manikandan to proceed to Tamil Nadur. They asked Perumal and Venkatachalam to return to their house in Karnataka. However, both decided to swim across the river to reach Mettur and jumped into the river around 10.30 a.m. on Sunday. After an hour, swimming across the 200 metre-wide river at Palar, Venkatachalam reached the Tamil Nadu side. (The river is between the Karnataka and Tamil Nadu border). But, he could not trace Perumal. The family then informed the Fire and Rescue Services personnel, who searched for him. Due to darkness, the search was called off on Sunday and resumed on Monday. At 11 a.m. on Monday, Perumal’s body was found in the river at Soripallam. But confusion prevailed over the jurisdiction of the police station limits as Madheswaran Malai Police Station in Karnataka said the spot comes under Tamil Nadu jurisdiction. Later, the police confirmed that the spot comes under the Chennampatti Forest Range in Erode district. The Kolathur police informed Bargur police in Erode district at noon on Monday and the body was shifted to the Government Hospital in Mettur. Based on a complaint from Perumal’s son Mariyappan, Bargur police registered a case. Post-mortem was conducted and the body was handed over to the relatives on Monday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-drowns-in-cauvery-while-trying-to-swim-across-to-tamil-nadu-side/article31401625.ece
22 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||66 persons booked for unlawful assembly||Nambiyur police have registered a case against 66 persons who assembled on Nambiyur - Kedarai Road, violating the lockdown, to oppose the burial of a youth who died of lung ailment on April 19. The youth died at the District Headquarters Hospital on Sunday and the body was taken to his house on Coimbatore Main Road in Nambiyur. Claiming that he died of COVID-19, people from Eswaran Kovil and Mariamman Kovil streets opposed the burial in the area. Efforts by officials to pacify them failed as over 50 people gathered on Nambiyur - Kedarai Road. Later, the body was taken to Gobichettipalayam and buried there. Based on a complaint from Village Administrative Officer K. Krishnan, police have registered a case against 16 identified persons and 50 unidentified persons under Sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of IPC and Section 51 (b) (refusing to comply with any directions given by or on behalf of the governments) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/66-persons-booked-for-unlawful-assembly/article31401631.ece
22 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two turmeric markets to function||Two turmeric regulated markets located outside the city will function from Wednesday and farmers and traders within the district will only be allowed to participate. Two regulated markets at Semmampalayam in Erode and Perundurai, and two societies in Erode and Gobichettipalayam function in the district where auction takes place from Monday to Friday. Due to lockdown, the four markets were closed. Since stocks had been piling up, the farmers were demanding opening of the markets following which Collector C. Kathiravan directed officials to open the two markets located outside the city. Since both the societies were located in containment zones, they were not allowed to open. Members of Erode Market Committee said the traders, godown owners, workers and the farmers were given passes and they were instructed to follow personal distancing and wear mask on the premises. Only one person from each godown would allowed to place sample in the trading hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-turmeric-markets-to-function/article31401614.ece
22 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Man trying to swim across Cauvery drowns||A 45-year-old man from Karnataka, who attempted to swim across the Cauvery to reach Mettur to see his pregnant daughter, who had been taken to a government hospital, drowned on Sunday. His body was found on Monday. According to the police, the daughter of E. Perumal, the deceased, was taken to hospital after developing labour pain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-trying-to-swim-across-cauvery-drowns/article31401612.ece
22 April 2020||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||Spitting in public will attract fine in Karaikal||The Karaikal district administration has cautioned residents that those found spitting in public will be fined, in the wake of the amendment made to Pondicherry Municipality Act. As per the new rule, spitting in public places (road, street, lane, pavement, drain), spilling of phlegm or blood, and coughing and sneezing in public without wearing mask or handkerchief has been prohibited, District Collector Arjun Sharma said. None must step out of the residence without covering their face with a mask or handkerchief. Discarding of used handkerchief or mask in public places has also been prohibited. Also, physical distancing must be adhered to in public and in work places. Those violating the rule will be punished with spot fine of Rs. 100. Officials in the cadre of Grade II Sanitary Inspectors in Municipalities, Village Officers of Revenue Department, Head Constables of Police department and higher level officials are empowered to collect the fine, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spitting-in-public-will-attract-fine-in-karaikal/article31401877.ece
22 April 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Sanitary workers stage protest demanding salary||Sanitary workers of Karur Government Medical College Hospital (KGMGH) staged a sit-in protest on Tuesday, demanding payment of salary for March. The workers, who reported for duty in the morning, began the protest soon after. As many as 100 workers took part . The workers, employed by a private company, said that just 10 days were left for the month of April to get over. But, the company had not disbursed the March month salary. The workload had doubled since the third week of March. In spite of risk involved in carrying out the cleaning work in the hospital, where many COVID-19 patients were admitted, they were executing their work sincerely. But, they were yet to be paid the salary. Following the protest, the KGMCH authorities held talks with the protesters. Based on their assurance, the workers gave up the protest and resumed work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sanitary-workers-stage-protest-demanding-salary/article31401885.ece
22 April 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered||A milk vendor was murdered at Sottal near Kulithalai on Tuesday. According to police sources, a four-member gang intercepted Anbalagan (28) of South Mavidunthanparai while he was travelling on a two wheeler and hacked him to death. Previous enmity between him and a group of persons belonging to Sottal was said to be a reason behind the murder. Kulithalai police have arrested P. Kathiresan (19) and three others of Nachalur in connection with the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-murdered/article31401884.ece
22 April 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Despite yield, tomato growers struggle as demand drops||Krishnan brought the first round of his tomato harvest in 25 crates to Rayakottai tomato mandi on Monday. At the mandi, a crate of 24 kg to 26 kg was going at Rs. 100. It was roughly Rs. 5 per kg, far below my cost of cultivation per acre, says Krishnan, a tomato grower from Pillayar Agraharam. “I convinced the trader to buy, even as he was reluctant,” says Krishnan. The crates that came thereafter were just lying there without any takers. “You cannot blame them. Shops are closed, and markets have fewer footfalls and less demand and therefore low prices,” he says. Krishnan, with a marginal holding of one acre, only hopes he meets the cost of production. Farmers, who depend on family labour, spend around Rs. 20,000 per acre, and those cultivating larger areas and depend on wage labour incur higher costs up to Rs. 30,000 per acre. Last year, Rayakottai, the largest tomato growing area in the region, saw low production. Tomato growers sold a crate between Rs. 1,300 to Rs. 1,100. “I sold my crates for Rs. 1,300. There was less production and high demand,” Krishnan says This year, the yield is good adding to the supply, but COVID has axed the demand. The farmers incur the vehicle rent, crate rent of Rs. 10 per crate and the commission of Rs. 10 per Rs. 100 to the mandi for each crate sold. According to Srinivasan, owner of Rayakottai tomato mandi, there is a fall in farmers coming from afar to drop their produce at the mandi. “Farmers from as far as 60 km used to come with their produce. But, it has shrunk to a 10-km radius, because they are not getting the price.” Rayakottai has over 4,000 acre under tomato cultivation. The produce cannot be sold as food for livestock too as animals take sick from overconsumption of tomato, says Krishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/despite-yield-tomato-growers-struggle-as-demand-drops/article31401616.ece
22 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||TNEB Foreman donates month’s salary to relief fund||A Grade One Foreman of Tamil Nadu Electricity Board here M. Balaramalingam, 48, on Tuesday donated his one month salary of Rs. 70,603 to Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund towards the war against COVID-19. Mr. Balaramalingam, a father of two girl children, said that it was his small contribution to fight the deadly virus. He handed over his consent letter to Superintending Engineer (Madurai-Metro) S. Vennila on Tuesday. “All of our employees are given one day or more than one-day salary towards the CMPRF. However, the foreman has come forward to donate his one month salary,” the SE said while appreciating his gesture. Mr. Balaramalingam said that he had been doing little bit of social work now and then. “I discussed with my wife, Chandra, who is a staff nurse at the Government Rajaji Hospital on our role in the fight against VODI-19 and we finalised this decision,” he said. Stating that he has worked under trying conditions in cyclone-hit areas in the State to restore power supply, he said that he was aware of the human sufferings during such calamities. “This time, the entire State has been affected. I could not do much amidst the fear of contracting the infection. Besides, the State government also encouraged to do all help through the State machinery,” he said. Despite the educational expenses he needs to meet after the summer vacation and the home loan EMI of Rs. 13,000, he said he chose to give in the larger interest of the people. “We can manage with my wife’s salary this month. All the daily wage labourers were hit badly by the lockdown. If with our contribution the Government is able to feed at least 10 families, it will bring us lot of satisfaction,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tneb-foreman-donates-months-salary-to-relief-fund/article31401851.ece
22 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||College holds webinars for mental well-being of people||In an attempt to promote the mental well-being of the public during the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, the Department of Psychology of The American College is conducting free webinars (online seminars) by mental health professionals from across the globe. Suresh Kumar Murugesan, Assistant Professor, Department of Psychology, said that experts speak about the psychological well being of women, adolescents and the elderly during these online seminars. “There are also sessions focussing on the psychological well-being of men and on how to stay positive during the current scenario when there is an outbreak of a pandemic,” he said. “Experts from across the globe, including mental health professionals from International Centre for Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy, are participating,” he said. Principal M. Davamani Christober said that these sessions started around a week back and currently 10 out of the total 62 sessions had been completed. “For most of the public, this lockdown is a first-of-its kind experience. Many of them are stressed and their fears are aggravated by rumours on social media platforms. Hence, taking care of mental health is the need of the hour,” he said. Mr. Murugesan said that a total of 100 persons can attend each of these sessions. “The significance of these sessions is that the public can clarify their doubts along with the experts,” he said. People can contact 9750406463 to attend these sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-holds-webinars-for-mental-well-being-of-people/article31401859.ece
22 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Changes announced in parcel train route, timings||Southern Railway has announced changes in the route and timings of Nagercoil-Chennai Egmore parcel services from Wednesday. The parcel service with one high capacity parcel van and one luggage-cum-brake van will be run through Thanjavur and Cuddalore Port, according to a statement. It will have additional stoppages at Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai and Cuddalore Port. The revised timings and stoppages of Train No. 00658 Nagercoil–Chennai Egmore Daily Parcel Cargo Express Special Train are: Nagercoil (departure 6 a.m.), Tirunelveli (7.30 a.m), Virudhunagar (10 a.m.), Madurai (11 a.m.), Dindigul (12.10 p.m.), Tiruchi (2 p.m.), Thanjavur (2.55 p.m.), Kumbakonam (3.55 p.m.), Mayiladuthurai (4.40 p.m.), Cuddalore Port (6.20 p.m.) and Villupuram (7.30 p.m.). The train will reach Chennai Egmore at 10.30 p.m. There is no change in stoppages and timings of Train No. 00657 Chennai Egmore–Nagercoil Daily Parcel Cargo Express Special which will continue to leave Chennai Egmore at 5 a.m. to reach Nagercoil at 7 p.m. with stoppings at Villuppuram (8 a.m.), Vridhachalam (9 a.m.), Ariyalur (9.55 a.m.), Tiruchi (11 a.m.), Dindigul (12.40 p.m.), Madurai (1.50 p.m.), Virudhunagar (2.50 p.m.) and Tirunelveli (5.40 p.m.). Those wanting to book parcels can call Southern Railway’s 24x7 helpline SETU for assistance at +91-9025342449.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/changes-announced-in-parcel-train-route-timings/article31401855.ece
22 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Illegal grazing has caused fire in forest||Fire has been raging in the hills near Megamalai Wildlife Sanctuary since the end of February. There have been 13 incidents of fire till date, said wildlife warden Sachin Bhosale. Top officials have attributed illegal grazing of cattle to most of the fire. Three major fires took place in the summer of 2020. Each lasted for four days. There were 10 other relatively small incidents. All except two were caused by illegal grazing of cattle, says a senior official of the forest department. This season, fire has been spreading predominantly at Gudalur, parts of Cumbum, Chinnamanur, Bommarajapuram, Varushanad and Gandamanur. A total of 22 beats out of 54 in various ranges have been declared as fire sensitive areas. Commercial cattle grazing is illegal and it is prohibited under the Wildlife Protection Act and the Forest Act inside the sanctuary. Grazers have been prohibited from entering fire sensitive zones. They can get passes to graze their cattle in reserved forest limits bordering the sanctuary. But most of them infiltrate the sanctuary through the reserved forest and flout rules, source says. There have been many cases where rearers with 400 cattle use forest land and destroy it. They set fire believing that grass will grow quickly if it is destroyed. This uncontrolled setting of fire causes damage to the forest. It destroys all growing shoots and damages trees. The forest department has issued a total of 2,500 passes with a cut-off of 10 passes for each major cattle-rearer who operates near the sanctuary. It has not stopped illegal entry. On Monday, P. Lakshmanan, 36, and S. Ramasamy, 48, who rear 200 cattle each, have been remanded. “We have conducted meetings to discuss the issue with these people. But, no consensus has been reached. The forest belongs to tribes who live in it and should not be exploited by others,” the source says. A. Suresh Kumar, secretary, Colonel John Pennycuick Parambariys Malai Madu Valarpor Sangam, says that most rearers have traditionally grazed their cattle in the forest. “We have a right to the forest area. We haven’t set fire as it is important for our livelihood,” he says. The last major forest fire took place at Rasingapuram in Theni district on March 24. It claimed the lives of four individuals including a one-year-old girl child.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/illegal-grazing-has-caused-fire-in-forest/article31401853.ece
22 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Counselling offered||Anxiety of having symptoms of COVID-19 was a common psychological problem faced by people irrespective of their age, during the time of lockdown, said S. Selvagomathy of Justice Shivaraj V. Patil Foundation, who has been offering counselling for people in distress. The Justice Shivaraj V. Patil Foundation for Social, Legal Studies and Development, Fatima College and Action Aid have come together to conduct counselling, through phone, for people in distress in the wake of COVID-19 spread. “It was not only the elderly who were anxious about COVID-19. We have received several calls from all sections of people saying that they feared of having the symptoms. We have been offering psychological support to them and are in constant touch with them”, she said.  “ As a solution we have advised people to identify an area of interest and hone their skills which will act as stress busters”, she said. Along with her, M. Meenakumari, Head of the Department of Sociology and Social Work, Fatima College, also offers counselling. “One of the positives of the programme was that we received a phone call from a woman who told the team that her husband had turned over a new leaf and given up alcohol”, said Ms. Selvagomathy. People in need of help could contact 24-hour helplines 9843460061, 9894611838 or 9524318207.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/counselling-offered/article31401849.ece
22 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Infant handed over to CWC||A four-day-old baby girl was handed over to the authorities of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) on Monday night. CWC Chairman K. Vijayasaravanan said that the parents of the baby girl already had three children and could not afford to take care of another. The child was delivered at Elumalai Primary Health Centre on Friday. “The child will be under the care of the CWC for the next 60 days after which she can be adopted through due process,” he said. He added that parents who are unable to care for their children must not sell them or directly give them away. “This is punishable by law and unjust. Due process must be followed,” he said.  “Many abandon their children in the streets, near police stations and hospitals hoping for caregivers to raise them as they do not have enough money. We request anyone who cannot take care of their children to ensure that the children are handed over to us. The District Child Protection Unit, which is headed by the Collector and the CWC will ensure that education, shelter and food will be provided to the child in need,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/infant-handed-over-to-cwc/article31401847.ece
22 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘19 types of kitchen condiments at FP shops’||Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju said that 23,486 State-owned stores, including the Amutham departmental stores, the Amma Amutham departmental stores and fair price shops, will sell 19 kitchen condiments for Rs. 500. He was speaking at a press meet, here on Tuesday. “All the products are essential for a family. These include mustard seeds, dried chilli, fenugreek seeds, cumin and other materials like tamarind,” he said. He said people can choose to purchase the package as a whole or as individual condiments. The package cost Rs. 105 more if it was purchased at a regular provision store, the Minister said and added that the State-government was attempting to ensure that the general public would find it easy to purchase them without having to spend too much money during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-types-of-kitchen-condiments-at-fp-shops/article31401854.ece
22 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Govt. urged to create awareness||Condemning the act of the residents who indulged in violence during the burial of Dr. Simon Hercules, who died of COVID-19, People’s Watch, a non-governmental organisation, has urged the government to educate and sensitise people through a dedicated awareness programme. “It is unfortunate and condemnable that a medical professional who had been at the frontline in the entire efforts being taken to contain this pandemic had been denied of his basic right for a decent and dignified burial”, said Henri Tiphagne, Executive Director of People’s Watch. He welcomed the Madras High Court’s decision to take suo motu cognisance of the violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-urged-to-create-awareness/article31401856.ece
22 April 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen decide to resume fishing||Fishermen in some of the hamlets in Nagapattinam who had earlier decided against venturing into the sea until the end of the lockdown period have now decided to resume fishing to cater to local requirements and self-consumption. The village committees have taken up the responsibility of regulating the sale of fish to local traders in known circles. The fishermen are particular about not letting any outsider come to purchase the catches. Fishermen in Akkaraipettai and Keechankuppam have plans to set sail on Thursday night. As the annual fishing ban took effect on April 15, only motorised country boats have been permitted for fishing operations for the two-month period. The fishermen are expected to return to the shores before the specified time in the morning hours, and make sure that there was no crowding when the sale was effected. The fishermen were expected to take the catches to their hamlets, and avoid going to the fishing harbour for sale. "Fishermen, by and large, have been extending full cooperation to the government for containment of COVID-19 virus. Fishermen families have even given up eating fish during the containment period. We are very particular about making sure that there is no community transmission of the virus,” Rajendran Nattar, a representative of the fishing community in Akkaraipettai said. “The government has already provided the Rs. 1,000 relief per family for the lockdown period. But, the amount was hardly sufficient. Our only concern is whether the government will be transferring the fishing ban period allowance of Rs. 5,000 per fisherman in time,” Mr. Rajendran said. Joint Director of Fisheries, Nagapattinam district, Amal Raj Xavier, said the department has already initiated the process of transferring the allowance to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-decide-to-resume-fishing/article31401872.ece
22 April 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Man tests positive in Namakkal||A 32-year-old man who arrived from Chennai tested positive for COVID-19. According to officials, he was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Salem and was shifted to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital after he tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-tests-positive-in-namakkal/article31401640.ece
22 April 2020||P.A. Narayani,TAMIL NADU||Your voice can make a big difference in their lives||In the wake of lockdown due to COVID-19 outbreak, it has been difficult to access study materials and record audio books for visually challenged students, especially for those preparing for competitive examinations, say teachers and social workers. While the lockdown period can be utilised optimally by the students, there is a need for more volunteers to pitch in by providing quality study materials and recording audio books, they say. R. Swarna, a visually challenged student preparing for Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission Group II examination, said it had been difficult to access audio files for current affairs. “Most of us who are preparing for competitive examinations listen to outdated audio books. This is a crucial period for us to prepare for the competitive exams, but access to a fewer number of audio books puts us in a disadvantaged position,” she said. Audio books were vital for visually challenged students who moved from Tamil medium schools to colleges where the medium of instruction was English, said A. Daniel, a visually challenged student pursuing his master’s degree in History. “We are highly dependent on audio books, which explain complex subjects in Tamil,” he said. Since the lockdown came into force, it had been challenging for them to access soft copies of books, which were used to record audio books, said Chandra Vishwananth, a member of Lit the Light, a voluntary organisation that arranges scribes and records audio books for the visually challenged students. “With the help of volunteers, we usually collect books from visually challenged students across Tamil Nadu and upload them online, so that our volunteers can record audio books. But, due to the lockdown, we are not able to access the students. In fact, we have recorded only one audio book during this period,” she said. People could contribute their mite by uploading quality reading materials to create soft copies and send them to volunteers who could record audio books. There was a high demand for advanced reading materials for competitive examinations, she added. Experts from various fields could also spare some time to explain complex concepts and record audio files, which could then be played by visually challenged students, said S.S. Pandiarajan, Headmaster, Government Higher Secondary School, Samayanallur, who is also visually challenged. “Those who like reading out novels can record audio files, as enjoying bestsellers like Harry Potter series is still a luxury that many visually challenged students cannot afford,” he said. Those who are interested to contribute can contact Lit the Light at 9894949878 or 8056207601.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/your-voice-can-make-a-big-difference-in-their-lives/article31401848.ece
22 April 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Chithirai thiruvizha cancelled||The ‘Chithirai thiruvizha’ of the Sri Madurakaliamman Temple at Siruvachur in the district, scheduled to commence with ‘poochorithal’  on April 28 has been cancelled in view of the prevailing situation arising out of COVID-19 pandemic. All events such as ‘kappu katthuthal’ scheduled for May 5, daily processions of the Amman, and car festival slated for May 14, conducted as part of the ‘Chithirai thiruvizha’, stand cancelled, S. Arunpandian, Executive Officer of the temple, said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chithirai-thiruvizha-cancelled/article31401871.ece
22 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry CM announces additional financial aid||The Puducherry government has decided to provide  Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 1,000 each to construction workers and unorganised labourers, respectively, in the Union Territory, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said on Tuesday. Addressing a conference, Mr. Narayanasamy said the amount would be in addition to the Rs. 2,000, remitted to the account of ration cardholders, as compensation for loss of livelihood due to the lockdown. This package will benefit around 70,000 people, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-cm-announces-additional-financial-aid/article31401584.ece
22 April 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Mirattunilai turns into a containment zone||Mirattunilai village in Arimalam panchayat union has been declared a containment zone, after a person tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. The police is maintaining round-the-clock vigil at the village as entry and exit has been blocked. Spraying disinfectants in an area of about eight kilometers surrounding Mirattunilai was on. The district administration has deployed medical teams to screen public residing in and around Mirattunilai. The entire village was under continuous monitoring with the administration officials taking steps to supply vegetables, groceries and other essentials to the doorsteps of the villagers through volunteers. District Collector P. Uma Maheswari accompanied by Superintendent of Police P. Ve. Arun Sakthi Kumar visited Mirattunilai on Tuesday and inspected the safety measures being executed at the village. Ms. Uma Maheswari in a press release issued here said barricades had been placed all over Mirattunilai to prevent entry of outsiders and exit of the general public residing in that village. The entire village had been brought under round-the-clock monitoring by police personnel. The Collector said COVID-19 tests would soon be done in Pudukottai itself. The district had received 480 rapid test kits. The Collector said those with symptoms of the virus should immediately convey it to the district administration and to the emergency control room.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mirattunilai-turns-into-a-containment-zone/article31401890.ece
22 April 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Disinfection measures carried out at Kurumbapatti zoo||The Forest Department carried out disinfection measures at Kurumbapatti zoological park to prevent COVID-19 spread. Following State government order, the department prevented the public from visiting the park and other tourist spots under its control. District Forest Officer A. Periasamy said, “precautions have been taken at the zoological park. The perimeters of the park has been disinfected and traditional disinfectants are used at animal enclosures. Turmeric powder is being sprayed outside the enclosures here.” He said the number of staff at the park had also been restricted and senior persons had been asked to go on leave. R. Muralidharan, Forest Range Officer, said that currently only 30 persons, including animal keepers were on duty. He said that interaction between animal keeper and the animal has also been prevented to prevent the spread of the disease and three animal keepers aged above 50 years have been sent on leave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disinfection-measures-carried-out-at-kurumbapatti-zoo/article31401624.ece
22 April 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Vinayaka Mission contributes Rs. 50 lakh||The management of Vinayaka Mission’s Research Foundation–Deemed to be University and along with one day salary of staff of the University contributed Rs. 50 lakh towards Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. The University authorities handed over the cheque to District Collector S.A. Raman on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vinayaka-mission-contributes-rs-50-lakh/article31401623.ece
22 April 2020||SALEM/Erode,TAMIL NADU||People fined for not wearing masks||A total of 300 persons were fined by the Salem Corporation for not wearing masks while venturing outside their homes for various purposes. A press release said that on April 15 special teams were formed in each zones of the Corporation to monitor people moving out without masks. From April 16 to 20, the Corporation fined 300 persons for not wearing masks and collected Rs. 27,450. In Erode city limits, 72 persons were fined Rs. 100 each for not wearing masks on Tuesday. As part of COVID-19 precautionary measures, District Collector C. Kathiravan asked people not to venture out of their houses without masks and also warned them against spitting in public places. He said that first time violators would be levied a fine of Rs. 100 and second time violators would be fined Rs. 500. He also warned that case would be registered against persons violating third time and it would be followed by arrest. On Tuesday, Corporation officials collected fine from people found without masks at the vegetable market, outside various shops and also on the roads. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said that a fine of Rs. 7,200 was collected from 72 persons on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-fined-for-not-wearing-masks/article31401645.ece
22 April 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Rice bags distributed in Sivakasi||Minister for Dairy Development K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji on Tuesday distributed rice bags to fireworks workers, who lost jobs, due to the lockdown. Fireworks manufacturers under the banner of Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers’ Association and Indian Fireworks Manufacturers’ Association distributed 10 kg of rice bags to 30,000 families. Mr. Bhalaji said the bags would be delivered at homes of employees and it was only the first batch of aid given to them. The State government’s assistance would be given to all workers of unorganised sector such as print, construction and fireworks industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rice-bags-distributed-in-sivakasi/article31401845.ece
22 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Retrofitted scooter comes in handy for this vendor||A scheme implemented for mobility of physically disabled persons by the Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled Person has helped a beneficiary to earn his bread during this lockdown period. Nagaraj of Thiruvaiyaru, who is a beneficiary of the retrofitted petrol scooters scheme implemented by the Tamil Nadu government, runs a fruit-cum-juice shop near his house to support his family of four persons. His earnings took a beating following the lockdown as he was unable to open his shop. Subsequently, in order to recoup the investment he had made for purchasing fruits prior to the lockdown, his wife, Thilagavathi suggested him to take up door-to-door sale of fruits using the retrofitted scooter within the town. As the new idea worked out in favour of the family, the couple decided to expand their area of operation to nearby villages and started procuring fruits from a wholesale shop at Thanjavur daily. “I and my wife procure the fruits at the wholesale shop and after dropping my wife at home, I take up my mobile vending business by 7 a.m. and return before 1 p.m. as directed by the government”, he said. Though he is unable to earn what he used to from his shop, the new-found business has kept him active, said G. Srinivasan of Ganapathi Agraharam, who has made it a point to purchase fruits from Nagaraj as and when he visits the hamlet. “By this way I am contributing a little bit to his efforts to keep his family going”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retrofitted-scooter-comes-in-handy-for-this-vendor/article31401868.ece
22 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Four test positive in central region||Four persons, including three from Thanjavur district and one from Tiruvarur district, tested positive for the COVID-19 virus in the central region on Tuesday. With this the total number of persons who had tested positive in Thanjavur district has risen to 49. According to official sources, the person who had tested positive at Adhiramapattinam was from the friends circle of an infected person. The others were family members of a person from Kumbakonam, who had already tested positive. In Tiruvarur district, one person, a contact of an already positive patient, tested positive on Tuesday, according to the media bulletin issued by the Health Department. With this, the total number of positive cases in Tiruvarur has gone up to 28. No positive case was reported in any other district in the central region on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-test-positive-in-central-region/article31401881.ece
22 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Muslim organisation extends support to ‘archakas’ in Thanjavur||Members of Raza-e-Mustafa, Thanjavur, distributed essential commodities to the ‘archakas’ performing pujas in small temples in Thanjavur. The organisation, floated by a group of Moulvis, have mobilised funds from the community in order to help poor families tide over the crisis arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. After covering the poor families in the community, the organisation provided relief measures to poor Moulvis and Muazzins. Subsequently, the Raza-e-Mustafa decided to extend a helping hand to the priests in other religions also. To begin with, relief packs, worth Rs. 800, consisting rice, wheat, sugar, dhal, tea powder, vermicilli, sooji, chilli power and others were presented to 15 ‘archakas’ serving in the small temples in Thanjavur town on Tuesday. The founder of Raza-e-Mustafa and Ayyankadai Street Mosque Imam, Moulvi Hafiz A. Mohammad Rustam Ali said the organisation members derived immense satisfaction by helping one and all who were suffering from the current crisis. The gesture would definitely help thwart the attempts to create divisions and hatred among different sections of the society by some people. The organisation would be extending the help to the Christian priests and those from other religions too, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/muslim-organisation-extends-support-to-archakas-in-thanjavur/article31401880.ece
22 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Provide handwash facility, shopkeepers told||Shops selling essential commodities and medicine that have been allowed to function in Thanjavur town have been directed to provide handwash facility at their premises without fail from Thursday. Issuing the direction through a press release, Collector M. Govinda Rao has said that a fine of Rs. 5,000 would be imposed on the shopkeepers who failed to comply with the direction. If the situation remains the same on the subsequent days, the establishments would be sealed and suitable legal action would be initiated against the owners through the police. Assistant Engineers in the Town Planning section of the corporation would be visiting the shops and inspecting the handwash facility provided to the customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/provide-handwash-facility-shopkeepers-told/article31401882.ece
22 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Yoga class for COVID-19 warriors||Doctors, para-medical staff and the police in Thanjavur district were taught simple yogasanas on Tuesday, to relieve the stress arising out of their involvement in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Launching the classes at the Thanjavur Medical College here on Tuesday, the Zonal Officer, COVID-19 Prevention Exercise and the Commissioner, State Archaeology Department, M. S. Shanmugam expressed confidence that the simple `asanas’ would help relieve the stress among the field staff. Collector M. Govinda Rao and others participated in the inaugural function. IIFPT snacks Meanwhile, the Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology has also offered to supply the snacks formulated and prepared using IIFPT technology for supplementing and improving the immune system of the patients. The institute has prepared nutritious food products including 250 loafs of bread, 150 packs of cookies and 350 packs of enriched millet pops for distribution to the patients under medical observation. The bread and cookies contain 9% of protein, 8.3% of fiber. Natural immune boosters such as turmeric, ginger, garlic and pepper are used in the products, which were free of trans-fat, said IIFPT Director C. Anandharamakrishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/yoga-class-for-covid-19-warriors/article31401878.ece
22 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Erratic power supply resented||Agriculture operations in Thiruvaiyaru belt have been hit by erratic power supply for the past few days. Supply of power for agriculture operations has been hit due to frequent disruption in the three-phase power supply. However, official sources said that the problem was due to technical hitches in the power transmission path from Karaikudi and the problem was being rectified.     Traders Associations in Kumbakonam has urged the government not to extend the lockdown beyond May 3. A resolution in this regard was passed at a joint meeting, held over conference call, of the Confederation of All Traders’ Associations of Kumbakonam and the Federation of Traders Associations, Thanjavur district, recently. In the resolution it was pointed out that extending of lockdown would result in a situation where traders would find it difficult to support their employees. They also demanded exclusion of trade and commerce from GST for the next six months and suspension of collection of highway toll fee for the next three months.     The Thanjavur district unit of the CPI has requested the government not to release water from the Stanley Reservoir for summer crop cultivation. In a press release, the CPI Thanjavur district secretary, M. A. Bharathi has pointed out that the delta ryots have lost the `kuruvai’ crop last season due to release of water from the Mettur dam during the summer last year. The government should ensure that water for ‘kuruvai’, ‘samba’ and ‘thaladi’ was released from the Mettur dam on June 12, the release added.     Sevalaya, Thanjavur, has donated personal protective equipment to medical teams attending the COVID-19 cases in Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. Hundred PPEs were handed over to Collector M. Govinda Rao on Tuesday by the Sevalaya trustee, Maheswaran, according to official sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erratic-power-supply-resented/article31401879.ece
22 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||In times of pandemic cries of crop loan waiver grow shriller||With farmers across the central region complaining of difficulties in marketing their produce in view of the lockdown, pleas for crop loan waiver have grown shriller. Some of the farmers’ organisations have revived the demand on the grounds that most farmers in the region have sustained losses continuously over the past 7-8 years, except for two years, due to vagaries of nature. The good harvest last year cannot help them recoup the losses they had sustained and repay the farm loans with accumulated interest, they contend. “Farmers have sustained crop losses since 2012, except for a couple of years. But the good crop in two seasons will not help them emerge out of debt,” said P. R. Pandian, president, Tamil Nadu All Farmers Coordination Committee, “We have had a good samba season; the paddy harvested in the late samba crop is yet to be fully procured. Similarly, there has been good yield in horticulture crops and vegetables, thanks to the good monsoon last year. But the COVID-19 pandemic has struck at a time when fruits and vegetables were ready for harvest. Farmers are unable to market the produce,” Mr. Pandian said justifying the demand for a loan waiver. Even though the government has organised transport and other facilities for farmers, demand and off take have been poor. Nearly 80% of the produce has perished in the farm, Mr. Pandian claimed and demanded that the government waive crop loans up to Rs. 2 lakh sanctioned by both cooperative societies and commercial banks, without distinguishing between small and big farmers. Echoing his views, Puliyur A. Nagarajan, president, farmers’ wing of the Tamil Maanilla Congress, said that farmers who had grown banana and other fruits, sugarcane, betelvine, vegetables, maize and oil seeds have all been hit badly by the lockdown as they were not able to transport and sell the produce in the markets. Similarly, dairy farmers and those who reared other livestock have also been badly affected due to poor sales. The Centre should order a waiver of all crop loans in view of the distress situation faced by farmers, he demanded. However, a few farmers’ representatives observe that farmers deserve support not just due to the situation arising out of COVID-19 pandemic but for long term recovery. Mannargudi S. Ranganathan, general secretary, Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association, points out that many farmers in the delta were yet to recover from Cyclone Gaja and not able to repay their loans. “The government can consider restructuring of the loans and allow interest-free repayments in easy installments,” he suggested. Arupathi Kalyanam, president, Federation of Farmers’ Associations of Delta Districts, feels that farmers should be extended support for long term revival of the agriculture sector. “High interest rates are the problem. Even though the government offers interest subvention, it has not been adequate. All crop loans up to Rs. 3 lakh should be made interest-free. All other farm sector loans should be extended at four per cent interest,” he demanded. Interest dues and penal interest should be written off with respect to non-performing assets in farm sector. Only the principle should be recovered after deducting the repayments already made by the farmers, he suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-times-of-pandemic-cries-of-crop-loan-waiver-grow-shriller/article31401875.ece
22 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Six more patients discharged from Tiruchi Govt. Hospital||Six more patients, who had tested positive for COVID-19, were discharged from the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) on Tuesday. With this, the number of positive patients discharged after being treated at the hospital has gone up to 39. All six patients were discharged after they tested negative for the virus in two consecutive test. They had contracted the virus after attending a religious event in New Delhi. The patients were given a warm send off by the doctors, nurses and para medical staff members led by its Dean Vanitha. She advised them to be in self quarantine for two more weeks. R. Yeganathan, Medical Superintendent of the hospital, told The Hindu that most of the discharged persons were asymptomatic but tested positive for COVID-19. Hence, all of them were treated as per the standard protocol. The patients were asked to report to the hospital immediately if they developed fever, cold, cough and breathing difficulties. As far as Tiruchi was concerned, he said that the spread of the virus seemed to be under control. Most of the contacts of primary sources had been tested. Out of 107 contacts, only four tested positive for COVID-19. Remaining were sent back home and asked to be in home quarantine. Several of the New Delhi returnees had completed 28 days. There was hardly any fresh case among them. However, it was too early to come to a conclusion, Dr. Yeganathan said. He added that the declining trend in COVID-19 cases would in no way affect the MGMGH in scaling up the infrastructure for treating patients. A seven-storeyed block has been earmarked for treating COVID-19 patients. It had about 600 beds and 60 beds in five Intensive Care Units. However, just 22 patients, who had tested positive for COVID-19, were in the hospital as on Tuesday.   Thanjavur Thirty persons out of 42 kept under observation at the institutional quarantine facility at Sengipatti were sent home on Monday. According to official sources, 42 persons who were identified as close contacts of COVID-19 virus-infected people were kept under observation at the institutional quarantine facility. Following tests, thirty of them were found uninfected and hence sent back home on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-more-patients-discharged-from-tiruchi-govt-hospital/article31401883.ece
22 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 hits hard tourism industry||The current lockdown has hit hard the travel and tourism industry here bringing their entire operations to a grinding halt. Suspension of overseas and domestic flight services as well as cancellation of all passenger train services has severely impacted the travel and tourism industry like never before. Travel agencies have remained shut for nearly a month now since the lockdown was announced in the wake of the rapid spread of COVID-19 pandemic across the globe and in the country. The situation has come at a time when package tours both domestic and international peak during summer as the holiday season begins. But, this time around COVID-19 pandemic has completely washed out the business of travel agencies. Travel industry circles say although the lockdown came to be announced only in March-end, the COVID-19 impact began to be slowly felt by the agencies here much earlier due to suspension of operations by some international airlines. Movement of international passengers from and to Tiruchi which remained brisk till February began to witness a down slide by the beginning of March. Travel agents, inbound tour operators and tour planners in Tiruchi have suffered a huge hit as there has been no business from the time the lockdown was announced leading to suspension of flight and train services, says S.A. Mubashir, joint secretary, Tiruchi Tourism Federation. This is the first time that the travel industry has witnessed such a scenario due to the pan-India and pan-global crisis arising out the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, says a manager of a leading travel agency in Tiruchi having several branches across the country. Usually April and May are brisk periods for the travel industry in Tiruchi, however, this time it has been a ‘wash out’ for the industry, says the manager of the travel agency that organises domestic and international package tours. Travel industry circles in the city are not sure as to when international flight and domestic operations would resume in the current scenario. Even if international services were to resume in the near future, it would still take some time as the fear of getting infected with the virus could deter passengers from travelling initially, they further say. International movement also depends on the ground-level situation in foreign countries as many of them have also also been badly hit by the viral disease, travel agents say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-hits-hard-tourism-industry/article31401870.ece
22 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Chennai-bound parcel special to run via mainline section||The Chennai-bound parcel special train being run daily from Nagercoil in view of the lockdown would now be operated through the mainline section to cover parts of delta region from April 22. The Southern Railway has communicated the change in the route of the Chennai-bound parcel special to the Tiruchi Railway Division as the mainline section falls under its jurisdiction. The parcel specials were introduced on April 9 in the wake of the nation-wide lockdown as a daily service from Chennai to Nagercoil and back via the chord line section in both directions via Villupuram Ariyalur, Vriddhachalam and Tiruchi. Parcels were being loaded and unloaded at various stations en-route during the course of its journey in both directions. However, Southern Railway has changed the route of the Chennai-bound parcel special from Nagercoil (Train No. 00658). Upon arrival at Tiruchi, this special would now be operated on the mainline section via Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai, Cuddalore Port Junction and Villupuram to reach Chennai Egmore. The change in the route of this parcel special (Train No. 0068) will come into effect from April 22 with revised timings, according to a communication from the Southern Railway headquarters. However, there was no change in the route of the parcel cargo special (Train No. 00657) being operated from Chennai to Nagercoil. This special would continue to be operated on the chord line section via Villupuram, Vriddhachalam, Ariyalur and Tiruchi. Senior railway officials here said the Chennai-bound parcel train from Nagercoil would be run on the mainline section, covering parts of the delta region, in order to cater to the demands of the people in that section. The special service would have one parcel coach and a SLR compartment. Ever since the parcel specials began to operated from Chennai to Nagercoil and back with stoppages en-route, about 36 quintals of parcels were loaded up to April 20 from Tiruchi Division alone. Majority of the parcels loaded at Tiruchi and Villupuram were medicines which accounted for 21.85 quintals, said the officials. Apart from medicines, mails bags were also loaded from Tiruchi Division. The parcels were being taken at a lesser rate to facilitate movement of goods during the current lockdown period irrespective of the earnings, an official said. The official said the railways were ready to take parcels containing vegetables, finished products, consumer products and fruits on board the parcel specials. Besides Chennai- Nagercoil, parcel specials were also being operated from Chennai Central to Shoranur via Coimbatore and Chennai to New Delhi and back. In addition to parcel specials, the railways have been operating freight trains notwithstanding the lockdown transporting food grains, coal and lignite from various stations in Tiruchi Division to other destinations within the State to ensure supply chain during the current crisis situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-bound-parcel-special-to-run-via-mainline-section/article31401887.ece
22 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Ways to banish lockdown blues||Help is here for those looking to banish the lockdown blues as numerous channels of creative expression pop up online. To spark the spirit of scientific enquiry, I. Lenin Tamilkovan, Scientific Officer at Periyar Science and Technology Centre, Chennai (and former director of the Anna Science Centre-Planetarium, Tiruchi), has brought out a booklet of 25 experiments that can be tried out with easily available materials at home. “Most science books tend to be very heavy on theory, so I have tried to show just the practical part of the concepts,” Mr. Tamilkovan told The Hindu . The PDF format booklet, is available for download in English and Tamil, from Mr. Tamilkovan’s Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com /lenin.tamilkovan.9) Readers are encouraged to record their tests and share it online as well. The Tamil literary resource portalwww.natrinai.orghas been showcasing children’s skills in oratory, writing and art through its Vetri Padigal section. Open to contributions from all over the State, the WhatsApp-based service has so far got 46 speeches, 303 drawings and 39 articles. Children can send in audio-visual clips of their speeches and soft copies of their drawings and articles towww.natrinai.org/vetri Certificates of participation will be posted once the lockdown is lifted, said a note from the organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ways-to-banish-lockdown-blues/article31401869.ece
22 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T has robust pupil-teacher ratio as faculty strength goes up||Having carried out the process of recruiting new faculties well in advance during this year, the National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T) will be in a position to improve its pupil-teacher ratio (PTR). As many as 4,800 applications were scrutinised and 71 assistant professors have been recruited. The last round of recruitment of new faculties was made during 2018 when 48 teaching posts were filled. The NIT-T has an existing faculty strength of 247 teachers, and the new addition will help the institution in maintaining Pupil-Teacher Ratio within 15:1, Director of NIT-T Mini Shaji Thomas said. Last year, the Madras High Court stayed the recruitment notification issued by the NIT-T during January after a public interest litigation challenged it for not mentioning the number of vacancies under different reservation categories. After the Central Government issued a notification on January 12, providing for reservation for Economically Weaker Sections, the NIT-T called for applications to fill vacancies in 17 departments. Rigid selection process Appointment of permanent faculties through a rigid selection process is bound to reflect in qualitative teaching-learning process and research activities, Ms. Thomas said. Seventy eight permanent teaching posts remain to be filled, she said. A chunk of the recruited teachers constitute doctorate degree holders and post doctorate fellows of leading universities in Japan, Australia, and United States among other countries. A large number of the new recruits are from Indian Institutes of Technology, Ms.Thomas, said. Of the 71 new assistant professors 21 are women. There are already over 50 women teachers in existing faculty strength of 247, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nit-t-has-robust-pupil-teacher-ratio-as-faculty-strength-goes-up/article31401866.ece
22 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi City Police brings out awareness video||The Tiruchi City Police has come out with a short awareness video on the precautionary measures to be taken by the public in the wake of spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The video lasting about 183 seconds has been made involving sections of general public and police personnel. The awareness video clip was yet another attempt by the Tiruchi City Police to drive home the importance of personal distancing and the need to stay at home in the wake of COVID-19 spread, said the Commissioner of Police V. Varadharaju. The City Police had been creating awareness through distribution of pamphlets and deploying vehicles fitted with public address system. The clip also drives home the action being taken to strictly enforce prohibitory orders clamped to contain the spread of the virus. It also contains a message from the Commissioner of Police appealing to the general public to respect the prohibitory orders to check the spread of the virus. Messages by the Deputy Commissioners of Police (Law and Order) and Crime and Traffic also form part of the clip urging public to stay home and stay safe and to wear a mask while venturing out. The video has received good viewership, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-city-police-brings-out-awareness-video/article31401873.ece
22 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Banned tobacco products seized||A police team on Tuesday seized banned tobacco products illegally stocked in a house in Woraiyur area here. Acting on a tip off, a police team went to Perumal Koil Street and seized the contraband weighing about 30 to 35 kilograms stocked in two boxes. Police said the contraband was seized from the house of Sivakumar who has been named as the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banned-tobacco-products-seized/article31401888.ece
22 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Total shutdown in Tirunelveli city on April 26, May 3||The district administration has decided to clamp total lockdown in the city on April 26 and May 3 after increasing incidences of violation. All shops will remain closed and residents should not come out of their homes for any reason. Medical emergencies are exempted and hospitals and pharmacies will remain open. Although official machinery is taking a range of measures to enforce lockdown, people continue to visit markets and other places without protective equipment. Also, youth have been found roaming the streets without masks. The violations showed a slight decline when police seized vehicles and registered cases and the Corporation cracked the whip against those without masks. To intensify the measure further, the Corporation has introduced three types of ‘colour cards’ that allows residents to come out of their houses only twice a week to buy essential commodities. The green (Monday and Thursday), blue (Tuesday and Friday) and red (Wednesday and Saturday) cardholders can shop between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m. The card-bearer should carry identity proof and be above 15 and below 60 years of age. They should strictly follow physical distancing or else the card will be cancelled, the Corporation has warned. While police personnel have been deployed in temporary vegetable markets and meat stalls to ensure physical distancing, there is disarray when the crowd swells. The colour card system has been effective to some extent and in a bid to fine-tune it further, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish has ordered cent per cent closure of all shops, except pharmacies and hospitals, on April 26 and May 3. “Shops will not be allowed to open on the two days. Hence, residents should buy essential commodities on previous days mentioned on their colour card. This is being done to ensure physical distancing, which is essential to check spread of COVID-19. Hence, we appeal to everyone to remain indoors,” Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/total-shutdown-in-tirunelveli-city-on-april-26-may-3/article31401840.ece
22 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Violating lockdown norms with impunity||The curfew imposed to enforce physical distancing has lost some of its edge with two-wheeler riders roaming around the streets with impunity to “buy essentials” after police were ordered to return vehicles seized from violators. Initially, there was fear of seizure of vehicles, but that has dissipated now. The bike riders can be seen roaming along roads once again as they are confident of getting back their vehicles after the directive to police. Kanniyakumari police stand apart from their counterparts in other districts in south Tamil Nadu as they have so far seized 4,185 vehicles from violators after registering 5,265 cases. “Stringent measures initiated by us have led to nil fatal accident in the district as on April 1. Only on April 20, a 40-year-old woman died in a hit-and-run accident involving a two-wheeler and an unidentified lorry. We will continue to enforce the lockdown with more vigour,” says N. Shreenath, Superintendent of Police, Kanniyakumari district. Police have seized over 4,000 vehicles in Tenkasi district. In Tirunelveli district, they have seized 2,440 vehicles from 3,272 violators after registering 2,350 cases. In Thoothukudi district, police have registered 2,483 cases against 2,937 persons and seized 1,383 vehicles. “It is not enough. Though police intercept vehicles, most of them give false reasons to justify their roaming and they are allowed to go. When a woman crossed VVD signal around noon on Tuesday on her two-wheeler with two children and another adult woman, all without helmets, she was allowed to go for reasons best known to the police deployed at the point,” said an ambulance driver, who witnessed the incident. “If only the woman, who told the police that she was going to a supermarket, had been booked for not wearing helmet, defying lockdown and taking three pillion riders, she will not come out any more. We feel that such mild action encourages people to come out again and again,” the driver added. Police admit that returning seized vehicles has emboldened violators as they are sure of facing the case in the court later. “Instead of returning the vehicles, our higher-ups should have announced that vehicles will be released only after the rightful owners get an order from the court in their favour. As a case is registered without any vigour now, it encourages them to violate the law again and again,” said a police officer, who has been deployed to file cases against violators in Tirunelveli district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/violating-lockdown-norms-with-impunity/article31401842.ece
22 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man who battled COVID-19 ready to donate plasma||A 38-year-old man from Tiruppur, who recently recovered from COVID-19, said that he was willing to donate his plasma for the convalescent plasma therapy treatment, if approached. Speaking to The Hindu over the phone, the man said that he was among the nine patients from Tiruppur district who were discharged from Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, on Saturday. “All of us are ready to co-operate if they ask us to donate plasma,” he said. Plasma theraphy Convalescent plasma therapy involves administering the plasma component of the blood derived from patients who have recovered from COVID-19 to those patients who are severely affected in an attempt to boost their ability to fight the virus. This procedure is still being subjected to clinical trials. Currently under house quarantine, he was one of the attendees of the Delhi conference who returned to Tiruppur on March 24, a day before the nation-wide lockdown came into force. When test results confirmed that he was positive for COVID-19, he was admitted to ESI Hospital on April 1. His 38-year-old wife and two sons aged 10 and 7 were also quarantined in the hospital, although he claimed that they were not infected. During his treatment, he claimed that he did not have any of the COVID-19 symptoms – fever, coughs or breathlessness. “The talk among our relatives that I got COVID-19, the roads near our house being blocked and my family being admitted in the hospital – all these things caused me a lot of distress,” he recalled. The man said that he did not feel particularly happy when the doctors said that he had recovered from COVID-19 and will be discharged. “I wanted to go home along with my wife and sons, but they insisted that I should leave immediately. Now, I am alone in my house,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-who-battled-covid-19-ready-to-donate-plasma/article31401632.ece
22 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||162 homeless persons rescued||A total of 162 homeless persons were rescued and sheltered amid the COVID-19 lockdown in Tiruppur city, Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said here on Tuesday. In a release, he said the persons were lodged at the Palaniammal Girls Higher Secondary School and Chandrakavi Municipal Middle School. Rotary Club was providing them food. They were being offered vocational and skill training at the shelters. Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan visited Palaniammal Girls Higher Secondary School along with District Social Welfare Officer R. Ambika and other officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/162-homeless-persons-rescued/article31401644.ece
22 April 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK to sponsor food at Amma canteens||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Tiruvarur District Unit, will sponsor free food to customers at the Amma canteens in the district. Disclosing this to reporters at Kudavasal on Monday, the AIADMK Tiruvarur District Secretary and Food Minister, R. Kamaraj said that the Tiruvarur district party unit decision to undertake the cost of the food supplied to customers at the Amma Canteens functioning at Tiruvarur town, Thiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital, Mannargudi, Thiruthuraipoondi and Koothanallur was a sequel to the similar announcement made by Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami at Salem. The Food Minister had also said that the distribution of ration for the month of May as priceless goods would commence once the Chief Minister decides the date. The priceless ration distribution to cardholders in the State for the month of April had crossed 90 percent and cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 as coronavirus relief has been extended to 98.4 percent of the targeted people, he added. In Tiruchi, the AIADMK (Tiruchi urban) has decided to bear the cost of food items being served to the people in Amma canteens in the city. P. Kumar, district secretary, said that he had paid Rs. 2 lakh as advance to the Tiruchi Corporation to serve free food to the needy people in six Amma canteens in Tiruchi West and Thiruverumbur constituencies. Community kitchens Meanwhile, Thanjavur Collector M. Govinda Rao has said that the poor and the needy in several parts of Thanjavur district were being fed through 91 community kitchens. In a press release, the Collector said that while the Thanjavur Corporation has set up community kitchens at two places in its jurisdiction to take care of the destitute, stranded outstation workers and the tourists, the Kumbakonam and Pattukottai Municipalities were running community kitchens, one each in their respective domains, the Nutritious Meals Department at 33 places, the District Integrated Child Development Services unit at 29 places, the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department at 21 temples and NGOs in four places. Farmer donates banana Meanwhile, a farmer, Madhiazhagan of Vadugakudi near Thiruvaiyaru, donated 85 banana bunches for distribution to COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. The bunches were kept at the cold storage facility owned by the Thanjavur Regulated Marketing Committee at the Nanjikottai Road, Thanjavur, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-to-sponsor-food-at-amma-canteens/article31401876.ece
22 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Over 100 sanitation staff housed in govt. hostels||With Khandal in Udhagamandalam being declared a containment zone, more than a hundred sanitation workers from the area have been housed in hostels in the town, so that they can continue the district administration’s battle to keep COVID-19 at bay in the Nilgiris. Despite being away from their families during the last week, the sanitation workers said that they were willing to put their safety at risk, and continue to assist the municipality and the district administration in keeping the district safe. M. Pappathi, one of 45 women housed in a government hostel near the Government Botanical Garden, said that it was difficult for the workers to be away from their families. “We miss our families, and we fear for their safety, as three of the nine people in the district who tested positive for COVID-19 are from areas near our place of stay,” said Pappathi, adding that though she misses her family, she was proud to be on the frontline of the fight against the novel coronavirus. “We are a family of six, and I speak to them over phone every day. Moreover, having other workers also staying in the hostel certainly helps me cope with being away from my family,” said Pappathi. Prema, another sanitation worker, said that she has noticed a change in people’s attitudes towards conservancy staff ever since the COVID-19 outbreak. “People now realise that our work is so important in keeping everyone safe, and they are definitely more kinder to us than they were before,” she said, thanking the municipality and the district administration for all the efforts that have been undertaken to make their stay in the hostels as comfortable as possible. Venugopal, the supervisor at the hostel, said that meals as well as snacks were provided to the sanitation workers staying at the hostel. “They work for a few hours in the morning, are allowed to rest and work for a few hours later in the afternoon,” he said, adding that all personal distancing precautions were being followed by the women staying in the hostel. “We are also ensuring that they have access to sanitisers and water whenever they come back to the hostel after finishing their work,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-100-sanitation-staff-housed-in-govt-hostels/article31401639.ece
22 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Crop relief disbursed||A total of Rs. 11.10 crore compensation under Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme has been disbursed to 6,585 farmers for 2018-19. In a statement, Collector R. Kannan said relief for farmers who paid premium for crop insurance and faced failure was being released. Meanwhile, Rs. 6.10 crore compensation for farmers, who paid premium through Primary Cooperative Agriculture Societies, had been released between March last week and April 15. A total of 3,368 farmers, who cultivated cotton, black gram and gingelly would be benefited. The compensation had been deposited in their saving bank accounts. Similarly, 3,217 farmers who paid premium through common service centres had been allocated Rs. 5.03 crore. It would be deposited in their bank accounts. Release of funds had come at the right time when farmers were affected by the lockdown. A total of 79,527 farmers from the district had so far received Rs. 130.77 crore through New India Assurance during 2018-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crop-relief-disbursed/article31401846.ece
22 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Fire and rescue stations get motor pumps in Virudhunagar||Collector R. Kannan on Tuesday handed over 13 pumps to fire and rescue service stations and personal gear for firemen procured under Disaster Management Fund. With fire tenders predominantly used for mass disinfection works across the district, pumps, personal protective equipment, gumboots, gloves, masks and stretchers were distributed to the 10 fire stations in the district. “Disinfection by fire tenders had a reach for longer distance and were covering areas faster,” according to District Fire Officer K. Ganesan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-and-rescue-stations-get-motor-pumps-in-virudhunagar/article31401843.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Masks are mandatory for all now||The COVID-19 pandemic is now a major threat to global health and economy, the full impact of which is yet unknown. The case load and deaths are gradually mounting in India too, especially over these past weeks. These figures may have been substantially higher if the Government of India had not put in such stringent, pre-emptive containment measures. But this pandemic cannot be controlled by governments alone. It needs the participation and passion of all the people of India; and it needs clear, feasible measures that ordinary citizens can undertake to help reduce transmission. The lockdown has probably played a great role in flattening the epidemic curve thus far, but it cannot go on forever. It remains an experimental intervention not just for India, but for other countries as well. With a lack of clarity on what the ultimate benefits would be, and what the implications will be when the lockdown is revoked. Any degree of relaxation could result in increase in the transmission, unless the epidemic weakens substantially, but there is no indication yet of the same. It is therefore important to explore sustainable methods of reducing community transmission. Along with the well-accepted measures of physical distancing and frequent hand washing, the use of face masks or face covering is now emerging as a third pillar in community action — doable and low-cost. The tide has turned since the beginning of epidemic, and even the CDC (USA) changed its position and has issued an updated set of guidelines advising the members of the general public to wear non-medical face covering outside their homes, whether or not they're sick. Before understanding the role of masks in the spread of infection, it is important to understand the transmission dynamics of COVID-19 infection. Similar to influenza and other respiratory infections, the infection can be transmitted through droplets of different sizes, mostly 5-10 m in diameter. Droplet transmission occurs when a person is in close contact (within 1 m) with someone who has respiratory symptoms (e.g., coughing, sneezing or even speaking), most commonly by inhalation. The inhalation route remains the predominant mode of spread. The main benefit of all people wearing masks is that in infected persons, the mask will help prevent these droplets from getting into the air and infecting others. Lingering virus This assumes even more significance as there are reports coming in suggesting that the virus can live in droplets in the air for up to three hours after release from an infected individual, lingering even much after the person has left the area. Furthermore, one in four to five individuals infected with COVID-19 virus are not symptomatic and they may have started releasing viruses before they developed symptoms. This is a key factor in the ability of this virus to spread. For the public, cloth masks are probably effective and sufficient for this purpose. In fact, some years ago, before disposable masks became easily available in India, most surgeons used washable cloth masks successfully during operations. These masks are simple to make and instructions are available on social media for making them. Recently, respiratory disease experts advocated in a medical journal the use of traditional cloth coverings such as dupatta and saree, towels, turban and even handkerchief as face cover. Communities could be taught to use these to cover their mouth and nose when they cough or sneeze and when they are in places such as markets community gatherings where social distancing may be impractical. For instance, the ‘mask for all campaign’ in a rural community in south Odisha, the Bissamcuttack initiative is a show of success. For uninfected people, the virus has three Entry Gates into the body; mouth, nose and eyes. The connection between one person’s exit gate and another’s entry gates is usually air (if you are close to each other) or hands (that pick it up by touching things). We do not know who is infected and who isn’t. So covering the exit and the entry gates of our body makes it safe for us and for others, thus decreasing the chance of spread of the virus in the community.  The following instructions are given for the use of the masks : Get a cloth mask or make one; write your name on it, so that it doesn’t get mixed up with other family members. You can wash and re-use the mask for months ; don’t throw it away. Wash it before you use it the first time. Wear a mask for as much time as you can, but compulsorily if you have a cough or fever – even while inside the house; and compulsorily if you step out of your house. Your mask should cover your nose, mouth and chin – for it to do the job. Don’t just hang it around your neck. Take the mask off only to eat, drink, bathe etc. Once you put on your mask, handle your mask only by the strings. Do not touch the front of the mask or the inside surface. If you do, then wash your hands. At night, wash your mask with soap and water. If you have an iron at home, iron the masks; the heat will kill the virus if any. Or else, dry the mask in the sun. Make two masks for each family member if possible, so that you can use them on alternate days. Try to maintain 6 feet distance from others as much as possible; avoid crowding. Wash your hands with soap and water as many times a day as possible, especially when you enter your house or leave it, or after touching things.  (The full version of this report has been published online)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/masks-are-mandatory-for-all-now/article31401592.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||76 new cases, one death in T.N.||With the discharge of another 178 persons, the total number of persons who have been discharged after two subsequent tests return negative for COVID-19 has increased to 635. On Tuesday, 48 persons were discharged from the Karur Government Medical College Hospital, 31 from Coimbatore ESI Medical College Hospital, 26 from Government Stanley Medical College Hospital and 20 each from Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, and Government Vellore Medical College Hospital, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. A total of 6,060 samples were tested, taking the total till date to 53,045. Of this, 43,582 samples have tested negative and 1,990 samples are under process. A total of 5,877 samples were repeat samples. With 5,458 individuals tested on Tuesday, the number of individuals tested so far stands at 47,168. A total of 1,917 persons suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to isolation wards of hospitals. Those in home quarantine number 22,254, while 145 persons are in government quarantine facilities. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar held a meeting on the protection of healthcare providers, police and field staff on COVID-19 duty. Representatives of Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association and Indian Medical Association-Tamil Nadu State Branch participated. C.N. Raja, State president of IMA, said that in the event of the death of a doctor in the private or government sector, the last rites should be performed with full police protection. The government should also provide a Rs.50 lakh insurance cover along with solatium in the event of death of a doctor. IMA demanded that those involved in the attack during the burial of neurosurgeon Simon Hercules should be booked under the Goondas Act. Private hospitals that had been closed after reporting COVID-19 cases should be opened after disinfection by health officials, it said, and urged the government to confer special awards on doctors who died fighting COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/76-new-cases-one-death-in-tn/article31401606.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Everything is under control, says Speaker||Tamil Nadu Assembly Speaker P. Dhanapal on Tuesday told his counterparts from other States that in relation to COVID-19, everything was under control in T.N. He also expressed the hope that the State would become free of the pandemic very soon. In his speech during a video-conference meeting convened by the Lok Sabha Speaker, Mr. Dhanapal said, “The government of Tamil Nadu will ensure the safety and security of all citizens by arresting and eliminating the adverse effects of COVID-19. The government has also initiated proactive measures to ensure the economic well-being of the State.” Listing the measures being taken by the State government, Mr. Dhanapal said it was spearheading a “massive and aggressive campaign”, and had asked everyone to support the initiative by ensuring social distancing, surface cleaning, and hand and respiratory hygiene. “Even when the Assembly was in session, cleaning and disinfection activities were carried out within its precincts as per my instructions,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/everything-is-under-control-says-speaker/article31401599.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 update||No. of persons in hospitals: 294 (Male -131, Male child – 12, Female – 133, Female child – 18) Admitted to Government hospitals – 214; Private hospitals – 80 Positive cases – 134 (One new case on Tuesday) Total no. of persons recovered: 83      House quarantine cases: 875 Persons released after 28 days of house quarantine: 85 Samples lifted: 2,010 Declared: 1,800 Positive: 109 (No fresh cases on April 21) Negative: 1,691 Discharged from ESI Hospital: 13 Results awaited: 210||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-update/article31401634.ece
22 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Five Incident Commanders to monitor containment zones||As part of its COVID-19 management strategy, the State government has issued orders appointing Incident Commanders to monitor containment zones. Five officers have been posted as Incident Commanders to the seven containment zones in Belagavi district. Of the seven zones, one is in the city, two in the Belagavi Urban agglomeration area and four in the taluks. The Incident Commanders will be empowered to close shops or establishments, factories, offices, education institutions, stop lay-off of workers and ensure their safety and see that they get paid leave, enforce quarantine and isolation of those who have returned from foreign countries or shift them to institutional quarantine, prohibit gathering of more than five persons, stop festivals and gatherings of all religious denominations, to allow work from home for IT/BT, essential and critical services, to stop movement of all vehicles except those on medical emergencies or essential supplies, close inter-State borders except for vehicles on exemption and to ensure closure of government offices except those working for essential supplies and services. These officers will relax restrictions on essential supplies and services, allow transport, storage and distribution of milk, water, foodgrains, vegetables, fish, meat and fruits and allow their wholesale and retail businesses to remain open subject to conditions and schedule, Petrol bunks, gas and other fuel, hospitals, drug stores, police and fire services, Panchayat Raj and urban local bodies, electricity, water, municipal services, notified government offices, banks, ATMs, telecom, phone, internet and other communication services, e- commerce, door delivery of food and other goods, print and electronic media, security services, all factories, offices and institutions necessary for COVID-19 management, all factories in “always on” or “continuous service” mode. The Deputy Commissioners, the Police Commissioners or offices authorised by them can relax some provisions. Any individual, organisation or institution disobeying orders will face punishment of a jail term up to six months or fine of Rs. 1,000 or both. Action can be taken under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act or Section 188 of Indian Penal Code. As per an order issued by Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli, Belagavi City Commissioner is the Incident Commander for the Kasai Galli area inside the Military Cantonment, Belagavi Tahsildar is the Incident Commander for Bilgundi and Yallur, Belagavi Taluk Panchayat Executive Officer is the Incident Commander for Hire Bagewadi and Peeranwadi, Raibag Tahsildar is the Incident Commander for Kudchi and Hukkeri Tahsildar is the Incident Commander for Sankeshwar containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-incident-commanders-to-monitor-containment-zones/article31401708.ece
22 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Death toll touches 17||With another senior citizen succumbing to COVID-19 in the State, the death toll touched 17 on Tuesday. The day saw 10 more cases being detected, taking the total number of cases to 418. An 80-year-old male patient, a resident of Kalaburagi, who had Parkinson’s disease since four years and was bedridden for the last three years, was admitted on April 19 at a designated hospital in Kalaburagi with complaints of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). He passed away on Monday morning and his report came positive late in the night. Of the 10 new cases, three each are from Vijayapura and Kalaburagi, two from Nanjangud in Mysuru, and one each from Belagavi and Dakshina Kannada. On Tuesday, 17 persons have been discharged after recovering from COVID-19. These include seven from Mysuru, three from Bengaluru Urban, one from Bengaluru Rural, three from Belagavi, and two from Bagalkot, said Suresh Kumar, Primary and Secondary Education Minister.  Following reports about the poor accuracy of rapid antibody blood-based test strips across the country, the government that has received 11,400 strips from the ICMR’s pool three days ago, is getting the strips validated by experts from NIMHANS. “A team of experts led by V. Ravi, senior professor and Head of Neuro Virology at NIMHANS, are validating the claims of accuracy made by the manufacturer. After the validation, which is likely to be done in a day or two, we will allot it for random tests in districts identified by ICMR,” said Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare). Meanwhile, testing in the State further increased from 2,093 on Monday to 2,773 samples on Tuesday. As the State’s order for one lakh rapid test strips from China was getting delayed due to technical issues, a new order for two lakh strips has been placed with two other firms. “We are expecting delivery of 80,000 strips in a day or two,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-death-toll-touches-17/article31401548.ece
22 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bats are at the receiving end||In the midst of a border-less pandemic that is devastating lives, hapless bats are emerging as villains. Panicked residents are either making desperate calls to the authorities concerned, or taking it upon themselves to remove habitats of bats fearing them to be carriers of the dreaded COVID-19. Wildlife activist Joseph Hoover said he has been getting calls from concerned citizens alerting him about residents in different localities attempting to destroy bat habitats. A few days ago, a resident wanting to axe a tree which housed bats in J.P. Nagar was prevented from doing so after neighbours alerted the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) forest cell, which intervened in time. “The complaint initially started in J.P. Nagar, but it has become a trend everywhere to cut down trees to prevent bats, thanks to wrong narrative in some media. We are already losing bees and bats that are known to be good pollinators. Where is the food security if they go?” he asked. A few days ago, the ICMR and National Institute of Virology, Pune, published a study on the subject. The study, ‘Detection of coronaviruses in Pteropus & Rousettus species of bats from different States of India’, said bats are considered “the natural reservoir for many viruses, of which some are potential human pathogens.” “In India, an association of Pteropus medius bats with the Nipah virus was reported in the past. It is suspected that the recently emerged severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) also has its association with bats,” the researchers said, explaining the need of the study. However, the results of the study found that the strain found in bats were different from the ones in humans, said Rajesh Puttaswamaiah, Citizen Scientist and Trustee, Bat Conservation India Trust. “The pandemic has set off panic across India. In the ICMR study, they found that two species of bats were found to host coronavirus. If you look at coronavirus, there are lots of strains. SARS COV-2 is what has been found in humans, and the strain found in the bats were different,” he said. People also need to understand the role of bats in the ecosystem, Mr. Puttaswamaiah said. “It is a historically neglected species. There are 128 bat species in India. Most people will only talk about myths, but not their benefits,” he said. He further explained that there are two main categories, one of which is the large-sized fruit eaters which consume nectar, fruits and tender leaves. As they are nocturnal in nature, they go for trees which flower in the night. So these trees are also dependent on bats. They are pollinators for many commercial plants and crops, such as durian and banana, he said, adding that bats aid seed disposal over vast areas. The second category, microbats, are natural pest control as their main food is mosquitoes and moths, he explained. “But grape growers categorised them as vermin because they attack grape vines. There is no protection for bats because of this. Considering the damage now, it is important for the government to formulate protection for bats,” he added, also urging citizens not to destroy their natural habitat and co-exist with wildlife.  The complaint initially started in J.P. Nagar, but it has become a trend everywhere to cut down trees to prevent bats, thanks to wrong narrative in some media. We are already losing bees and bats that are known to be good pollinators. Where is the food security if they go?Joseph HooverWildlife activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bats-are-at-the-receiving-end/article31401542.ece
22 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Spell out assistance available for domestic violence victims, says HC||Taking note of reports on domestic violences during lockdown, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to spell out the assistance available to the victims, including women and children, as they cannot easily approach the authorities due to lockdown restrictions. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna issued the directions during video conference hearing of PIL petitions on various social issues that have cropped up due to lockdown. The Bench asked the government whether any helpline was made available to the victims to lodge complaints on domestic violence, while noticing that everyone will not be having facility of email to send complaints to the authorities. The government has also been directed to provide details on action taken on the complaints of domestic violence received after imposition of lockdown. The Bench pointed out that family courts are accessible to the public as facility of e-filling of complaints/petitions as per the law has been provided during this period. Volunteers to the rescue Meanwhile, counsel appearing for the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority pointed out that para-legal volunteers can come to the rescue of victims of domestic violence once the victims approach the authorities concerned through a helpline. On the other hand, counsel for People’s Union for Civil Liberties pointed out the need for mental healthcare for migrants and others as lockdown had its impact on mental health on many due to loss of livelihood, etc. The counsel also pointed out that National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences has come out with certain programmes to address mental health issues during COVID-19 lockdown. Following this, the Bench asked the government to respond to the need of providing mental healthcare to the needy during lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/spell-out-assistance-available-for-domestic-violence-victims-says-hc/article31401546.ece
22 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Communal spin is major roadblock in Padarayanapura||Efforts by the administration to rebuild trust with the residents in Padarayanapura ward have become more difficult after the mob violence on April 19. Civic officials acknowledged the challenge and underscored the urgency to improve awareness and communication given that there were 19 positive cases so far, the highest concentration of cases in any ward in the city. The task of bridging the communication gap has become all the more difficult in the backdrop of the recent violence acquiring a communal narrative on social media and a section of the mainstream media, say activists. “They are attributing communal motives to medical decisions being taken by the administration to fight COVID-19, which triggered the protests and violence recently, and continues to be the biggest roadblock to bridge the gap,” said a senior civic official. Multiple residents that The Hindu spoke to questioned why only Padarayanapura and Bapuji Nagar wards, with a large Muslim population, were sealed on April 10 even though the civic body had declared nearly 30 wards as hotspots at that time. They refused to accept the argument that these are densely populated areas where social isolation is tough and cases here have been spreading at a faster rate. Police arrests in connection with the recent violence seems to have created further fissures. “Police have been indiscriminate and have arrested several innocent youths in the last two days. There has also been caning in the area on anybody seen on the street. Despite being an advocate, I feel helpless,” said Saddam Baig, a resident of the area. A statement issued by a coalition of 83 activists and organisations on Tuesday, while condemning the rumours and fake messages that have been spreading on social media and some television channels, drew attention to the living conditions of people in the ward, marked by non-provision of adequate food and milk during the lockdown. Councillor Imran Pasha said he had placed a request for universal supply of ration kits and milk every day. “There are 12,000 households in the ward. Eleven days after the ward was sealed down, BBMP has distributed only 3,500 ration kits and is supplying only 3,000 litres of milk every day. This has left many hungry. I have personally pitched in as have many NGOs, but many have fallen through the cracks. This has only added to the anger of the residents against the sealing,” he said adding the supply of essential medicines had also turned precarious. A senior civic official said BBMP has now decided to supply more ration kits and will do so over the next few days. “Lack of information on why these two wards were sealed down, the anti-Muslim sentiment seen in the country after the Tabligi Jamaat event and the lack of essential supplies had created a volatile situation in these two wards,” said the activists in the statement. Police and activists in the area say one of the fault lines that has emerged in the area is the management of drug addicts and alcoholics who are suffering from withdrawal symptoms making them desperate to get out. “The area has many people who earn a living doing hard physical labour and habituated to marijuana. Even at rehabilitation centres, they do not stop the intake of drugs at once. There is a need for a drug and alcoholic rehab centre and counselling,” said Mr. Baig. One of those who allegedly led the violent protest and was arrested is a known marijuana dealer. “For now, the priority is to win back the trust of the community, for which removing communal narratives is the need of the hour,” said a civic official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/communal-spin-is-major-roadblock-in-padarayanapura/article31401533.ece
22 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Five children and an RJ bring cheer to this ward||With five children admitted to the COVID-19 ward in the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre on the Victoria Hospital campus, the ward has almost acquired a playschool atmosphere. An RJ is also trying to keep the mood upbeat. The five children include a six-year-old, a 10-year-old whose mother recovered and was discharged two days ago, two 13-year-olds with a parent and relative each, and two others — aged 11 and 16 whose mothers are also admitted there. All of them are asymptomatic carriers of the virus. Keeping them engaged While there it is relatively easy to handle children whose parents and relatives are also admitted, doctors are going out of the way to take care of the six-year-old and 10-year-old. They are being entertained with toys and board games. With a radio jockey — Jimmy Xavier, who hosted breakfast show at 95FM Radio Mirchi — also admitted to the same ward, doctors are keeping children engaged through him as well and a few other “patient volunteers.” “While the 10-year-old appears fine even without his mother, the six-year-old has kind of been adopted by other patients. In fact, these children are adding colour and creating a lively atmosphere there,” said S. Balaji Pai, Special Officer of the centre. “As some of the children are not used to managing things on their own, they are messing the place and toilets. Understanding their plight, our Group ‘D’ workers are making extra trips to the ward for cleaning,” he said. Meanwhile, Mr. Xavier is using his skills of communicating with people in the ward too. “As most who come here are not aware either about the virus or the quarantine and treatment process, I have been trying to talk to them about it. I guide them... Some feel really low about being away from their families and that they have been infected. I have been trying to make them understand that this is necessary in their own interest and in the interest of society,” he told The Hindu over phone from his hospital bed. Life’s googly On a philosophical note, he talks of how he and his mother tested positive. “You never know when life will throw a googly at you. Giving live updates on COVID-19, I landed as one such case myself. Apart from the patients in the ward, I speak to my family at home, read and do yoga to keep my lungs happy and drive the virus out. I also make up hospital and medical puns to pass time. They are all on my insta handle @mirchijimmy under the #isolatedthoughts,” he said. The doctors have been giving him constant updates about his mother, who is recuperating in another hospital. “Amidst all this, I have seen how patiently healthcare workers and doctors handle all of us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-children-and-an-rj-bring-cheer-to-this-ward/article31401544.ece
22 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Submit policy on giving police protection to doctors, health staff: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to submit its policy to provide adequate police protection to nurses, doctors and health workers across the State in view of the violence at Padarayanapura ward, a COVID-19 containment zone in the city, on Sunday night. A special Division Bench issued the direction during videoconference hearing of PIL petitions related to issues during the COVID-19 lockdown. The Bench was dealing with applications filed by some of the petitioners pointing out that fear has gripped health workers, nurses, and doctors engaged in COVID-19 duties as a mob had attacked health workers and police when they went to Padarayanapura ward to shift identified persons to a quarantine facility. Asking whether any policy was in place to provide armed security to nurses, doctors and Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) (who are community health workers instituted by the government), the Bench also directed the government to spell out the steps taken to prevent such incidents. It directed the government to submit details about action initiated against wrongdoers.  The Bench also noted that the lives of health workers could be in danger as they would be wearing only masks and gloves and not PPE. It was also pointed out to the Bench that there could be possibility of police personnel coming in close contact with infected persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/submit-policy-on-giving-police-protection-to-doctors-health-staff-hc/article31401535.ece
22 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Questions raised on Nikhil’s wedding||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the government to file its response on a plea, which has complained that social distancing and other norms were allegedly violated at the marriage ceremony of K. Nikhil, son of former Chief Minister H.D. Kumrawamy last week. Car festival Also, the Bench asked the government about action taken on the gathering of a large number of people at the Siddalingeshwara temple car festival in Rawoor village of Chittapur taluk, Kalaburagi district, in violation of lockdown norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/questions-raised-on-nikhils-wedding/article31401553.ece
22 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No arbitrariness in rule on supermarkets: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday found no arbitrariness in allowing supermarkets, which are selling groceries and other essential products, to stay open 24x7 during the COVID-19 lockdown. Observing that it was the duty of the State and Union governments to ensure supply of groceries and other essential commodities to citizens during the lockdown, the court said that fixing duration for the operations of particular services was a policy decision of the State governments, depending on the local situation. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna passed the order while disposing of a PIL petition, filed by Sandhya R. Prabhu, an advocate, during a videoconference hearing. Also, the Bench found nothing arbitrary in the operation of limited bus services in Bengaluru for transporting persons engaged in essential services and others having the requisite passes. PIL against media The Bench declined to entertain a PIL petition, filed by Janaadhikara Sangharsha Parishat, seeking action against the media for carrying “misleading reports” related to COVID-19. It said the petitioner had neither named specific media houses nor made any complaint before the authorities concerned under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act or the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-arbitrariness-in-rule-on-supermarkets-hc/article31401560.ece
22 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HDK questions shifting arrested to Ramanagaram jail||Taking exception to shifting 54 persons arrested for the violence at Padarayanapura to Ramanagaram district jail, former CM H.D. Kumaraswamy on Tuesday expressed fear of the virus spreading in the district. He pointed out that Ramanagaram district was in the green zone. In the jail, 15 persons are in the same cell. Cooks and cleaning staff in the jail could contract the virus in case persons brought here are carriers, he argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdk-questions-shifting-arrested-to-ramanagaram-jail/article31401536.ece
22 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Doddabasti, Chikkabasti sealed||Entry and exit points to Chikkabasti and Doddabasti were sealed on Tuesday by officials from the office of the Deputy Commissioner, Bengaluru Urban. The thickly populated areas are adjacent to each other in Kengeri hobli of Bengaluru South taluk. Movement of people and vehicles has been prohibited. Assistant Commissioner (South division) Shivanna M.G. said that one positive COVID-19 case was reported in Doddabasti on April 14. The decision to seal Chikkabasti and Doddabasti was taken, as there are over 2,000 houses and nearly 6,500 residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doddabasti-chikkabasti-sealed/article31401534.ece
22 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Traffic jam on Mysuru Road||There were traffic jams on Mysuru Road on Tuesday morning after the police blocked Minerva Circle and J.C. Road. Hundreds of vehicles piled up on KR Market Junction and the snarl extended to Majestic area, Anand Rao Circle and Palace Road. The police had a tough time clearing the roads. Lockdown and barricading of roads were intensified after DG&IGP Praveen Sood sought an explanation from Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao over increased traffic over the last few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traffic-jam-on-mysuru-road/article31401538.ece
22 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No new cases in Bengaluru||Bengaluru, which saw 89 positive cases and four deaths, has not reported a single new case for the third consecutive day on Tuesday. Of the 89 positive cases here, 48 have been so far discharged and 37 are recuperating in various hospitals. Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar said he hoped Bengaluru will soon become COVID-19 free.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-new-cases-in-bengaluru/article31401550.ece
22 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||e-passes to buy medicine, essential goods and for emergency travel||Following directions from Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa, the district administration has started issuing e-passes for emergency travel and to get essential goods and medicine. A release from the Department of Information and Public Relations stated that this step had been introduced to help those who are waiting for passes to travel for emergencies. Due to lockdown orders, people have been prohibited from venturing out of their houses and also those staying in far-off places are unable to come to the district administration offices to fill up forms and get passes for their travel. To facilitate such persons, e-pass facility has been introduced. Those who want to get e-passes can log on to supportdharwad.in and submit their e-forms. This e-pass is issued for medical emergency travel, to get medicine from other places and for funerals. For wholesale dealers and retailers, bakery owners, fruit and vegetable sellers, the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation is issuing passes. Those in need of passes have to submit their Aadhaar number, passport-size photographs along with the prescribed forms. Teams have been formed to scrutinise the application forms and they will send information of e-passes to the people, the release said. As two alcoholics died after reportedly consuming sanitisers, the district administration has issued orders asking the pharmacies to compulsorily collect details of those coming to buy sanitisers. Apart from alcohol, sanitiser also contains ethanol, isoprophyl and other chemicals which are harmful when consumed. A sanitiser should be used to wash hands and not for consumption. Drinking sanitiser leads to multi-organ failure resulting in death. The pharmacy owners should be alert while selling sanitisers and they have to mention the names of buyers, their mobile numbers and their residential addresses compulsorily in their bills. Sanitisers of some companies have been prohibited in sensitive areas in the twin cities. Ugar Sugar Factory has been directed to change the formula, appearance and colour of its sanitiser, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/e-passes-to-buy-medicine-essential-goods-and-for-emergency-travel/article31401710.ece
22 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||KVGB donates Rs. 50 lakh||Officers and employees of Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank (KVGB) have donated Rs. 50 lakh to the Union and State governments funds to fight COVID-19. KVGB chairman Gopi Krishna handed over a cheque to Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa here on Monday. Out of the Rs. 50 lakh, Rs. 22.50 lakh will be given to PM-CARES Fund, Rs. 20 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund and Rs. 7.50 lakh for constructing, through the Rotary Club, ICU beds with ventilators and other equipment at the Civil Hospital in Dharwad, stated a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kvgb-donates-rs-50-lakh/article31401706.ece
22 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Three railway hospitals ready for treatment||Three railway hospitals on South Western Railway (SWR) Zone are now ready for treatment of COVID-19 positive patients and a swab sample collection facility has also been commissioned at the Railway Central Hospital here from Monday. According to a press release issued by the chief public relations officer of SWR, separate clinics have been established in Railway Hospitals of SWR with separate team of doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and pharmacists with Personal Protective Equipment. Fever clinics are also planned to be set up at other locations for diagnosis of COVID-19. This apart, the three railway hospitals on the railway zone have been kept ready to treat COVID-19 patients. The Central Hospital in Hubballi has 149 beds with an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of eight beds. Similarly, in the 50-bed Railway Hospital in Bengaluru, the ICU has six beds. The 101-bed Railway Hospital in Mysuru also has a six-bed ICU facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-railway-hospitals-ready-for-treatment/article31401554.ece
22 April 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Unharvested and now destroyed||With no hopes of the COVID-19 lockdown being lifted soon and markets being opened for selling his produce, Rajkumar S. Aland, a floriculture farmer from Kalaburagi, has cleared his entire crop, which had withered inside a polyhouse. It would have earned him almost Rs. 1.5 lakh if the markets had been open. He set up the polyhouse on his plot in Nadi Sinnor village, near Kalaburagi city, three years ago. He cultivated four types of flowers, including marigold and chrysanthemum, on an acre covered by polyhouse. He harvested the marigold fully and the chrysanthemum partially, and earned around Rs. 80,000. Before the chrysanthemum production reached its peak, however, the lockdown was imposed and the markets closed. The unharvested flowers gradually withered. “I could not repay any portion of my loan and pressure is being mounted with the bank issuing notice. I don’t know how I can survive this crisis,” Mr. Aland told The Hindu on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unharvested-and-now-destroyed/article31401559.ece
22 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Amid lockdown, State’s only fertilizer factory starts work||Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilizers (MCF), Karnataka’s only chemical fertilizer manufacturer, has resumed production amid the lockdown, at a time when weathermen have predicted normal monsoons this year. The plant was closed for a few days for annual maintenance before the resumption of production, and it is confident of taking care of the fertilizer requirements of farmers for the upcoming kharif season. The Union and State governments have been supportive since fertilizers fall in the category of essential commodities, an MCF official told The Hindu . The plant has a monthly production capacity of about 36,000 tonnes of urea and 25,000 tonnes of diammonium phosphate (DAP), which are predominantly used by farmers, and about 1,500 tonnes of ammonium bicarbonate, which is used in the manufacturing of biscuits. MCF is one of the only two plants that produce ammonium bicarbonate in the country, the official said. MCF expects to produce about 16,000 tonnes of urea this month, and the full capacity in May, provided there is no shortage of water, as witnessed during earlier summers, the official said. It is awaiting the arrival of phosphoric acid and ammonia to resume DAP production. While the Centre gives the movement plan for fertilizers produced across the country, a major share of MCF production (about 70%) is supplied within Karnataka, and the rest to neighbouring States. The official also said MCF has taken all safety precautions, as advised by the Union and State governments, including deploying only 50% of the workforce, maintaining good sanitation, social distancing, and hygiene during the three shifts. Meanwhile, the supply chain is ready to transport fertilizers to the designated places. The plant was temporarily shut down in 2014-15 following the Centre’s decision to discontinue subsidy for naphtha, the feedstock for urea production. It resumed production in 2015 after the intervention of the then Union Minister, the late H.N. Ananth Kumar. Once the Kochi-Koottanad-Mangaluru Regasified Liquefied Natural Gas (RLNG) pipeline is complete in a couple of months, the plant will shift to RLNG as its feedstock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/amid-lockdown-states-only-fertilizer-factory-starts-work/article31401562.ece
22 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Neighbour of deceased woman found COVID-19 positive||A 67-year-old woman who tested positive for COVID-19 in Dakshina Kannada on Tuesday is the neighbour of a 50-year-old woman in Bantwal who died of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and COVID-19 on Sunday. The 67-year-old woman from Kasba village in Bantwal with SARI was admitted to the intensive care unit of Government Wenlock Hospital on April 18 after getting treatment from a private doctor in Bantwal who had also treated the 50-year-old woman. Her throat swabs tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. With this, there are three COVID-19 active patients who are undergoing treatment in the district. As many as 12 patients have been discharged. As per a health bulletin released by Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh, there are 31 persons in home quarantine. As many as 6,042 persons have completed their 28-day home quarantine, as on Tuesday. As many as 21 persons are under observation and test reports of 429 throat swab samples are awaited. In all, 813 persons have been treated at fever clinics. The number of persons under quarantine at the National Institute of Technology, Karnataka, at Surathkal has gone up to 39 with five new admissions on Tuesday. In addition, 10 persons have been quarantined in the ESI Hospital, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/neighbour-of-deceased-woman-found-covid-19-positive/article31401711.ece
22 April 2020||MANIPAL,KARNATAKA||Flexible learning amid a health crisis||The T.A. Pai Management Institute has partnered Coursera, an online education and training company for students, to ensure continuity and augmentation of operations, in the wake of the closure of institutions due to COVID-19. A press release here on Tuesday said that the initiative aims at creating a flexible and adaptable learning environment and sharpening skills-sets of students. As part of the tie-up, licence was issued to all students giving them free access to more than 3,600 online courses offered on the platform. Coursera will help students complete their internship. Students will be provided specific online educational study material from Coursera’s top global universities and industry partners to promote conceptual clarity and subject-based mastery. Extended lockdown in the country has forced students to adopt new ways of learning. This initiative will ensure that students do not lose out on internshipsIt will also make sure that academic processes are not compromised, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flexible-learning-amid-a-health-crisis/article31401712.ece
22 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||One in 63 people found infected in State||Minister for Medical Education K. Sudhakar on Tuesday said that in Karnataka, one out of 63 people subjected to the tests was testing positive. He told reporters here that the “relatively high testing rate” and the percentage of persons testing positive indicated that there was no community transmission of COVID-19. More tests are on the cards since the rapid testing kits were being procured, he added. Relapse To questions on the possibilities of recovered patients getting infection for the second time, the Minister said there had been some reports of relapse of COVID-19 cases in China. Some patients had contracted the virus two months after the first infection. “However, the virulence of the virus will be less when compared to the first-time infection since the body would have produced antibodies and patients will have the strength to combat the infection. There is no need to panic since relapse cases had been found to be very few.” Tests for journalists In the wake of reports of 53 mediapersons testing positive in Maharashtra, the Minister said that he had instructed his department to arrange for COVID-19 tests to State journalists. “An order will be issued soon,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-in-63-people-found-infected-in-state/article31401552.ece
22 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||KSOU comes up with its own platform to hold online classes||Karnataka State Open University (KSOU), Mysuru, has developed its own videoconferencing platform as an alternative to Zoom to conduct online classes. It is named ‘KSOU Connect’. The Department of Higher Education, following a directive from the Ministry of Home Affairs, issued a circular to all universities to stop using the Zoom platform for videoconferencing/online classes and to find an alternative platform for carrying out teaching-learning and other academic, examination and administrative functions, a press release from KSOU said. In view of the lockdown owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, it has become essential to make use of ICT for continuing academic activities. In this direction, the KSOU has initiated a couple of digital initiatives. The ‘KSOU Student App’ was launched recently and received good response from students, according to university officials. Now, KSOU has developed its own videoconferencing platform, said Registrar Lingaraj Gandhi. The online platform has some unique features, including personalised meeting/classroom setup, easy single-click link to join meeting/class, user authentication, multi-device support; recording function, whiteboard option to bring back the classroom environment, presentation option to upload PPT instantly, screen-sharing, public chat, and sharing of notes, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksou-comes-up-with-its-own-platform-to-hold-online-classes/article31401557.ece
22 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Three arrested in Mysuru||Three persons from Haleem Nagar in the city have been arrested for allegedly threatening an ASHA. Police said ASHA worker Sumayya Firdose who had been deputed to the locality on Monday, advised a group of people to wear face masks and maintain social distancing, while she was returning home after finishing her work. But, three persons entered into an altercation with her and allegedly used foul language.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-arrested-in-mysuru/article31401537.ece
22 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Aapthamitra Sahayavani to answer all doubts||Chief Minister B.S. Yeddiyurappa will launch a helpline – Apthamitra Sahayavani – aimed at answering all doubts of the people with regard to COVID-19. Minister for Medical Education K. Sudhakar said the helpline, which can also be accessed through a mobile app prepared by Infosys, will have an estimated 2,000 medical professionals answering calls. The helpline is scheduled to be launched on Wednesday. “We will start with 400 people and eventually scale it up to 2,000. We will have people working in three shifts attending to calls round the clock,” he said. He said postgraduate medical students and house surgeons will work for the helpline voluntarily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aapthamitra-sahayavani-to-answer-all-doubts/article31401549.ece
22 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Candle-light march today||The Yadgir district unit of Indian Medical Association (IMA) will take out a candle-light march in protest against assaults on health workers in the State at 9 p.m. on Wednesday. In a release, Veeresh Jaka, IMA secretary in Yadgir, said that health workers are fighting the virus and providing best treatment to patients by risking their lives. However, they are being assaulted and threatened while discharging duty. The IMA is taking out the candle-light march to boost their confidence and show solidarity with them, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/candle-light-march-today/article31401709.ece
22 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha set to enter next phase||With no active COVID-19 cases in Alappuzha district now, the district administration and Health Department are set to enter the next phase of the fight against the pandemic. According to Health Department officials, the threat remains and there is a need to be extra vigilant. “Now is not the time to let our guard down. Various measures taken to check the spread of the disease continue to remain in place. With the easing of some restrictions, we have initiated steps to further strengthen the awareness measures,” said an official on Tuesday. Inflow of people The administration is expecting an inflow of people from foreign countries and other States after the end of the lockdown period. . “A meeting chaired by the District Collector on Monday decided to collect the details of people who are set to return to their houses in the district from abroad and other States once the lockdown is fully lifted,” said a Health Department official. Revised list Meanwhile, the government has issued a revised list declaring Mulakuzha, Thanneermukkom and Cheriyanad grama panchayats as COVID-19 hotspots in the district. It removed Chengannur municipality and Muhamma grama panchayat from the list. Officials said 723 more were released from home quarantine. As of Tuesday evening, 2,294 were in quarantine in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-set-to-enter-next-phase/article31401818.ece
22 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Lockdown casts shadow over lives of cross-border farmers||Lockdown restrictions, dearth of workers, threat of village chieftains, and low price for ginger rhizomeshave put thousands of Kerala farmers who have been cultivating ginger on rented land in Karnataka in a fix. Usually, this is the time to apply the first dose of fertilizer to one-and-a-half-month-old ginger plants but 95% of the farmers have not even started to plant ginger rhizomes owing to the crisis. This is also the time to harvest ginger rhizomes. “As the lease period of land will end by the end of May, the farmers are forced to harvest it before the date. Otherwise, they have to pay a huge amount to the owners to renew the lease,” Navrang Mohanan, general secretary, Kerala Ginger Growers’ Association, (KGGA), told The Hindu . Huge loss “If land owners disagree to renew the lease period, such a situation will cause huge loss to the farmers,” Mr. Mohanan said. “Earlier, we depended on tribal workers in Wayanad for the cultivation, but many farmers are now engaging workers in Karnataka for the purpose. But now village chieftains threaten the workers, especially those in the southern districts of Karnataka, that they would be ostracised if they work on the lands of Kerala farmers,” he said. They believed that the farmers spread the COVID-19 pandemic in Karnataka since the disease was first reported in Kerala, he added. “The police have asked us to stop all farming work in the wake of the lockdown,” V.V. Jose, president of the organisation, said. Each farmer had spent more than Rs. 4.5 lakh per acre for fresh cultivation, including rent of the land, Mr. Jose said. The area of ginger cultivation had increased nearly threefold this season because of good prices for the past two years, Mr. Mohanan said, adding that about 50,000 farmers had prepared land in Karnataka for ginger cultivation on nearly 1,50,000 hectares of land this season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-casts-shadow-over-lives-of-cross-border-farmers/article31401810.ece
22 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Two held for poaching deer||Two persons were arrested on Tuesday on the charge of poaching in a private plantation at Kunnampetta on the fringes of the Meppadi range in the South Wayanad forest division. The accused have been identified as Subhash, 30, and Prajish, 35. The officials seized the carcass of a male barking deer (Cervus unicolor), weighing around 10 kg, and four bikes used by the team for transportation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-for-poaching-deer/article31401786.ece
22 April 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Kannur records 10 more cases||Kannur district witnessed a jump in COVID-19 cases on Tuesday with 10 more people testing positive for the disease. District Collector T.V. Subhash said that out of the 10 people who were tested positive, eight were Dubai returnees. One person came from Ajman while a woman contracted the virus from an affected person. The samples of all the patients were collected on April 18. With this, the total number of COVID-19 patients in the district rose to 104. Of these, 49 people recovered from the disease. There are now 4,365 people under observation. Of these, 4,263 are in home quarantine. Three more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Kasaragod on Tuesday. All came from abroad. Four patients who recovered fully from the disease were discharged from hospitals in the district. The district currently has 4,619 people under observation. Of these, 4,567 are in home quarantine. Seven more people were admitted to the isolation ward on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-records-10-more-cases/article31401783.ece
22 April 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Clampdown intensified in Kannur as cases spike||With more people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur, the police took firm action against motorists and people stepping out of their houses on Tuesday. Ashok Yadav, Inspector General of Police, North Zone, said people coming out of their houses without valid reasons would be arrested and their vehicles would be seized. It was also decided to send such people to quarantine facilities. In the wake of the increase in number of cases, the district boundaries had been sealed. However, Mr. Yadav clarified that there was no need for a triple lockdown. Superintendents of Police Yathish Chandra, Navneet Sharma, and Arvind Sukumar had been given the responsibility of strictly enforcing the orders in Kannur, Taliparamba, and Iritty respectively, Mr. Yadav said. On Tuesday, the police arrested four persons who turned up at Mummymukh Juma Masjid in New Mahe for prayers. The area had been marked as red zone. They had beensent to an observation centre. Meanwhile, Collector T.V. Subhash said only special concessions granted by the Central and State governments would be applicable in the district, which had been declared a red zone with 19 hotspots. However, even these exemptions would not apply for areas listed as hotspots. Mr. Subhash said these areas would be completely closed and only one entry and exit point would be allowed to deliver essential commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clampdown-intensified-in-kannur-as-cases-spike/article31401803.ece
22 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HMT makes disinfection walkway with new tech||In a technical collaboration with Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), Thiruvananthapuram, HMT, Kalamassery, has manufactured a disinfection walkway that aims to reduce the microbial load on a person’s body, clothing and bags when they walk in from a public space. The “UV-D Gate” performs a 15-second electronically-controlled fumigation process with hydrogen peroxide. When the person exits the chamber, UV light is switched on inside the chamber to decontaminate it before the next person enters it. S. Balamurugesan, general manager (technical), HMT, Kalamassery, said that the company had asked the district administration for permission to install at the Kalamassery Medical College the first unit it had recently manufactured. He said that several enquiries had poured in with a single organisation asking for nearly 500 units. “But, in the present scenario, getting materials for the gateway from Nagpur, Kolkata, and Chennai is proving to be difficult,” he said. The technology for the gateway, developed by a team of scientists at SCTIMST, had been transferred to HMT and HLL Lifecare Limited, said Asha Kishore, Director, SCTIMST. The unit uses hydrogen peroxide instead of sodium hypochlorite which can be an irritant, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hmt-makes-disinfection-walkway-with-new-tech/article31401775.ece
22 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Library on wheels keeps the spirit of reading alive||R. Subramaniyan, a tribesman of Vazhachal, has been completely taken in by the literary prowess of Vakkukal, written by young Malayalam writer E. Santhoshkumar. And it is helping him beat the lockdown blues. On his return from work, Mr. Subramaniyan, president of the Vana Samrakshana Samity, the eco-protection council, picks up reading from where he left off the previous day. Back home, his 13-year-old son, Nithin, occasionally bursts into laughter reading Theevandi Phalithangal, a collection of jokes. The COVID-19 lockdown has not killed the appetite of the father-son duo for letters, thanks to Akshara Vandi, the library on wheels launched at the Vazhachal Forest Division a week ago. The visits In one week, the mobile library has completed one round of visit to the 11 tribal hamlets of the Vazhachal area, 78 km from Kochi, and distributed around 750 books. The second round of visit is due in a couple of days when the readers would be able to exchange the books. The library boasts of a collection of over 3,000 books, said S.V. Vinod, Divisional Forest Officer, Vazhachal. Mr. Subramaniyan was a regular visitor to the library Aksharashree, managed by the department for the population, before the lockdown. While the elders prefer to read novels and short stories, the youth pick up guides and books that help them crack competitive exams, said P. Ajikumar, Forest Range Officer, Chappa, who was part of the team that went for the distribution of books. Tough terrain The distribution of books is relatively easy in some hamlets that are lying adjacent to each other. In some cases, the vehicle has to tread through the tough forest terrain to reach the readers. Long journey It is a long and tedious travel to some colonies which are located in the interior areas. Some hamlets are located nearly 60 km away from Vazhachal, a popular ecotourism destination, said Mr. Vinod. A painting competition has also been organised for the children during the lockdown period to escape boredom. While the children below 12 years were given the subject forest for the competition, elder students were asked to draw on the subject COVID-19. The winners will be given prizes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/library-on-wheels-keeps-the-spirit-of-reading-alive/article31401812.ece
22 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Periyar pollution: HC takes action||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday initiated a suo motu proceeding on the basis of newspaper reports that the pollution levels of the Periyar are on the rise despite the lockdown. The Bench, comprising Justice Devan Ramachandran and Justice T.R. Ravi, also issued notice to the District Collector, Kerala Water Authority, and the Pollution Control Board. The court reminded the Board that this was a matter of great urgency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/periyar-pollution-hc-takes-action/article31401772.ece
22 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Restrictions on parking||Container lorries must not be parked in and around the Vallarpadam International Container Transshipment Terminal and on the accident-prone Kalamukku-Kalamassery stretch on Container Road, a directive issued by the Fort Kochi Sub Divisional Magistrate has said. This is part of the precautions taken in view of Mulavukad panchayat being identified as a COVID-19 hotspot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restrictions-on-parking/article31401771.ece
22 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC directive to give food to street vendors||The Kerala High Court on Monday directed the State government to ensure that the families of street vendors identified by the Kochi Corporation are provided sufficient food and medicine to tide over the difficulties during the lockdown period. Justice A.K. Jayasankaran Nambiar also directed the government to take immediate steps to attach the families of street vendors to the nearest community kitchens. The court recorded the submission of Additional Advocate General Ranjith Thampan that, subject to a formal announcement of a decision by the State government, an amount of Rs. 1,000 would also be paid to identified street vendors who came under the BPL category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-directive-to-give-food-to-street-vendors/article31401778.ece
22 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Prohibitory orders in 3 Kollam panchayats||District Collector B. Abdul Nasar imposed prohibitory orders on Thenmala, Aryankavu and Kulathupuzha grama panchayats from April 21 midnight after a Kulathupuzha resident tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. The 31-year-old man had visited Puliyankudi, a border village in Tamil Nadu, where the disease has been spreading. Reportedly, he sneaked out, managing to evade the surveillance of squads, and reached Puliyankudi that is around 40 km from the Kerala border. According to sources, he crossed the border in a truck transporting vegetables and then used a forest route. He attended a funeral at Puliyankudi and when some others present there tested positive for COVID-19, the Tamil Nadu Police alerted Kerala. His sample was taken on Sunday at Punalur Taluk Hospital. He was later shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Paripally, after he tested positive on Tuesday. While his mother, who is currently in Tamil Nadu, tested SARS-CoV-2 (the virus causing COVID-19) negative, health officials are tracing his primary and secondary contacts in Kerala. Among the cases reported from Tenkashi district, the majority are from Puliyankudi, which is the village from where vehicles carrying lemon regularly reach Kerala. At present, vehicles are allowed entry after thermal screening but following the new development, a demand to introduce rapid test at the Aryankavu check-post has been raised. The district administration has sealed all the three villages sharing border with Tamil Nadu and no offices other than revenue, police, health, local self-government, and those engaged in COVID-19 prevention will be allowed to function. Facilities allowed Banks can operate from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. and provision stores providing essential commodities can function from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. All roads to the three panchayats will be under the strict surveillance. Forest routes will be monitored by guards and nobody will be allowed to walk beside railway tracks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prohibitory-orders-in-3-kollam-panchayats/article31401819.ece
22 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Fishers gain sans middlemen: Minister||Fishers across the State are benefiting from the new transparent system of marketing and distribution put in place by harbour management societies, said Minister J.Mercykutty Amma here on Tuesday. Boats in the traditional sector were given permission to resume fishing on March 30, but strict regulatory measures were imposed, including a ban on auctions. “The government was forced to ban auctions in order to avoid crowd in harbours and fish-landing centres. At present, it is the societies that fix the price of the catch based on the average price each variety fetched during the last seven days. And this system without any middlemen has increased the daily income of fishers,” she said. While District Collector is the chairman and Fisheries Deputy Director is member-secretary of the society, it also includes representatives from Harbour Engineering, Matsyafed, Health, Food and Safety, local bodies, and trade unions. Price stability The Minister pointed out that the current system also ensured the same price throughout the day. “Earlier, there used to be a gradual decrease in price due to the involvement of middlemen. Catch from the boats returning late was sold at half the price of the first boats. Now, fishers in both the first and last boats will get the same price.” Rubbishing reports that Matsyafed was procuring huge amounts of fish, she said the department intervened only when there were no buyers for boats arriving late. “We buy the fish so that they also get the price fixed by the society. At Punthura, the fishers used to get Rs. 25.4 lakh for 12.8 tonnes of fish earlier, but now the same quantity is sold for Rs. 33.39 lakh. In two days they received an extra income of Rs. 7.9 lakh. Malappuram alone recorded an increased income of Rs. 3.61 crore these days,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishers-gain-sans-middlemen-minister/article31401802.ece
22 April 2020||Kottayam,KERALA||Confusion over lockdown exemptions||Confusion marked the first day of the partial lifting of lockdown restrictions in the district with a huge number of people and vehicles pouring into the streets on Tuesday morning . Following this, the police launched strict checking at different points and insisted that the people wear masks. A few shops which did not fall in the exemption category were directed to shut shop while restaurants and other essential stores were permitted to function. Meanwhile, government offices in the district resumed operations with limited number of employees. Offices and premises were cleaned and disinfected and employees were allowed in after checking their temperature with infrared thermometers. Attendance While the Collectorate and mini civil station at Pala recorded 33% attendance each, the municipal offices witnessed a higher turnout. The employee attendance recorded at each of the municipal offices was — Kottayam (65), Erattupetta (70), Pala (61), Changanassery (64), Vaikom (50) and Ettumanur (50). In Mahatma Gandhi University, 597 out of 1,286 employees turned up for duty. According to university authorities, 228 employees joined for work at A and B sections, while C and D sections recorded attendance of 369 persons. University authorities have ensured vehicles to ferry employees from various parts of the district. Besides restricting the entry of visitors to the university campus, the authorities have set up sanitiser kiosks for employees in various parts of the campus as part of the ‘break the chain’ campaign. ‘No’ to dining in The district administration had earlier revised the conditions of lockdown exemptions in line with a direction issued by the State government. Permission for dining in restaurants and functioning of hairdressing salons, textile shops and jewellery stores has been cancelled. The Collector had also requested the people to avoid stepping out of houses unnecessarily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/confusion-over-lockdown-exemptions/article31401822.ece
22 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||A treat for elephants||A group of elephant lovers at Vaikom here have been supplying captive elephants stranded in the temple town due to the lockdown a daily treat of pineapples. Three of the elephants — Mavelikara Ganapathi, Kiran Narayanan Kutty and Cherussery Raja — were brought to Vaikom last month in connection with the festival season while the fourth elephant, Thottakkadu Yamuna, lives on the premises of the Vaikom Mahadeva temple. Ajith, secretary of the Vaikom Vadakkenada Anapremi Sangham that leads the initiative, said here on Tuesday that Noushad, a wholesale fruit vendor at Velloor, offered them a truckload of pineapple free of cost. “With these animals and their mahouts having little chance to move out in search of food, we felt it was our responsibility to feed the elephants,” he said. Over 1,500 kg While the total stock is over 1,500 kg, the mahouts insist on limiting the daily intake for each animal at 50 kg. P.O. Nameer, Professor of Wildlife, Kerala Agricultural University, Thrissur, said pineapple was one of the most preferred fruits even for wild elephants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-treat-for-elephants/article31401821.ece
22 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Probe into death of man||The police here on Tuesday launched a probe into the death of a man at an isolated property here. The deceased was identified as Biju, 46, of Mulavana in Kollam. According to the police, the person was rendered immobile by a leg fracture and reportedly sought treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital two weeks ago. A probe is on to identify the circumstances leading to his discharge from the hospital and death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-into-death-of-man/article31401823.ece
22 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Four persons recover in Kozhikode||Four more people, including two natives of Kannur district, recovered from COVID-19 in Kozhikode district on Tuesday. According to District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, 11 from Kozhikode and two each from Kannur and Kasaragod have been discharged so far. Twenty people from Kozhikode and two each from Kannur and Kasaragod were diagnosed with COVID-19 here. As many as 5,203 are under observation now as 2,291 people completed their observation cycle on Tuesday. Twenty-seven people are at the Government Medical College Hospital. Four people were discharged. Officials said that facilities had been set up at the Government General Hospital, Kozhikode, and taluk hospitals at Vadakara, Nadapuram, and Koyilandy to collect body fluid samples of suspected patients. District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao said that ambulances at primary health centres could be used to transport patients to hospitals. Ward-level rapid response teams had been told to ensure that people who had returned from Naif area in Dubai, a COVID-19 hotspot, were under strict home quarantine. Kind gesture Meanwhile, a migrant labourer’s kind gesture has come in praise from the Chief Minister. Deshraj, a labourer from Rajasthan who is now staying at Kayyakkodi near Kuttiyadi, donated vegetable kits to a community kitchen in his area. He also donated vegetable kits to 550 other migrant labourers. Mr. Deshraj brought the vegetables from Karnataka after getting a special pass to do so. He reached Kayyakkodi 17 years ago at the age of 16. Right now, Mr. Deshraj is engaged in granite business and staying with his family here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-persons-recover-in-kozhikode/article31401781.ece
22 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Lockdown leaves Feroke’s tile industry gasping for survival||The heydays of the tile industry located on the banks of the Chaliyar in and around Feroke here had long ended. Its famed roof tile is past its prime with modern trends in construction replacing the traditional methods. The impact of the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown is feared to affect the very survival of the industry, which is already facing an uncertain future. The tile industry of Feroke, and nearby Cheruvannur-Nallalam, which is in the Kozhikode Corporation limits, is all but dead. There were more than 15 tile factories in the past, but only four are still functioning, with great difficulty. “The industry already is facing serious crisis because of severe restrictions on clay mining in the State,” says K. Murugan, Managing Director of Standard Tile and Clay Works at Feroke, established in 1916, which has been managed by a director board of workers since 1978. As this is the season for extracting the clay, the lockdown pushed the industry into further crisis, he says. The factories are also bringing clay from neighbouring Karnataka to ensure that production is not disrupted. “We don’t think that the industry can resume production any time sooner,” says V.V. Shivan, MD of Star Tile Works. This factory, established in 1921, has also been managed by a worker-controlled director board for over 40 years. The remaining two factories are controlled by the Comtrust. Several tile factories in the area had been closed one after another over the past few decades. Many of them settled their statutory dues and liabilities by selling their land. Some of the erstwhile tile factories are now resorts. According to industry sources, one of the reasons for the present crisis in the tile industry is its failure to modernise and diversify. “The tile industry of Feroke reached halcyon days during 1955 and 1975 when it employed over 4,000 workers,” says Subramanyan Nair, a leader of tile workers’ union. The Feroke tiles are still in great demand, despite the availability of cheaper imported clay tiles. Because of the competition from imported Chinese ceramic tile, hiking tile price matching production cost is off the table, he says. The Chaliyar, which once saw the hectic activities of ferrying boatloads of clay to the factories and of finished tile products to the nearby port at Beypore, now offers blurry reflections of the tile factory chimneys that still dominate the riverscape serving more as a testimony to the past industrial legacy of the place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-leaves-ferokes-tile-industry-gasping-for-survival/article31401770.ece
22 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Flights likely to normalise only by July||The disrupted flight services due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown and restrictions worldwide may normalise only by July in the country. Sources in the Ministry of Civil Aviation said on Tuesday that the Centre would not resume the operation of commercial flights till the scare subsides in Mumbai and Delhi. Even then only a few domestic passenger flights would be allowed to operate initially to destinations such as Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad by mid-June. In that case, no international passenger flights also would be permitted to fly till a clear decision on lifting the lockdown was taken. Suggestions were being considered that the nationwide lockdown with conditional relaxations would be extended till May 14, the sources said. Although the second phase of the lockdown will end on May 3, the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has restricted airline companies not to book tickets on domestic destinations till May 31. Union Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri has indicated that flight restrictions will be lifted once the government feels confident that the spread of the virus has been controlled and posed no danger to the country. Since some airlines did not heed “our advisory and opened bookings and started collecting money from flyers”, a directive was issued to them on April 19 restraining them from doing so, Mr. Puri tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flights-likely-to-normalise-only-by-july/article31401800.ece
22 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||IIM-K launches LiveBuzz||The Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode, (IIM-K), on Tuesday launched an online platform for innovators and entrepreneurs to creatively share their innovations and engage with stakeholders. The blogging platform, LiveBuzz -Startup Digital Diaries, has been conceived on the occasion of UN World Creativity and Innovation Day and is managed by the Laboratory for Innovation, Venturing and Entrepreneurship (LIVE) with the support of the Department of Science and Technology. LiveBuzz is designed to be an open, interactive platform for innovator-entrepreneur to share their ideas and emotions to wider audience without barriers, Debashis Chatterjee, Director, IIM-K, said on Tuesday. Keyoor Purani, executive director of LIVE, said that LiveBuzz was expected to emerge as a platform of start-up diaries that would give voice to several start-ups and add more vibrancy to the ecosystem. It also has blog posts by innovators and start-up founders in two sections: Venture Buzz — stories and events related to start-up journeys, and Founder Buzz — personal experiences and events related to founder journeys. LiveBuzz will also have another unique multimedia feature called Webtiles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iim-k-launches-livebuzz/article31401792.ece
22 April 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Teen who sneaked in from Chennai tests positive||A youngster hailing from Cherukunnu, Othukkungal near here, who made it to Palakkad from Chennai on foot and by trucks during the lockdown was tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. He has been admitted to District Hospital at Palakkad. The 18-year-old youth had left his home for Chennai on January 18. He left Chennai in spite of the lockdown as COVID-19 was spreading there. He reached Palakkad by trucks and on foot. He was caught by the police at Kalladikode on April 18, and was shifted to an isolation ward at Kerala Medical College, Mangode. When he was tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday, he was shifted to District Hospital, Palakkad. District authorities warned here on Tuesday that stern action would be initiated against those crossing the district borders without permission. District Collector Jafer Malik said here that people were being carried in lorries and pickups which were given special passes to transport essential goods. He said stern action would be taken against the truck drivers and their vehicles. Anyone showing symptoms should not reach hospitals directly. They should contact the control room at 0483 273 7858, 273 7857, 273 3251, 273 3252, 273 3253. Five more cases Five more COVID-19 cases were confirmed in Palakkad district on Tuesday. All of them were admitted to District Hospital here. One of them belonged to Othukkungal near Malappuram. He reached here from Chennai on April 18, and was picked up and shifted to an isolation ward by the police. A 42-year-old man from Kavilpad near Olavakode who reached home from Sharjah on March 15 was found positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. He had completed home quarantine for four weeks. He reached the District Hospital with complaints of fever and diarrhoea on Sunday. He was tested positive on Tuesday. A 23-year-old student from Vilayur was admitted to District Hospital with COVID-19 on Tuesday. He was under surveillance at Taluk Hospital, Ottapalam, after he showed symptoms. A lorry driver at Kuzhalmannam who brought goods from Selam in Tamil Nadu was found positive on Tuesday, and was admitted to District Hospital. He had approached a hospital at Kuzhalmannam with fever on Sunday. He was shifted to District Hospital. An 18-year-old from Uttar Pradesh was admitted to District Hospital with COVID-19 on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teen-who-sneaked-in-from-chennai-tests-positive/article31401777.ece
22 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Paddy harvest progressing apace||Paddy harvest and procurement that began on a challenging note against the backdrop of the nationwide lockdown is fast progressing in the rice bowl of upper Kuttanad and other parts of the district. The Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) has procured 6,000 tonnes of paddy from the district as on Tuesday, according to C.L. Mini, Paddy Marketing Officer. Ms. Mini told The Hindu support from the district administration and cooperation of the farming community helped Supplyco during the lockdown. Combine harvesters She said though there was acute shortage of combine harvesters in the district owing to the lockdown, the administration’s timely intervention preventing some Tamil contractors from taking away the machines from the fields of upper Kuttanad to their home villages in Salem turned out to be a big help to the ongoing paddy harvest. Enthusiastic farm workers heaping the paddy harvested by combine harvesters, braving the scorching summer heat, is now a common scene in upper Kuttanad. However, the summer rain that lashed the area in the past few evenings is making them anxious. Despite all odds, 22 combine harvesters had been pressed into service for paddy harvest in the region and nearly 60% of the harvest was completed as on Tuesday, said Sam Eapen, district panchayat member and president of the Upper Kuttanad Nelkarshaka Samiti. In a week Harvest is progressing fast in the paddy fields of Chathankery and Kodankery and the process in the Varalpaadom and Koorachal-Manickathady fields too will be completed in the next one week. Ms. Mini said the paddy was being procured at a competitive rate of Rs. 26.95 a kg and the farmers would receive the price of the paddy procured from them in their bank account in the next one week itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/paddy-harvest-progressing-apace/article31401825.ece
22 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Hotspot list revised||The Health Department on Tuesday revised the list of COVID-19 hotspots in the district following widespread criticism from different quarters against the list released on Sunday. The previous list had declared panchayats of Ranni-Pazhavangady, Vadasserikkara, Aranmula, Kozhencherry and Omalloor and Adoor municipality as COVID-19 hotspots. Of these, Ranni-Pazhavangady panchayat did not have any COVID-19 patient or contacts as on Tuesday. Ranni MLA Raju Abraham too questioned the Health authorities for declaring the panchayat as a COVID-19 hotspot. New inclusions The department then revised the list as per the recommendations of District Medical Officer A.L. Sheeja and included Chittar and Ayroor panchayats on the list and excluded Omalloor and Kozhencherry from the first list. Meanwhile, the 28-day home quarantine of all those who came to the district from various foreign countries ended on Tuesday, according to an official medical bulletin released here. Over 4,000 persons came from abroad between March 5 and 24 and all of them were placed under observation since then. Of them, 10 tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and five of them have been cured of the disease while the remaining five are still admitted to the isolation ward at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital. As of now, six COVID-19 patients are in the isolation wards at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital and at the District Hospital at Kozhencherry. 1,288 in quarantine Presently, 1,288 persons — 593 who came from other States and 543 who came from other districts — are in home quarantine.  No new COVID-19 case has been reported from the district on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hotspot-list-revised/article31401826.ece
22 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New asymptomatic cases keep State on its toes||COVID-19 has been surprising Kerala at every turn. The curious case of how Kerala continued to have new positive cases on a daily basis though the 28-day quarantine period of those who came to Kerala on the last international flight (on March 22) was long past over continues to puzzle many. On Tuesday, 13 of 19 persons tested positive had come from abroad. Is this because of a longer incubation period (the period between a person getting an infection till the time he develops clinical symptoms)? But an incubation period longer than the usual 14 days (the longest being 24 days) has been observed only in 1% of the patients globally. “The new cases are all people who have been asymptomatic all along, past their quarantine period often, but are now being discovered as COVID-19 patients purely by accident. Their RT-PCR samples show viral RNA, but they are healthy, past the infective stage and are not expected to be contagious,” a senior public health consultant told The Hindu . “It is just the remnants of viral RNA strands which are being picked up by the PCR test. The duration of the contagious period is usually eight days, which begin two days before the symptoms start. In these asymptomatic cases, the concept of incubation period has no meaning because they do not develop symptoms at all,” he added. A chunk of the patients who came from abroad never developed any symptoms but they were in home quarantine and not in the community. Some of them might be accidentally discovered later, usually when they go to hospital to treat some other illness (common cold or fever). Health officials unravelled the mystery when in Kannur the elderly father in a family first tested positive. On enquiry, it was revealed that his son had recently returned from abroad, but completed home quarantine and never developed any symptoms. The son later tested positive. Similar cases “Similar cases are being discovered now. It is when one of the family members develop symptoms – often the elderly -- that we discover that an asymptomatic case had been there all along,” the official said. An analysis of the clinical features of 183 patients in the State by the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority reveals that up to 20% of the cases in the State were asymptomatic. The clinical features displayed by the patients in Kerala have been mild. Even though fever has been the most common symptom, less than 50% have reported with fever.  The low mortality rate amongst Kerala’s patients should be read against the fact that most of whom are young and have come from abroad. The proportion of patients over 60 years in the State is roughly 2%. “They are asymptomatic because viral multiplication is low in their system, which naturally makes them less infective. In Kerala’s case, these people were in quarantine and their contagious period was over before they were released,” he added. Though unlikely, only a viral culture or subgenomic mRNA sequencing (both of which can be done only in NIV) can finally decide if these patients might be infective||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-asymptomatic-cases-keep-state-on-its-toes/article31401815.ece
22 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. mulls exams post lockdown||The General Education Department is mulling conducting the SSLC and higher secondary examinations in a week or 10 days from the expected lifting of lockdown restrictions on May 3. A meeting of the quality improvement programme monitoring committee conducted on Tuesday through audio call conference decided that if need be the SSLC and Plus Two examinations would be conducted at different timings — one in the morning and the other in the afternoon. Extending the Plus One examinations dates would also be considered. Nearly 13 lakh students would reach schools when examinations for all three classes were conducted together. With rearrangement of the timings, only around four lakh students would reach schools at a time, thereby preventing massive crowding. Measures Arrangements for social distancing and hand wash using soap and water or sanitising hands would be made at the examination centres. The examination dates would be finalised after taking into account hotspots in any region in the State or continuation of lockdown in Gulf countries. Dates for the D.El.Ed. and other examinations conducted by Pareeksha Bhavan would be decided after the lifting of the lockdown. Valuation centres The meeting decided to conduct centralised exam valuation with centres and subcentres in all districts. Arrangements would be made to the extent possible for teachers to take part in the valuation at the centre nearest to their home. Five-day (20 hours) online training would be conducted for primary teachers. The module would be prepared by the State Council of Educational Research and Training and discussed with teachers’ organisations. As there had been no change in textbooks, the training, to be conducted through both Victers telecast and online mode, would instead focus on schooling in the post-lockdown phase, precautions to be adopted by both students and teachers, and classroom management, especially with the COVID-19 threat expected to linger on for some more time. If teachers missed out on any day’s training, they could visit the KITE website to catch up on it. Hurdles General Education Secretary A. Shajahan said at the meeting that hurdles in the uploading of details of newly recruited teachers for service recognition on the department’s Samanwaya portal for months would be looked into and addressed. Director of General Education Jeevan Babu K. and representatives of teachers’ organisations took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-mulls-exams-post-lockdown/article31401796.ece
22 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police tighten vigil in capital||The Thiruvananthapuram City police have decided to act tough on those who fail to wear face masks while leaving their homes. District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said the police would enforce the government’s guideline to wear masks or use handkerchiefs to cover one’s mouth, failing which the violators would be penalised from Wednesday. The city witnessed considerably low traffic on Tuesday compared to Monday with the police intensifying steps to enforce the lockdown within the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limits that have been designated a COVID-19 hotspot. The police permitted access only through six city border points, viz., Maruthoor, Vetturoad, Vazhayila, Kundamankadavu, Pravachambalam and Mukkola after thorough verification of the purpose of travel. All other entry-exit points including Kachani, Vellaikadavu and Chenkottukonam were sealed. These points would be opened only after exclusion of the city from the list of hotspots. Barring the city limits, Varkala municipality and Malayinkeezhu grama panchayat, the odd-even system introduced for vehicles was strictly enforced and violators turned back. The Thiruvananthapuram City police registered cases against 121 people for violating lockdown and seized 90 vehicles. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police also registered 412 cases, arrested 417 people and 324 vehicles. Quarantined Seventy-eight people were quarantined by district authorities on Tuesday, while 201 people were removed from the quarantine list. Currently, there were 1,387 people who were placed under observation here. These included 1,304 people who were quarantined in their homes. While 38 symptomatic people were admitted to hospitals, 26 people were discharged after recovering from their ailments. Thirty-five test samples were collected by district authorities, while 89 others returned negative on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-tighten-vigil-in-capital/article31401832.ece
22 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Panel to probe Sprinklr deal||The State government on Tuesday formed a two-member expert committee to examine its controversial deal with the U.S.-based data analytics firm Sprinklr Inc. Former Additional Chief Secretary Rajeev Sadanandan and former Civil Aviation secretary M. Madhavan Nambiar are the members. The government has tasked them to find out whether the contract with Sprinklr to crunch health data collected by field workers from COVID-19 vulnerable population had incorporated clauses for protecting the “privacy of personal and sensitive data of individuals.” The committee will also probe whether the extraordinary situation caused by the pandemic had warranted the engagement of the big data analytics firm to integrate and analyse information from multiple sources to inform the State containment strategy. The committee will look at whether the IT Department had violated any laid down procedure. The government had, arguably, come under a cloud after Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala accused it of having entered into a ‘self-defeating’ Faustian pact with Sprinklr. He said the personal health information of citizens stored in Sprinklr’s foreign servers was at stake. The ‘data trading’ firm could monetise it by selling it to private health-care, pharmaceutical and medical insurance businesses. Govt. order Chief Secretary Tom Jose said in his order that the government’s priority was to prevent community spread of the virus. Initial statistical models had warned of a peak of 8 lakh to 10 lakh infected persons. Kerala was in dire need of a big data analytics platform to inform its containment strategy. Hence, the government had hired the services of Sprinklr at little or no cost to the exchequer. However, Mr. Chennithala stuck to his demand for an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the scam. The government had struck the contract with Sprinklr under the U.S. law. It had rendered the State powerless to challenge possible contractual violations by the firm. In stark contrast, the Congress governments in Rajasthan and Punjab had engaged an Indian start-up in New Delhi to crunch health data to inform their containment strategy. The States held the medical details of their citizens in their own data centres. The start-up merely supplied analytical tools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-to-probe-sprinklr-deal/article31401788.ece
22 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Innovative ways to impart MathsLab training||Academic activities have been thrown into a disarray by the lockdown, but a good number of higher secondary mathematics teachers in the State are making the most of this period to advance MathsLab activities for students. MathsLab was launched in the higher secondary section last year to exploit the possibilities of technology when presentation of concepts becomes abstract and imparting them in the classroom through activities proves a bit of a challenge. Rather than just talk about a concept, the focus is on students doing activities for getting a handle on them. To facilitate this, the free software GeoGebra is used in MathsLab. Training Last summer, the State Council of Educational Research and Technology (SCERT) and the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) had conducted training for all Plus One maths teachers. Following this, Plus One students had taken part in MathsLab activities. In Plus One, a minimum of eight of 16 labs from the textbook and in Plus Two 12 of the 24 labs have to be done. Each lab comprises two to three activities. The Plus Two students also have to answer MathsLab questions to the tune of 40 marks from the forthcoming academic year as part of their evaluation. The second year training for teachers was to be held this summer so as to familiarise them and, in turn, the students with the type of questions likely to be asked during the MathsLab evaluation. The lockdown, though, has led to adoption of creative ways to impart the training, says Sajeev C.S., a member of the core group. First, WhatsApp groups of teachers are formed. Once the teachers go over one lab using the lab manual and the teachers’ handbook uploaded on the group, five questions that may require use of GeoGebra applets are given to them through Google Form along with a video on how to use the form. The teachers are then given a day to solve the questions and send it to the core State Resource Group which then extracts the answers, and posts it on the group as a PDF file. Only after a brainstorming session between teachers is the answer key posted on the group along with detailed video support on how to derive the answers using GeoGebra and how these should be taught to the students, he says. WhatsApp groups The training through WhatsApp groups was piloted in Thiruvananthapuram, and was so successful that it has been extended to 10 more districts. Each WhatsApp group has nearly 100 teachers. Besides giving teachers an idea of the questions to prepare for the first-ever MathsLab examinations, the training is also expected to facilitate online preparation of the lab manual for Plus Two, says Mr. Sajeev.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/innovative-ways-to-impart-mathslab-training/article31401791.ece
22 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM for steps to ward off food insecurity||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday cautioned Kerala that food production could be a causality if the COVID-19 crisis endured longer than predicted. The State’s grain, edible oil, wheat, pulses, and sugar storage levels were at their highest now. There was no immediate cause for concern. Food security was a distant threat, but one the State could ill-afford to ignore. Kerala relied heavily on food imports from neighbouring States. In the event of the agriculture production in the country’s rice bowls plummeting due to the pandemic, Kerala has to factor in the possibility that those regions could suspend exports to feed the local population. Hence, Kerala has to insulate itself against potential food protectionism and ensure that global adversities did not disrupt its food security ever. Kerala could no more allow agricultural land to remain fallow. “The titleholder can own the land. But either he has to farm the land or allow the local body to do so,” Mr Vijayan said. Kerala did not have enough arable land to grow food for its entire population. Moreover, farming was a labour-intensive venture, which required the support of migrant workers. Hence, the State would harness the latest mechanised and precision farming technologies to get more yield from less land, he said. Kerala will cultivate paddy in 25,000 hectares. It would produce 14.72 tonnes of vegetables. Mr Vijayan urged people to use every available space to grow food. Dairy farming The government will give a leg up to dairy farming and animal husbandry. It will set up storage and marketing infrastructure. The State will encourage the production of seafood and value-added agriculture and fruit products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-for-steps-to-ward-off-food-insecurity/article31401804.ece
22 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Directive on varsity exams modified||The government has relaxed the directive issued to State universities to commence the pending examinations on May 11. The Higher Education Department, in an order issued on Tuesday, clarified that the universities could decide suitable dates for conducting the remaining examinations after the easing of lockdown in the State and in their respective geographical jurisdictions in line with government directions. The apparent backtracking by the department on its earlier order, issued on April 18, comes amid widespread concerns raised by the academic community. Several students urged the government to reconsider its move in view of the prevailing difficulties to commute. Centre’s decision While the Centre is yet to take a call on resuming train and flight services in the country, many students who had travelled to other States and abroad prior to the imposition of the lockdown claimed inability to return to their native places in time for the examinations. Besides, implementing a common examination schedule for universities appeared unfeasible with certain districts, particularly in north Kerala, remaining in high alert. Decision Under the circumstances, the government is likely to take a call on the issue only after the conclusion of the lockdown on May 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/directive-on-varsity-exams-modified/article31401797.ece
22 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two men arrested for peddling ganja||The Varkala police have arrested two people for allegedly cultivating ganja and peddling the contraband among youngsters. The accused have been identified as Abdullah alias Abdu, 22, and Ijaz, 20, of Palachira. They have been accused of cultivating ganja in a resort from where police seized around 25 plants on March 18. However, the duo remained absconding despite efforts made by the police to nab them. They were ultimately caught when they were trying to peddle ganja they purportedly smuggled from Theni. The contraband was sold in packets containing 10 grams with each packet costing Rs. 1,000. The police recovered nearly such 30 packets from their possession. Earlier term Abdullah had undergone jail term for three months in the past after being caught with 2.5 kg of ganja on him in 2018, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-men-arrested-for-peddling-ganja/article31401828.ece
22 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Matsyafed official succumbs to injuries||Matsyafed director board member C.K. Majeed, who was involved in an accident that claimed one life and injured four others a week ago, succumbed to his injures on Tuesday. The deceased, from Kodungalloor, was involved in an accident near Pallipuram on April 16 when a jeep collided with a mini van. Pongumoodu native businessman Bibin Jacob was killed on the spot, while Majeed, two other Matsyafed director board members K.C. Rajeev and T. Raghuvaran, and their driver Suresh sustained injuries. Majeed, who was the Thrissur district secretary of the Matsya Thozhilali Union (CITU), was pronounced dead while undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital here. His family provided consent to donate six of his organs. He, along with the other injured director board members of Matsyafed, had come to the capital to take part in a meeting convened by Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma to discuss the problems faced by fish workers. He is survived by his wife and three children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/matsyafed-official-succumbs-to-injuries/article31401829.ece
22 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM urges believers not to congregate during Ramzan||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday urged Muslims not to assemble for prayers during the holy month of Ramzan that is expected to commence soon. Mr. Vijayan had held a videoconference with Muslim religious authorities earlier in the day. He said clerics, spiritual leaders and religious scholars who attended the meeting from different parts of the State through videolink agreed that believers should comply with the physical distancing norm. Season of giving Mr. Vijayan reminded the faithful that Ramzan was the season of giving. He urged believers to help the needy and also to contribute to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund. Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel attended the conference. The State has appealed to the Centre to slash the fixed electricity charge for commercial and industrial units, which could not work during the lockdown period. It has also sought a 2% reduction of surcharge for domestic consumers. Kannur lockdown Mr. Vijayan said the government would enforce the lockdown more rigorously in Kannur district, which has the highest number of COVID-19 persons under treatment currently. He said the epidemic spread in “strange ways” and its danger persisted in more ways than one. The Chief Minister said the scarcity of water and rising summer temperatures forced wild animals to foray into habitats abutting forests, destroy crops and terrorise people. The Forest Department should come up with a strategy to prevent wildlife-human conflict. Arrival of NoRKs Mr. Vijayan said the State was prepared to attend to non-resident Keralites (NoRKs) arriving from abroad. Those without symptoms would be quarantined at home for 14 days. Others would be isolated in special centres. NoRKs testing positive for the virus would be hospitalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-urges-believers-not-to-congregate-during-ramzan/article31401794.ece
22 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Dial for Vanasree products||The Forest Department has begun delivery of Vanasree items to places within the Corporation limits during the lockdown period. Contact Vanasree convener G. Santhosh Kumar through WhatsApp on 8281165348.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dial-for-vanasree-products/article31401827.ece
22 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KPCC president slams govt.||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran on Tuesday said the High Court’s observations on the Sprinklr “scam” reflected poorly on the government. He said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had evaded questions posed by journalists only to answer them in front of the High Court. Mr. Ramachandran said Mr. Vijayan had attempted to scapegoat the IT Secretary to hide his role.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kpcc-president-slams-govt/article31401805.ece
22 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police||The Kerala Police have till April 18 distributed 2,18,540 meal packets as part of the ‘Vayaroottem’ project to provide food for the needy during the lockdown period. Provision kits were distributed to 6,648 people. The project had its humble origins in a plan to provide food to 125 beggars in the capital city on the first day of the lockdown. It has now expanded to 25 centres across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police/article31401807.ece
22 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Mathilakam not a hotspot any more, courtesy Health team||Health officials at Mathilakam where the country’s first COVID-19 case was reported heaved a sigh of relief on Tuesday when the village was finally excluded from the revised list of hotspots. Mathilakam’s fight against COVID-19 started much before the country initiated its preparedness to control the pandemic. The first case was reported on January 30, on the very day the World Health Organisation declared the pandemic as a Public Health Emergency of International Concern. A medical student from Mathilakam, who returned home from Wuhan in China, was tested positive. Though she later recovered from the disease, Mathilakam reported another positive case in the second phase. A youth from Mathilakam, who returned from Qatar on March 15, was tested positive for the disease. After that, it was a restless period for health officials, including health inspectors and nurses, under the Mathilakam Block Panchayat. Hundreds of people were put under observation. There are seven primary health centres and one community health centre under the block panchayat. Health workers worked day and night, risking their lives for the care of people under observation. They faced even social stigma as the pandemic spread its grip across the world. Public Health Nurse Supervisor at Perinjanam Community Health Centre P.S. Mable, who hails from Kollam, was staying in a hostel at Irinjalakuda. When she became a member of COVID-19 health team, she faced stigma at her hostel. Later, she was provided accommodation in the hospital itself, recalled the Superintendent of the Community Health Centre Dr. Sanu M. Parameswaran. The team had nurses and other workers who had babies and elderly parents at home. But all of them worked as a unit with commitment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mathilakam-not-a-hotspot-any-more-courtesy-health-team/article31401773.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Every life counts||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/every-life-counts/article31401785.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Preparatory work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/preparatory-work/article31401799.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Getting groomed at home||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/getting-groomed-at-home/article31401834.ece
22 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||85-year-old woman wins COVID battle||An 85-year-old woman from Hindupur who was tested positive for COVID-9 was discharged from KIMS Saveera Hospital on Tuesday night. She was among the five persons discharged from the COVID19 special hospital. The woman was tested positive on April 5. She was brought out from the hospital on a wheelchair by her grandson, who was also positive patient and treated in the same hospital. The woman is the mother of a 60-year-old patient (patient no. 3) from Hindupur, who was confirmed positive after his death on April 4. The third patient to be discharged was an ambulance driver from Hindupur, who shifted the patient no.3 from Hindupur to Anantapur when the latter’s COVID status was not known. The other two who got discharged on Tuesday included primary contacts of the ambulance driver and both of them were admitted to hospital on April 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/85-year-old-woman-wins-covid-battle/article31401920.ece
22 April 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Major construction projects in a limbo||The lockdown, imposed across the country to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, has hit hard, among others, the construction industry in Visakhapatnam, which is facing the worst-ever crisis. Scarcity of sand, cement and other materials due to the non-availability of transport has resulted in most of the big real estate projects coming to an abrupt halt. It all started with a lull in the industry due to scarcity of sand about eight months ago. The sand availability improved and prospects looked bright with construction activity picking up pace towards the end of last year. This, however, did not last long as ongoing projects ran out of building materials due to the lockdown and the workers were rendered jobless. There are an estimated 1.5 lakh migrant workers, mostly from Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts, who come to the city for work every day. They travel mostly by passenger trains from various villages and towns in both the districts. They reach the labour points, at various areas in the city like Isukathota, Seethammapeta and NAD Kotha Road by ‘share autos’ or city buses. An additional 50,000 workers are estimated to be living in the city. This apart, there are thousands of workers from other States, working at major construction projects. There are hundreds of workers from the far-flung villages of neighbouring Odisha, who are stranded at big construction projects at Endada due to lack of work. “We obtained permissions from the authorities concerned to permit the workers to go home. The workers received messages from their family members, asking them not to come till the lockdown was lifted as the village elders were apprehensive that the virus would spread to their village. We are arranging food for them,” says Cheruvu Ramakotaiah, former vice-president of the Builder’s Association of India. “They (workers) will not stay here after the lockdown is lifted as they would be eager to meet their family members back home. The problems are likely to haunt the builders for at a least a couple of months,” he says. “Though the sector has suffered a setback, we are sure it will bounce back in two to three months after which the prices are sure to escalate,” said CREDAI Visakhapatnam chapter president Srinivasa Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/major-construction-projects-in-a-limbo/article31401935.ece
22 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Child abuse complaints rise during lockdown||The Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has said that ChildLine has been seeing an increase in the number of complaints pertaining to child marriage and physical abuse since the lockdown began. Antony Sebastian, chairperson of the commission, said that according to data provided by ChildLine, the helpline received 37 calls reporting child marriages and 32 calls related to physical abuse of children between March 25 and April 5. He said the number of child marriage cases was “abnormally high” and needed to be verified. “We think people perhaps are under the impression that they can discretely conduct child marriages during lockdown and nobody in their village or town will get to know,” he said. Alarming data They also received a large number of calls pertaining to medical and educational support. Mr. Sebastian said that they found the data alarming and have formed teams to verify these complaints. “We had a video conference with the members of the commission on Monday and told the members that they need to go with the police and officials of the Department of Women and Child Development to investigate this quickly and submit reports to the Commission,” he said.  Monitoring activities A member of the Commission said that majority of the calls pertaining to child marriages were reported from rural areas in North Karnataka. Nagasimha G. Rao, child rights activist, said that many families were using the lockdown as an opportunity to get children married. “Activities to monitor and prevent child marriages have been stopped, which is why the cases are on the rise,” he said. He also said cases of physical abuse against children are on the rise as families are “frustrated” with the lockdown and venting their anger on the children. The helpline has also received calls related online abuse. “A girl complained that she had befriended a person online and had sent him her photos and he was using the photos to blackmail her,” said the helpline staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/child-abuse-complaints-rise-during-lockdown/article31401463.ece
22 April 2020||BUTTAIGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19: MLA takes stock of situation in hamlets||Polavaram MLA Tellam Balaraju visited the Konda Reddy families living in remote villages in the district and distributed groceries and vegetables to them. He enquired the tribal people about their health condition. The MLA along with the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) officials visited Gaddapalli, Doramamidi, Chintapalli, Achhayyapalem, Gogumilli and other hamlets. They entered into the huts, observed sanitation and asked the locals about distribution of groceries through Tribal Welfare Department and the ITDA. “More than 1,600 Konda Reddy tribe families are staying in the hamlets. Almost all the hamlets look like forests as they are implementing lockdown very strictly and are taking all precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19,” Mr. Balaraju told The Hindu on Monday. He distributed rice, dal, oil, onions and tamarind and vegetables to the tribal people. The ITDA officials appealed to the villagers to contact the grama volunteers, Girijan Cooperative Corporation (GCC) or the tribal welfare officials in case of any emergency in the gudems (villages). “We distributed masks to the tribal people. The villagers with the help of local youth and police were seen guarding at all the entry points. Instructions have been given to the officials to visit the hamlets frequently, sanitise the villages regularly and keep them clean,” the MLA said. The tribal people thanked the government for supplying groceries and vegetables at the doorstep and providing financial aid. Mr. Balaraju appealed to the Konda Reddy tribes to maintain social distance while fetching water from borewells.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-mla-takes-stock-of-situation-in-hamlets/article31401909.ece
22 April 2020||Chennai/Bengaluru/Hyderabad/Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 deaths in T.N. & Karnataka, new cases in Kerala||Kurnool and Guntur districts continue to remain hotspots for COVID-19 in Andhra Pradesh, registering new positive cases with each passing day. Two more persons have succumbed to the disease in Guntur, raising the toll in the State to 22. Bucking the trend of over a week, Kerala had 19 new COVID 19 cases on Tuesday. The number of patients declared to have recovered from the disease was 16. Andhra Pradesh registered 35 new cases in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning, and 19 of them were from the two districts – Kurnool (10) and Guntur (9). The other districts were Kadapa with six cases, West Godavari four, and Krishna and Anantapur three each. With the latest additions, the total number of positive cases went up to 757. With four persons recovering on the day, the number of those who recovered so far stood at 96. The number of active cases was 639. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh tested 5,022 samples in the last 24 hours, the second time it crossed the 5,000 mark. Kurnool has reported 184 cases and Guntur 158 in all. Krishna (83), Nellore (67), Chittoor (53), Kadapa (46), Prakasam (44), West Godavari (39), Anantapur (36), East Godavari (26), and Visakhapatnam (21) are the other districts with multiple cases. Spike in Telangana Telangana witnessed a steep surge in COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday. There were 56 new cases taking the total number of affected persons since the outbreak of the pandemic to 928. No deaths were reported on Tuesday and the number of casualties remained at 23. Also, 194 people were discharged from hospital. The bulletin of the Public Health and Family Welfare department, Suryapet district reported 26 cases by evening. The GHMC area reported 19 more cases while three were reported from Nizamabad district. Adilabad and Jogulamba-Gadwal districts reported two new cases while Khammam, Medchal, Warangal and Rangareddy reported one each. The department urged people to wear face masks compulsorily. Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao asked senior officials to tour the districts to examine how well decisions to prevent spread of coronavirus were being implemented. Mr. Rao held a high-level review meeting on Tuesday.  In Kerala, Kannur district accounted for 10 of the new cases, Palakkad four cases, Kasaragod three, and Kollam and Malappuram one case each. Of the 19 new cases, 13 were people who had returned home from abroad, three (one each from Malappuram, Palakkad and Kollam) came from Tamil Nadu, one person had returned from Uttar Pradesh and two were contacts who had developed the disease from imported cases. Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan said cases from across the border meant that stricter control was needed at borders with other States. Kerala has reported 426 COVID-19 cases, of which only 117 were currently undergoing treatment in hospitals.  76 new cases in T.N. With 76 persons testing positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, the State’s tally went up to 1,596. One person died of the disease in Chennai, while 178 persons were discharged across the State. In the overall tally, two deaths have been cross notified to other States, while one patient died after turning negative for infection, keeping the active cases at 940. A 70-year-old man, who tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) died, taking the deaths toll to 18. Doctors said he had co-morbidities. He was referred from a private hospital on April 19, according to hospital authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-deaths-in-ap-karnataka-new-cases-in-kerala/article31401465.ece
22 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Give top priority to worst-hit districts’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the officials to focus on Kurnool, Guntur, Krishna and Nellore districts where more number of COVID-19 positive cases have been recorded. “Ensure that more number of tests are done in these districts since we have got rapid testing kits on hand. Ensure people at quarantine centres are provided the best of facilities,’’ the Chief Minister said. At a review meeting attended by Deputy CM Alla Kali Srinivas, Chief Secretary Neelam Sawhney, Special Chief Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Tuesday, he took stock of the measures being taken to combat the pandemic. The officials told the Chief Minister that tests were being intensified with the availability of 222 TrueNAT testing kits. On Monday, 5,022 RT-PCR tests were held, apart from rapid tests. The Government General Hospital at Kurnool was converted into a COVID hospital and all inmates have been shifted to other hospitals. Plasma therapy They also sought the permission of the Chief Minister to start plasma therapy to treat the patients in view of the encouraging results. “Of the 32,000 tests conducted so far of the people who have been surveyed, 2,000 have tested positive. We will ensure the remaining tests are conducted soon. So far, 7,100 persons have been moved to quarantine centres,’’ he said. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said he had spoken to his Gujarat counterpart Vijay Rupani to highlight the plight of A.P. fishermen stuck there, and urged the latter to provide all assistance to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/give-top-priority-to-worst-hit-districts/article31401914.ece
22 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||No-frills laboratory proves it’s second to none||While the images of one of the harshest lockdowns ever could be eating away much of public space, the real battle against global pandemic COVID-19 is being fought in the laboratories. The Central Research Laboratory on the campus of Guntur Medical College is one of the seven labs in the State to be equipped with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-certified Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) diagnostic machines. Across the world, RT-PCR testing is considered as the gold standard testing method. Even though TrueNAT testing kits use chip- based technology which enables faster results and the strip-based Rapid Test Kits, used for knowing the immunity levels of the person, RT-PCR has evolved as the standard diagnostic procedure across the world. The Central Research Laboratory was sanctioned in the year 2018 and it is here hundreds of oral swabs have been tested ever since the first week of April, paving the way for many physical and scientific interventions by the local administration. Doctors on duty at the lab said that so far, 4,682 samples have been tested so far from Guntur and Prakasam districts, of which 3,015 have turned out to be negative and 149 positive. About 15 personnel, including three research scientists, three research associates and three professors from the Microbiology department assisted by technical personnel work round the clock in two shifts. The lab, located on the second floor, has no lift or generator, but that has not stopped the staff from discharging their duties. Cold chain transport Collection of samples of suspected cases and testing is vastly different and much complicated when compared with other viral tests. Oral swabs collected in the field are transported in a viral transport medium through a cold chain transport, in -18 degrees Celsius and are brought to the lab. “Testing of these samples involve about 20 steps and we follow ICMR testing protocols . It takes about 3-6 hours for the results,’’ says Prasanthi, Associate Professor of Microbiology, Guntur Medical College. Results of tests are being sent to the local and State administrations in addition to the ICMR which has a data portal for streamlining the data collection from all the laboratories on a real-time basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-frills-laboratory-proves-its-second-to-none/article31401490.ece
22 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||25 bogies converted into isolation wards in Guntur||The Guntur division of the South Central Railway has converted 25 bogies as isolation wards. Divisional Railway Manager Mohan Raja said that each bogie has a capacity to accommodate eight persons and the arrangements have been made according to the medical protocols. On Tuesday, Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar, IGP J. Prabhakara Rao and, SPs P.H.D. Ramakrishna (Guntur Urban) and Ch. Vijaya Rao (Guntur Rural), inspected the arrangements at the railway station. The railways had also converted the RPF waiting hall into a COVID-19 centre by arranging beds and medical facilities. The DRM said that more facilities would be added in the coming days to meet any exigency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/25-bogies-converted-into-isolation-wards-in-guntur/article31401492.ece
22 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 new judges appointed to High Court||Three new judges have been appointed to the A.P. High Court. With the induction of the three judges, the number of judges in the High Court increased rose to 21. The Supreme Court collegium issued orders promoting K. Suresh Reddy, K. Lalitha Kumari and Boppudi Krishna Mohan as High Court judges. There are 17 judges in the A.P. High Court , including three women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-new-judges-appointed-to-high-court/article31401921.ece
22 April 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||23 primary contacts of infant victim test negative||All 23 primary contacts of the 45-days-old baby boy from Narayanpet who died of COVID-19 have tested negative for the novel coronavirus. However, the source of infection to the infant could not be found until Tuesday. District authorities said they will hold fever survey in Abhangapur where the infant hails from. The infant, who was suffering from pneumonia, had compromised immunity since the day he was born. He tested positive for the virus a few days ago. His family, villagers and officials were hit by the tragic news of the baby’s death on Sunday. After he tested positive, swab samples were collected from 23 primary contacts, including his parents, extended family and others. All of them have tested negative.  Unsolved mystery The case remains a puzzle for the authorities since the parents, who are shepherds, told officials they did not step out of the village. They left home only when the infant suffered from sickness and took him to a private hospital in Mahbubnagar and then to a government hospital there. “A fever survey will be held on Wednesday in which the temperature of all villagers will be checked. They will be asked about symptoms too. Besides, we will make a list of children below six years of age, the elderly population and with co-morbid conditions like diabetes and hypertension,” said Narayanpet District Medical and Health Officer, N. Shailaja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/23-primary-contacts-of-infant-victim-test-negative/article31401724.ece
22 April 2020||K. Srinivasa RaoSrikakulam/Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Industries closed despite norms’ relaxation||A majority of the industries, including food processing units and cashew factories, remained closed even after relaxation of the lockdown norms from April 20. The administration has directed the factory owners to apply online and get permission from the mandal revenue officers concerned to reopen their units. They have to submit photos of sanitisers, masks, staff details and others. Hardly, a dozen applications have been received in various mandals. Many businessmen in the rural areas have not applied for reopening of their units, including rice mills and cashew factories. Meanwhile, Srikakulam-Palasa Cashew Manufacturing Association president Malla Srinivasa Rao urged the government to allow all the factories to begin operations since many States, including Karnataka and Kerala, permitted for operation of factories in the green zones. “Over 5,000 women workers and others lost their livelihood for the last one month. To protect their interests, the government should permit cashew factories to resume work. All the traders and owners of the factories would ensure social distancing in factories apart from providing sanitisers and masks to the workers,” said Mr. Srinivasa Rao. Palasa TDP in-charge Y. Venkanna Chowdary urged the district administration to allow the factories to run Pharmaceutical industries have been allowed to continue their operations, but shortage of manpower is a major concern. Many employees and workers who come from villages on their own transport are facing problems owing to checking at various places. Many food processing industries are unable to procure raw material although they had been permitted to run their factories. Durga Prasanna Kumar of Indian Groceries Company at Pusapati Rega said the raw material supply from Guntur and other places had been stopped due to lack of transport facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/industries-closed-despite-norms-relaxation/article31401898.ece
22 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sale of fruit kits launched in Kakinada||East Godavari COVID-19 Containment Officer Kantilal Dande on Tuesday launched the sale of kits comprising five varieties of fruits on a pilot basis in Kakinada. The kit, priced at Rs. 100, contains banana, mango, pomegranate, watermelon, Indian gooseberry. The fruits are being sold through vehicles across the city. “The idea behind the programme, implemented by the Department of Horticulture, is to make fruits available to people at an affordable price and to boost their immunity power to fight infectious diseases,” said East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar. The price of fruits, except for banana, is skyrocketing in the open market owing to a high demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sale-of-fruit-kits-launched-in-kakinada/article31401899.ece
22 April 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sprinklr deal: HC expresses concern over safety of data||Expressing concern over the confidentiality of the uploaded data of COVID-19 patients on the server of Sprinklr, a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday asked the State government to file a statement explaining various aspects, including the safety and security of the uploaded data and also non-vetting of the contract between the government and the company on data sharing by the Law Department. The Bench comprising Justice Devan Ramachandran and Justice T.R. Ravi, while hearing a public interest litigation in this regard, orally observed that medical information of a person was sensitive data. During the hearing, the Additional Advocate General submitted that the data collected did not constitute sensitive personal information, to which the Bench took exception. “Medical data of an individual are certainly covered by the verdict of the Supreme Court in Puttuswamy’s case,” the court said. It made the remarks when a petition seeking a forensic audit by the Centre into the contract between the State government and Sprinklr came up for hearing. When the government told the court that it was still uploading the information, the court orally wondered how did the government guarantee the confidentiality of the data.  Dispute resolution The court wondered why the State government had agreed to a clause bringing dispute resolution under New York court’s jurisdiction. The court adjourned the hearing on the petition to April 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sprinklr-deal-hc-expresses-concern-over-safety-of-data/article31401455.ece
22 April 2020||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Denied alcohol, many take to ‘arishtams’||Tipplers falling back on ‘arishtams’ and ‘asavams’ to replace alcohol is nothing new. In the lockdown period, however, the trend seems to be on the rise and doctors have warned against its health impacts. According to sources, Ayurveda pharmacy stores across the State have of late found a surge in demand for arishtams and asavams, which have alcohol content up to 10%. Staff in some Ayurveda pharmacy stores in Kozhikode claimed that the sale of such medicines had gone up by around 30% after the enforcement of the lockdown. So much so that a certain pharmacy firm put up an advertisement in a Malayalam newspaper last Saturday pointing out that the ‘arishtams’ and ‘asavams’ they manufacture are strictly for medical purpose and “should not be used with other intentions.” Some others are now insisting on a medical prescription. Long-term effects Manoj Kaloor, functionary of the Ayurveda Medical Association of India (AMAI), said that ‘arishtams’ and ‘asavams’ had “self-generated alcohol”. “We prescribe around 25 ml of these medicines as one dose, depending on the condition of the patient and the nature of the disease. However, if one person consumes a bottle of the medicine at once, he may get a high. But, doing it on a long-term basis may affect body parts,” he pointed out. According to rules, individuals cannot store ‘arishtams’ and ‘asavams’ beyond a certain limit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/denied-alcohol-many-take-to-arishtams/article31401454.ece
22 April 2020||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||New positive cases emerge as testing capacity ramped up||There is a steady increase in the number of new positive cases in Kurnool and Anantapur districts as the COVID-19 samples testing capacity is ramped up in the last three days and on Tuesday while Kurnool district saw 10 new positive cases reported, there were three new cases in Anantapur district. With the new results, the total number of cases in Kurnool district went up to 184 with four persons discharged and five dead, the remaining 175 were getting treated in three COVID-19 hospitals, District Collector G. Veerapandian said at a press conference on Tuesday evening. “The Government General Hospital, Kurnool, was designated as State COVID-19 hospital on Tuesday and it currently had 50 ICU beds, 200 non-ICU beds with 17 patients currently getting treated,” Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy said at the press conference. The Finance Minister said the government will shortly enhance the ICU beds capacity to 200 and non-ICU beds capacity to 800 so that it can take critical care cases from Anantapur and Kadapa districts also. Currently, patients were being sent to Tirupati or Nellore for better treatment. All patients above 60 years of age would be housed at the GGH in Kurnool, the Minister said. In Anantapur, the KIMS Saveera and RDT hospital have been made dedicated COVID-19 Hospitals and normal cases are being treated at the GGH. At both the places (GGHs), triage — the assignment of degrees of urgency to wounds or illnesses to decide the order of treatment of out patients coming — is done and all COVID suspect cases are sent to those two hospitals in Anantapur, while the normal cases are treated at the existing GGH. “In Kurnool, 12 private hospitals were identified and each hospital will now treat patients referred from the triage at GGH and none should approach a private hospital for any ailment,” the Minister added. At the 23 quarantine centres, 1,259 persons were looked after and 48 of them were discharged on Tuesday after following the testing protocol, the District Collector said. In Anantapur with the three new cases reported, 36 positive cases have been recorded till 5 p.m. on Tuesday. While three persons died, four were discharged (including two on Tuesday) after testing negative on two consecutive days and 29 persons were being treated at both the COVID-19 Hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-positive-cases-emerge-as-testing-capacity-ramped-up/article31401903.ece
22 April 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chilli puts Prakasam farmers in a soup||Forty-six-year-old Y. Subba Rao of Koniki village, near Inkollu, in a desperate bid to prevent withering away of ripe chilli, harvests the crop himself unable to find farm workers in the wake of the lockdown 2.0 announced by the Centre. The farmer with one and half acres of land is now clueless on marketing his produce this year as the market remained closed indefinitely in the wake of imposition of lockdown. “Encouraged by the high market price for chilli, I raised the crop this year after having burnt my fingers in the wake of the market crash three years ago,” recalls the farmer while plucking the produce along with his wife, son, daughter and brother-in-law. Mr. Rao as also other farmers in the village, where the pungent crop is grown extensively, are keeping their fingers crossed as the agents of traders who used to visit their farms during this time every year, kept away in the wake of market crash after exports to COVID-19-hit China stopped. “We have been harvesting the produce for the last 15 days on our own. Still it will take another 10 days to complete the harvest,” adds another farmer T. Anjaneyulu from nearby Rachapudi village while packing the harvested chilli to move it a cold storage unit in Inkollu. This is the time when harvest of the pungent crop peaks in Prakasam district. “Farm workers are not turning up for plucking even if I offer double the usual wage of Rs. 250 a day,” complains another farmer Hanumantha Rao, who had left standing chilli crop to wither away after a few rounds of plucking, as its price went southwards three years ago. Now again the ready-to-harvest crop is withering away as farm workers shy away from farm work fearing contracting the dreaded coronavirus. The traders are not coming forward to purchase chilli at not more than Rs. 5,000 per quintal, adds yet another farmer K. Koteswara Rao. The lockdown has come at a most inopportune time for these farmers who were hoping against hope for the market to restart sooner than later. At least 15 workers have to work simultaneously at a time to pluck the chilli crop, dry them and shift them to cold storage units. The prices of jute bags had been skyrocketing ever-since the market was closed. A set of 25 jute bags had doubled to Rs. 2,500 now as the farmers are not in a position to liquidate the stock on hand in the short term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chilli-puts-prakasam-farmers-in-a-soup/article31401897.ece
22 April 2020||Ramesh Susarla,ANDHRA PRADESH||Making life in red zones easier for the poor||With restrictions on inward and outward movement, life in a colony declared a red zone is crippled. For the residents here, getting the essential commodities every day has become a worrisome affair. Even more so for people from the economically poor background. A daily wage earner, Chowdappa, from Mukkaripeta in Hindupur says: “The situation in the red zones can be likened to an ‘open jail’, with police, revenue, and health officials watching each and every movement of people round-the-clock.” Government supplies only rice to those in the Below Poverty Line(BPL) category. But they also need filtered drinking water, milk and vegetables. With no income for the past one month and no means to earn, many of them have been surviving on the charity of some organisations providing these essentials. These resources are also closed since red zone containment measures came into force. Even if the administration is arranging for distribution of essentials through mobile carts, only the well-off families are able to purchase them. In this background, the cooked food provided by the the Rural Development Trust(RDT) to the households in the red zones has come as a breather. The RDT had supplied 1 lakh food packets at 17 locations in the district during the lockdown period so far. “The real foot soldiers are, however, ward volunteers, who are braving the risk and doing all odd jobs like drawing money from ATMs for the residents, making available milk and medicines for them. The ANMs and ASHA workers have been keeping track of everyone’s health and any small complaint is monitored by a Medical Officer,” District Containment Officer R. Jagannath Singh told The Hindu . Those in red zones in the district, wishing to report any issue, could directly call / message Mr. Singh on phone number: 9440810112. There are WhatsApp groups for every 50 houses with ward volunteers being the moderators and revenue, municipal and medical staff also being part of them to take care of any request from the residents - be it for grocery, milk, medicine or issues related to health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/making-life-in-red-zones-easier-for-the-poor/article31401901.ece
22 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. failed to protect interests of workers: CITU||CITU State vice-president D. Govinda Rao on Tuesday alleged that over 2.6 lakh workers had lost livelihood in Srikakulam district and the Union and the State governments failed to announce a special financial package for them. As part of the nation-wide protest, the CITU activists staged protest at Rythu Bazaar Junction following social distancing norms. Mr. Govinda Rao alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had taken decisions favouring the corporate sector while ignoring workers and daily wagers. He asked the government to deposit at least Rs. 10,000 in bank accounts of each worker as they had no income .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-failed-to-protect-interests-of-workers-citu/article31401904.ece
22 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||2-member panel formed||The Kerala government on Tuesday formed a two-member expert committee to examine its controversial deal with the U.S.-based data analytics firm Sprinklr Inc. Former Additional Chief Secretary Rajeev Sadanandan and Former Civil Aviation secretary M. Madhavan Nambiar are the members. The government has tasked them to find out whether the contract with Sprinklr to crunch health data collected by field workers from COVID-19 vulnerable population had incorporated clauses for protecting the “privacy of personal and sensitive data of individuals.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-member-panel-formed/article31401459.ece
22 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown no barrier for learning||The Indian Institute of Technology Tirupati (IIT-T) is among the first in the country to opt for online teaching, which began immediately after the lockdown was clamped. Having suspended classes from March 16 , the management sent home all students hailing from 20 different States. However, the learning did not stop, as the institute began taking classes online from March 23 using the ‘flipped classroom model’. To make it accessible for the students in rural areas too and to overcome connectivity issues, all lectures on the website can be downloaded . The materials have been hosted on platforms like Moodle, Google drive, YouTube . The students read the lecture notes before each class and then attend live online sessions with faculty members once or twice a week to clear doubts. “The faculty use Zoom for online teaching, for which the institute has procured the required licenses. All faculty members are teaching from home . They have come up with innovative ways for better interactive experience for students,” IIT-T Director K.N. Satyanarayana said. The teachers are also using live polls, quizzes and assignments to augment the online teaching for better interactive experience of students. For courses involving laboratories, the faculty members are providing either recorded or simulated experiments for practical understanding of skills. The progress of all course and research projects at undergraduate and postgraduate levels is monitored and mentored online through faculty interaction. Attendance “The idea is successful for all courses and over 85% of students are attending the sessions online”, Prof. Satyanarayana said. The national institute plans to complete the current semester by first week of May and conduct the final exams by July, when the students will be asked to return to the campus ahead of the start of next semester. Online exams “If travel restrictions are lifted, the graduating B.Tech and M.Tech students can return to the campus in June and complete the exams and project submission requirements, else (if restrictions continue), we are exploring the possibility of having the exams and project evaluations completed online,” the IIT-T Director elaborated. The institute is keen to ensure that no student is left out in the changed teaching atmosphere necessitated by the unexpected crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-no-barrier-for-learning/article31401456.ece
22 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||A. Rangampet witnesses a positive case||The district woke up to yet another positive case emerging from Yadava Street in A. Rangampet village, located 17 km from Tirupati. This became the first coronavirus case in Chandragiri, which had largely remained unaffected thus far, in spite of sharing borders with Tirupati and Srikalahasti that have several red zones. Several officials, including the TUDA Vice-Chairman S. Harikrishna and Officer on Special Duty Bhaskar Naidu underwent COVID-19 test using the rapid test kits. As the vicinity has been marked red zone, TUDA Chairman and local legislator Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy distributed to the residents essentials worth Rs. 7 lakh necessary for a month, while appealing to them not to venture out. Srikalahasti a red zone Meanwhile, the entire town of Srikalahasti has been marked red zone, in view of the spurt in the number of cases. Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta, who visited the town along with other officials, berated the youth for violating lockdown norms and risking the lives of elders at home. All the 660 samples taken in the town yesterday turned negative, which came as a breather. In Tirupati, MCT Commissioner P.S. Girisha ordered all ward secretariat staff, MCT staff and sanitary workers to undergo COVID-19 test using the rapid test kits. Screening these employees would eliminate possible carriers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-rangampet-witnesses-a-positive-case/article31401906.ece
22 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Illicit liquor seized||The Alipiri police on Tuesday stumbled upon the illicitly-brewed liquor at a residence in Parvathipuram, located in Rajiv Gandhi Colony of Jeevakona on the city outskirts. Acting on a tip-off, the police, led by SI Shaik Shavali zeroed in on the vicinity and entered a house, where they found spurious liquor stored in several barrels. All the stock was seized and the police moved to the nearby areas to track suspects having dubious track record.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/illicit-liquor-seized/article31401905.ece
22 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Domestic violence cases register an increase during lockdown||Domestic violence, harassment, child sexual abuse and cyber frauds are on the rise during the lockdown period. As many as 175 complaints have been received by Disha Centres (Sakhi One Stop Centres) and CID Police in the State in the last 25 days. Many victims might be suffering the violence and torture silently at homes, but preferred not to register complaints due to social stigma, family problems and other issues, it is said. According to Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Director Krithika Shukla, staff of Disha Centres received 35 domestic violence complaints, nine sexual assault (rape), eight sexual abuse, five cyber crime, and 31 other cases from March 23 to April 16. “We received cases on cyber crime, missing and kidnap, child marriage, child sexual abuse, sexual harassment, rape and domestic violence. The staff of Visakhapatnam centre got 14 complaints, followed by 11 each in Nellore, Krishna and East Godavari districts, nine each in Chittoor and Guntur and seven cases in Vizianagaram district,” the Director told The Hindu  on Tuesday.  Help centres Sakhi One Stop Centres were set up by the Ministry of Women Child Welfare, Government of India, to help women and children, which were renamed as Disha Centres by the State government. In all, 23 Swadhar Homes (meant for providing shelter to women victims) are running in the State, Ms. Shukla said. “Following the directions of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, all steps are being taken to provide protection for women and children in the State. Women and children subjected to harassment, sexual abuse, kidnap harassment over phone or online and other issues may dial Toll Free No. ‘181’ for immediate help,” Krithika Shukla, who is also Disha Special Officer, said. The Disha Centre staff will rescue the victims and provide shelter for them in Swadhar Homes, being run by WD&CW Department. “Our aim is to provide safe environment for women and children at all places and homes, and no one should suffer harassment and violence,” the Disha Special Officer said. Victims can call the Disha Centre phone Nos. Srikakulam-9110793708, Vizianagaram-8501914624, Visakhapatnam-6281641040, East Godavari-9603231497, West Godavari-9701811846, Krishna-9100079676, Guntur-9963190234, Nellore-9848653821, Chittoor-9959776697, Kurnool-9701052497 and Ananthapur-8008053408. DGP talks tough DGP D. Gautam Sawang said the Crime Investigation Department (CID) police registered 79 cyber fraud cases during the lockdown in the State. Of the total, a few cases were related to woman harassment and cheating, the DGP said. “Instructions have been given to deal with cyber fraud, particularly women harassment cases, strictly. The Women Protection Cell is probing into domestic violence and sexual assault and harassment cases,” Mr. Sawang said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/domestic-violence-cases-register-an-increase-during-lockdown/article31401499.ece
22 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Court to continue to hear cases online until May 3||The High Court of Andhra Pradesh has decided to continue hearing cases through video-conference till May 3, following the guidelines issued by the Centre in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The same will be followed in all subordinate courts across the State. The High Court issued a notification in this regard on Tuesday. The cases will be heard as per the benches formed by the Chief Justice.  Urgent matters only E-filing of cases will be allowed from 8 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. Cases related to death penalty, criminal appeals and criminal revision cases, independent and anticipatory bail pleas, applications for bail in pending appeals, family law, threat of dispossession, threat of demolition, auction, stoppage of service pensions, cases of senior citizens where orders of dismissal or termination; and payment of pension and family pension will be considered for hearing till the lockdown is lifted, the notification said. Subordinate Courts in the State will also hear urgent cases through video- conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-court-to-continue-to-hear-cases-online-until-may-3/article31401917.ece
22 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State stands second in COVID-19 testing ratio||After a manifold increase in the COVID-19 testing capacity with the addition of imported rapid testing kits and TrueNat kits, the tests per million ratio in the State went up to 715 on Tuesday. The government, in a release, claimed that Andhra Pradesh continued to be in the second position in the country with one of the highest testing ratio. Among the States and Union Territories, Andhra Pradesh stood third as New Delhi tested 1,363 persons per million. As per the data released by the State government, Rajasthan was on top with 830 tests per million. It had 1,628 positive cases so far. Rajasthan and A.P. were followed by Tamil Nadu (692 tests), Maharashtra (626 tests), and Kerala (581 tests). The tests per million ratio in the country was put at 290. A.P.’s population was put at 50 million. The State had so far tested 35,755 samples, and more than 20,000 of them were conducted during the last one week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-stands-second-in-covid-19-testing-ratio/article31401916.ece
22 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Applications invited for volunteer posts||Special Secretary, Grama Volunteers/ Ward Volunteers and Village Secretariats/Ward Secretariats Department K. Kanna Babu has asked Mandal Development Officers and Municipal Commissioners to issue guidelines for filling the posts in areas under their respective jurisdictions. In a statement on Tuesday, Mr. Kanna Babu said a notification to this effect was released on Monday (April 20) and applications would be accepted till April 24. Interviews of the candidates would be conducted by a selection committee from April 27 to 29 and suitable candidates would receive their appointment letters on May 1. Qualification The applicants should be in the 18-35 years’ age group on January 1, 2020. The qualification for seeking appointment in tribal areas is SSC, in rural areas, it is Intermediate and in cities, it is degree. The applicant should be a resident of the village panchayat or the municipality concerned. Website The eligible candidates can apply online by visiting the websitehttps://gswsvolunteer. apcfss.in/. In the event of difficulty in finding access to the online mode in view of the lockdown, the candidates could visit the nearest Village/Ward Secretariat office and apply with the help of the local staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/applications-invited-for-volunteer-posts/article31401907.ece
22 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fee structure finalised for B.Ed colleges||Based on the recommendations of the State Higher Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission (APHERMC), the government has finalised the fee structure for 354 private unaided B. Ed colleges in the State for the academic year 2019-20. B. Rajasekhar, Principal Secretary, Department of School Education, in a notification issued on Tuesday said the minimum fee was fixed at Rs. 13,500 and the maximum fee at Rs. 22,700. The Andhra Pradesh Polytechnic Common Entrance Test (PolyCET-2020), which was earlier scheduled to be conducted on April 28, has been postponed in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The last date for submission of application form has been extended till May 15 and the dates of the examinations would be informed later.  Classroom lessons Classroom lessons will be broadcast on radio from 11.05 a.m to 11.35 a.m from Wednesday (April 22) till May 15 for 10th class students. The following is the subject-wise time slots: Telugu (April 22 to 24), Hindi (April 25 to 27), English (April 28 to May 1), Mathematics (May 2 to 5), Geography (May 6 to 8), Biology (May 9 to 11) and Social Studies (May 12 to 15).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fee-structure-finalised-for-bed-colleges/article31401922.ece
22 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister asks varsities to take the online route||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Tuesday asked officials of the Department of Higher Education to ensure completion of the syllabus by conducting online classes for students. In a video-conference, attended by department officials and Vice-Chancellors of all universities, Mr. Suresh said the officials could explore online classes by roping in Doordarshan and All India Radio Akashvani. He said the only way to complete the syllabus now was through online classes and if the need arose, even the exams would be held in online mode. The Minister reviewed the situation arising out of the outbreak of COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown that prevented conduct of classes and examinations in schools and colleges. He said the academic calendar for 2020-21 would have to be designed in a way to ensure a minimum of 220 work days, even if it meant doing away with festivals and other holidays. He said many department buildings, schools and hostels were converted into quarantine centres. They should be sanitised and a utilisation certificate should be acquired from the health officials before putting them to use again. ‘Drop study abroad plans’ Mr. Suresh said in view of the lockdown, students may have to drop their plans of studying abroad in 2020-21 and seek admission in local colleges. The officials should availability of adequate number of seats for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-asks-varsities-to-take-the-online-route/article31401924.ece
22 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JAC seeks insurance cover for all staff drafted for COVID-19 duties||Leaders of the A.P. Joint Action Committee (JAC) of Employees, Teachers, Workers and Retired Employees’ Associations have urged the government to extend insurance coverage to all the employees who were drafted for coronavirus-related work on a par with the medical staff. ‘Give PPEs’ In a memorandum submitted to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday, they also insisted that masks and personal protection equipment (PPE) kits be given to everybody who was attending quarantine duties, including hospital in-charges (other than medical and sanitation wing staff) and people engaged in the door-to-door survey. They also said tests should be conducted on all those involved in the COVID-19 operations. The memorandum, signed by JAC chairman B. Venkateswarlu, secretary general Y.V. Rao and treasurer V.V. Murali Krishna, drew the government’s attention to the fact that many employees, other than the police, medical and sanitation staff, were actively involved in the COVID-19-related services, and were equally exposed to the virus in the red and containment zones. Pointing to the fact that there were employees of the Panchayat Raj, Municipal, Fire Services, Forest, Public Transport Department (APSRTC), Civil Supplies, and Survey departments, and village secretariat staff, among others, directly distributing food and water at the quarantine centres and also essential commodities through the Public Distribution System (PDS). Citing the cases of a tahsildar in Anantapur and six employees of various departments who had tested positive in Srikalahasti mandal of Chittoor district, they said it had created panic among others. They said, in view of the high element of risk involved, it was imperative that all precautionary measures be taken to instil confidence in them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jac-seeks-insurance-cover-for-all-staff-drafted-for-covid-19-duties/article31401494.ece
22 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kanna tears into Vijaya Sai Reddy||BJP State president Kanna Lakahminarayana on Tuesday denied the allegation by YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy that he was sold off to the TDP for Rs. 20 crore and challenged if the ruling party leader would swear by Varasiddhi Vinayaka of Kanipakam on a particular date after the lockdown is lifted. Mr. Lakshminarayana said Mr. Vijaya Sai levelled baseless charge that he misappropriated the funds given by his party for poll campaign in 2019. BJP A.P. Affairs co-in charge Sunil Deodhar condemned the allegations made by Mr. Vijaya Sai, on Twitter, and demanded that he should tender an apology for mud-slinging on Mr. Lakshminarayana and D. Purandeswari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kanna-tears-into-vijaya-sai-reddy/article31401925.ece
22 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Fresh e-passes needed for containment zones’||The e-passes that were issued earlier will not be valid in the COVID-19 containment zones notified by the district Collectors based on the government guidelines. Principal Secretary (Department of Transport, Roads and Buildings) M.T. Krishna Babu, in a statement released on Tuesday, said that e-passes were issued to employees working in private organisations to facilitate manufacture and supply of essential commodities during the lockdown period. The validity of these passes, given till April 14 initially, was extended till May 3 in view of the extension of the lockdown, without the need to apply for a fresh ones. “However, these e-passes will not be valid in the containment zones. Private organisationsin containment zones will have to apply for fresh e-passes online. These e-passes will be issued based on the revised guidelines issued by the Department of Medical and Health and Family Welfare,” the release quoted Mr. Krishna Babu as saying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fresh-e-passes-needed-for-containment-zones/article31401493.ece
22 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dabur India donates 4,000 juice bottles to police||Dabur India Private Limited has donated 4,000 juice bottles for the police personnel who are on COVID-19 duty. Company Vijayawada agent Veeraji handed over the material to Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao here on Tuesday. Dabur India also donated 400 glucose packets to the police. The Commissioner thanked the company management for the gesture. “Many philanthropists and companies are donating energy drinks, eggs and nutritious food to the personnel who are doing duties during the hot summer. I thank all the donors for their kind gesture,” Mr. Tirumala Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dabur-india-donates-4000-juice-bottles-to-police/article31401497.ece
22 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NOC must for industries to operate during lockdown||The Industries Department has announced that industries and industrial establishments that want to operate during the lockdown subject to adopting the standard operating procedures and social distancing norms have to obtain a no-objection certificate (NOC) for which they have to apply online (https://apindustries.gov. in/covid19). The industries have to register by giving basic information and employee details and fill the check list for seeking the permission to restart operations. After examining the request, the district Collectors will give clearance to the eligible units in accordance with G.O. Rt. No. 88 dated April 18. It is stated that the Industries and Commerce Department has formulated consolidated guidelines to enable certain industries to resume operations with reasonable safeguards in the areas outside the red zones and containment clusters and has notifed the same through G.O. No.88.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/noc-must-for-industries-to-operate-during-lockdown/article31401487.ece
22 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Foolhardiness in the time of coronavirus||A word of caution for residents who are defying the lockdown to venture out for their morning or evening walks — police have warned that those choosing to do so will be caught and booked. “It is highly irresponsible behaviour. The relaxation of a few hours in the morning is meant to enable people to buy essential items. The relaxation is definitely not meant to be used as an opportunity to hit the road for jogging,” said a police officer from IV Town Police Station. Police have already started booking cases against people who are coming out on the road for walking or jogging in defiance of the lockdown. On April 20 and 21, IV Town police have booked cases against several persons who were found jogging on the streets despite strict instructions to remain indoors. “Except for buying essentials during the allotted timings in the morning, or in case of an emergency, people should not come out of their homes at all. Going out for a walk or to exercise is strictly not allowed,” said another police officer, wondering how these ‘health-conscious’ people were willing to put themselves as well as their families at risk of contracting coronavirus. Growing trend Police said that with the lockdown being extended, they are witnessing a growing number of people coming out for walks. People are venturing out for walks even in the evening, and on some days are outnumbering the morning walkers, said police. “With the closure of gyms and parks, many citizens are going for jogs in their localities. What shocks us is that people are walking in groups, totally ignoring social distancing norms,” said a police officer posted at Arilova police station. Police said that many of those who go for walks are educated members of society, who are aware of the consequences of defying the lockdown. “Some say that they are diabetic and sitting idle at home will lead to health issues. Some say that they are just walking in front of their house or in their street,” said a policeman from Madhurawada zone. Strict action Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone I) S. Ranga Reddy said that they are creating awareness through announcements in auto-rickshaws in all areas of the city and are informing the public to not come out for walks. “We will book cases if we find anyone coming out for any reason except emergency. People should stick to exercising in their homes. Till the lockdown is in force, nobody should venture out of their homes unnecessarily,” Mr. Ranga Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/foolhardiness-in-the-time-of-coronavirus/article31401941.ece
22 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Haleem makers in city brace for heavy losses this Ramzan||Foodies in the city will be forced to give a miss to their favourite ‘haleem’ this year, perhaps for the first time in recent memory, due to the prevailing lockdown. The narrow lanes of One Town, which usually come alive with several haleem stalls every year during the Ramzan month, are also set to sport a deserted look. Most haleem sellers generally open their stalls four to five days before the commencement of the Ramzan month, and stay open till the end of the festival. They usually hire chefs from Hyderabad or Kolkata. This year, however, will be bad for business. “We had plans to start our stall on April 20 or 21, as the Ramzan month begins this weekend. But due to the lockdown, this will not be possible,” said Sheikh Zuber, proprietor of the ‘Hyderabadi Dil Se Haleem’ stall at Jagadamba Junction. “We hire a chef, an assistant and four helpers from Hyderabad and a lot of ingredients from Delhi to prepare haleem in Vizag in bulk quantities. Due to closure of borders, we have run out of options,” Mr. Zuber said. According to Mr. Zuber, atleast 1,200 people visit haleem stalls in the weekdays during the Ramzan month and during the weekends, the number of customers rises to nearly 2,000. “We have been putting up haleem stalls during Ramzan for the last 12 years. This is the first time that we will not be doing so,” said Mr. Zuber, adding that he is looking at losses of up to Rs. 5 lakh. ‘Allow delivery service’ Many haleem sellers are keen to see if the government decides to ease some restrictions post May 3. Some sellers opine that it would be a good idea to allow small-scale eateries to provide door delivery option to their customers, a move that would allow them to make some much-needed money. “If restaurants, food zones and delivery services were allowed, we could have done something. If the government feels that opening of food zones would lead to gathering of crowds, it can consider the option of allowing food delivery services to resume operations. They should lay down strict guidelines for the haleem makers to ensure safety and hygiene,” said another haleem maker. Foodies disappointed “Haleem is not a dish that you can make at home by watching online tutorials. We also relish the experience of visiting haleem stalls with our families and eating haleem, biryani and sweets. We will definitely miss the iconic dish this year,” said K. Bhargavi, a resident of Shivajipalem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/haleem-makers-in-city-brace-for-heavy-losses-this-ramzan/article31401939.ece
22 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Kanna should apologise for remarks on testing kits’||YSRCP spokesman and Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath on Tuesday demanded an unconditional apology from BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana for making “baseless allegations” on the purchase of COVID-19 testing kits from South Korea. The kits were purchased from a firm approved by the WHO after getting due clearance from the Government of India, he said. Stating that Andhra Pradesh ranked second after Rajasthan in conducting tests, Mr. Amarnath told reporters here that the State government had purchased each kit at Rs. 730 against Rs. 790 paid by the Centre. “I don’t understand whether he is questioning the BJP-led government at the Centre or the YSRCP government in the State,” he said. Mr. Amarnath pointed out that in the agreement signed with the Korean firm there was a condition that they would have to refund the excess amount if they sell the kit at a lower price to anyone in India. He referred to the claim made by YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy that Mr. Lakshminarayana had been sold out to TDP chief N. Chandrababu Naidu, he said the BJP State president was being used by the TDP to tarnish the image of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kanna-should-apologise-for-remarks-on-testing-kits/article31401930.ece
22 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Betel growers at their wits’ end||Kumireddy Veerabhadra Rao, whose family owns five acres, is at his wits’ end on how to eke out a living, as demand for betel leaf (tamalapaku) has plummeted due to the lockdown clamped to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Veerabhadra Rao is staring at an uncertain future, having invested on an average Rs. 1.5 lakh to Rs. 2 lakh per acre to grow betel leaf, with no promise of returns. The heart-shaped green colour leaves are much in demand as the marriage season begins in March-April. The cash crop is grown in an area of 100 acres in Dharmavaram Agrahavaram, Penugolu and Vomavaram in S. Rayavaram mandal and in 150 acres in Aritakota, Mangavaram, Maasahebpeta in Payakaraopeta mandal in Visakhapatnam district. They get double their investment every year as during the marriage season they get bulk orders from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, and Chhattisgarh. Betel, also known as paan, is quite popular in north India for chewing. It is believed that the leaf is good for digestion, prevents carcinogenesis in oral cavity and helps in overcoming constipation. Mr. Veerabhadra Rao said the crop needs a lot of care right from the planting of stems till the harvesting stage. “It grows very fast and needs manure, fertilizer and watering regularly,” he said. Another progressive farmer, Velaga Nageswara Rao, who grows betel leaf in two acres at Penugolu has destroyed the crop as the leaves started decaying for delay in cutting. “We have neither workers nor any vehicle to transport. There is no demand at all to procure the crop from us this year,” he bemoaned. Compensation sought About 500 farmers, small and marginal and an estimated 1500 workers depend on it in the two mandals. “They are in severe distress and the government should come forward to pay compensation to farmers and farm labour in lieu of losses suffered this season,” CITU State Secretariat member M. Appalaraju said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/betel-growers-at-their-wits-end/article31401944.ece
22 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||65-year-old woman donates her savings to police welfare||A 65-year-old woman from Akkayyapalem has donated her savings of Rs. 50,000 to the welfare of policemen in recognition of their valiant role in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. K. Savitri (65), a resident of Akkayyapalem area of the city and a retired employee of Andhra University has handed over cheque of Rs. 50,000 to Commissioner of Police R.K. Meena at his office on Monday evening. Mr. Meena thanked the woman for her generous support. Ms. Savitri said that she had saved some money to buy gold on ‘Akshaya Tritiya’, which falls on April 26 this year. However, after witnessing the hard work of the policemen over the past one month, she said she decided to donate the money for the benefit of the police community. Earlier, she also handed over a cheque for Rs. 50,000 meant for the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund, to Andhra University Registrar V. Krishnamohan. Former principal of Andhra University Engineering College P.S. Avadhani contributed Rs. 1 lakh to the CMRF for COVID-19 relief activities. He handed over the cheque to AU Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/65-year-old-woman-donates-her-savings-to-police-welfare/article31401937.ece
22 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijaya Sai lashes out at Sujana, Kanna||Coming down heavily on BJP leaders Sujana Chowdary and Kanna Lakshminarayana, YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has alleged that both the leaders are corrupt and do not have they moral right to level allegations either against him or his party leaders. Addressing a group of select mediapersons here on Tuesday, Mr. Reddy said, “When I was a practising Chartered Accountant in Chennai, I was auditing the accounts of Mr. Chowdary, and I know all the loopholes in his accounts and his benami companies.” Shell companies “I am aware how he swindled money from various banks by floating fictitious and benami shell companies. If banks are in a bad shape today, it is because of people like Mr. Chowdary. I have records to prove it, but he cannot prove a single charge against me,” Mr. Reddy said, and added, “When the appropriate time comes, I will expose him.” Turning his ire on Mr. Lakshminarayana, the YSRCP leader said, “The BJP and the YSRCP are enjoying a cordial relationship at the Centre. But Mr. Lakshminarayana is trying to spoil it in the State.” “Mr. Lakshminarayana is spoiling the image of the BJP by allowing into the party leaders such as Mr. Chowdary, who are moles planted by the TDP,” he alleged, and challenged the BJP State president to prove at least one corruption charge against him. “He cannot prove, But I can show with proof how much of election funds he had swindled from the BJP,” he said. Advice to media Advising the BJP leaders to embark on self-introspection before levelling charges against anyone, Mr. Reddy urged a section of the media to seek his clarification before writing a piece against him. Referring to the allegations that he was making money in these times of pandemic through his Pragati Bharat Trust, Mr. VIjaya Sai Reddy said, “I have only collected money from a few friends and not from the public, and everything is transparent here. The allegations are false and I am ready to prove it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vijaya-sai-lashes-out-at-sujana-kanna/article31401926.ece
22 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Candlelight protest by doctors today||Doctors and medical institutions in the city will light candles at 9 p.m. on Wednesday (April 21) in response to a call given by the Indian Medical Association (IMA), as a symbolic protest against the growing attacks on doctors across the country. “The protest’s theme, ‘Doctors melting while serving, just like a candle melts while giving light to the environment’, is an indication of the trauma being faced by doctors. If the Centre fails to bring out an ordinance to curb violence against doctors and healthcare personnel, it would be followed by a ‘Black Day’ on April 23,” said IMA Visakhapatnam branch president P.A. Ramani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/candlelight-protest-by-doctors-today/article31401936.ece
22 April 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl ‘ends life’ over fight for mobile phone||A 15-year-old girl allegedly ended her life after a spat with her brother over a mobile phone, at Bheemili on Tuesday. Inspector of Bheemili police station Srinivasa Rao said that the girl, a Class X student, and her brother were alone at home when they began quarrelling. In a fit of rage, the girl reportedly ended her life by hanging herself. Police registered a case. Those having suicidal thoughts are urged to call 100 for counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-ends-life-over-fight-for-mobile-phone/article31401942.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||119 held for violence in Padarayanapura||The Bengaluru police have arrested 119 people for allegedly inciting and indulging in violence in Padarayanapura ward, which has been sealed since April 10. “A probe is on to track down one of the prime suspects, identified as Irfan, whom we believe triggered the violence. Special teams have been formed to track him after he escaped from the sealed ward,” said a police officer. Irfan’s name came up during the questioning of four suspects in police custody. Violence erupted in Padarayanapura on April 19 after residents, who were secondary contacts of a deceased COVID-19 patient, refused to accompany the BBMP team for quarantine. Many human rights activists have demanded clarity on what exactly happened as Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao had initially said that no police personnel had been injured. In the five FIRs filed the next day, the police said the attack was premeditated and that the mob attacked them with lethal weapons. On Monday (April 20), 59 people were arrested. Another 60 people were arrested on Tuesday. They have been booked under the National Disaster Management Act and have been charged with assaulting government servants while on duty and attempt to murder. Mr. Rao said the police were identifying people who participated in the attack through CCTV and video grabs obtained from the scene of the incident. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar told The Hindu that the attack took place an hour after the civic team left the area. No BBMP officer was injured.  Three held in Mysuru Meanwhile, three persons from Haleem Nagar in Mysuru have been arrested by the police for allegedly threatening an ASHA worker, an accredited community health worker. Police said ASHA worker Sumayya Firdose, who had been deputed to the locality on Monday for a survey to check for symptoms of COVID-19 among residents, advised a group of people to wear masks and maintain social distancing, while she was returning home after finishing her work. But three persons, later identified as Mahboob, Khaleel and Yaseen, aged between 30 and 40 years, who were sitting outside their house, entered into an argument and allegedly used foul language before threatening her with dire consequences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/119-held-for-violence-in-padarayanapura/article31401453.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heart in the right place||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heart-in-the-right-place/article31401911.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beating the heat||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/beating-the-heat/article31401946.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||And work goes on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/and-work-goes-on/article31401467.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delight amid lockdown||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delight-amid-lockdown/article31401932.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Courting danger||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/courting-danger/article31401501.ece
22 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Tribals welcome MGNREGS works||The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) has come as a stress buster for tribals in far flung habitations in Adilabad district which had remained cut off from the rest of the world thanks to the lockdown in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The works are also providing livelihood to the poor villagers in this time of crisis. That the rural folk, many of whom are job card holders under the MGNREGS, have welcomed the government’s move to allow works despite the lockdown can be deduced from the fact that over 40,000 out of the active 73,800 job card holding families have reported to work within one week of initiation. “We had no work on hand and to do away the boredom it is definitely welcome,” asserted Korenga Sulochana, Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituency member from Pipri in Indervelli mandal, while talking about villagers relaxing their vigil to allow works. “Our mandal, in fact, has as many as 5,000 families reporting to work in the morning out of the nearly 8,000 active members. Some of the groups have even completed four days’ work in half the time which will have them making decent earning as the daily wage is Rs. 237 per worker,” Indervelli Mandal Parishad Development Officer B. Ramakanth revealed of the enthusiasm of the villagers. “It was rather difficult for us initially to persuade the villagers to take up MGNREGS works owing to their extreme cautiousness in allowing outsiders in the village fearing spread of COVID-19. We are not allowing even our field staff to be present in villages for more time than is required,” District Rural Development Officer Rajeshwar Rathod recalled. “We have cleared all wages due till April 12 and created 96,000 man days in just last seven days notwithstanding the difficulties and it does falls short of the targetted 11 lakh man days in the month of April. The enthusiasm of the villagers, nevertheless, gives us hope that the tempo will pick up in the coming days,” the DRDO added while he interacted with the job card holding labourers at Pipri village in Indervelli mandal on Tuesday. Adilabad district now stands sixth in the State so far as labour attendance is concerned. The administration hopes to improve the position as days pass by.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tribals-welcome-mgnregs-works/article31401540.ece
22 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||PTVG Kolams get essential commodities||The Kolam tribe, categorised as Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group (PVTG), will be supplied with essential commodities in view of their pathetic state in terms of food availability and lack of work. The Kolam habitations in Adilabad district are observing the lockdown norms to the T as a result of which they are staying indoors thereby losing contact with outside world. At a press conference here on Tuesday Collector A. Sridevasena said some 2,000 Kolam families will be provided with essential commodities worth Rs. 500 to Rs. 600 each in the coming days. The distribution has already started with the PVTGs of Waghapur Kolamguda on Monday, she added. Additional Collector G. Sandhya Rani said the administration has identified 16,615 poor people whose bank accounts are not linked to Aadhaar. Such families are being paid the Rs. 1,500 of governmental aid through post offices, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ptvg-kolams-get-essential-commodities/article31401759.ece
22 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fearful residents take to barricading||As COVID-19 containment zones multiply, many streets and bylanes are being voluntarily barricaded by fearful residents in many parts of the city. “Even if someone coughs, people are being taken away to hospitals for testing. Once they test negative, they are being dropped back. This is better than that,” says Omar Osman of Kishen Bagh. The small bylane is blocked by a rope and large trash bags filled with garbage. “It is good if people voluntarily decide not to roam the streets. It makes our job easy,” said a police official enforcing the lockdown near the Sikh Chawni area. While the official containment zones have heavy iron barricades and are manned by civic workers, police and medical staff, voluntarily-barricaded areas have thorny bushes, logs of wood and even vehicles being used to block movement. “We don’t want people to enter this colony and we don’t want people of this area to move unnecessarily. If someone wants, they can go. But without vehicles, they will not roam far. People go to get vegetables and groceries but it is limited,” says Manohar Rao of Ram Bagh Colony. “We blocked the road 10 days ago as the number of cases kept rising. We don’t want to take risk,” said Mr. Rao. The barricades are not limited to any one part of the city and are scattered all over it. But not everyone is happy about it. “My business is already affected by lockdown and restriction on movement of people. But with this blocked street, the number of customers has further declined,” says Raju, who runs a meat shop in Nandi Muslai Guda in the southern part of the city. He has to jump a small wall to enter the lane where his meat shop is located and repeat the procedure when he winds up the business for the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fearful-residents-take-to-barricading/article31401735.ece
22 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Machines come to rescue amid lockdown-linked labour problem||Notwithstanding some hiccups interspersed by untimely rains playing the spoilsport, the massive exercise of paddy procurement from farmers at a minimum support price (MSP) at the village itself in a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus by scheduling arrivals with issuance of farmer-wise tokens, is underway briskly across the State. The administration was groping in the dark on handling the massive task when the decision to force lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus during the last week of March as it curtailed the availability and movement of labourers for harvesting and procurement-related jobs. As such, according to Telangana Rice Millers Association, most of the 2,200 rice mills in the State would depend on migrant workers for their labour requirement. “We were not sure as to how we could tackle the problem till we collected information about the exact availability of harvesters in the State. But once we secured credible data with the help of our field-level officials, despair gave way to confidence as the details collected included the contact numbers of harvester owners, their drivers and servicing agencies along with the number of machines available in the State,” Agriculture Production Commissioner B. Janardhan Reddy told The Hindu . Enough harvesters Initially, the Agriculture Department had information that only about 5,000 harvesters were available in the State but the enumeration could bring out that a total of 14,095 machines were owned in the State. Another 753 harvesters are positioned in the State by their owners in Tamil Nadu and Punjab who sensed heavy business this rabi season, that stretches from March last week to May second week. “We came to know that some entrepreneurs had started purchasing harvesters from the last rabi season itself assessing that they would have huge work on hand with Kaleshwaram project set to become functional,” the APC said adding that harvesters would also help the farming community save on costs. Local labour A field official involved in the procurement exercise, however, stated that local labourers were unwilling to work at purchase centres and rice mills/storage points as ‘hamalis’ as it involves a lot of physical stress. He also admitted to the delays in moving the stock from purchase centres to rice mills/godowns due to labourer shortage. Administration in several districts is encouraging migrant workers, both those who were in transit and struck in districts and those who come in search of seasonal wage work, to ease the labourer shortage in procurement, loading and unloading of purchased grain. “We have distributed 12 kg of rice each to all migrant workers in the district along with cash of Rs. 1,500 per family already this month and offering them wage work too at procurement centre and rice mills/storage points. Some of them are already working in the procurement centres,” District Collector of Mahabubnagar S. Venkata Rao said, when enquired.  Handling a massive task Paddy cultivated in 15.88 lakh hectares (39.24 lakh acres) this season Production estimated at over one-crore tonnes Government plans to purchase entire production at MSP A harvester can harvest one-acre of paddy an hour and 12 acres a day with two drivers Charges collected are in the range of Rs. 2,500 to Rs. 2,800 per hour Farmers likely to incur Rs. 5,000 per acre as harvesting expenses since available labourers demanding Rs. 800 to Rs. 1,000 a day Officials estimate that nearly 15,000 machines available in the State can complete harvesting entire extent in a month Civil Supplies department has gunny sacks along with those purchased from fair price shop dealers for procuring 30 lakh tonnes paddy Government plans to go for HDPE sacks, in case of delay in procuring new gunny bags from West Bengal Procurement officials allowed to hire tarpaulin sheets from farmers Over 8.79 lakh tonnes paddy procured at 4,903 purchase centres as on April 21||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/machines-come-to-rescue-amid-lockdown-linked-labour-problem/article31401750.ece
22 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Policeman beats up trader in Gadwal||A video footage of a sub-inspector thrashing a 45-year-old man in front of his family at Aize village of Jogulamba-Gadwal district has come to light. The family of the victim approached The Hindu with the video evidence as captured on the CCTV inside the house, In the video footage, the sub-inspector in question, T Jagadesh, was seen entering the victim, J Vasudevacharyulu’s house, and hitting him with his baton inside the house first, and later outside before pushing him to the ground. According to Mr. Vasudevacharyulu, who has a khara (savoury) business, the incident took place around 6.30 p.m. on April 16, and his shop is attached to his house Police officers in the district maintained that the SI visited Vasudevacharyulu’s house only after getting complaints from the locals that he was selling the ‘khara’ even during the lockdown and was violating social distancing norms. “So, when Mr. Jagadesh inquired about the issue and found it to be true, he visited the khara seller’s house, and the trader did not open the gate despite repeated requests,” an officer said. “There was no sale and no doors were open. I opened the gate only upon seeing the SI who was asking questions about what is inside. I told him that I was only drying the leftover stock so that it does not go bad. But suddenly, he started thrashing me,” the trader said. Gadwal SP Apoorva Rao said she had initiated an inquiry and the SI was attached to the district police headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/policeman-beats-up-trader-in-gadwal/article31401738.ece
22 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Govt. issues orders on school fee collection||After the Chief Minister’s announcement that schools should not increase the fee for the 2020-21 academic year recently, the government issued orders accordingly warning schools of stringent action for non-compliance, including cancellation of affiliation and legal action, as per the norms. Chitra Ramachandran, Special Chief Secretary, said the orders would be applicable to all private unaided recognised schools in the State, irrespective of their affiliation to State Board, Central Board of School Education, or ICSE. Schools would be allowed to collect only tuition fee and that too on a monthly basis till further orders. Any violation would lead to cancellation of recognition, revoking of the no-objection certificate already granted for affiliation to other boards apart from appropriate action under relevant acts and rules. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of School Education issued a statement asking parents to lodge complaints if schools violated the norms. Parents can call on toll-free number 1800 425 7462 or send mail to commr.edn.greviance@gmail.com Parents’ fear However, the Hyderabad School Parents Association (HSPA), which has been spearheading the agitation against fleecing of parents by school managements, requested the government to keep a close watch on the schools as they could manipulate the very meaning of ‘tuition fee” as there was no structured definition for schools to follow. Parents fear that schools may club all other heads like building fee, annual fee, extra-curricular activities fee or library fee into tuition fee head and collect the same from parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-issues-orders-on-school-fee-collection/article31401739.ece
22 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Former MP comes up with ventilator to address shortage||A breakthrough in the design and development of ‘ICo-Vent’ to address the shortage of ventilators in the world for treating thousands of critically-ill COVID-19 patients was announced by a team headed by engineer, inventor and former MP, Konda Vishweshwar Reddy. The prototype of ICo-Vent (Indian COVID Ventilator) is built to UK, Canadian and many other government specifications for “the minimum clinically accepted criteria for rapidly manufacturable ventilator to address the COVID-19 situation”. Designed and developed six weeks ago, the final prototype was validated, calibrated and certified and tested on humans. The Indian government is also in the process of coming out with a similar set of specifications. A patent for the technology and function has already been applied for, he said. Demonstrating the final prototype in Hyderabad on Tuesday, Mr. Reddy said the ICo-Vent comes in three models priced at Rs. 50,000, Rs. 90,000 and Rs. 1.2 lakh and can be rolled out into the market in three to four weeks. A sophisticated ICU ventilator today costs Rs. 5 lakh. “The ICo-Vent specially designed for COVID-19 and Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome patients also allows the intensive care specialist or pulmonologist to order a precise volume of air and oxygen at a precise inspiration pressure and expiration pressure considering the compliance or elasticity of the lung,” he said. But before releasing ICo-Vent into the market, it will be tested for two more weeks for reliability and robustness. Mr. Reddy, who is MD of Stephan Design and Engineering Ltd and AVV Turbines Ltd., holds multiple patents for his inventions and says they can manufacture 300 units a month in their Hyderabad facility. The company is looking for tie up with those with better manufacturing capacities, and companies in Europe and US are said to have shown interest in large scale manufacturing. In India, production can be scaled up to 20,000 units a month, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/former-mp-comes-up-with-ventilator-to-address-shortage/article31401726.ece
22 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No clarity about private philanthropic initiatives||GHMC’s self-contradictory and shifting positions with regard to private distribution of food and essentials, and silence on the part of the State government are dampening the philanthropic initiatives taken up by individuals and organisations to provide succour to the persons pushed into destitution during the present lockdown in the city. The statement by Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan on Monday, that COVID-19 relief passes issued to NGOs and individuals stood invalid from April 21 has discouraged philanthropists from providing cooked food to the poor. “I was distributing 400 to 500 kits of cooked food every day. I would collect my daily pass from GHMC after specifying the area, quantity of food and other details. A person from GHMC would accompany,” said Harish Kumar Daga, an IT professional, who had been distributing food, masks and other supplies to the homeless since day one of the lockdown. On Saturday, however, he was refused a pass by the GHMC, and officials asked him to deposit the food with the special wing set up by the corporation for this purpose. “I was told that the distribution was being taken over by the GHMC. After supplying food for two days subsequently, I have stopped it, as I don’t know whether the food was reaching the needy,” Mr. Daga said. Ironically, he pointed out, Minister K. T. Rama Rao appreciated a TRS activist Jagan Patimeedi on Twitter, for distributing essentials to 400 migrant workers at Kukatpally on Tuesday, the same day when Mr. Ram Mohan Rao went around the city, asking individual philanthropists not to distribute food among the homeless. Deputy Mayor Mohammed Baba Fasiuddin too distributed dry rations to the poor. The police too did not seem to have clue about Mayor’s instructions, as they were allowing distribution after checking vehicle passes. “In coordination with the Rachakonda police, we have been distributing dry rations for several days, and continued the same on Tuesday too at a slum near L. B. Nagar,” said K.Satyavathi from Bhumika Women’s Collective. Syed Kasim Ali Hashmi, another philanthropist, says he too went about the distribution to 2,000 persons as usual. “How can they declare invalid their own passes? We have participated in video conferences with the Chief Secretary, and he encouraged us, and promised to support us by issuing passes. Unless there is a written executive order against distribution, we will not stop,” said K.Sajaya, of Women and Transgender JAC. Monday was not the first instance where a warning against philanthropic initiatives came from the Mayor. Earlier too, Mr. Ram Mohan had issued a statement asking NGOs and individuals to route their support through GHMC. The instructions were not implemented though. Only special GHMC passes had been issued since, apart from COVID-19 relief passes by the police. Nobody has any clue to where the directions are from, as no formal order has been issued in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-clarity-about-private-philanthropic-initiatives/article31401741.ece
22 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Video of leopard crossing road is fake||A video purportedly showing a leopard crossing a road in Hyderabad went viral on Tuesday morning with citizens sharing it as a visual from the Kasu Brahmananda Reddy Park. Many incredulous social media users shared the video asking, “Is this true?” It was first uploaded by a user, Adil Bukhari, who passed it off as a sighting near Road No. 12, Banjara Hills, at 12 a.m. However, Rakesh Reddy Dubbudu of Factly revealed that the video was from Tirupati, caught on closed cicuit television (CCTV) camera on April 18 at 3.11 a.m. “Our hunch was that it was from Tirupati and it turned out to be true,” said Mr. Dubbudu, who is collaborating with the Telangana government to spot fake news. Many videos Around the world, many videos have surfaced of animals returning to urban areas due to the absence of human activity following the COVID-19 lockdown. However, many of them have turned out to be fake. Interestingly, leopards and even tigers are no strangers to Hyderabad and its environs. Some of the encounters ended tragically as it did for Jocelyn Mellor, a captain of Royal Horse Artillery, who died of wounds inflicted by a tiger, as early as June 6, 1905. Leopard sightings have continued into the 21st century but mostly on the outskirts .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/video-of-leopard-crossing-road-is-fake/article31401745.ece
22 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Inter valuation camps to be increased||Special Chief Secretary Education Chitra Ramachandran asked the Board of Intermediate Education to increase the number of valuation camps from the present 12 with an additional 24. At a review meeting here, she asked the officials to hire buildings near the camps. She advised them to increase locations and staff and arrange for proper spacing between examiners, good sanitation, liquid soap and sanitisers. Syed Omer Jaleel, Commissioner Intermediate Education, and other senior officials attended the video conference. She also asked the DIEOs to publicise and enrol maximum students for online exams and video lessons for EAMCET, NEET, IIT-JEE-2020 arranged by the Department of Education. Ms Ramachandra also advised them to permit students from AP, Orissa, Bihar, UP and across the country who were desirous of registration and taking these mock tests. So far, 5346 MPC and 2354 BPC students had taken the online exam out of total enrolled 8867 students for the first daily exam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/inter-valuation-camps-to-be-increased/article31401747.ece
22 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hospital superintendents asked details of PPEs to staff||Telangana High Court on Tuesday sought to know from the State government if adequate personal protective equipment (PPE) kits were made available to all doctors and para-medical staff attending on COVID-19 patients. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A. Abhishek Reddy, while hearing a batch of PIL petitions on incidence of coronavirus and government measures, said ensuring safety of doctors and para-medics was a priority. The bench made this observation, referring to newspaper reports that doctors, nurses and staff members of a government hospital were quarantined after learning that a two-year-old kid admitted in a government hospital tested positive for coronavirus. This incident raises questions over the precautions taken by government at hospitals. It also indicated the unpreparedness of the government to tackle the situation, the bench said. Advocate General B.S. Prasad said that along with N95 masks, PPE kits were supplied to all hospital staff and doctors. The AG submitted to the bench that the said hospital was not in the category of treating COVID-19 patients. Safety measures Differing with the AG’s contentions, the bench said it would be better to seek details from the field-level officers on the matter. The bench instructed superintendents of all government hospitals to furnish details of the PPE kits supplied to them and the safety measures they are taking to check spread of the virus. One of the petitioners’ lawyer contended that, as per World Health Organisation advisory, even the staff working at the out-patient wing and emergency department should be provided with PPE kits. There were instances of the doctors and staff protesting over lack of adequate PPE kits and masks, he told the bench. The lawyer presented to the bench that people from interior and rural areas of the State are compelled to come to the capital city for diagnosis of the virus. He sought direction to the government to conduct diagnostic tests in district headquarters other than Hyderabad. The bench observed that the government can explore the possibility of using rapid diagnostic kits. The Institute of Preventive Medicine director Shankar, participating in the hearing through video-conferencing, said on an average 4,000 diagnostic tests can be conducted through nine approved laboratories in the State. The WHO instructions in tackling COVID-19 were being complied with completely. The petitions were posted to May 8 for further hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hospital-superintendents-asked-details-of-ppes-to-staff/article31401755.ece
22 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||At least 15 tots and young children recover, sent home||A bunch of ‘special’ COVID-19 patients in Telangana who recovered from the infectious disease are ready to go home. At least 15 tiny tots, who braved the long isolation phase at Gandhi Hospital’s paediatric ward have tested negative in two consecutive tests. Among them is a 37-day-old baby from Mahbubnagar, the youngest COVID-19 survivor from the State. Paperwork related to the discharge of the children was under way throughout Tuesday evening. In some cases, parents and their children who tested positive for coronavirus were allotted a separate room in the hospital. In a few cases where only the child tested positive, the paediatric ward on the hospital’s sixth floor was where they were isolated. Besides, a separate ward is also allotted to children if they test negative while both parents have the infection. Mothers who did not contract the infection were allowed to take care of their babies. Officials said this was done as the patients were only a few months or a few years old. The mother of the 37-day-old infant was one such example. Though her husband and the baby tested positive, she did not contract the infection. “She was allowed to take care of her infant. Her swab sample was collected and she tested negative,” sources said. The patients in paediatric ward are less than 12 years old, sources said. “Some of them are really young. No one’s condition is serious. They only have cough, cold and fever. Their mothers attend them,” sources said. 10 more set for discharge Hospital authorities confirmed that at least 10 more are set to be discharged. “Paper work related to their discharge will run into the night. So they will leave the hospital on Wednesday,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/at-least-15-tots-and-young-children-recover-sent-home/article31401720.ece
22 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IMA demands law on violence against healthcare workers||Marking its protest against attacks on healthcare professionals, Indian Medical Association (IMA)-Telangana called on all doctors, hospital and clinics managements to hold candle light programme titled ‘White alert to the nation’ on Wednesday. IMA members have demanded a special Central law against violence on doctors, nurses, health care workers and hospitals by an ordinance, and implement it on priority basis. While there have been numerous attacks on healthcare workers, including on doctors in Telangana, the recent incident in Chennai, where over 20 people opposed burial of a neurosurgeon, who was infected with COVID-19, was the tipping point. The neurosurgeon, Simon Hercules, died on Sunday night. In Telangana, junior doctors at Gandhi Hospital and Osmania General Hospital were attacked while attending COVID-19 duty. IMA-Telangana members said frontline workers who have risked their life and in turn lost their lives treating patients, have been subjected to inhuman behaviour. They said if the Central law in not enacted, Thursday would be observed as ‘black day’. All doctors and medical staff were asked to work wearing black badges. “Further decision will be taken if suitable steps are not taken even after black day,” the IMA members said. Meanwhile, the Association of Surgeons of India has also appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a Central law on violence against healthcare professionals by promulgating an ordinance. Association president P. Raghuram, in a letter to the Mr. Modi, raised serious concerns about the series of acts of violence, abuse and vigilantism against healthcare workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ima-demands-law-on-violence-against-healthcare-workers/article31401722.ece
22 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Markfed told to raise Rs. 8k cr. loan for paddy||In view of the bumper paddy production this season and its decision to procure entire produce put for sale by farmers under minimum support price, the State government has permitted Telangana State Cooperative Marketing Federation (TS-Markfed) to raise Rs. 8,000 crore loan from National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) for procurement. In the orders issued on Tuesday, the government asked Markfed to obtain the credit and transfer it to Telangana State Civil Supplies Corporation (TSCSCL). The State government has already notified Markfed as the additional nodal agency for paddy procurement to purchase 45 lakh tonnes of paddy from farmers this rabi marketing season. The State government has already allowed TSCSCL to raise Rs. 25,000 crore loans from nationalised banks for paddy procurement with an assurance to stand guarantee for the loans. Secretary (Agriculture) B. Janardhan Reddy said the amount would be utilised by TSCSCL as inter-corporate loan from Markfed for procurement of paddy and the loan amount would be repaid along with interest by the corporation. The Markfed has been told to raise the loan for one year period. The government has also agreed to stand guarantee to the loan subject to payment of 2% guarantee commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/markfed-told-to-raise-rs-8k-cr-loan-for-paddy/article31401751.ece
22 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||This Ramzan, city to miss haleem||Hyderabad will miss its date with haleem during Ramzan this year. An indication to this effect was available early on Tuesday when the Haleem Makers’ Association released information about not opening the restaurants for business this year. “We have taken this decision in view of the lockdown and preventive measures being enforced by the government to control the spread of Covid-19 pandemic,” said M. A. Majeed of HMA. As news about the decision spread, many foodies shared their gloom while others called it a brave decision, considering haleem meant big money for many restaurant chains in the city. Ramzan is likely to be either on April 23 or 24, depending on sighting of the new moon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/this-ramzan-city-to-miss-haleem/article31401736.ece
22 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Represent to Finance Commission on funds’||Marri Shashidhar Reddy, chairman of the TPCC COVID-19 Task Force, has urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to represent to the Finance Commission that the State goverments are in a better place to decide on the usage of funds to deal with the pandemic. In a letter to the Chief Minister, he said the Finance Commission is planning a meeting with its Economic Advisory Council on April 22 and 23 to rethink about some of its decisions and recommendations on the usage of funds released in the light of the financial disruption due to the pandemic and lockdown. The former minister wanted to know whether the Finance Commission reached out to the State government to seek its views, as it always done before making the recommendations in the first place. If not, the State government should convey its views as it would be in a better place to prepare its strategy to deal with the pandemic. Mr. Shashidhar Reddy said he had read reports of Union Finance Ministry releasing Rs. 982 crore toward’s Telangana’s share of the Central taxes for specific activities under the Disaster Response Fund. As per NDM norms these funds should be used for provision for temporary accommodation, food, clothing, medical care to homeless people including migrant labourers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/represent-to-finance-commission-on-funds/article31401756.ece
22 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four TS journalists quarantined||In what is said to be the first instance of journalists suspected to have contracted coronavirus in the State, four journalists — one from Gadwal and three from Mahbubnagar — were quarantined on Tuesday. Police officers monitoring the situation said samples of the four journalists were collected and sent for analysis. While the Gadwal-based television journalist was quarantined in the headquarters, other three were shifted to local medical college for quarantine. Scribe’s sibling It all started with the TV journalist’s sibling. The latter was initially quarantined after returning home in Gadwal following a personal visit to Kurnool in Andhra Pradesh. His samples were collected and sent for tests as part of the standard procedure. The reports came on April 10 and he tested positive for the virus. Being his sibling, the journalist was his primary contact. His samples were also sent for examination along with those of other family members. Local police, during enquiries, learnt that the journalist had met three other journalists. “We are verifying reports that some of them interacted with a public representative and even had food at the latter’s house after attending an event,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-ts-journalists-quarantined/article31401727.ece
22 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||13-year-old ends life||A 13-year-old boy committed suicide by jumping off the 11th floor of a residential apartment building, Madhapur police said. The victim, police said, was a student of Class IX. The victim’s father is a doctor and mother a homemaker. The incident took place late on Sunday night. The victim, police said, was using a smart phone to which his mother objected. She then took away the phone. The watchman of the apartment complex heard the sound of the victim falling and found the body,” Madhapur inspector S Venkat Reddy said, (Roshni, suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/13-year-old-ends-life/article31401730.ece
22 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Former Mayor distributes food kits||Former Mayor of Hyderabad Banda Karthika Reddy distributed food kits to hundreds of women at her residence in Tarnaka on Monday. The food kits contained rice, pulses and oil that would suffice for a week for a family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/former-mayor-distributes-food-kits/article31401732.ece
22 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||400 vehicles seized||The Hyderabad city police seized as many as 400 vehicles on Tuesday during an inspection in the South Zone. Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar and Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Kumar, along with other officers, conducted the inspection at Madina crossroads in the Old City. Speaking to the media, the CP said that inspections were carried out at four or five locations and police had found that passes were being misused. These, he said, were cancelled. He said that enforcement of lockdown would be strict, as would frequency of inspection of vehicles and passes. In a separate development, the CP provided five vehicles to women staff . This was done keeping in view that the staff were facing difficulties in reaching offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/400-vehicles-seized/article31401743.ece
22 April 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Minister expresses his ire against rice millers||Minister for Health Eatala Rajender expressed his ire against rice millers for harassing farmers by deducting grain weight on the pretext of chaff and moisture content at various paddy procurement centres in the district. Following reports about rice millers deducting grain weight and humiliating farmers at procurement centres in Thanugula village in Jammikunta mandal on Tuesday, the Minister rushed there and enquired with the farmers about their problems in rice procurement. When the farmers told the Minister that rice millers were reducing 4 kg of grain weight per bag in the name of chaff and moisture content, the Minister instructed the Civil Supplies Commissioner to take action against the rice mill by not allocating paddy. Warning that the government would take stern action against errant rice millers for harassing the farming community, the Minister said: “We are relying on the farming community for our survival. The farmers are not relying on us.” Mr. Rajender said that the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government was for the welfare of farmers and would not tolerate the humiliation of the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minister-expresses-his-ire-against-rice-millers/article31401760.ece
22 April 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||COVID suspect attacks MEPMA resource person||A female Resource Person of the Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (MEPMA) was injured in an attack, allegedly by a person who recently returned home from a State-run quarantine facility after being tested negative for COVID-19 in Gudimalla village near here on Monday night. The resource person identified as K. Sunitha of Gudimalla, sustained minor injuries in the attack. Sunitha was a member of a team that conducted door-to-door survey in the village in April first week to identify persons with fever, cough and breathing difficulties. The team found Shankar, who reportedly returned to the village from Karimnagar in the last week of March, suffering from fever. Alerted by the team, he was admitted for mandatory two weeks of isolation as a safety precaution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-suspect-attacks-mepma-resource-person/article31401763.ece
22 April 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Godavari reaches Kotchhaguttapally||Taking advantage of the coronavirus lockdown in force, the district authorities have dismantled all the houses in Kotchhaguttapally village in Chinnakodur mandal late on Sunday night. By Tuesday evening Kaleshwaram water has completely submerged the village which is now a part of the Annapurna Reservoir. Godavari water from Kaleswaram through Midmanair would reach here and from here, it would flow to Ranganaiksagar, which is getting ready for inauguration. According to the villagers, between 10 p.m. and 11 p.m. the houses were dismantled, including of those who have approached the High Court seeking compensation as per Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act – 2013 (LA Act- 2013). This is the only village in Siddipet district getting submerged under Annapurna reservoir and is located on the borders of Siddipet and Sircilla districts. “The houses of those who gave consent were already dismantled a few days back and we have no objection to that. But last night when we were ready to go to sleep, all of a sudden heavy machines entered our area and demolished our houses. Many were unable to even salvage their belongings,” said T. Praveen, one of the villagers who had approached the court for justice. “Since yesterday morning the officials camped here and we had almost resigned ourselves to the situation, stating that we will take compensation issued by the government. However, asking us to collect cheques on Monday morning they dismantled the houses without giving us the required time to vacate. The water reached the nearby houses,” K. Ramanji, another oustee from the village told The Hindu . He said that they were not yet given cheques so far. He said that their luggage or whatever can be picked up was thrown into a transport vehicle and they were sent to the double bedroom house colony constructed at Lingareddypally on Siddipet outskirts. “How can officials force us to vacate our village in the midnight when lockdown is in force? Is lockdown not applicable to the officials forcing us to leave the village?” asked another villager. The officials at neither mandal level nor division level responded when contacted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/godavari-reaches-kotchhaguttapally/article31401762.ece
22 April 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT.,TELANGANA||10-year-old tests positive in Warangal||One more person tested positive for coronavirus in Purigutta under Waddepally in Warangal Urban district here on Tuesday. A 10-year-old girl who tested positive was shifted to Secunderabad for treatment. District Medical & Health Officer (DM&HO) Dr K Lalitha Devi said that it was a secondary contact of COVID-19. She said the girl’s parents were co-passengers in the train with a Markaz attendee of Nizamuddin, Delhi. “We have already shifted her family members along with her neighbours to quarantine. The family members’ samples were sent for test. In the report, parents tested negative for COVID-19, but only the girl tested positive, she said. As many as 16 active cases are under treatment, including the girl in the district. As many as 15 containment zones were set up across the district. New containment zone With this positive case on Tuesday, the District Collector Rajeev Gandhi Hanumanthu marked Purigutta as the new containment zone and sealed the area to prevent spread of coronavirus. “On Wednesday, the health department teams will be deployed in Purigutta for collecting samples of residents,” the DM&HO said. One more case Khammam Correspondent adds: One more coronavirus positive case was detected in the town on Tuesday taking the total count of the confirmed COVID-19 cases in the district to eight. A woman from B K Bazar locality in the town tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. She worked as a domestic help at the house of a coronavirus infected person from Quilla area, sources said. Among the eight COVID-19 positive cases reported from the district so far, five cases are active. The remaining three infected persons have reportedly recovered. The district administration declared B.K. Bazar as a containment zone and cordoned off the locality. Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar along with Collector R V Karnan visited B K Bazar here late on Tuesday afternoon. He oversaw the disinfection drive and other containment measures in the locality. Meanwhile, the police ramped up measures for stricter enforcement of lockdown with a focus on the border areas in Bonakal, Madhira, Kallur and Yerrupalem mandals along the inter-State boundary with Andhra Pradesh due to their proximity to some newly declared ‘COVID-19 red zones’ in the neighbouring State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/10-year-old-tests-positive-in-warangal/article31401729.ece
22 April 2020||Yepur,TELANGANA||Yepur cases suggest new link to COVID-19 in Suryapet||Adding to the COVID-19 positive count and existing clusters such as the town’s vegetable market, the latest diagnosis of fresh cases in Yepur village, about 20 km from the district headquarters, throws suspicion on a new link: a self-help group workshop in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. According to available information, the district administration on April 15 found a child in Yepur to be COVID-19 positive, but his shopkeeper father who had voluntarily approached officials for tests — since he was a frequenter to the town’s vegetable market — and his mother turned negative. However, aggressive contact tracing of the child immediately led to institutional quarantine of 40 more persons, all of them from the four adjoining houses, among others, on April 17. Of the district’s 26 positive cases that were declared on Tuesday, 13 are located to Yepur. Sources confirmed to The Hindu that “no one in the village had an abroad-returnee, Markaz-returnee or an outsider till now”. The town’s vegetable market link was also proved wrong with the present results, and hence, the attention now is on a 25-year-old woman who had a travel history to Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, for a training involving self-help groups (SHG) in mid-March. “The woman returned to Tirumalayapalem mandal in Khammam, her maternal home, from Lucknow in the fourth week of March and was immediately stamped with ‘home quarantine’. She returned to Yepur in the first week of April,” an official said. She and her child are among the 13 positive tested in the village. Officials in Suryapet said there were, “no such SHG groups/members that were sent on training to a Hindi State (Uttar Pradesh or Delhi),” but the possibility that members from Khammam travelled north is for investigation. Sources in Khammam confirmed that a few residents, including the maternal family the woman from Yepur, in Tirumalayapalem mandal were taken to an institutional quarantine centre on Tuesday. Senior officials who were alerted by the new suspicion launched a full inquiry into the matter, and likelihood of the woman being infected while in her journey or at any other place, and not necessarily in Lucknow, are also being investigated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/yepur-cases-suggest-new-link-to-covid-19-in-suryapet/article31401719.ece
22 April 2020||Ghaziabad/Noida,||Delhi-Ghaziabad border witnesses traffic||Heavy traffic jam was observed on Tuesday on Delhi-Ghaziabad border near Ghazipur as the Ghaziabad administration enforced strict implementation of lockdown after six COVID 19 positive cases were found on Monday. “After a review meeting with the health department, it was decided to make the implementation stricter. We had observed that some people were misusing the lockdown passes. There were some government officials who were not required in the office but were still travelling. The jam was because it was the first day. From tomorrow, we will be even stricter,” said Manish Mishra, Superintendent of Police (City) Ghaziabad. He denied the administration had become relaxed. “It is part of the review process,” he said. Neeraj Jadaun, SP (Rural), said the district magistrate’s order made a clear distinction between essential goods and services. Paritosh Kumar, who works in the radiotherapy department of Max Hospital, said, “I come from Bhajanpura. It was difficult to convince the police officers today. As there were so many people with inadequate papers, the jam kept on increasing. I hope the situation would be streamlined by tomorrow.” Border sealed The Gautam Buddha Nagar-Delhi border was sealed till further notice by the district administration here on Tuesday with immediate effect. According to the order, only government officials engaged in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic, medical professionals and goods carriers ferrying essential products, mediapersonnel would be permitted to cross the border. There would, however, be riders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-ghaziabad-border-witnesses-traffic/article31401684.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||We will be providing free ration to nearly half of Delhi: Kejriwal||The Delhi government will give 2,000 food coupons each to every MLA and MP in the city for distribution of ration among the needy, who do not have any ID card, in their constituencies in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday. 30 lakh more people He said that the Delhi government will give free ration to 30 lakh additional people who do not have ration cards but have applied online for it. The Delhi government had already provided free ration to 71 lakh ration cardholders, 5 kg free ration to 10 lakh non-ration cardholders and had received nearly 38 lakh applications from the non-ration cardholders, Mr. Kejriwal said. “The Delhi government has decided to give free ration to around 30 lakh people who do not have ration cards. This way we will give free ration to around 1 crore people. Delhi has a population of 2 crore and we will give free ration to half of Delhi’s total population. These 30 lakh people are the people who have applied online based on their ID cards like Aadhaar but there are people in Delhi who do not have any ID card,” he said. “Many people come to Delhi for a few months to earn money but now are stuck in the city due to the lockdown. To ensure free ration to such people, the Delhi government today decided that we will give 2,000 food coupons to each MLA and MP of Delhi across all the political parties. Each of these coupons will be applicable to get 5 kg of free ration. The MPs and MLAs can give these coupons to people who do not have a ration card or any ID proof,” he said. From next month, the Delhi government will also give a kit containing essential items  New ambulances “We have analysed the deaths due to COVID-19, and found that in 80% of the cases the patients were above 50 years and only 20% were below 50 years. This shows that senior citizens are more at risk. We have also found that 83% of patients who have died had serious medical conditions,” he said. The Delhi government today has ordered for 60 new ambulances, Mr. Kejriwal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/we-will-be-providing-free-ration-to-nearly-half-of-delhi-kejriwal/article31401695.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||For first time since April 8, no COVID-19 deaths in city||For the first time since April 8, no new death was reported due to COVID-19 in the Capital on Tuesday, according to the 24-hour health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The city, however, reported 75 fresh cases, taking the total to 2,156. The toll stands at 47. Of the 2,156 cases, 611 have recovered, bringing down the tally of active cases to 1,498. On Tuesday, 180 people recovered and the total number of active cases have also decreased compared to Monday. Containment zones The Delhi government also added three areas to its list of containment zones, taking the total to 87. Officials of south District said they have completed screening in Hauz Rani, which is a containment zone. “We have screened about 20,000 people in the area and 71 of them were found to be symptomatic. We are yet to start the rapid antibody testing in the district but will start soon” the official told The Hindu . Meanwhile, in Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital, 42 staff including doctors and nurses were under quarantine, the hospital PRO said on Tuesday. As many as eight staff have tested positive. “Last week, a pregnant woman who came to the hospital for delivery was later tested positive and after that two doctors and four nurses who came in contact with her were tested positive. A sanitation worker was also tested positive, but he might have contracted the virus from outside the hospital,” an official said. Another nurse tested positive before the pregnant woman’s case and she might have contracted the virus from outside the hospital, said hospital officials. A Delhi government official, meanwhile, said that a three-member committee formed on Monday to look into all COVID-19 deaths in the city was not a “new” procedure and was done during H1N1 outbreak also. “The panel is yet to get any death reports from hospitals. This is not new and it was done at the time of H1N1 also. COVID-19 is a new disease and we want to understand it better. We want to see what caused death in each case. Whether it affected the respiratory system or kidney or any other part of the body,” the official told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/for-first-time-since-april-8-no-covid-19-deaths-in-city/article31401690.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||Lok Nayak Hospital panel report refutes allegations of negligence||A fact-finding committee of Lok Nayak Hospital on Tuesday said in its report that a viral video in which a daughter and wife of a person admitted at the hospital sought help from authorities, do not appear to be “ingrained in facts” and seems to be out of “emotional distress”. On Monday morning, the daughter and wife of a person infected with COVID-19 and admitted to a Delhi government-run hospital, had sought help in a video posted on social media stating that the person was suffering from high fever and the hospital was not taking care of him. The video went viral and the government stepped in and provided help. ‘Emotional distress’ “On the basis of the relevant information made available to the committee and in view of the paucity of time and different shift duties of the officers involved in battling the COVID-19 pandemic, the committee members feel that the allegations levelled against the hospital do not appear to be ingrained in facts, rather seem to be stemming from emotional distress of the family,” the report said. Food served The family had claimed that the person had reached the hospital on April 18 evening and he was not given food till April 19 afternoon. “As per the statement of the nursing officer on duty, since the patient had arrived in surgical ward by 10 p.m. on April 18, and the dinner had already been served in the ward by then,the officer, considering the diabetic condition of the patient, gave him his own dinner. The next day, breakfast and other meals were served to the patient,” the report said. The report said the claim that the patient had a fever of 102 degree Fahrenheit and was unattended to at the hospital, appears to be “totally incorrect”. “The nursing officer recorded the temperature by hospital thermometer, which was around 99.2 degree Fahrenheit,” the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/lok-nayak-hospital-panel-report-refutes-allegations-of-negligence/article31401697.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||Baijal reviews lockdown implementation in city||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday reviewed the enforcement of lockdown and management of containment zones to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, through videoconference with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, Chief Secretary Vijay Dev and officials from various government departments as well as the Delhi Police were also part of the meeting. According to Raj Niwas, Mr. Baijal directed all District Magistrates and DCPs to ensure effective management of containment zones, food centres and night shelters. “The L-G advised field officials to closely monitor containment zones by involving community leaders, volunteers and local self-help organisations to stop any gatherings or intermingling within containment zones,” Raj Niwas said. He also directed regular disinfection/sanitation and cleanliness of the containment zones on war footing.  Mobile testing facilities While reviewing the preparedness of the Health Department, the L-G directed for taking all precautionary measures for frontline staff. He advised that mobile testing facilities may be encouraged in densely populated areas to bring in efficiency. “Later in the day, the L-G took stock of lockdown implementation and arrangements at shelter homes accommodating migrant workers by making a surprise inspection of home shelters at Ludlow Castle No. 2, S.K.V Civil Lines and Katra Maula Baksh, Roshanara Road, Night Shelter, North Delhi,” Raj Niwas stated. “During the visit the L-G also interacted with residents living there and reviewed the basic amenities being provided there...he advised the officers concerned to constructively engage people, explore options for physical fitness/recreation while maintaining social distancing norms and ensuring timely good quality food,” it also said.  During the visit the L-G also interacted with residents living there and reviewed the basic amenities being provided there...he advised the officers concerned to constructively engage people Raj Niwas statement||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/baijal-reviews-lockdown-implementation-in-city/article31401685.ece
22 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Constable alleges lack of hygiene in hospital||After a police constable, who was tested positive for COVID-19, posted a video complaining about “lack of hygiene” in the hospital where he is undergoing treatment, authorities swung into action and took necessary relief measures. In the video, the constable, who is undergoing treatment at a facility in Najafgarh, said that the room he has been staying has 19 other patients and they all have to use a common washroom. He had tested positive on April 17 “If anyone complains of throat pain or fever, they are not provided medicines,” he alleged, adding that they are not provided hot water, handwash or sanitisers. Moreover, the bedsheet was not changed and the pillow is dirty, he alleged. “I asked them to shift me to a private hospital but they said that I can call an ambulance and go by myself. They have not tested my family members either,” he alleged. DCP (West) Deepak Purohit said that the constable is being taken care of now and they are in touch with the hospital authorities. “He has also been shifted to a room where there are only six persons,” he added. In a video shared on Tuesday, the constable said he was satisfied with the conditions and his concerns were addressed. Meanwhile, the DCP said that a proposal has been sent to the police headquarters to provide a financial relief of Rs. 1 lakh to the constable from the Delhi Police Welfare Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/constable-alleges-lack-of-hygiene-in-hospital/article31401691.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||Shopkeepers should get compensation too, says BJP||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Tuesday demanded that ration shopkeepers in the Capital also be included under the Rs. 1-crore compensation scheme of the Delhi government in case they die after contracting COVID-19. In a letter to Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, he also demanded that the outstanding commission of these shopkeepers, from January to April 2020, be paid and they be provided PPE kits for their safety while citing a case from Roop Nagar where a ration shopkeeper has been declared COVID-19 positive. He also raised concerns over the quality and quantity of food being served by the Delhi government to the poor. Mr. Bidhuri further demanded the extension of the expiry time limit of ration coupon to one month, stating that the current 48-hour time limit of coupons being sent to the poor for taking ration was too less. In his letter, he said that many poor needy people are being denied ration due to this time limit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/shopkeepers-should-get-compensation-too-says-bjp/article31401686.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. warns owners against smuggling of liquor from clubs||The Excise Department on Tuesday warned liquor vends and clubs of action, if they smuggle liquor out of their premises and sell it during the lockdown. An order mentioned that FIRs have been filed for the same. “It has come to the notice of Excise Department that some licensees are indulging in smuggling out liquor from their licensed premises and its unlawful sale, thereby violating the orders of the government. FIRs have been also filed in some cases,” the order said. The order said that strict action, including cancellation of licence and blacklisting, shall be carried out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-warns-owners-against-smuggling-of-liquor-from-clubs/article31401698.ece
22 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||AIIMS deploys robots in COVID-19 ward||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi has deployed robots at its advanced COVID-19 ward to help promote physical distancing between health workers and infected patients. AllMS director Randeep Guleria said the institute is using two AI robots — Milagrow Floor Robot iMap 9.0 and Milagrow Humanoid ELF — in collaboration with consumer robotics brand Milagrow. According to the company, Milagrow Humanoid ELF enables doctors to monitor and interact with COVID-19 patients remotely thereby significantly reducing transmission risk. Patients in isolation wards can also interact with their relatives from time-to-time through this robot. “The Humanoid ELF can navigate around the ward independently and record activities in high definition video and audio. ,” noted a release issued by the company. “As the outbreak continues to rise, our robots will help check the virus spread and protect the doctors, nurses and other staff from getting infected,” said Rajeev Karwal, founder-chairman Milagrow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aiims-deploys-robots-in-covid-19-ward/article31401699.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||Civic bodies challan for spitting and urinating||The municipal corporations of Delhi have issued 50 challans for urination and spitting so far, representatives of the South and North Corporations said on Tuesday. While both municipal corporations had been able to realise only three challans, of Rs. 1,000 each, the rest have been forwarded to the magistrate, they said. The EDMC has issued three challans and one FIR. Civic bodies have been carrying out campaigns to spread awareness on account of COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/civic-bodies-challan-for-spitting-and-urinating/article31401687.ece
22 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Riots arrest: sections of UAPA invoked, say police||The Delhi Police on Tuesday said that sections of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act have been invoked against a few persons, including Jamia Millia Islamia students Meeran Haider and Safoora Zalgar, while responding to bail application. Haider and Zalgar were arrested in connection with north-east riots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/riots-arrest-sections-of-uapa-invoked-say-police/article31401693.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi/Gurugram,||‘Media persons to be tested from today’||The Delhi government will start testing media persons for COVID-19 from Wednesday. “We have received reports that in many States, journalists tested positive for COVID-19. Journalists are working in the frontline in this extraordinary time. From Wednesday we are opening a centre where any journalist can visit for a COVID-19 test,” said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. Meanwhile, 30 mediapersons were tested for COVID-19 in Gurugram on Tuesday. All of them tested negative. In a first-of-its-kind initiative by any district in Haryana, the Gurugram authorities screened the scribes using rapid testing kits. The district administration decided to conduct the tests after 53 mediapersons had tested positive in Mumbai for COVID-19 and were asymptomatic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/media-persons-to-be-tested-from-today/article31401692.ece
22 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha govt. steps up surveillance in three districts||The Odisha government’s Health & Family Welfare Department stepped up surveillance in Balasore, Bhadrak and Jajpur on Tuesday after it was found that many COVID-19 patients in the State had returned to these districts from neighbouring West Bengal. Concerned over the trend, the State Health Department directed experts from medical colleges, senior health officers and rapid response teams to oversee containment measures in the three districts. While three rapid response teams proceeded to these districts, the SCB Medical College & Hospital, Cuttack, was asked to provide technical support to Jajpur district. The Fakir Mohan Medical College & Hospital at Balasore was supporting Balasore and Bhadrak districts, the Health Department said. 23 positive cases In fact, a total of 23 COVID-19 cases were reported from the three districts till midnight of Monday. The State government had expressed its worries on Monday evening saying that 24 of the 74 infected persons in the State till then had links with West Bengal.  Clandestine entry Stating that most of these people had clandestinely entered the State, the government expressed satisfaction over the work done by representatives of Panchayati Raj institutions who did not allow to them to enter the villages. The panchayats had informed the district administration and ensured that these people were placed in quarantine. With detection of five more COVID-19 cases from Balasore by midnight on Monday, the total number of positive cases detected in the State has increased to 79. Five more discharged Meanwhile, five more COVID-19 positive cases — one each from Bhubaneswar, Dhenkanal, Kalahandi, Sundargarh and Kendrapada — were discharged from different COVID-19 hospitals on Tuesday. With this, the total recoveries in the State increased to 29 and the number of active cases stood at 48. One person had died earlier. Another patient from West Bengal, who had recently come for follow up treatment of cancer in a private hospital in Bhubaneswar and was detected as COVID-19 positive, passed away in the hospital on Tuesday morning. His death, however, was not treated as COVID-19 death since after treatment he was found negative for cthe virus in two repeat tests, the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-govt-steps-up-surveillance-in-three-districts/article31401680.ece
22 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab seeks Rs. 3,000 cr. compensation||A day after Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa asked the Union government to release Punjab’s arrears, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday demanded interim compensation from the Centre to the tune of Rs. 3,000 crore for the month of April on account of the COVID-19. Pointing to the alarming resource gap between the State’s anticipated receipts and committed expenditure, Capt. Amarinder has also demanded immediate release of Rs. 4,400 crore of pending GST arrears. In a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the Chief Minister asked for expediting the release of the State’s GST arrears for the last four months to help Punjab overcome its resource constraint. Citing the lockdown that had substantial fiscal consequences for all States, Capt. Amarinder said the Union government should compensate Punjab for its loss of revenue due to COVID-19. While Rs. 3,000 crore for April was an estimate, he said “detailed assessment of loss and requirement of funds for relief and rehabilitation will be submitted in due course”. He said the State government had made a provision of revenue receipts of Rs. 3,360 crore for the month of April this year in the State budget 2020-21. However, these receipts are expected to decline sharply as most economic activities in the State remain closed on account of the lockdown.  ‘Allow liquor sale’ Pointing to the critical fiscal situation of the State, the Chief Minister also sought the Centre’s permission to allow sale of liquor, in a phased manner, to mop up VAT and excise revenue. He said the Union Ministry of Home should allow the State to take a conscious decision to allow the sale of liquor in certain areas in a phased manner with strict social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-seeks-rs-3000-cr-compensation/article31401677.ece
22 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Doctor suspended in AMU’s medical college for negligence||An associate professor of the Department of Medicine in Aligarh Muslim University’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital has been suspended by Vice-Chancellor Tariq Mansoor for negligence and misconduct. The suspension has come after a person admitted to JNMC tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. The 55-year-old man, who was on ventilator support, passed away on Tuesday afternoon, said Haris Mansoor Khan, Chief Medical Superintendent, JNMC. “He was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension. He came late to the hospital,” he said. B.P. Singh, Chief Medical Officer, Aligarh, said the protocol would be followed during the burial. The district administration on Monday had asked the JNMC why it didn’t inform the district health department about the COVID-19 infected person in time and whether the protocol was followed. ‘Not isolated’ According to the university spokesperson, the person had come to the hospital in an emergency situation, late on Sunday night. His test was conducted and the administration was informed the next morning. However, university sources said, it appeared that the doctor used his position to get the patient admitted to casualty when the protocol demanded that he be taken to an isolation facility. The doctor’s wife runs a private hospital in the city, and according to sources, it is suspected that the infected person was treated there as well. After the incident, the district administration has quarantined the doctor and his family. On Tuesday, it was decided that a list of patients admitted to the isolation ward and emergency be sent to district officials in the morning and evening every day. District Magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh has also ordered to seal and cancel the licence of a private X-ray lab in the city where the said infected person was tested despite showing flu-like symptoms. “As the deceased had visited more than one medical facility, the number of cases could increase. We are doing contact tracing and also investigating the role of the doctors,” said SSP Muniraj P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/doctor-suspended-in-amus-medical-college-for-negligence/article31401681.ece
22 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam begins releasing ‘foreigners’||The Border wing of the Assam police has begun releasing the “declared foreigners” (DFs) who completed two years to decongest six detention centres. The Gauhati High Court had on April 15 set the Border wing a seven-day deadline for the conditional release of DFs according to the order of the Supreme Court on April 13. The deadline ended Tuesday, but the officials said the process may take some more time. Border police officials declined to say how many DFs have been released but insisted they would be reaching their homes soon. Officials at the six detention centres – Dibrugarh, Goalpara, Jorhat, Kokrajhar, Silchar and Tezpur – said at least 80 of the 802 detainees have been released so far. “We shall be submitting the information to the HC,” Special DGP (Border) Mukesh Agrawal told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/assam-begins-releasing-foreigners/article31401682.ece
22 April 2020||Jaipur,||Gehlot takes up package issue with Centre||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday took up the issue of release of a package for the States to help them tackle the COVID-19 pandemic with the Centre, while pointing out that the States had made use of their resources in controlling the spread of the disease. The financial condition of States had deteriorated with the revenue collection plummeting during the lockdown, he said. Mr. Gehlot raised the matter before a five-member Central team visiting Jaipur to study the measures being taken to control the pandemic. He demanded an additional 2% credit limit to the States from the Net Credit Limit and moratorium of three months in the payment of instalments due to the Reserve Bank of India and other financial institutions. Mr. Gehlot later told reporters that the Centre should release more wheat to ensure the supply of foodgrains to everyone in need, irrespective of their inclusion in the government’s schemes, during the present crisis. “The Food Corporation of India’s reserves are full of wheat stocks. The rabi crop harvesting has also been completed... There should be no issue in the release of wheat.” Mr. Gehlot said he had spoken to Union Home Minister Amit Shah with the request to facilitate the return of migrants from Rajasthan stranded in other States because of the lockdown. A large number of labourers, employees in firms, traders and shopkeepers living in other States were facing difficulties and wanted to come back to their home. The Chief Minister said he was still waiting for the response from Mr. Shah, who had told him that he would take a decision by Tuesday. Referring to the students of coaching institutions in Kota, Mr. Gehlot said that after Uttar Pradesh, States like Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Uttarakhand had agreed to take them back, though Bihar and West Bengal were unwilling to make arrangements for their return during the lockdown.  159 new cases Meanwhile, the tally of COVID-19 positive persons in Rajasthan increases to 1,735 with the detection of 159 cases from 12 districts on Tuesday. The highest number of 72 patients were found in Jaipur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gehlot-takes-up-package-issue-with-centre/article31401679.ece
22 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. policeman suspended for assaulting S-I||A head constable was suspended and booked on Tuesday after he was caught on camera allegedly beating a sub-inspector with a lathi in Sitapur district of Uttar Pradesh. A 33-second footage of the incident was widely shared on social media following which action was taken against the head constable. In the video, Head Constable Ram Asray was seen hitting S-I Ramesh Chauhan with his lathi at a picket duty in the Kotwali area. The head constable lands at least six-eight blows on the S-I. The S-I asked Mr. Asray to stand guard when he found him sitting, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/up-policeman-suspended-for-assaulting-s-i/article31401675.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Bihar is lagging behind’||Tejashwi Yadav , Leader of the Opposition in the Bihar Assembly and RJD leader, has criticised the State government’s “inefficiency” in combating the COVID-19 pandemic. In an email interview, he said free rations and more cash incentives should be given to the poor until the lockdown is lifted. Excerpts.   Are you satisfied with the Bihar government’s efforts to combat the COVID-19 pandemic in the State?  The basic thing to fight against COVID-19 should be saving lives as well as livelihoods. The Bihar government appears far behind it as of today. Testing is among the lowest in the country with dilapidated medical infrastructure and there is absolutely no income support programme for the poor and working class.  Do you think the number of COVID-19 cases in the State is very low and there should be more rapid tests?   Yes, absolutely. The numbers of positive cases are lower only because of conservatively low testing. With dense population of 12.3 crore, the risk of virus’s spread is very high in Bihar. Asymptomatic cases are surging and rapid testing will help in gauging the spread of contagion and breaking the transmission chain.  Is it true that with its limited medical facilities, the Bihar government feels helpless in detecting COVID-19 cases?  I think, the real problem is lack of intent in the leadership. Should the government surrender just because it doesn’t have required ammunition? If a small and young State like Chhattisgarh can erect makeshift hospitals in record-breaking time, why can’t Bihar? Had the government been proactively strategising in this lockdown buffer of almost 60 days, a lot could have been achieved on the medical infrastructure front.  But the Chief Minister has been holding marathon meetings with top officials to monitor the situation in the State...  What is the end result of these marathon meetings? The question remains why the Chief Minister remained incommunicado. Whilst other CMs are on the ground and briefing their people on a daily basis, Nitish ji chose to speak after 18 days.  The government says it has paid Rs. 1,000 into the bank accounts of the poor? Does this help?  Even a family of three persons can’t live for more than three days with Rs. 1,000 during the lockdown. The government should ensure free ration and more cash incentives on a weekly basis with more transparency until the lockdown ceases. Every day we have been interacting with thousands migrants. Even this cash hasn’t been disbursed to 40%-50% of the beneficiaries.  The government says about 1.8 lakh migrants have returned to the State. Do you agree with this figure?  From where and how did the government mine this? Did the government facilitate their return? Has the government screened, tested and quarantined 1.8 lakh migrants? There are more than a million stranded outside the State, desperately wanting to come back home. Why has the government abandoned them?  Unlike the U.P. government, Bihar has refused to allow students studying in Kota, Rajasthan, to return home...  The Bihar govt. has double standards and discriminatory policies on the issue of Kota students. They give permission to bring back children of the high and mighty, like they issued a pass to a State BJP MLA to bring back his ward.  If a small and young State like Chhattisgarh can erect makeshift hospitals in record-breaking time, why can’t Bihar?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bihar-is-lagging-behind/article31401672.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The ‘nowhere people’ of COVID-19 need better legal safeguards||Post-COVID-19, whenever that happens, one of the most enduring images of it would be that of the multitudes of migrant workers who became, all of a sudden, nowhere people, no one’s people. For the policymakers, it would be a trigger to rework a strategy for them and to ensure a better legal framework which doesn’t leave them high and dry yet again during tough situations. It is in this context that we need to revisit the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, 1979. It was drawn up after repealing The Orissa Dadan Labour Act, 1975. Based on a very specific background, it couldn’t perhaps see much beyond the then-existing migrant workmen system. The ISMW Act defines inter-State migrant workman as any person who is recruited by or through a contractor. This definition keeps away any migrant workman out of the ambit if he is not brought in through a licensed contractor. It is common knowledge that most of the migrant workmen are not routed through licensed contractors. This small catch, in the definition, has been sufficient to exclude bulk of the migrant workmen from getting any benefit out of the Act. Furthermore, the Act is only applicable to any establishment in which five or more inter-State migrant workmen are employed. In reality, only a miniscule proportion of migrant workmen are placed under such establishments these days. So, if the establishment doesn’t come under the purview of the Act, its migrant employees, numbering less than five, cease to be migrants, legally, even though they may actually be one!  ‘Inadequacy of Act’ The current crisis has comprehensively exposed the inadequacy of the ISMW Act. While it has become anachronistic, the need for legal safeguards and welfare measures for migrants has become even more pressing and urgent. The Unorganised Workers’ Social Security (UWSS) Act, 2008 was enacted to provide for social security and welfare of unorganised workers. The Act defines unorganised workers as home-based worker, self-employed worker or wage worker in the unorganised sector. The Government of India has, in the recent past, introduced a host of social security schemes. Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-dhan Yojana is meant to ensure old age protection for unorganised workers. Atal Pension Yojana has been launched under the National Pension System. Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana is a life insurance scheme. Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana is an accident insurance scheme. Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana aims at providing health cover. The UWSS Act itself has two very vitally useful features, viz., (a) Registration of unorganised workers, and (b) Portable smart I-card with a Unique Worker’s Identification Number. The coverage of these useful provisions and schemes, however, is still sub-optimal. The entitlements and benefits for the migrant workers have an unquestionable economic, legal and moral basis. In the present context, the following suggestions may require urgent consideration: Repealing of the ISMW Act, 1979 forthwith and replacing it with a new Act, or alternatively, enlarging the scope of UWSS Act to include legal entitlements, to define the migrant workman as a subset, to provide for contingencies of livelihood loss and to make the Act legally enforceable. Universalisation of registration and issuance of Aadhaar-based UWIN (Unique Worker’s Identification No.) ought to be done. It will serve multiple objectives. Schemes like MNREGA, PDS and Ujjwala need to be made portable. Geofencing of different benefits can be done so that a migrant workman can choose location-wise benefits for himself and his family from a matrix available. A comprehensive database of the migrant workers’ source and destination, demography, employment patterns and skill sets would not only help in skill development and providing for social security benefits, but would also be useful in planning for mass transit of migrant labour, and preparing for any contingency plan in abnormal situations. Issues related to migrant workmen have complex Centre-State and inter-State dimensions. The Inter-State Council, set up under Article 263 of the Constitution, may be a more appropriate forum to effectively and comprehensively deal with larger issues related to migrant workmen. It’s time to initiate a legal lattice that means business to the migrant workmen, and say goodbye to the antiquated law of 1979 that seems to have outlived its utility. It is better late than never.  Vivek Kumar Singh is a civil servant who has earlier worked as Labour Commissioner, Bihar. Views are personal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/the-nowhere-people-of-covid-19-need-better-legal-safeguards/article31401674.ece
22 April 2020||Chennai /Washington,||Trump to suspend immigration to U.S.||U.S. President Donald Trump has said he will temporarily suspend immigration in order to protect Americans’ jobs. “In light of the attack from the Invisible Enemy, as well as the need to protect the jobs of our GREAT American Citizens, I will be signing an Executive Order to temporarily suspend immigration into the United States!” he said on Monday evening (Washington time), in a reference to the COVID-19 pandemic. Tightening visa policies While Mr. Trump did not clarify the scope — in terms of visa categories or time — of this planned order, it will likely temporarily stop new green cards and work visas, as per several reports. The order is in line with the tightening of visa policies that the administration has undertaken over the years, backed by immigration hawks such as Mr. Trump’s adviser Stephen Miller. The State Department issued 4,62,422 immigrant visas in the 2019 fiscal year — down from just over 6,17,752 in 2015, while U.S. Citizens and Immigration Services granted permanent residence to nearly 5,77,000 individuals. Monday night’s tweet on immigration could also be Mr. Trump’s way of trying to push States to open up, after weeks of lockdown, a Washington DC source who works in the economic policy area told The Hindu . With more than 22 million Americans seeking unemployment benefits over the last month, and with a general election looming, Mr. Trump has been keen on opening up the U.S. economy — battling with some Governors to open up States. Last week, Mr. Trump issued an advisory telling States they could open by May 1 or before. Some States such as Tennessee, Georgia and South Carolina — all headed by Republican Governors — are planning to ease restrictions. Call for easing curbs On Twitter last week, Mr. Trump called for Michigan, Minnesota and Virginia — States with Democrat Governors — to be “liberated”. Earlier, the President had claimed he had the power to “open up” States and conservative groups have backed protests against “stay at home” orders across States. National Security Adviser Robert O’Brien on Tuesday cast the President’s announcement as a move to protect the American people’s health. Mr. O’Brien said the temporary halt to immigration would not be “dissimilar” to limits on travel to the U.S. from China that Mr. Trump put in place in January. “We’re trying to do everything, the President’s trying to do everything he can to put the health of the American people first during this crisis,” Mr. O’Brien told Fox News. “So this is one step. It’s not dissimilar to the restrictions on travel from China that he implemented back on January 29 at the very outset of this public health crisis.” Asked about Mr. Trump’s reference to jobs, Mr. O’Brien referenced the virus’ economic toll. “There’s been an economic cost here, too, and the President’s looking out for Americans on both fronts at every turn,” he said. Mr. Trump has issued a number of immigration-related executive orders before after the pandemic began — such as allowing the immediate deportation of migrants without valid papers and the potential sanctioning of countries that do not accept their citizens back from the U.S. Like those, his temporary immigration suspension order will likely be challenged in court.  (With Associated Press inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-to-suspend-immigration-to-us/article31401390.ece
22 April 2020||Colombo,||Sri Lanka EC announces polls on June 20; Opposition voices concern||Sri Lanka’s Election Commission has set the country’s parliamentary election for June 20, after it postponed the April 25 polls in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Sri Lanka has reported 309 coronavirus cases and seven deaths so far. A total of 33 infections were detected on Monday, the highest number to be recorded on a single day, prompting authorities to move 1,010 people from a working class neighbourhood in Colombo to quarantine. “We are controlling the spread of the virus and increasing testing rates too. But it’s difficult for anybody to say when the pandemic will end,” Dr. Anil Jasinghe, Director General of Public Health, told The Hindu on Tuesday. According to him, Sri Lanka conducted 695 tests on Monday. “We want to increase it to 1,000 a day soon.” The Election Commission’s announcement came two days after Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa said in a statement that the Commission was “mandatorily required” to fix a new date for the polls. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s secretary too wrote to the Commission on April 9, emphasising citizens’ right to franchise, and the Commission’s “responsibility” to fix the date for the election. On Tuesday, top officials of the Election Commission met representatives of different political parties. Following the meeting, former Leader of Opposition Sajith Premadasa told media that polls must be held only after health officials gave a public guarantee that it was safe to do so. Spelling out his rationale for choosing June 20 as the poll date, Commission Chairman Mahinda Deshapriya reportedly said he had calculated seven weeks’ time for poll campaign beginning a week after April 27, when authorities have promised to further ease the nationwide curfew. This was confirmed to The Hindu by Election Commissioner Ratnajeevan Hoole. However, Mr. Deshapriya told political party representatives that the date was “subject to revision”, according to former Tamil National Alliance legislator M.A. Sumanthiran. “We collectively raised objection to the fact that the parties were not even consulted before the Commission announced the date. And we don’t know where we stand in terms of the pandemic’s spread,” he told The Hindu . Worrisome situation Despite the Commission’s justifications, Opposition parties are not convinced. They raise concern broadly on three grounds — public health, the prospect of a free and fair election in unprecedented circumstances and constitutional questions arising from President Rajapaksa dissolving Parliament on March 2, calling for snap polls on April 25. “The ground situation is still worrisome. So many people’s health is at peril, so many have lost their livelihoods... how can we think of elections amid the ruthless spread of the pandemic?” asked Rauff Hakeem, leader of the Sri Lanka Muslim Congress and a former MP, who was among those who met the EC chairman on Tuesday. Vijitha Herath, a former MP of the leftist Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna, who also attended the meeting, said: “We are in the midst of a pandemic, and our people are suffering. In our view, it is not suitable to hold polls now,” he told The Hindu . Opposition parties also accuse the government of “electioneering in the guise of pandemic response”. The former legislators point to a Presidential Task Force on Essential Services led by Basil Rajapaksa, brother of the President and the Prime Minister, who is also the national organiser of the ruling Sri Lanka People’s Party (SLPP). “How can it be a free and fair election when they [government] have an unfair advantage,” Mr. Herath asked. Further, pointing to section 70 (5) of Sri Lanka’s Constitution, Mr. Hakeem, also a lawyer, said there was an imminent constitutional crisis as Parliament has to be summoned not later than three months after the proclamation dissolving the House [March 2]. “The Election Commission has scheduled polls for June 20, which is clearly outside that three-month limit,” Mr. Hakeem said, adding: “We expected the Election Commission to be an independent body, not a lapdog of this government.” The JVP shared the opinion that reconvening Parliament “is the best available option to avert a constitutional crisis,” according to Mr. Herath. However, President Rajapaksa on Monday said in a television programme that he had “no intention of reconvening the previous Parliament”. Commenting on the development, TNA Leader R. Sampanthan said the President was responsible to Parliament. But there is no Parliament in session. “The new Parliament will not convene on the date originally expected... this uncertainty cannot continue.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-ec-announces-polls-on-june-20-opposition-voices-concern/article31401380.ece
22 April 2020||Seoul,||S. Korea disputes Kim’s illness report||South Korean officials on Tuesday disputed a news report that North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, was receiving treatment after undergoing heart surgery. Daily NK, a Seoul-based website that relies on anonymous sources inside North Korea to report on the isolated country, said late Monday that Mr. Kim received a cardiovascular procedure at Hyangsan Hospital, a clinic dedicated to treating the Kim family, on April 12. The website said Mr. Kim was recuperating at a villa near the hospital, which is on the foothill of Mount Mohyang, north of Pyongyang, the North Korean capital. Most of the doctors called in from Pyongyang to treat Mr. Kim returned to the capital a week later because Mr. Kim had recovered enough, the report said, quoting an anonymous source in North Korea. Officially, the South Korean government said it had no comment. But government and parliamentary officials in Seoul privately questioned the veracity of the Daily NK report. The office of President Moon Jae-in of South Korea had “nothing to confirm” about the Daily NK report, said Moon’s spokesman, Kang Min-seok. Kang added that South Korea “has so far detected no special signs inside North Korea,” a stock phrase the South has often used to cast doubt on unsubstantiated news reports on North Korea. Yonhap, South Korea’s national news agency, quoted an unnamed senior government official in Seoul as calling the report “not true.” A member of the intelligence committee of the South’s National Assembly said that the government’s main spy agency also questioned the report. Absence from key event Mr. Kim last appeared publicly in the North’s state media on April 11, when he presided over a meeting of the Politburo of the ruling Workers’ Party. His absence since from public view — particularly at an April 15 event honouring the birthday of his grandfather, Kim Il-sung, the country’s founder — has raised speculation about his health. Mr. has disappeared from public view for weeks at a stretch in the past, setting off similar rumours.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/s-korea-disputes-kims-illness-report/article31401378.ece
22 April 2020||Beijing,||China seeks to ease travel curbs to stabilise economy||China has reached an agreement with South Korea to set up a “fast track” procedure for businesspeople to travel between the countries as Beijing looks to ease an entry ban on foreigners imposed to curb the spread of the COVID-19. With the deadly disease spreading globally, China last month blocked almost all foreigners from entering as authorities fretted over cases being imported from abroad. Beijing is also in talks with other countries, including Singapore, to set up a similar channel to stabilise economic cooperation and ensure supply chains run smoothly, Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told a press briefing Tuesday. The novel coronavirus(SARS-CoV-2), first discovered in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in December, has since spread like wildfire and killed more than 1,67,000 people worldwide with cases reported in over 190 countries. But there are signs that China is looking to relax some of its controls as the measures used to curb the pandemic place a huge economic strain on nations worldwide. Ensuring supply “China is in talks with relevant countries to set up fast-track channels allowing... business and technical personnel to travel,” Mr. Geng told reporters on Tuesday. “The purpose is to stabilise important economic and trade cooperation... and to ensure the safe and smooth operation of international industrial and supply chains,” he added. Beijing has reached a consensus with Seoul on the fast-track channel and both sides are working to implement the plan, he said. China and Singapore have also discussed personnel exchanges via video conference, he said. Mr. Geng, however, declined to elaborate on which other countries authorities were negotiating with. The Asian giant has tightened controls on returning travellers and drastically cut international flight routes after largely bringing its virus outbreak under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-seeks-to-ease-travel-curbs-to-stabilise-economy/article31401376.ece
22 April 2020||Paris,||Humans to blame for pandemic||Whether it came from a bat or a pangolin is not certain, but one thing is: the coronavirus outbreak comes from the animal world. It is human activity that enabled the virus to jump to people, and specialists are warning that if nothing changes, many other pandemics of this nature will follow. The name given to diseases transmitted from animals to humans is “zoonoses”, based on the Greek words for “animal” and “sickness”. They are not new — tuberculosis, rabies, toxoplasmosis, malaria, to name just a few, are all zoonoses. According to the UN Environment Programme (UNEP), 60% of human infectious diseases originate from animals. This figure climbs to 75% for “emerging” diseases such as Ebola, HIV, avian flu, Zika, or SARS, another type of coronavirus. The list goes on. “The emergence of zoonotic diseases is often associated with environmental changes or ecological disturbances, such as agricultural intensification and human settlement, or encroachments into forests and other habitats,” says UNEP report. “Changes in the environment are usually the result of human activities,” it adds. Gwenael Vourc’h of INRAE, a French public research institute, also blames human activity for the crossover between species.“Given the growth of the human population and its ever more intense use of planetary resources, the destruction of more and more ecosystems multiplies contacts,” she says. A key area of concern is deforestation to make way for agriculture and intensive livestock farming. In terms of endangered wildlife, a study by American researchers published last week shows that those who share the most viruses with humans are precisely “populations declining due to exploitation and loss of habitat”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/humans-to-blame-for-pandemic/article31401377.ece
22 April 2020||New York,||‘Pakistan removes names from terrorism watch list’||Pakistan has quietly removed around 1,800 terrorists from its watch list, including that of the 2008 Mumbai attack mastermind and LeT operations commander Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, ahead of a new round of assessments by the global anti-money-laundering watchdog FATF, according to a U.S.-based start-up that automates watchlist compliance. The so-called proscribed persons list, which is maintained by Pakistan’s National Counter Terrorism Authority ( NACTA), is intended in part to help financial institutions avoid doing business with or processing transactions of suspected terrorists. The list in 2018 contained about 7,600 names. It has been reduced to under 3,800 in the past 18 months, according to Castellum.AI, a New York-based regulatory technology company. 1,800 names removed About 1,800 of the names have been removed since the beginning of March, according to data collected by Castellum. Pakistan is working to implement an action plan that has been mutually agreed to with the Paris-based The Financial Action Task Force (FATF), part of which involves demonstrating effective implementation of targeted financial sanctions.” It is possible that these removals are part of Pakistan’s action plan to implement the FATF recommendations, it said. The FATF will evaluate Pakistan’s progress in June 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-removes-names-from-terrorism-watch-list/article31401381.ece
22 April 2020||Beijing,||Beijing names disputed islands||China on Tuesday defended its naming of 80 islands and other geographical features in the South China Sea in a move likely to anger neighbours as the country asserts its territorial claims. A joint announcement of the names on Sunday from the Ministry of Natural Resources and the Ministry of Civil Affairs came a day after China established new administrative districts for the contested Spratly and Paracel island chains. The notice listed the Chinese names and coordinates of 80 islands, reefs, seamounts, shoals and ridges, 55 of them submerged in water. Vietnam claimed the move “seriously violated” its territorial sovereignty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/beijing-names-disputed-islands/article31401383.ece
22 April 2020||Singapore,||Singapore extends curbs as cases surge||Singapore on Tuesday extended restrictions to fight the COVID-19 until early June as cases surged past 9,000 due to a growing number of infections among migrant workers. The city-state managed to keep its outbreak in check in the early stages due to widespread testing and contact-tracing, but is facing a second wave of infections. It reported 1,111 cases on Tuesday taking the total to 9,125, with the majority of new infections in foreign workers’ dormitories, which have become the epicentre of the city’s outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/singapore-extends-curbs-as-cases-surge/article31401387.ece
22 April 2020||Islamabad,||Pak. PM to get tested for COVID-19||Imran Khan has agreed to get tested for COVID-19 after a well-known philanthropist was tested positive for the COVID-19, days after meeting the Pakistan prime minister, his doctor said on Tuesday. Faisal Edhi, the son of late philanthropist Abdul Sattar Edhi and chairman of the Edhi Foundation, met Mr. Khan last week. Mr. Khan’s personal physician , Faisal Sultan, said that Mr. Khan would undergo COVID-19 test. The protocols recommend self-isolation for people who meet those tested positive for the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-pm-to-get-tested-for-covid-19/article31401391.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Tehran, April 21, 2020 (AFP) -||Tehran Iran’s judiciary said on Tuesday that it has temporary released more than 1,000 foreign prisoners due to the pandemic, following criticism by UN human rights experts. “We have granted furlough to over 1,000 foreign nationals,” said judiciary spokesman Gholamhossein Esmaili.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tehran-april-21-2020-afp/article31401384.ece
22 April 2020||London,||London, April 21, 2020 (AFP) -||Britain’s Queen Elizabeth II celebrated her 94th birthday on Tuesday, but the traditional gun salute was called off this year because of the coronavirus crisis. The monarch was said to be marking the occasion with her 98-year-old husband, Prince Philip, at Windsor Castle, west of London.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/london-april-21-2020-afp/article31401386.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The key strategy is fiscal empowerment of States||The scale of disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic has never been seen before. Even as we are in the midst of the second phase of the national lockdown, there is no clarity on the time it will take to come out of the crisis, the extent of damage it will inflict, and the cost of relief and rehabilitation required. At a time when governments, both at the Centre and in the States, are fiscally stressed, the pandemic has forced them to undertake huge expenditures to save lives, livelihoods and reduce distresses and even more, to create a stimulus to revive the economy as we map the exit strategy. Need for relief The speed of economic revival will depend on how long it will take to revive economic activities and the volume of stimulus through public spending the government is able to provide. It now appears that the lockdown will be lifted in stages and the recovery process will be prolonged. The country is literally placed in financing a war-like situation and the government will have to postpone the fiscal consolidation process for the present, loosen its purse strings and finance its deficits substantially through monetisation. This is also the time for the government to announce relaxation in the States’ fiscal deficit limit to make them effective participants in the struggle. It is also important for the States to realise the importance of health and prioritise spending on health-care services. Being closer to the people, the States have a much larger responsibility in fighting this war. Public health as well as public order are State subjects in the Constitution. In fact, some States were proactive in dealing with the COVID-19 outbreak by involving the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, even before the Government of India declared a universal lockdown invoking the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Of course, the Centre under Entry 29 of the Concurrent List has the powers to set the rules of implementation which states, “Prevention of the extension from one State to another of infectious or contagious diseases or pests affecting men, animals or plants”. While Central intervention was done to enable, “consistency in the application and implementation of various measures across the country”, the actual implementation on the ground level will have to be done at the State level. Furthermore, States are better informed to decide the areas and activities where relaxations should be done as the coronavirus curve is flattened. Hopefully, there will be better coordination between the Union and State governments instead of claiming credit and apportioning blame (see https://bit.ly/3bDauiF). Focus on health and economy The acute shortage of protective gear, testing kits, ventilators and hospital beds has been a major handicap and the immediate task of States is to ramp up their availability and supply. In addition, the disruption caused by the lockdown has caused untold misery, and providing relief and rehabilitation to migrant labourers and informal sector workers had to the focus. The pandemic has underlined the historical neglect of the health-care sector in the country. The total public expenditures of Centre and States works out to a mere 1.3% of GDP. In 2017-18, in per capita terms, the public expenditure on medical and public health varied from an abysmal Rs. 690 in Bihar and Rs. 814 in Uttar Pradesh to the highest of Rs. 2,092 in Kerala. The centrally sponsored scheme, the National Health Mission, is inadequately funded, micromanaged with grants given under more than 2,000 heads and poorly targeted. The focus of “Ayushman Bharat” has been to advocate insurance rather than building wellness centres. Besides protecting lives and livelihoods, States will have to initiate and facilitate economic revival, and that too would require substantial additional spending. Hand holding small and medium enterprises which have completely ceased production, providing relief to farmers who have lost their perishable crops and preparing them for sowing in the kharif season are other tasks that require spending. In fact, States have been proactive. Kerala came out with a comprehensive package allocating Rs. 20,000 crore to fight the pandemic. Almost all States have taken measures to provide food to the needy besides ramping up health-care requirements. Extensive revenue losses While the requirement of States for immediate expenditures is large, they are severely crippled in their resources. In the lockdown period, there has virtually been no economic activity and they have not been able to generate any revenue from State excise duty, stamp duties and registration fees, motor vehicles tax or sales tax on high speed diesel and motor spirit. The revenue from Goods and Services Tax is stagnant and compensation on time for the loss of revenue has not been forthcoming. In Karnataka for example, it is reported that as against the estimated Rs. 12,000 crore every month, the State may not be able to generate even Rs. 300 crore in April. As the recovery process will be staggered, it is doubtful whether tax revenues will register any positive growth in 2020-21. Not surprisingly, the State has decided to monetise land through auctions to get money besides regularising unauthorised constructions by paying high fees. The position regarding tax devolution from the Centre is even more precarious. To begin with, the tax devolution in the Union Budget estimate is lower than the Commission’s estimate by Rs. 70,995 crore. In fact, the Budget estimate for 2020-21 itself is a huge overestimate when seen against the 11-month actual collections in 2019-20. The required growth to achieve the Budget estimate is 33.3% over the annualised actual collection. The projections are that the growth of nominal GDP in 2020-21 will be just about 4% and if the tax revenue increases by the same rate, devolution to the States would be lower by Rs. 2.2-lakh crore than the Finance Commission’s estimate. This results in a loss of Rs. 9,173 crore for Tamil Nadu, Rs. 9,000 crore for Andhra Pradesh, Rs. 8,000 crore for Karnataka, Rs. 4,671 crore for Telangana, and Rs. 4,255 crore for Kerala. There is a strong case for the States to go back to the Finance Commission with a request to make and give a supplementary report. The war on COVID-19 can be effectively won only when the States are armed with enough resources to meet the crisis. But as mentioned earlier, they are faced with stagnant revenues while their expenditure commitments are huge. There is only limited scope for expenditure switching and reprioritisation now. Their borrowing space too is limited by the fiscal responsibility and budget management limit of 3% of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). Faced with an acute fund crunch, Kerala floated 15-year bonds but was faced with a huge upsurge in the yield to 8.96%. The announcement by the Reserve Bank of India on the increase in the limit of ways and means advances by 60% of the levels prescribed in March 31 could help States to plan their borrowing better; but that is too little to provide much relief. Therefore, it is important for the Central government to provide additional borrowing space by 2% of GSDP from the prevailing 3% of GSDP. This is the time to fiscally empower States to wage the COVID-19 war and trust them to spend on protecting lives, livelihoods and initiate an economic recovery. M. Govinda Rao was a Member, Fourteenth Finance Commission and former Director, National Institute of Public Finance and Policy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-key-strategy-is-fiscal-empowerment-of-states/article31401363.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Putting the SAGAR vision to the test||In March 2015, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited three small but significant Indian Ocean island states — Seychelles, Mauritius, and Sri Lanka. During this tour, he unveiled India’s strategic vision for the Indian Ocean: Security and Growth for All in the Region (SAGAR). SAGAR seeks to differentiate India’s leadership from the modus operandi of other regionally active major powers and to reassure littoral states as India’s maritime influence grows. As External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar signalled at the fourth Indian Ocean Conference in September last year, India’s SAGAR vision is intended to be “consultative, democratic and equitable”. India’s recent admission as observer to the Indian Ocean Commission (IOC) will put this vision to the test. IOC, a trusted regional actor Following a request from New Delhi, the IOC granted observer status to India on March 6 at the Commission’s 34th Council of Ministers. Founded in 1982, the IOC is an intergovernmental organisation comprising five small-island states in the Western Indian Ocean: the Comoros, Madagascar, Mauritius, Réunion (a French department), and Seychelles. Though Réunion brings a major power, France, into this small-state equation, decisions in the IOC are consensus-based, and while France’s foreign policy interests are represented, the specifics of Réunion’s regional decision-making emerge from its local governance structures. Over the years, the IOC has emerged as an active and trusted regional actor, working in and for the Western Indian Ocean and implementing a range of projects. More recently, the IOC has demonstrated leadership in the maritime security domain. Since maritime security is a prominent feature of India’s relations with Indian Ocean littoral states, India’s interest in the IOC should be understood in this context. However, India has preferred to engage bilaterally with smaller states in the region. What India will not find in the IOC is a cluster of small states seeking a ‘big brother’ partnership. The IOC has its own regional agenda, and has made impressive headway in the design and implementation of a regional maritime security architecture in the Western Indian Ocean. In 2012, the IOC was one of the four regional organisations to launch the MASE Programme — the European Union-funded programme to promote Maritime Security in Eastern and Southern Africa and Indian Ocean. Under MASE, the IOC has established a mechanism for surveillance and control of the Western Indian Ocean with two regional centres. The Regional Maritime Information Fusion Center (RMIFC), based in Madagascar, is designed to deepen maritime domain awareness by monitoring maritime activities and promoting information sharing and exchange. The Regional Coordination Operations Centre (RCOC), based in Seychelles, will eventually facilitate joint or jointly coordinated interventions at sea based on information gathered through the RMIFC. These centres are a response to the limitations that the states in the region face in policing and patrolling their often enormous Exclusive Economic Zones (EEZs). They deliver an urgently needed deterrent against unabating maritime crime at sea, only partly addressed by the high-level counter-piracy presence of naval forces from the EU, the Combined Maritime Forces, and Independent Forces. Seven states in the region have signed agreements to participate in this multilateral maritime security architecture, and once ratified, will provide its legal foundation. Many major powers have expressed interest in accessing the RMIFC. The IOC has also wielded a disproportionate degree of convening power. In 2018 and 2019, it served as Chair of the Contact Group on Piracy off the Coast of Somalia (CGPCS). Leveraging the CGPCS Chair, the IOC held ministerial meetings in 2018 and 2019 on maritime security in the Western Indian Ocean, drawing state representations from the region plus major powers such as India, the EU, the U.S., the U.K., Australia, and Russia. These meetings, resulting in formal declarations, facilitated convergence around common, sub-region-specific definitions of maritime security threats and the legal way of dealing with them. The IOC’s achievements offer an opportunity for India to learn, and also to support. The IOC style of ‘bottom-up regionalism’ has produced a sub-regional view and definition of maritime security problems and local ownership of pathways towards workable solutions. A 2019 policy brief published by the IOC (with inputs from this author), ‘Strengthening Maritime Security in the Western Indian Ocean’, sets out how the counter-piracy response off the coast of Somalia delivered unprecedented regional and international cooperation in the domain of maritime security. However, it resulted in multiple players, the duplication of actions, and regional dependence on international navies. The IOC has been seeking more sustainable ways of addressing maritime security threats in the region, with the RMIFC and RCOC as part of this response. Its regional maritime security architecture is viewed locally as the most effective and sustainable framework to improve maritime control and surveillance and allow littoral States to shape their own destiny. Moreover, with proper regional coordination, local successes at curbing maritime threats will have broader security dividends for the Indian Ocean space. How can India contribute? The IOC’s maritime security activities have a strong foundation, but they require support and buy-in from additional regional actors. India has already signalled a strong interest in the work of the IOC through its request to be admitted as an observer. The view from Ebène, where the IOC is headquartered, and from where its maritime security strategy is directed, is that major powers are warmly invited to support its initiatives. Nearly all littoral states in the Western Indian Ocean need assistance in developing their maritime domain awareness and in building capacity to patrol their EEZs. All would benefit from national information fusion centres that can link to those of the wider region. With its observer status, India will be called upon to extend its expertise to the region, put its satellite imagery to the service of the RMIFC, and establish links with its own Information Fusion Centre. If India seeks to calibrate its Indian Ocean strategy away from outdated, neoimperialist conceptions of great power and spheres of influence that are costly to regional followership, one route will be to learn from and support sub-regional efforts such as those of the IOC. As a major stakeholder in the Indian Ocean with maritime security high on the agenda, India will continue to pursue its interests and tackle maritime security challenges at the macro level in the region. However, as an observer of the IOC, a specific, parallel opportunity to embrace bottom-up regionalism presents itself. There are those in the Western Indian Ocean who are closely watching how India’s “consultative, democratic and equitable” leadership will take shape. Kate Sullivan de Estrada is Associate Professor in the International Relations of South Asia at the University of Oxford||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/putting-the-sagar-vision-to-the-test/article31401370.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The fragile ceasefire in Syria’s Idlib war||United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres has called for warring parties the world over to cease fire in order to support the bigger battle against COVID-19. One such conflict is in Syria’s Idlib province involving President Bashar al-Assad’s military forces with support from Russia, and where Turkey’s armed intervention and backing of anti-Assad militants, including Islamist terrorists, had been halted even before Mr. Guterres’s appeal by a fragile agreement on March 5 between Russia and Turkey which no observer believes can endure long. In this imbroglio, described by many as the world’s greatest humanitarian tragedy, it is necessary to disentangle the priorities of the several contestants. To first summarise the ground situation, Idlib bordering Turkey is the last stronghold of jihadists funded by Qatar and Saudi Arabia, Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS), a terrorist unit designated by the United Nations, and assorted Syrian anti-government elements evacuated from areas liberated by Damascus. The region was spared a Syrian offensive in 2018 on Turkey’s plea that it could not suffer any further influx of refugees besides hosting some three-and-a-half million already. There are about 200,000 displaced persons on the Syria-Turkey border and 85,000 in refugee camps, in addition to nearly 400,000 people displaced by the Turkish offensive against Syrian Kurds. A Turkey-Russia agreement of 2018 established a demilitarised zone (DMZ) with terrorists, including the HTS, leaving this zone, while so-called moderate rebels had to withdraw heavy weaponry. A chain of Turkish observation posts was established, and militants rejecting the plan were to be legitimately targeted by Mr. Assad’s military. But Syria and Turkey accused each other of violations, with Russia increasingly agitated due to drone attacks against its airbase in Latakia from Idlib-based jihadists. With the rebels making territorial gains, Syria resumed its offensive in April 2019, retaking territory and targeting Saraqib that strides the M5 highway connecting Aleppo with Damascus. The Syrian advances brought Turkey and Syria into direct clashes, with accusations by Damascus and Moscow that the Turks were supplying jihadists with weapons and shielding them by intermingling Turkish forces among them. The Turks denied this, objecting to their observation posts being encircled or bypassed by the Syrian army. Over 5,000 Turkish forces, with artillery and combat drones, have intervened and suffered 50 or more casualties, whereas Mr. Assad’s losses in men and material have been much higher, despite being assisted by Russia controlling the airspace and denying the Turks the use of aircraft other than drones. Moscow has also used direct air power in support of Syria, though this is denied. The conflict seriously strained Turkey’s relations with Russia to their lowest level since the 2015 crisis and the downing of a Russian warplane by Turkey. Tangled up in politics The latest Russo-Turkish agreement reaffirms their ‘dedication to combat and eliminate all terrorist groups in Syria’. Given the fact that the majority of the anti-Assad forces are HTS cadres that have been weaponised by Ankara, implementation appears highly improbable. The agreement provides for safe passage along the M4 and M5 highways linking Aleppo with Latakia and Damascus. The Syrian Army had gained control of M5 and was about to take M4 when the Moscow agreement was concluded. Both highways are important for Syria for commercial and strategic reasons. The new DMZ will bestride the M4 highway with a 12-kilometre strip jointly patrolled by Turkey and Russia. The Moscow agreement is destined to fail because the priorities of the countries concerned cannot be reconciled. Mr. Assad, recognised by the United Nations but not by the West, and openly supported by few of the nations that recognise him, now controls some 70% of his country and wishes to secure the remainder, but his forces remain dependent on Russia in the air and Iran and Hezbollah on the ground. He is in haste because his troops are exhausted by nine years of continuous fighting and he cannot count on Russian, Iranian and Hezbollah support much longer. Iran is in domestic turmoil apart from suffering U.S. sanctions and COVID-19, while the Hezbollah is deeply involved in Lebanon’s complex domestic politics. Turkey under President Erdoğan, nominally a member of the western alliance against Russia, wishes to play a lead role in the Arab world, and has deliberately extended its reach in Syria and Libya to have a say in the futures of those nations. Upset with NATO for lack of support both during the failed coup of 2016 and his campaign against Syrian Kurds whom he regards as anti-Turkish terrorists, Mr. Erdoğan has leveraged the refugee problem to extract €4.5 billion from the European Union and uses the refugees continuously as a bargaining counter. He also needs manageable ties with both Russia and the U.S. to play each off against the other. The confrontation with Moscow four years ago led to severe economic difficulties for Turkey after Russian curbs on trade and tourism, which Mr. Erdoğan would not wish to have repeated. Both countries also have a vested interest in the TurkStream pipeline conveying Russian gas to southern Europe. Criticism of Mr. Erdoğan has lately emerged domestically but his position is solid provided he retains his army’s support by avoiding more casualties in Idlib. Russia’s call Russia is now the country of first resort in Syria and its influence in the entire West Asian region has expanded remarkably in recent years. In principle it backs Mr. Assad exercising sway over the whole of Syria and has saved him from being toppled, but it now wishes to bring the Syrian conflict to an end with a negotiated settlement, avoid losses and more expenditure, while consolidating its naval and air bases in that country. The Americans are content to be bystanders in the belief that they will be the gainers whatever the Idlib outcome. The Europeans have neither the will nor the means to affect developments, and the United Nations is continuing the thus-far futile enterprise of persuading the Syrian multi-party talks in Geneva to arrive at a new constitution to be followed by free elections. Krishnan Srinivasan is a former Foreign Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-fragile-ceasefire-in-syrias-idlib-war/article31401365.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||A change in migrant policy||Seasonal migration is one of the most critical issues of our time. The condition of seasonal migrants has emerged as no less an important issue than the novel coronavirus itself. The COVID-19 crisis has, for the first time, brought migration to the centre stage of public health and disaster response in India. Why migrants occupy centre stage In the past, a mass exodus would take place because of a disaster such as a famine, drought, flood, or regional conflict. An exodus would be from the area where such a calamity was unfolding. While we continue to see episodes of such exodus, now there are new narratives of mass exodus caused by demonetisation, violence against migrants, and the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19. What is common in these narratives is the decisive role played by the state or the lack of it. It is in the context of state action that migrants have drawn sharp attention in debates over public health and political economy for at least five reasons. First, the numbers involved are very high. Let’s take the example of Bihar which has a population of about 123 million. The number of migrants in Bihar is estimated to be close to 10 million, of which three million may be inter-State migrants. An estimate based on NSSO 64th Round and Census 2011 data and a look at monthly per capita expenditure data suggest that there are approximately 2 million daily wage workers. The months of February and March are a lean season for rural-to-rural migration, yet the current figure of inter-State seasonal migrants stands at about 1.4 million. Further, if we take the example of the National Capital Region, where, as the data suggest, 20% of Bihari migrants are working, we are referring to 0.28 to 0.3 million seasonal migrants. Even if half of them try to return home during a crisis, facilitating their journey can be a logistical improbability. Second, India’s economy, particularly of the growth centres, depends on the services of migrant workers. Sectors such as construction, garment manufacturing, mining, and agriculture would come to a standstill without them. One of the biggest challenges after the lockdown is lifted will be to bring back the migrants to kickstart these sectors. Third, the return of migrants brings to the source States an economic shock as there are no compensatory sources of livelihood. The poor States may find it difficult to sustain themselves without the remittances. This will not only cause demand side setbacks but also impact nutrition, health, education and the well-being of the older population. Fourth, in the case of epidemics, the exodus of seasonal migrants creates apprehensions about the spread of the disease and runs counterproductive to the very purpose of a lockdown. Working from home or getting paid leave is largely a middle-class luxury. Daily-wage earners do not have the capacity to stay at a destination without work. Their families back home depend on their daily savings. A considerable number of workers live within the manufacturing units or at work sites. Any lockdown results in loss of their accommodation too. Fifth, the pathetic working and living conditions of migrants defy the very idea of decent work and general security. Slums and slum-like colonies are breeding grounds of ailments and communicable diseases. People living in these areas simply cannot practise social distancing. Lack of sanitation, hygiene, safe drinking water, health services, social security measures, and affordable housing have resulted in a low quality of life. Delivering relief packages Some amelioration may be in sight with the Rs. 1.70 lakh crore relief package announced by the Central government. However, despite the government’s good intentions, the package will not benefit seasonal migrants. Those migrants who are unable to return home and are not ration cardholders in the cities where they are stationed will not benefit from additional free foodgrains under the PDS. They cannot avail of increased MGNREGA wages until they go back home. As many seasonal migrants are landless or marginal farmers, they will not benefit from the grant to landholders. Neither will they get benefits under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board because of low registration. Thus, this workforce will remain largely deprived of the benefits under the present package at their destination places. The State needs to think out of the box in delivering relief packages. Disasters provide opportunities to correct structural wrongs. The state could work out a strategy of addressing immediate distress conditions and simultaneously initiating long-term measures to bring structural changes in the policy towards migrants and the informal sector. Dipak Kumar Singh is an IAS officer (Bihar cadre); Pushpendra is Professor and Chairperson, Patna Centre of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-change-in-migrant-policy/article31401373.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Ill-equipped to deal with a crisis||In the U.S., despite egregious failures and missteps, science and informatics have been able to guide COVID-19 policy to some degree. It is time to think about the underpowered investments in science in India and about the stark social inequities that COVID-19 will lay bare, shorn of the protections afforded by science and data-driven policies, and effective decentralised governance. Investments in science India has invested very little in the type of science that is needed to meet contemporary environmental challenges. COVID-19 may be its most severe environmental challenge so far, but India faces devastating challenges such as assaults on biodiversity, floods and unmitigated pollution every year. Every disaster underlines national vulnerabilities, accentuated by inadequate science and research infrastructures. Amidst the worst pandemic of modern times, India’s medical research institutions and epidemiologists have a prominent role to play. In the daily White House press briefings, the two most prominent figures are noted epidemiologists Dr. Deborah Birx and Dr. Anthony Fauci. Every day they provide new data to direct policy. India is a global superpower in information technology, yet it has few scientists or institutes systematically deploying ‘big data’ and informatics to understand large-scale environmental challenges, including infectious diseases. India is a hotspot for emerging diseases — but to respond adequately, it urgently needs an expanded group of world-class specialists in this area. The successful mitigation of COVID-19 in India will require rigorous testing, monitoring, and modelling to inform policy and action. In a country where access to data is limited, we will need good data on demographic changes, on how disasters push people into poverty, and the local interventions that pull people out of poverty and build resilience to these cyclic events. Complex socio-environmental problems can only be addressed by integrating natural and social sciences to generate multidimensional knowledge. Only such knowledge can guide adequate policy responses and action to confront a crisis. In India, very few research centres are capable of doing such work. Building for the future But there are some hopeful signs. The Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India, one of India’s most accomplished scientists, is playing a critical role in policy responses. Directed by the Principal Scientific Adviser’s Office, and with the Prime Minister’s support, there are nine large national science missions in various stages of implementation. These include a mission in quantum computing and another in biodiversity and human well-being, with an important component on emergent infectious diseases. India needs substantial investments in a science directed towards the well-being of all social sectors; a science for realising the UN SDGs; a science to build resilience against environmental disasters; and a science for healing humanity’s relationship with Nature to ward off biodiversity loss and mitigate climate change — the “epidemic” that has been around us for some time. A recent editorial in this newspaper rightly pointed out that by saving biodiversity alone can we ensure a sustainable future for ourselves. Yet there are also reports about policy decisions to kill nature — for instance, the Karnataka government’s decision to continue with the proposal for the Hubballi-Ankola railway line through the last remaining forests of the Western Ghats. The scientific and environmental considerations underlying these decisions remain unclear. India aspires to be a $5 trillion economy. Such aspirations must envision a society that cherishes science and knowledge, enshrines equity, justice and decentralised governance, and respects our natural heritage. We must ensure healthcare as an individual basic right — and Earth-care as a collective right. Kamal Bawa is Distinguished Professor of Biology at the University of Massachusetts at Boston, and President of the Bengaluru-based ATREE. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ill-equipped-to-deal-with-a-crisis/article31401367.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Non-essentials can wait||The Centre’s last-minute reversal of its decision to allow e-commerce companies to resume deliveries of ‘non-essential items’, as part of an easing of the lockdown curbs, is welcome given that India is still not out of the woods in its pandemic fight. On Sunday, the Home Ministry directed States to ensure that the movement of vehicles used by e-commerce operators for transporting non-essentials be ‘excluded’ from the list of additional activities that would be allowed from April 20 to mitigate public hardship. While the Ministry gave no reason for its U-turn, it would appear wiser counsel prevailed after some Opposition parties and the retail trade had raised the issue of a lack of level-playing field for brick and mortar retailers. Also, though it is true that the online purchase of a product and its doorstep delivery by an e-commerce firm minimises human interaction to a negligible level unlike a purchase in a store, the fact that the lockdown is aimed at restricting movement to the barest minimum in order to break the chain of transmission necessitates limiting exemptions. And with non-essential items ranging from apparel to books to electronics and home appliances constituting the bulk of the listings on e-commerce sites, every additional product category would involve that many more people getting activated along the supply chain — from a producer or supplier to the transport operators and additional delivery persons. To be sure, given the immense economic costs associated with the shutdown especially to individual livelihoods, it would seem a reasonable argument that as many sectors and jobs that can be allowed to reopen with stringent safeguards mandated ought to be permitted to do so in a phased manner. Clearly, that was the underlying rationale behind the Centre’s April 15 missive. Among the sectors that can resume are agricultural and horticultural activities, banking, cargo transportation, construction, and manufacturing of specified goods including packaging material. Interestingly, while self-employed tradesmen such as electricians, plumbers and carpenters have been allowed to resume work, they would be unable to ply their trades if their customers are unable to furnish the relevant material at the work site because the shops and e-commerce firms selling these ‘non-essential’ goods are yet to resume operations. Lost here though is the very definition of what ought to be deemed essential. Is a packet of ‘essential’ cheese slices more vital than a ‘non-essential’ laptop for a person working from home or attending online classes? Also, as the lockdown extends to over a month, what might have been non-essential initially might turn essential later. Still, protecting lives must ultimately be prioritised over allowing commercial activity even when the line between ‘essential’ and ‘non-essential’ purchases remains a blur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/non-essentials-can-wait/article31401358.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Futures shock||Five decades after the oil shock of 1973, when an Arab embargo on the supply of oil to some western powers including the United States sent the price of crude skyrocketing fourfold to $12 a barrel, the global economy faces a fresh shock from a free-fall in oil prices. On Monday, May futures for the West Texas Intermediate (WTI) U.S. crude plunged below zero to touch a historic low of -$40.32 a barrel. A negative price implies that a seller would have to pay the buyer to hold the oil to be supplied. While the unprecedented plunge in the particular futures contract could be partly explained away as a technical anomaly given that the May contract was set to expire on Tuesday, beyond which buyers would need to be ready to take physical delivery,the reality is that oil prices are desperately in search of a bottom. A perfect storm of a supply glut exacerbated in March by a price war that saw key producers Saudi Arabia and Russia ramp up output even as demand continued to contract on account of the COVID-19 outbreak sent prices into a steeper slide. Brent crude futures have tumbled more than 67% in 2020 to about $21 a barrel as of Tuesday afternoon in London trading, while the WTI futures have plunged about 110% to -$5.78. The International Energy Agency observed this month, that the confinement measures instituted worldwide have resulted in a dramatic decline in transportation activity which will erase at least a decade of demand growth. With storage for crude — on land or offshore in supertankers — nearing capacity or becoming prohibitively expensive, oil producers are going to have little option but to curtail output. Saudi Arabia is reported to be considering output cuts even before a 9.7 million barrels per day deal it had struck with Russia to cut production takes effect from May. Still, merely closing the tap a notch or two is not going to redress the oversupply in the market at a time when the ‘Great Lockdown’ has destroyed demand on an unprecedented scale. India has prudently been using the sharp fall in both crude prices and domestic demand to accelerate the build-up of its strategic reserve. While the sliding oil prices would help significantly pare India’s energy import bill, a protracted demand drought would end up hurting the government’s tax revenues severely, especially at a time when it badly needs every additional rupee it can garner. Also, rock-bottom oil prices risk damaging the economies of producer countries including those in West Asia, hurting inward remittances. After the lockdown, the Centre ought to consider using this opportunity to cut retail fuel prices sharply by foregoing some excise revenue for a while in order to tease back momentum into the wider economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/futures-shock/article31401359.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Use of Lithium in Mental Illness||The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has licensed the much-discussed drug, lithium carbonate, for treatment of an important form of mental illness. Some experts consider the drug to be the most effective treatment for the manic phase of manic-depressive psychosis. Lithium is widely used for that purpose elsewhere in the world, but has not previously been licensed in the United States because of concern over its potential dangers. The action by the drug agency indicates that its officers have decided the drug is too useful to be barred any longer, despite the fact that it must be used with caution. It has been under study in the U.S. for at least five years. It has been in use much longer than that elsewhere in the world. The study of lithium that is generally considered to be the definitive one on the subject was completed in 1954 by Dr. Mogens Schou of Denmark. It was first reported useful against mental illness in 1949 by Dr. J. F. J. Cade of Australia. Manic depressive illness is considered one of the two most common forms of serious mental illness in the U.S. The other is schizophrenia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/use-of-lithium-in-mental-illness/article31401366.ece
22 April 2020||MUMBAI,||ICC meeting to discuss WTC deferment||Top executives of all the full members of the International Cricket Council (ICC) will discuss possible resumption of international cricket and rescheduling two new ICC tournaments — the World Test Championship and the ODI Super League — during a conference call of the Chief Executives’ Committee (CEC) on Thursday. The CEC has been convened with cricket coming to a standstill due to the COVID-19 outbreak all over the globe. The pandemic has thrown WTC out of gear while the start of the Super League — scheduled in June with a series between Sri Lanka and South Africa — has been postponed.  The Hindu understands that the CEC may propose to postpone the WTC by a year, which would mean the final could be moved from June 2021 to June 2022. “All the cancelled series can thus be slotted in the window and the Boards can get additional time to rejig the bilateral calendar,” said an insider. The BCCI, meanwhile, is likely to propose India touring as many full-member countries as possible for a series in the near future — without compromising on its commitments at home — once the situation eases. Revenue dynamics “It’s public knowledge that all the other countries’ revenue through broadcast deals depend on hosting India, so it will be our endeavour to try and help other boards as much as possible,” said a BCCI insider. “If the T20 World Cup in Australia (scheduled for October-November) can be postponed, it could give additional window for member boards to utilise it for their domestic leagues or bilateral commitments.” In fact, BCCI is already considering touring South Africa for a limited-overs tour in August-September to resume India’s international calendar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/icc-meeting-to-discuss-wtc-deferment/article31401510.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The two Vijays who finished as the nearly men of Indian cricket||A boy growing up in Bengaluru was spoilt for choice when it came to making that most important of decisions — whom to pick as the hero to follow, to engage with, and to get upset over (on their behalf) if things went wrong. There were the two spin greats, Erapalli Prasanna and Bhagwat Chandrasekhar, batting giants Gundappa Viswanath and Brijesh Patel, the wicketkeeper Budhi Kunderan and his successor Syed Kirmani. Below international level too there were those who provided endless joy and were subjects of debates in school, players you hoped would make the grade soon as much by their own performances as by the strength of your prayers. Fandom was different those days. There was room for the ignored-though-talented. If a player failed, no one took it as a personal insult, although the reverse was entertained — a century or a five-wicket haul meant basking in reflected glory.  This is the story of two Vijays who were contemporaries, both all-rounders. Vijayakrishna was a bowler who could bat, Vijaykumar a batsman who could bowl. They played key roles in Karnataka’s first Ranji win. Vijaykumar made 66 and claimed four for nine in the final against Rajasthan while Vijayakrishna’s 71 was the top score. My notebooks might have been full of the heroic deeds of the Test stars, but they also had pages devoted to others. Vijayakrishna, born in the same year as Viswanath, was one of the most talented players not to have represented the country. As a left arm spinner, he came up against Bishan Bedi, as a batsman down the order against Eknath Solkar, and later Karsan Ghavri. ‘Difficult’ player Yet, as a player and a character, Vijayakrishna will always have a special place in Karnataka cricket. He was a rebel. Quite early he picked up a reputation for being “difficult”, and owed his entry into first class cricket to that finest of men and captains, V. Subramanyam who told the selectors he would “handle” him; Vijayakrishna was too gifted a player to be lost because he didn’t say “good morning” to a passing official. Those were key words then. “Difficult” and “handle”. Players were expected to bow and scrape to officialdom; captains needed guts and charisma to overrule silly decisions. We were too young to realise all this, although later we thrilled at the rumour that occasionally a player would ask the 12th man to bring out a smoke at the drinks interval, or check which horse had won a crucial race. Vijayakrishna could bowl both left arm wrist spin with a potent googly as well as orthodox finger spin which he focused on as his career progressed. He was a terrific striker of the ball, once winning the trophy for the fastest century in the Ranji Trophy. He was also a brilliant fielder at short leg who assisted Prasanna and Chandra as a catcher. The presence of these two meant that Vijayakrishna’s opportunities were limited since they ran through most sides quite comfortably on their own. Vijayakrishna stood out too for speaking his mind. Asked about his reaction to Sunil Gavaskar batting left-handed against Karnataka in a Ranji semifinal, Vijayakrishna told a historian of Karnataka cricket, “I thought it was pathetic. I wanted to react to his left-handed batting by bowling under-arm. But Vishy (Viswanath) stopped me and said it was not worth it.” Players were unhappy at Gavaskar’s gesture in a match where Karnataka’s other left arm spinner Raghuram Bhat claimed 13 wickets including a hat-trick. They thought it lacked grace — although Gavaskar later justified it — but kept silent. Vijayakrishna finished with 195 wickets from 80 first-class matches, scored two centuries and — the statistic he was happiest about — held 76 catches. Less complicated The other Vijay, V.S. Vijaykumar was less complicated, both as a person and an opening batsman. At a time when the cry was for an opener to partner Gavaskar in the Indian team, Vijaykumar might have earned a call. He was a fine striker of the ball, driving upright and pulling medium pacers with abandon. He once made identical scores of 94 in a Ranji quarterfinal against Rajasthan, but that wasn’t thought good enough. Not that it upset Vijaykumar too much. He was a cheerful, glass half-full kind of person. He opened the bowling for Karnataka too, and for years was the fulcrum around which the State Bank of Mysore team revolved, forming with M.S. Rajappa its most potent opening attack in the local league. When he opened the bowling for South Zone in the Duleep Trophy, teammate Tiger Pataudi often took on the task of handing his Panama cap to the umpire as he walked back to his run-up. It was a gesture that impressed us schoolboys. That an India captain should do this taught us what it meant to be part of a team. It was a useful lesson early in life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-two-vijays-who-finished-as-the-nearly-men-of-indian-cricket/article31401505.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||Gavaskar moots a T20 WC swap||Sunil Gavaskar says India can swap the T20 World Cup with Australia and host it this year instead of the scheduled 2021 edition, provided the COVID-19 curve flattens in the country. The 2020 T20 World Cup is scheduled in Australia from October 18-November 15, while India is supposed to host the next edition in 2021. “As we all know, Australia has barred foreigners from entering the country till September 30. The tournament starts mid-October so it is looking difficult at the moment,” Gavaskar told India Today . “Next year the T20 World Cup is in India. If India and Australia come to an agreement and the COVID-19 curve in India flattens out, they can swap. It can be held in India this October-November and next year in Australia around the same time.” “If it (T20 WC swap) happens that way, IPL is just held prior to T20 World Cup so there is enough practice for the players. Then you can have T20 World Cup in November and Asia Cup in December in UAE. December is a much better time to host a tournament in the UAE,” said the 70-year-old.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gavaskar-moots-a-t20-wc-swap/article31401508.ece
22 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Nadal makes debut in Instagram Live show||It’s that time of the year when Rafael Nadal is usually seen sinking his teeth into the European clay season and devouring every opponent en route to the customary French Open title. Instead, on Monday, the Spaniard was making his debut in an Instagram Live show and looking anything but a natural, struggled to get Roger Federer and Andy Murray who were waiting in the chat room into the mix. Murray takes a dig Murray took a playful dig by writing: “this is brilliant… He can win 52 French Opens, but not work Instagram!” When Federer finally joined Nadal, he seemed more relieved and joyous than he would have after cracking the Nadal code on clay. “Are we in? Did we make it? My god,” he said. Over the next few minutes, the two engaged in the kind of banter fans would have had only glimpses of during exhibition matches and the Laver Cup. Thrilled The Swiss was thrilled to know that Nadal hadn’t picked up the racquet since Indian Wells in early March. “Perfect, you won’t be able to play tennis anymore when you come back,” he said with a laugh. He then asked Nadal, “if you are a righty, then why you play lefty?” cheekily hinting at a conspiracy to deny him more titles. When Nadal said it was merely “a legend,” Federer appeared pleased. “Then I cannot be angry, it’s natural, that’s fine.” In some encouraging news, Federer said his surgically repaired knee was doing well. “I had a really good first six weeks, then things got a bit slower, now it’s good again. But I have plenty of time. “After the second surgery... I don’t know how many you [Nadal] have had... it is easier the second time around. I don’t need to experience a third one, that’s for sure!”  This is brilliant… He can win 52 French Opens, but not work Instagram! Andy Murray,on Nadal’s predicament||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nadal-makes-debut-in-instagram-live-show/article31401516.ece
22 April 2020||SYDNEY,||CA mulling five-match Test series against India||Cricket Australia is considering turning its four-match Test series against India later this year into a five-game contest as it continues looking for ways to compensate the financial losses caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. India’s tour of Australia will begin with a T20 tri-series in October and is scheduled to end with a four-match Test series in December. In between there is the T20 World Cup, scheduled for an October 18 start, but the mega event’s future is also shrouded in uncertainty. “If you contemplate the prospect of the international season in particular being affected, we have an issue of hundreds of millions of dollars on our hands,” Cricket Australia CEO Kevin Roberts was quoted as saying by the Australian Associated Press on Tuesday. “So it’s very important that...we do everything possible to stage the season. Whether or not there’s people at the venue or not...we will explore all viable options.” he added. Adding a fifth Test match in the series, which could be played in one city at a stadium without spectators, is one of the options discussed by the the financially-struggling CA “Fortunately we have a little bit of time to work through the different scenarios with the India series,” Roberts said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ca-mulling-five-match-test-series-against-india/article31401506.ece
22 April 2020||Chennai,||Use of saliva in cricket may be banned||The coronavirus pandemic has all but ensured that cricket will do away with one of its oldest practices — the use of saliva to polish the ball. In the age of sanitisers and hand washes for saving oneself from COVID-19, the use of saliva on the ball carries dangers on multiple fronts. It is learnt that the ICC and the various Boards are strongly contemplating banning the administration of saliva on the ball. All that the fielders and the bowlers might be allowed to do would be to polish the ball on their trousers. The banning of saliva will adversely impact reverse swing where one side of the sphere has to be kept shiny, and the other rough. And teams will be apprehensive of ‘working’ on the ball as they normally do. The bowlers will find their job more challenging. Coronavirus could change the way we look at and play cricket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/use-of-saliva-in-cricket-may-be-banned/article31401511.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||Carlsen tames Firouzja||Magnus Carlsen pulled off a 2.5-1.5 victory over 16-year-old sensation Alireza Firouzja in one of the most awaited clashes of the Magnus Carlsen Invitational online chess tournament on Monday. This second-round clash was followed with added interest since Firouzja stunned Carlsen 8.5-7.5 in the title-clash of the Banter Blitz Cup on April 16. In the other match of the day, Hikaru Nakamura defeated Anish Giri by an identical scoreline.   The results (second round): Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Alireza Firouzja (FIDE) 2.5-1.5; Hikaru Nakamura (USA) bt Anish Giri (Ned) 2.5-1.5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-tames-firouzja/article31401519.ece
22 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Teen golfer Arjun now sells his torn shoes, raises Rs 3.3 lakh for fight against COVID-19||Young golfer Arjun Bhati, who had earlier donated Rs. 4.30 lakh by selling all his trophies, has now raised Rs. 3.3 lakh by selling his torn shoes which he wore during his triumphant campaign at the 2018 junior World Championships. The 15-year-old has donated the money to PM-CARES Fund.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/teen-golfer-arjun-now-sells-his-torn-shoes-raises-rs-33-lakh-for-fight-against-covid-19/article31401513.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||Doordarshan to review programme selection process||The massive popularity of television serials Ramayan and Mahabharat on Doordarshan has prompted the national broadcaster to review the way it picks its entertainment programmes so that people constantly prefer it over private channels, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar has said. The Union Minister said the current process, referred to as L1 in programme selection, under which work is allotted to the lowest bidder, had “destroyed quality”. The consequent “low quality content” took Doordarshan down before it saw a revival of sorts with the reruns Ramayan and Mahabharat . The public broadcaster decided to re-telecast Ramayan on DD National and Mahabharat on DD Bharati during the nationwide lockdown, and both serials have been the most watched programmes. They were extremely popular when they were first telecast over three decades ago as well. Mr. Javadekar said the L1 method of serial selection was “unfortunately” introduced from the 1990s onwards. “We want to review this fully. The best serials should be on the national broadcaster. “This is our target.... We have decided that we must bring in good [programmes], allow the system to bring good serials and programmes so that people prefer public broadcasters over others,” Mr. Javadekar told PTI. “L1 has destroyed... and low quality of our content was the problem which took DD down,” he added. He noted that other old serials being re-telecast by Doordarshan have also drawn a good response. ‘Number one’ “DD National has been the number one entertainment channel for nearly a month now,” he said. The public broadcaster commissioned projects from producers, and though that would entail big budgets at times, it also brought Doordarshan a huge viewership before private channels left it far behind. To a question on the coronavirus crisis hitting the media hard, and demands to the government made by groups representing the industry, the Minister acknowledged that the sector was facing problems and expressed confidence that it would soon come out of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/doordarshan-to-review-programme-selection-process/article31401503.ece
22 April 2020||CHENNAI,||IIT-Madras alumnus appointed to U.S.’s National Science Board||Sudarsan Babu, a 1988 graduate of the Indian Institute of Technology Madras. was appointed to the United States of America’s National Science Board on Monday. He is the third alumnus from the institute to currently occupy the Board. The members are appointed for a period of six years.  The other two alumni are Sethuraman Panchanathan and Suresh V. Garimella. Mr. Sethuraman is tipped to become the director of another prestigious institution, the National Science Foundation. One of his predecessors is Subra Suresh, another alumnus of the Institute who is currently the president of Nanyang Technological University. Mr. Babu completed B.Tech from PSG College of Technology and graduated with M.Tech in Metallurgical and Materials Engineering at the IIT Madras in 1988. Mr. Sethuraman completed M.Tech in Electrical Engineering in 1986. Mr. Garimella graduated in 1985 in B. Tech Mechanical Engineering. Institute director Bhaskar Ramamurthi said, “Our alumni have done us proud in India and abroad, and have been a great pillar of support to their alma mater.” Research culture Mahesh Panchagnula, Dean of International and Alumni Relations, IIT-M, said: “Having three alumni on the Board is a first for the institution. It speaks of the academic research culture that we had established even a long time ago and continue to foster. “This is a direct validation of the institution’s ecosystem as a whole, as a research institution going back to the early eighties. All of these people we talk about today were students here in the mid-80s. “The ecosystem has created these superstars and we have continued to grow from strength to strength. That is in essence why we talk about these achievements.” He added that the alumni were “deeply involved in advising the institute on its activities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/iit-madras-alumnus-appointed-to-uss-national-science-board/article31401517.ece
22 April 2020||April 22 2020 07:58 IST,||Sudoku - April 22, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-22-2020/article31402187.ece
22 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||‘Announce special package or release funds to pay salaries’||The various industry associations in Gurugram on Tuesday demanded the State and Central governments to announce a special economic package or disburse the funds from the Provident Fund Organisation, Labour Welfare Fund or the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation to pay wages to the workers for April. It also said the industrial sector was financially stressed. The office-bearers of 14 industrial associations on Tuesday called on Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri in this regard and submitted a memorandum.  Wait till May 3 now The associations also expressed their resentment over the penal provisions such as registration of a First Information Report in case of violation of the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) laid down for resumption of the industrial activity post-April 20, and said that a majority of the industries were discouraged by this and now preferred to wait till the end of the second phase of the lockdown on May 3. Gurgaon Industrial Association president J.N. Mangla, leading the delegation of around a dozen representatives from the MSMEs, said the payment of wages to the workers amid lockdown remained the biggest challenge for them. He added that the industry was already financially stressed for almost a year now and the lockdown due to COVID-19 outbreak had hit it further. Mr. Mangla said the industry had paid full payment to the workers for March but the payment for the ongoing month remains a challenge. He said the contributions to various funds were made by the employers and the employees and must be utilised by the government in these difficult times to pay salaries to the workers. NCR Chamber of Commerce and Industry president H.P. Yadav, also part of the delegation, said the penal provisions such as registration of cases and the sealing of premises in case of violation of SOPs were discouraging for the industry to resume their operations. He said initially the industrialists were upbeat about resuming the operations but were discouraged due to the stringent provisions and most of them now preferred to wait till May 3. He said conditions such as maintaining social distancing during the operations and on transportation of the employees were not practical. “It would take almost three times the usual number of buses to transport the employees as per the SOPs. Also, it is not possible to maintain the stipulated distance of one metre during the work hours for many industries. Besides, no company can arrange for the workers to stay inside its premises maintaining the social distancing norms,” said Mr. Yadav. He added that the remaining migrant labours would also return to their hometowns after the lockdown if the industry did not resume operations now. Mr. Yadav rued the lack of support for the MSMEs from the Union government unlike in countries such as the U.S., the U.K., Spain and Italy. He also demanded to waive Goods and Services Tax, Income Tax and loan on interest. Mr. Yadav said they had written to the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister in this regard several times, but there was no reply. Mr. Mangla said the industry could not run in isolation without the support of repair and spare parts shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/announce-special-package-or-release-funds-to-pay-salaries/article31401661.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||In times of lockdown, a case for media access to courts||The unprecedented suspension of the functioning of the Delhi High Court and its subordinate courts in the Capital due to COVID-19 pandemic has presented it with the challenge of holding open court hearings. Urgent cases are being heard through videoconferencing and daily orders are uploaded on official websites, but only those litigants/advocates appearing before the court know what transpired during the hearing. While the Supreme Court has made special arrangement for a separate room on its premises where a limited number of journalists can watch the daily proceedings while maintaining social distancing, the same is not the case with the Delhi HC or its subordinate courts. Gyanant Singh, Delhi-based advocate and columnist, said: “Reasonable restrictions are justified in the present circumstances but extraordinary challenges need to be met with extraordinary measures. Merely uploading orders are not enough, people have a right to get an impartial account of what transpires during proceedings”. “The court should ensure that regulation in this regard does not amount to imposing a restriction. It should use technology to strike a balance and ensure that freedom of the press and the peoples’ right to know continue,” said Mr. Singh, who previously worked as a legal journalist for over 15 years. Making a case for media access to court proceedings during the lockdown, M.K. Venu, Founding Editor of The Wire , said: “Capturing crowded courtroom drama is an inherent part of court reporting, especially in big political or criminal cases of public interest.” Citing the example of the Indira Gandhi assassination trial, Mr. Venu said: “I wonder how that case could have been reported in circumstances that exist today... It does impinge on a journalists’ right to take every aspect of court proceedings to the people.” In March 1966, a nine-judge Constitutional Bench of the Supreme Court had emphasised about the efficacy of open trials for upholding the legitimacy and effectiveness of the courts and for enhancement of public confidence and support. “All cases brought before the courts must be heard in open court. Public trial in an open court is essential for healthy, objective and fair administration of justice,” the top court had said. Over half-a-century later, in September 2018, the Supreme Court made a landmark verdict allowing live streaming of its proceedings in cases of constitutional and national importance. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who was part of the three-judge Bench, in a separate but concurring judgment, had said: “Live streaming of proceedings is crucial to dissemination of knowledge about judicial proceedings and granting full access to justice to the litigant”. “Access to justice can never be complete without the litigant being able to see, hear and understand the course of proceedings first hand. Apart from this, live streaming is an important facet of a responsive judiciary which accepts and acknowledges that it is accountable to the concerns of those who seek justice,” Justice Chandrachud said. “By embracing technology, we promote a greater degree of confidence in the judicial process. The Chief Justices of the High Courts should consider adoption of live-streaming both in the High Courts and in the district judiciaries,” Justice Chandrachud added. While the verdict remains unimplemented, the COVID-19 lockdown nudged the top court to hear urgent matters through videoconferencing from March 27. The hearings took place with judges and lawyers sitting at their respective homes. The feeds from the videoconference is made available only to a limited audience, including journalists, on the Supreme Court premises. Before replicating the same system at the High Court, Mr. Singh cautioned, “We need to work out modalities given the fact that people may not yet be mature enough to understand the intricacies of law and legal proceedings and even observations could unnecessarily provoke violence in society in some sensitive cases. To begin with, the HC should facilitate live-streaming for the media. The Supreme Court is already doing it”. Krishna Prasad, former Editor of Outlook , said: “It would be useful for the legal reporting fraternity to open a line of communication with the Delhi High Court and subordinates courts, to impress upon them the need for reporters to be given ‘live’ access, like in the Supreme Court,” Mr. Prasad added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/in-times-of-lockdown-a-case-for-media-access-to-courts/article31401654.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Ensure food for stranded workers’||The Delhi High Court has directed the city government to continue taking necessary steps to ensure there is no dearth of food, potable water, power and sanitation in shelters where the inhabitants of Yamuna Pushta have now been relocated or the labour camps at Sarai Kale Khan, throughout the lockdown period.  Over 4,000 inhabitants During the hearing, done through videoconferencing, Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, appearing for the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), submitted that there were 4,229 inhabitants living at Yamuna Pushta. Between April 14 and April 16, 3,600 have been shifted to different schools in east, west and north-west Delhi; 600 have been shifted to the Yamuna Sports Complex and 358 have been shifted to shelter homes being run by the DUSIB.  He stated that none of the daily wage workers are now stranded or living in the open at Yamuna Pushta. On the issue of construction workers working at Pragati Maidan and living at a labour camp at Sarai Kale Khan, the counsel appearing for Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Private Limited, submitted that the workers are not directly employed by the company. The counsel submitted that the labour camp was running smoothly, and provision has been made for power supply, fans, lights and toilets. The counsel also stated that the company is regularly releasing payments to all the sub-contractors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ensure-food-for-stranded-workers/article31401648.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Schools justified in charging tuition fee as they are holding online classes’||The Delhi High Court has remarked that private school charging tuition fees is justified in view of the fact that almost all the institutions are conducting online classes and the teachers are discharging their functions during the lockdown. Justice Prathiba M. Singh, who conducted the hearing on a plea through videoconferencing, also took note of the Delhi government’s order which barred charging of any fees except tuition fees. The High Court also noted that even those students who are unable to pay the fee due to financial crisis are being provided course-work and other materials. “Such students are also permitted to avail online classes and courses. It is further clear that schools cannot deny access of online classes and other educational facilities due to non-payment of fees. Schools are also not permitted to charge any new head of fees,” the Bench noted after perusing the Department of Education’s April 17’s circular. The court also disposed of a petition which sought a direction to give relaxation or suspend fees of private schools of any nature in terms of transportation or other charges except tuition fees for the month of April, May and June 2020 on account of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/schools-justified-in-charging-tuition-fee-as-they-are-holding-online-classes/article31401649.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||Many students don’t have Net access, DU teachers tell V-C||Teachers on Tuesday criticised the Delhi University’s decision to send online forms for exams and details of courses to students. “While we all are going through the challenging times of COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown, the university administration is popping up surprises through hastily designed formats and forms,” Academics for Action and Development (AAD), including Academic and Executive Council members, wrote to the Vice-Chancellor. The university on Monday had issued a notice requesting students to fill in the forms by May 15. The AAD argued that the move did not take into account issues faced by students in the remote parts of the country who did not have proper internet access. “We have been told that students are facing problems in filling up online examination form. The students are facing difficulty in accessing the portal, submitting and making corrections...,”the AAD said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/many-students-dont-have-net-access-du-teachers-tell-v-c/article31401659.ece
22 April 2020||New Delhi,||States, UTs told to take steps to mitigate risks in waste disposal||In the first matter heard through videoconferencing at the National Green Tribunal on Tuesday, the green panel directed all States and Union Territories to take adequate steps to mitigate risks in terms of unscientific disposal of bio-medical waste in view of the COVID-19pandemic. An NGT Bench said only 1.1 lakh of the 2.7 lakh healthcare facilities identified across the country were authorised under the bio-medical waste management rules. “We have also observed that out of 2.7 lakh HCFs identified, only 1.1 lakh are authorised under the BMW Management Rules, 2016 so far. The State Pollution Control Boards and pollution control committees have to make efforts to bridge this gap to mitigate risk in terms of unscientific disposal of bio-medical waste...,”the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/states-uts-told-to-take-steps-to-mitigate-risks-in-waste-disposal/article31401650.ece
22 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNU students write to HRD Minister on online classes||The Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union (JNUSU) has expressed its concern over the conducting of academic engagements, classes, and examinations online, in a letter to the Minister for Human Resource Development R. P. Nishank. The JNUSU said nearly half the 8,500 students enrolled at the university come from rural areas where there is poor internet connectivity and therefore conducting classes and examinations online was not a viable option. “If classes and exams were indeed to be held online, it would be impossible for many students to engage with their academic responsibilities,” the JNUSU said. The students appealed to the Minister that any decision that would push forth online academic engagements be seriously reconsidered. “It is our submission that a uniform extension of at least three months be provided wherein all academic backlogs with respect to the completion of classes and lectures be undertaken normally in classrooms with sufficient allowance following this for the conclusion of exams,” the students said. They also pointed out that despite appeals to the JNU administration, the timely disbursal of scholarships to students during these testing times have not been undertaken, pushing students and families therefore towards further precarity. “Fellowships not only aid students for their studies but also grant them the ability to continue their education...,” the students added||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jnu-students-write-to-hrd-minister-on-online-classes/article31401656.ece
22 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Alcoholic beverage firms write to govt. over fees||The Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) on Tuesday wrote to the Delhi Excise Commissioner saying that while majority of the State governments have waived fee and other license charges while granting 3-month extension, the Delhi government has asked for payment of license fees on pro-rata basis for three months in advance. This at a time when the entire business has been shut down due to the lockdown, the confederation said. “During this period of lockdown all operations are suspended and there are no sales. The companies are paying salaries to staff. You can understand the financial burdens on them. Since firms are following government’s instructions, they are at pains to understand why they should pay renewal fees for a period when there is no business on account of order from the government,” the CIABC wrote. It requested the Excise Commissioner to waive renewal fees during lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/alcoholic-beverage-firms-write-to-govt-over-fees/article31401657.ece
