25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||India records largest single-day spike of 1,752 cases; toll hits 723||Over nine lakh persons are under active COVID-19 surveillance in India, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday, as the total number of cases reached 23,452. The death toll stood at 723. The country registered another biggest single-day spike with over 1,752 positive COVID cases since Thursday. India currently has 17,915 active cases, while 4,813 people have recovered, which puts the recovery rate at 20.57%, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said. Separately, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), in a statement, said the situation in emerging and major hotspots, including Ahmedabad, Surat, Hyderabad and Chennai, is serious. The statement added that violations of lockdown measures reported in some parts of the country pose a serious health hazard to the public and may lead to the spread of COVID-19. Speaking at the daily press briefing, Joint Secretary in the MHA Punya Salila Srivastva noted that the Centre has sent five new Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCTs) to Gujarat, Telangana and Tamil Nadu to assess the situation. IMCTs are already in Mumbai and Pune in Maharashtra, Indore in Madhya Pradesh, Jaipur in Rajasthan and Kolkata and Jalpaiguri in West Bengal. According to reports from the State Health Departments, the total number of cases in the country stood at 24, 485, with 18,257 active cases. The nationwide death toll was 781, an increase of 62 fatalities since Thursday. The Health Ministry said there were 15 districts that have not reported any fresh case since the past 28 days. These include three new districts — Durg and Rajnandgaon in Chattisgarh and Shivpuri in Madhya Pradesh. “Further, 80 districts from 23 States/UTs have not reported any new cases since the last 14 days,” Mr. Agarwal said. Reiterating that the lockdown had helped India keep its COVID-19 numbers low, Chairman of the Empowered Group-1, V.K. Paul, noted that this “big decision has proved to be very timely and beneficial.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-records-largest-single-day-spike-of-1752-cases-toll-hits-723/article31428899.ece
25 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Baby girl dies of COVID-19 in State||The third COVID-19-related death in the State was reported on Friday when a four-month-old baby girl, a native of Manjeri in Malappuram district, passed away at the Institute of Maternal and Child Health (IMCH), a wing of the Government Medical College Hospital in Kozhikode. The infant, with a congenital heart disease, had been undergoing treatment for pneumonia and respiratory problems. Her mortal remains were laid to rest in line with the COVID-19 protocol later in the day. The body fluid samples of her parents have been sent for lab tests. The doctors who attended to her in Malappuram district have been asked to go in quarantine. Efforts to trace the source of infection are on. Source unknown Expressing sadness over the death, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said it was a matter of concern that the source of the infant’s infection remained unknown. Efforts were on to trace the epidemiological links and to do COVID-19 testing on a large scale. On Friday, three persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the State, while 15 were declared free of the disease, including a 62-year-old in Pathanamthitta who had one of the longest hospital stay of 47 days after she tested positive for the virus. All new cases are from Kasaragod and they all contracted the disease through their contacts with imported cases. Kerala has so far reported 450 positive cases of COVID-19. While 116 are currently undergoing treatment, 331 have recovered from the disease. The number of people under COVID-19 surveillance network is 21,725, of whom 452 are in isolation in hospitals. Kannur district has become the district with the maximum number of patients on treatment with 56 in hospitals. Mr. Vijayan gave a grim reminder to the people that “nothing is over yet” as far as COVID-19 outbreak is concerned and the ‘‘worst is yet to come.’’ Disease transmission “There are many who believe that our troubles are over. But our problems are far from over and the threat of the third stage of disease transmission, when there would be massive community spread of the infection, is very real. We are looking at disease transmission projections which say that we will have to arrange treatment facilities for several lakhs,” he said.  Nothing is over yet as far as COVID-19 outbreak is concerned and the worst is yet to come. Pinarayi Vijayan Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/baby-girl-dies-of-covid-19-in-state/article31429214.ece
25 April 2020||Bengaluru,||First plasma therapy to begin in Karnataka today||The first plasma therapy in Karnataka for COVID-19 patients will begin on Saturday, and will be carried out jointly by the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) and the HCG Hospital. Jawaid Akthar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), said that many people who have recovered from the disease have come forward to donate their blood. “We will begin by collecting the samples of two or three people who have recovered. Those who have other co-morbidities cannot participate in this process,” he said. C.R. Jayanthi, Dean and Director of BMCRI, said that a mass appeal will be sent to patients who have recovered from COVID-19 to come forward and donate. “Those who are discharged and are in the period of 14 to 28 days can come forward to donate.” The trial will test the efficacy of plasma therapy which uses antibodies of cured patients to treat critically ill COVID-19 cases. HCG’s Associate Dean Vishal Rao said that while the cured patient will donate at HCG Hospital, the recipient will receive the plasma at BMRCI. “We will have to follow the rules and ensure the complete anonymity of the patients,” he said. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar pointed out that this treatment will not be used on patients who have mild and moderate symptoms. “We will use it on patients who are critical and are on ventilators or who are in intensive care units (ICU),” he said. The approval for plasma therapy has been obtained from the Indian Council of Medical Research. In Karnataka, there are currently 304 active COVID-19 patients, of which five patients are in the ICU. Sources in the Health and Family Welfare Department said that this therapy may turn out to be promising. They are hoping it will help patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) recover from COVID-19. “Out of 18 COVID-19 related deaths that have occured in the State, a majority of them also had a medical history of SARI. So we hope that this therapy will help us reduce the morbidity rate in this category of patients,” said department officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-plasma-therapy-to-begin-in-karnataka-today/article31428952.ece
25 April 2020||CHENNAI,||HC lets DME release PG admission list||The Madras High Court on Friday recalled its own order passed on Wednesday restraining the Directorate of Medical Education (DME) from publishing the merit list for post graduate (PG) medical admissions in the State till June 8. Justice M. Sundar took the decision after the counsel for the respondents represented that certain facts were not placed before the court on Wednesday and that any delay in publication of merit list would cause hardship to scores of meritorious candidates. The order was passed on a writ petition filed by Dr. G.P. Arulraj who claimed that incentive marks for PG admission had not been granted to him despite him having served as medical officer in the cadaver maintenance unit in the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. Hence, the judge had granted time till May 18 for the State government to consider the petitioner’s representation for grant of weightage marks and directed that the merit list should not be published till June 8 since the petitioner might have to file another case if his representation was rejected. Subsequently, on Friday, Special Government Pleader E. Manoharan, Medical Council of India standing counsel V.P. Raman and the standing counsel for the selection committee in DME wrote a joint letter to the High Court Registry seeking an urgent rehearing of the case. In their letter, the advocates pointed out that the all-India online counselling had been completed and the State-level counselling must be completed before May 4 as per the Centre’s directive. The counsel said that any delay in the State-level counselling would force meritorious candidates to join PG courses in other States and then end up paying penalty of Rs. 15 lakh to Rs. 20 lakh to get relieved from those medical colleges. “These facts were unfortunately not brought to the attention of the honourable court and it is pertinent that they are done so in the larger public interest. Therefore, we humbly request that the above mentioned matter be placed before the honourable court,” the letter said. Appreciating all the three counsel for their fairness and the petitioner’s counsel G. Sankaran for attending the rehearing of the case through video conferencing at short notice, the judge permitted the DME to release the merit list and conduct the online counselling any time. He recorded the submission of Mr. Manoharan that the petitioner’s representation would be looked at.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-allows-dme-to-release-merit-list-for-pg-medical-admission/article31429015.ece
25 April 2020||BENGALURU,||COVID-19 rocks Ramanagaram prison||The Karnataka government faced embarrassment as well as political heat on Friday as five of the 121 persons, who had been shifted to Ramanagaram district jail after they allegedly indulged in vanadalism in Padarayanapura in Bengaluru last week, tested positive for COVID-19. While the patients have been shifted to a government hospital, others were shifted to the Haj Bhavan in Bengaluru. There was palpable anger in Ramanagaram against the State government for lodging those undertrial in the district, which hitherto had earned the distinction of being a green zone with no case of COVID-19. With the undertrials from Bengaluru having tested positive, Ramanagaram has lost out on benefits allowed to rural industries in green zones of being able to resume operations. The relaxations were announced earlier in the day. Govt. blamed Former chief minister H. D. Kumaraswamy, whose Assembly constituency falls in Ramanagaram district, squarely blamed the State government for the district losing out its green zone status. The episode also meant that 62 police and prison officials have been designated as primary contacts and will have to be quarantined. All 30 officials at the Ramanagaram District Prison will be quarantined based on the advice of the District Health Officer (DHO), said Director General of Police, Prisons, Karnataka, Alok Mohan. The family members of the prison staff told Mr. Kumaraswamy that, “The prison officials were not given any protective gear like PPE suits. They were only given masks and forced to interact with the inmates brought from a COVID-19 hit area in Bengaluru.” Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, in-charge of COVID-19 in the State, said the decision to lodge the accused from the affected areas in Bengaluru in a green zone could have been avoided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-rocks-ramanagaram-prison/article31428893.ece
25 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||62 new cases push up tally to 955, toll mounts to 29||The 6,306 samples tested in the last 24 hours ending Friday morning resulted in the emergence of 62 new COVID-19 cases in the State, taking the tally to 955. While 145 patients were discharged from the hospitals after recovery, 29 succumbed as the virus claimed two more lives, one each from Anantapur and Kurnool districts. Nearly 67% of the total 955 cases were from the districts of Kurnool, Guntur, Krishna and Chittoor, where a majority had been identified in the old clusters, Special Chief Secretary of Health K.S. Jawahar Reddy told the media. Extensive testing “The government is focusing on extensive testing. As on Friday, Visakhapatnam tops the chart with a total of 6,765 tests,” he said. Mr. Reddy stated that 46 of the 62 cases were from the old clusters and 16 were from 10 new clusters. With this, the total number of clusters increased to 191 from the existing 181. With regard to telemedicine, in the last 24 hours, 859 consultations were made, and 533 of them were given prescriptions and the remaining 326 cases went with health advice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/62-new-cases-push-up-tally-to-955-toll-mounts-to-29/article31428896.ece
25 April 2020||Lucknow,||Uttar Pradesh to bring back migrant workers in phases||Uttar Pradesh will bring back migrant workers stranded in other States and have completed 14 days of quarantine in a phased manner. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday instructed officials to prepare a working plan and come up with details, his office said in a statement after a high-level meeting. “After screening and testing such people, the concerned State government should start the process of sending them back. After they are brought to the Uttar Pradesh borders, the State government will transport them to their districts by bus,” said the government. Mr. Adityanath asked officials to make preparations for keeping the migrants under 14 days of quarantine in their respective districts and to sanitise and vacate shelter homes well in time. Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department, Awanish Awasthi, said the Chief Minister had instructed officials to send back migrants of other States who had completed 14 days of quarantine in Uttar Pradesh.  Priyanka praise The move was praised by Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. “I have been pressing this issue and this is a significant step in that direction. To make this fully successful, a plan must be made for the return of other workers. If all of us cooperate with a positive attitude in national interest, then the fight against coronavirus will get a lot of strength,” she tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uttar-pradesh-to-bring-back-migrant-workers-in-phases/article31428904.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Azan controversy in Capital on Ramzan eve||Delhi Police on Friday got embroiled in controversy over a viral video in which two constables are seen telling a group of Muslims that reciting the azan, or the Islamic call to ritual prayer, has been prohibited by the Lieutenant-Governor. However, police later clarified that azan adhering to National Green Tribunal guidelines is permitted, and claimed that the constables in question got confused between namaz (prayer) and azan. In the video, reportedly from Rohini’s Prem Nagar area, two policemen can be heard addressing a few residents: “ Sabse pehle baat… a zan bilkul band hai… a zan nahi hogi… L-G s ahab ke order hain (First of all, there will be no azan. This is the L-G’s order)”. A female resident then contends that there is no such order on azan and asks how those observing roza [fasting during Ramzan, beginning April 25] would break it in the absence of the evening azan. She also goes on to inform the policemen that the L-G’s order pertained to namaz and that no one is praying inside mosques during the lockdown. One of the constables then retorts that the residents should go ask the L-G if they need any clarifications. The arguments continue, with residents trying to make the duo understand that only azan will be recited inside the mosque for everyone to hear and offer prayers at home, but the policemen do not seem to budge. ‘Confusion with namaz’ With the video drawing flak from many on social media, Delhi Police issued a statement saying that azan should be recited adhering to NGT guidelines. “While observing roza and prayers, we expect everyone to follow the lockdown as per the guidelines. Azan may be carried out in accordance with NGT guidelines. It is requested that namaz may be performed while staying indoors,” it said in a statement. “The officials got confused between azan and namaz. There is no prohibitory order on the azan call. The officials have been briefed,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra. AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan, in a tweet, said he has spoken to the Commissioner of Police about the matter and the latter is looking into it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/azan-controversy-in-capital-on-ramzan-eve/article31429096.ece
25 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Total lockdown in 5 T.N. cities from tomorrow||A complete lockdown that would see the closure of shops, including grocery stores, will be enforced in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai from 6 a.m. on Sunday to 9 p.m. on Wednesday. This will be more intense than the current lockdown to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced on Friday that Salem and Tiruppur would face a complete lockdown from Sunday to Tuesday. “In all areas other than these municipal corporations, the existing restrictions will remain in place,” he said. However, some essential services would be permitted. Later in the day, District Collectors of Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur announced that the complete lockdown would be imposed in certain areas of their respective districts which are adjoining the Greater Chennai Corporation for four days. Meanwhile, 72 persons tested positive in the State, taking the total to 1,755. The total number of deaths stood at 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/total-lockdown-in-5-tn-cities-from-tomorrow/article31428901.ece
25 April 2020||CHANDLAPUR (SIDDIPET DIST),||Godavari water reaches Siddipet||Godavari water from Kaleshwaram finally reached Ranganaiksagar, on the outskirts of the district headquarters on Friday. Ministers T. Harish Rao and K.T. Rama Rao switched on the water pumps after performing puja at Ranganaik temple located nearby. “People of Siddipet are lucky enough to have Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao from here who achieved this great fete of bringing Godavari water to the district. Siddipet has always been on top of development and envy of others,” said Mr. Rama Rao adding that soon Telangana would witness four revolutions- green, blue (fish), white (dairy) and pink revolutions (meat production). Promising to sanction industries for the district, KTR assured all-round development of entire Telangana. He urged farmers of Siddipet and Sircilla districts to construct sub-canals to supply irrigation to every nook and corner for the benefit of the farming community. “Our family knows the fate of land oustees. My grandparents from both sides had lost their lands in Upper-Manair and Mid-Manair in the 40s and they migrated. Hence we can understand the problems of oustees,” said KTR adding that the sacrifices made by oustees can never be repaid. “It’s a dream of decades that came true. I thank Chief Minister for achieving this After the formation of Telangana, we got a separate district, now Godavari water and rail link to Siddpet will also be a reality soon,” said Mr Harish Rao. He also urged Mr. Rama Rao to sanction industries and IT corridor to the district. The ministers felicitated three workers of the project Pooja Bai, Md. Afsar Khan and Prakash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/godavari-water-reaches-siddipet/article31429153.ece
25 April 2020||GUNTUR,||Important evidence of former SEC’s letter tampered with, says CID DG||The CID of the A.P. Police has claimed that it has clinching evidence on the alleged tampering of the computer and laptop of the former State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar, through which the latter had purportedly written a letter to Home Secretary on March 18. Preliminary investigation on the basis of a complaint lodged by YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy reportedly revealed that the desktop computer, laptop and the pen drive used to transmit the letter had been tampered with. “We have found that the laptop purportedly used by the then SEC to draft the letter, the desktop and the pen drive have been tampered with. The laptop has been formatted several times and the pen drive smashed physically. All this points to suspicion that the letter that had the signature of then SEC could have been come from outside the office,” said Additional Director-General, CID, P.V. Sunil Kumar. The CID, which began investigation, called Assistant Secretary, SEC, K. Samba Murthy and recorded his statements. According to Mr. Murthy, the then SEC had asked for the email address of the Home Secretary on March 17. Soon after the Supreme Court verdict on March 18, the then SEC dictated a five-page letter to Mr. Murthy, who typed the letter in a laptop. The letter was transferred to a desktop using a pen drive and a print out was taken. The SEC signed the letter and sent the scanned copy through email from his mobile. But the CID found that the file on the desktop had been erased, the laptop formatted and the pen drive destroyed. Mr. Kumar said the three items would be sent for forensic investigation, and action would be taken accordingly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/important-evidence-of-former-secs-letter-tampered-with-says-cid-dg/article31428894.ece
25 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||13 more COVID cases in Telangana||The number of persons testing COVID-positive in the State is mounting with 13 more persons testing positive in different districts on Friday, taking the number of cases to 983. No deaths were reported during the day and the number remained at 25. In all, 29 were discharged from different hospitals taking their total number to 291. The State currently has 667 active cases undergoing treatment in different hospitals. Health Minister Eatala Rajender said the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, Vikarabad, Suryapet and Jogulamba Gadwal districts continued to report COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/13-more-covid-cases-in-telangana/article31429151.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Prayer and pandemic||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prayer-and-pandemic/article31429098.ece
25 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Plea to cancel Class X exams||A public interest litigation petition has been filed in the Madras High Court with a plea to cancel the public examinations for Class X students this year since considerable number of days have gone by under lockdown to fight COVID-19. Advocate S. Mahaveer Shivaji has filed the case contending that the government’s plan to conduct the exams after the lifting of the lockdown next month may not be a right decision since it would delay the announcement of results. He claimed delay in conducting exams would lead to consequent delay in declaring the results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plea-to-cancel-class-x-exams/article31429020.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Step by step||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/step-by-step/article31429040.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||A different Ramzan||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-different-ramzan/article31429216.ece
25 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Capital: HC directs govt. to file affidavit in 10 days||The High Court on Friday directed the government to file an affidavit in 10 days stating its position on the proposed shifting of the Executive Capital to Visakhapatnam. The directive came in response to a PIL filed by Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti secretary G. Tirupati Rao. A full Bench, comprising Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and Justices A.V. Sesha Sai and M. Satyanarayana Murthy, ordered that the Advocate General (A-G) respond to the petitioner’s argument that the government had unilaterally decided to shift the capital city from Amaravati to three different locations under the garb of “decentralisation of administration / governance,” by filing the affidavit in the stipulated time. The A-G, S. Sriram, stated that the Bills pertaining to the shifting of the capital - A.P. Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and the A.P. Capital Region Development Authority Repeal Bills - had been passed by the Legislative Assembly in January 2020, but referred to a select committee by the Legislative Council. Appearing on behalf of the petitioner, advocate U. Muralidhar Rao cited the minutes of an internal meeting of an executive committee of the A.P. Secretariat Employees’ Association, MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy’s statements, and media reports seeking to buttress his argument. In his petition, Mr. Tirupati Rao appealed to the court to declare the shifting of the Executive Capital as arbitrary and violative of the legally enforceable promises made by the previous government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/capital-shift-hc-directs-ap-govt-to-file-affidavit/article31428871.ece
25 April 2020||COLOMBO,||Ranil calls for regional cooperation||The SAARC Secretariat should play an active role in the region’s response to COVID-19, along with “someone in-charge”, according to Sri Lanka’s former Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe. “I don’t know if it can be handled from Kathmandu alone. If you can, well and good. But you may need another city. It can be Bengaluru, Colombo, any city,” he said on Friday. ‘Global pandemic’ “This is a good time for a regional cooperation programme. This is a global pandemic without a global leadership. Maybe the region can’t provide leadership for all. But the first virtual meeting of SAARC leaders was good, looking at the background and the problems that are there.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ranil-calls-for-regional-cooperation/article31428902.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||India must be self-reliant, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the biggest message arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic was that the country should be self-reliant and self-sufficient for the majority of its needs. This was necessary if the nation faced such a crisis again, he pointed out. Mr. Modi was addressing sarpanches from across the country through videoconference on Panchayati Raj Day, when he launched e-GramSwaraj, for monitoring of rural infrastructure works and e-governance, and Swamitva programme, which involves mapping rural housing and land holdings via technology, including drones. “The global coronavirus pandemic has created an unprecedented crisis but it has also given important messages with regard to the way we have lived so far. The most important message from this pandemic is that we need to be self-reliant. This self-reliance should be at the village, district, state and national level in terms of our needs and our ability to satisfy them within our own country. We should not look to other countries to satisfy our needs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-must-be-self-reliant-says-modi/article31428905.ece
25 April 2020||Patna,||Can’t bring students from Kota: Bihar govt.||At a time when more than 12,000 students from Bihar are stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota, the government in a reply to the Patna High Court said while it was “sensitive to the plight of stranded students, bringing them back would amount to violation of lockdown guidelines”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cant-bring-students-from-kota-bihar-govt/article31429100.ece
25 April 2020||New Delhi,||Three deaths, 138 new cases reported in Delhi||Three deaths and 138 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Friday, taking the toll of dead to 53 and total number of cases to 2,514. Of the total cases, 857 people have recovered and there are 1,604 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-deaths-138-new-cases-reported-in-delhi/article31429099.ece
25 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi CM asks recovered patients to donate plasma||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday termed “encouraging” the limited trial of plasma therapy on patients at a city hospital and appealed to recovered COVID-19 patients to step forward and donate their plasma to save the lives of infected patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-cm-asks-recovered-patients-to-donate-plasma/article31429102.ece
25 April 2020||DHARWAD,||Two arrested on extortion charge||The police have arrested two persons on the charge of extortion posing as journalists here. According to a release from Superintendent of Police Vartika Katiyar, the culprits, Anwar K. Jamadar and Nizam Abdulsab Patel, claiming to be Belagavi district reporters of JK 24 x 7 and JMR Channel respectively, visited BMN Agrofood in the Belur industrial area here and threatened the unit owner and demanded Rs. 25,000. They also travelled without permission from Belagavi to Dharwad using fake identity cards. A case has been registered, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-arrested-on-extortion-charge/article31429140.ece
25 April 2020||Bengaluru,||They go where others fear to tread||Over the last couple of weeks, long work hours have become the norm for ASHA workers as they are potentially exposing themselves to COVID-19 as they spend hours in the scorching heat tracing primary and secondary contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/they-go-where-others-fear-to-tread/article31428949.ece
25 April 2020||Bengaluru,||29 new COVID-19 cases reported in State||A total of 29 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in the State on Friday. With this, the total number stands at 474. This included five new cases from Ramanagaram district jail and 11 new cases reported from the labour colony at Vidyajyothinagar, Hongasandra ward, in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/29-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-state/article31428950.ece
25 April 2020||Mangaluru,||Kerala too erects check-post at border||Close on the heels of Dakshina Kannada district reporting two COVID-19 deaths, the neighbouring State of Kerala has erected a border check-post at Talapady, next to Karnataka’s own check-post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kerala-too-erects-check-post-at-border/article31428951.ece
25 April 2020||Chennai,||Govt. raises Rs. 6,560 crore through bond sale||The Tamil Nadu government has raised Rs. 6,560 crore through sale of bonds known as State development loans from March 30 till April 21, according to data from Reserve Bank of India. The State sold the bonds with various tenures, in the backdrop of revenue collection taking a hit and an increase in expenditure owing to the lockdown. The bonds were sold through public auctions conducted by RBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-raises-rs-6560-crore-through-bond-sale/article31428994.ece
25 April 2020||Chennai,||CM writes to Kejriwal on treatment for T.N. people||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami wrote to his counterpart in Delhi Aravind Kejriwal on Friday, urging the latter to instruct the authorities concerned to extend best possible care to 559 persons from Tamil Nadu who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event and have been quarantined/hospitalised in the national capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-writes-to-kejriwal-on-treatment-for-tn-people/article31428992.ece
25 April 2020||Chennai,||More recovered cases than active ones in T.N.||For the first time, the number of recovered cases in the State nudged ahead of the number of active cases on Friday. A total of 114 persons who had recovered from COVID-19 were discharged on Friday, taking the tally to 866. The number of active cases stood at 864 in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-recovered-cases-than-active-ones-in-tn/article31428993.ece
25 April 2020||Kolkata,||In Kolkata, IMCT raises queries on tests||The Inter Ministerial Central Team (IMCT), which is in Kolkata, on Friday raised serious questions on the treatment of COVID-19 patients in West Bengal, particularly at M.R. Bangur Hospital that serves as the primary referral hospital. The IMCT has sought clarifications on three major points — the facilities at the hospital, the presentation made by the Health Department to it and the committee of doctors approving the deaths of COVID-19 patients. A letter by the IMCT to Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said there were a large number of patients in the isolation wards of the CNCI (Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute) and M.R. Bangur Hospital who were awaiting COVID-19 test results for five days or longer. The letter by IMCT leader Apurva Chandra said they had spoken to four patients at M.R. Bangur Hospital awaiting test results since April 16, two since April 17 and three from April 18. “The patient admission system at the hospital appears to be chaotic. There was no social distancing in the waiting area,” it stated The communication also raised questions on reports in social media that bodies were lying on beds at M.R. Bangur Hospital awaiting death certificate. “There are only 12 ventilator beds available in the Bangur hospital even though it caters to 354 serious COVID-19 patients. When asked, the IMCT was informed that in case a patient requires ventilator support and it is not available, the patient is transferred to other facility. Records in this regards may be made available,” the letter said. The IMCT, while pointing out that the State government had said testing had increased from 400 to 900 a day, sought to know how many of these were repeat tests and how many first-time patients. “From the presentation, it appears that the State is reaching its peak capacity for testing. Since the State believes that it is at the beginning of the test compared to other States, the IMCT may be provided with any efforts made by the State to increase its testing capacity further in future considering the large population of the State to say 2500/5000 day over what period of time,” the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-kolkata-imct-raises-queries-on-tests/article31428839.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||No plan to ease fiscal deficit targets||Despite the strain on government finances due to the COVID-19 pandemic, there is no credible proposal to amend the legislation meant to control the fiscal deficit, Chairman of the 15th Finance Commission N.K. Singh said. Speaking to presspersons after a two-day meeting of the Commission’s Economic Advisory Council, Mr. Singh said the government was currently looking to see how to ameliorate economic hardship while staying within the broad framework of the existing law. While presenting the Union Budget in February, the Finance Minister had invoked the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act’s escape clause to relax the fiscal deficit target for 2020-21 by 0.5% percentage points to 3.5% of the GDP. If the government wishes to increase spending further in light of the current crisis, as many economists have recommended, it may need to amend the Act. The State governments have been demanding that their own 3% fiscal deficit targets be relaxed to 4% or even 5%, to give them elbow room in dealing with the impact of the lockdown. Need for new law Dr. Singh said that change would not be possible without fresh legislation being enacted by the States. A more expeditious method would be for the States to first trigger their own escape clauses, he said. He also cautioned that the States need to weigh the cost of borrowing from the market, and whether there would be appetite for their bonds. According to an official statement, Economic Advisory Council members felt that options need to be considered for financing the additional deficit. It is important to ensure that the State governments get access to adequate funds to undertake their fight against the pandemic, they said, adding that different States may come out of the pandemic’s impact in different stages. Council members all felt that earlier projections of real GDP growth will need to be revised downwards considerably, though Dr. Singh declined to quantify the drop until fourth quarter macroeconomic data becomes available. Noting that the lockdown’s impact on public finances will be significant, with a large shortfall in tax and other revenues, the Council recommended a nuanced fiscal response, with a focus not just on the size but the design of any stimulus package. A support mechanism for cash-starved small enterprises needs to be a top priority, along with partial loan guarantees and other measures to protect non-banking financial companies, the Council said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-plan-to-ease-fiscal-deficit-targets/article31428816.ece
25 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Wildlife Board nod for mining in Assam elephant reserve||Amid the countrywide lockdown, the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) has recommended coal mining in a part of an elephant reserve in Assam. The NBWL’s Standing Committee had on April 7 discussed a proposal for use of 98.59 hectares of land from the Saleki proposed reserve forest land for a coal mining project by North-Easter Coal Field (NECF), a unit of Coal India Limited. The NBWL is under the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC). Saleki is a part of the Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve that includes the Dehing Patkai Wildlife Sanctuary covering 111.19 sq km of rainforest and several reserve forests in Sivasagar, Dibrugarh and Tinsukia districts. Panel set up The NBWL had in July 2019 formed a committee comprising its member R. Sukumar, Assam’s Chief Wildlife Warden, and a representative of the local wildlife division for assessing the mining area. In the April 7 meeting, Mr. Sukumar stated that 57.20 ha of hilly forestland had already been broken up by the user agency (NECF) and the remaining 41.39 ha was unbroken. He recommended a “cautious approach” for preserving the “basic integrity of this forested hill slope” that is a part of the elephant reserve in Assam adjoining Arunachal Pradesh’s Deomali Elephant Reserve with “a sizeable population of elephants”. After detailed discussions, the Standing Committee “recommended for approval” the proposal for mining in the broken-up area after the user agency submits a rectified site-specific mine reclamation plan in consultation with the Assam Forest Department. “For the unbroken area, the matter will be considered after the user agency submits a feasibility report for underground mining, and also submits compliance report regarding fulfilment of all other conditions” as recommended in a meeting on January 21, the NBWL committee said. Congress MP Pradyut Bordoloi asked, “What can you expect from a government that has de-fanged all environment and wildlife regulatory bodies? The recommendation reflects the disdain this government has for green assets, particularly a biodiversity hotspot to benefit the mining lobby.” Green activist Rohit Choudhury said the MoEFCC overturned its own adverse remark on “rampant violation of local forest laws” in November 2019 to fast-track coal mining in the Saleki forestland. The remark followed the local wildlife division’s report pointing to illegal coal mining in the Tikak open cast pit mining in Saleki. The division also said 4,800 tonnes of coal from “unauthorised breaking up” of 16 ha of the area had been seized. “The Assam Forest Department has completely failed in protecting the biodiversity of the State and has allowed all illegal mining of coal, stone, sand, etc., violating all rules and regulations. It is obvious that there is a corrupt nexus in operation and the State Forest Minister has become a mute spectator,” Mr. Choudhury said.  Assam Forest Department has completely failed in protecting the biodiversity Rohit ChoudhuryActivist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wildlife-board-nod-for-mining-in-assam-elephant-reserve/article31428865.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||No Army deployment in neighbourhood||Clarifying that the government has no immediate plans to deploy the Army in Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Bangladesh to help tackle the novel coronavirus pandemic, sources in the Ministries of External Affairs and Defence (MoD) said on Friday that the rapid response medical teams of the force would be deployed only “if requested”. “We have responded promptly to requests for deployment of rapid response teams (RRTs) comprising doctors, nurses and paramedics to deal with COVID-19, for example, to the Maldives and Kuwait. These RRTs are ready for deployment to other friendly countries at short notice if requested by them,” External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, referring to reports on preparations for military-medical deployment as “misleading”. “We have kept teams on standby, if required by them,” Defence Ministry sources said. Ministry officials declined to comment. The government’s clarification comes after senior officials in Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Bangladesh denied any plans to bring in the Indian military for assistance. On Friday, Afghanistan’s National Security Council spokesman Javid Faisal was quoted by Saudi Arabia based Arab News as saying that “there has never been such a request from Kabul, nor has there been such a suggestion from Delhi. These are false reports, even false perceptions”. Earlier, Bangladesh’s Foreign Minister A.K. Abdul Momen on Wednesday told the New Age Bangladesh newspaper in Dhaka that medical teams from abroad were not required. “We do not need such assistance; rather we are sending teams to different countries,” Mr. Momen said, referring to Bangladesh’s supplies to the Maldives, Bhutan, Kuwait and China. In Sri Lanka, too, Defence Secretary Maj. Gen. Kamal Gunaratne (Retd) ruled out the need for Indian military assistance. “Our military has already shown their expertise and professionalism in handling the emergency situation created under coronavirus threat,” he told reporters on Wednesday. The confusion appears to have arisen over a press note issued by the Defence Ministry on April 3 that said, “Six naval ships are kept ready for assistance to neighbouring countries. Five medical teams are also on standby for deployment in the Maldives, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan and Afghanistan.” ‘Preparatory move’ In a subsequent update on April 15, Army sources detailed India’s assistance to “Friendly Foreign Countries” like Kuwait, where Indian expatriate workers are the biggest block of coronavirus-positive patients. Defence Ministry sources had repeated that their teams were on “standby to be deployed in Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Afghanistan,” which had prompted the reports. Diplomatic and defence sources clarified that this was only a preparatory measure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-army-deployment-in-neighbourhood/article31428847.ece
25 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘DA, DR cut inhuman, insensitive’||The Congress on Friday accused the Central government of “hurting” its employees and pensioners by freezing their Dearness Allowance (DA) and Dearness Relief (DR) instead of cutting down on “wasteful expenditure” during the COVID-19 pandemic. Former party chief Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter to term the government move “insensitive and inhuman”. In a tweet in Hindi, he said that instead of suspending the bullet train project and the Central Vista beautification project, costing lakhs of crores [of rupees], the government had taken an insensitive and inhuman decision to cut the DA of its employees, pensioners and jawans, who are serving the public by fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. At an online press conference, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala echoed his leader. “Instead of curbing its wasteful expenditure, the government has been constantly hitting at the income of its employees and the middle class people,” he said. ‘At what cost?’ Mr. Surjewala said that the decision to cut the DA allowance until June 2021 would give the government only Rs. 38,000 crore at the cost of its employees, including armed forces personnel and pensioners. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji has deducted Rs. 11,000 crore of the 15 lakh serving armed forces personnel and nearly 26 lakh military pensioners. What is their fault,” he asked. “Modi ji , on the one side you are telling the State governments, as also the private sector, not to cut wages and salaries. On the other side, you yourself are cutting the DA and DR worth Rs. 38,000 crore of 113 lakh Central employees and pensioners. Is it not an indicator of the entire private sector of the country to follow suit and cut wages and allowances of their employees? Is it not an indication to the State governments?” Mr. Surjewala said. In the past one month, the government had slashed the interest rates of small savings instruments, savings bank accounts and fixed deposits of public sector banks, hurting the common people who depend on the incomes from their savings, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/da-dr-cut-inhuman-insensitive/article31428818.ece
25 April 2020||Kolkata,||Audit panel confirmed 18 deaths, says West Bengal||Hours after the Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) asked for details of the procedure followed by the committee of doctors from West Bengal to audit COVID-19 deaths and sought an interaction with it, the West Bengal government released the number of COVID-19 deaths the audit committee has looked into so far. The audit committee looked into 57 deaths and has so far confirmed 18 of them died of COVID -19, State’s Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said on Friday. All the 57 had tested positive for COVID-19. “This Committee examined all the relevant documents sent by the hospitals concerned and have found 18 deaths due to COVID-19 infections,” a letter released by the West Bengal government said. “The remaining 39 deaths were due to severe co-morbid conditions which were the immediate cause of death, and COVID-19 was incidental finding,” said the letter signed by B.R. Satpati, a former director of government health services and a member of the audit committee. When it was pointed out by journalist that this information had come after the IMCT wrote to the West Bengal government, Mr. Sinha said what mattered was the information the State shared and nothing else. Responding to questions on the IMCT letters addressed to him during the day, Mr. Sinha said the committee had come to cooperate with State. “We are like an open book,” he said. The State government had nothing to hide. “Nobody has come here as inspectors or auditors. It is also not that we are passing or failing some exam. The only exam we have to pass is what people think... whether we have been able to provide them services,” the Chief Secretary said. Meanwhile, 51 new cases were reported in the State in the past 24 hours, taking the number of active cases to 385. The new cases were reported from seven districts in south Bengal, but half of them (51%) were from Kolkata alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/audit-panel-confirmed-18-deaths-says-west-bengal/article31428831.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||M.P. runs out of RNA extraction kits||Madhya Pradesh is fast running out of automated RNA extraction kits and staring at a Statewide shortage in two to three days time in the wake of glitches in the supply chain. The kits, having twice as much output than manual ones, are used in the process to test a sample for COVID-19. The laboratory in the State’s hardest hit city, Indore, which accounts for 66% of the tally, will run out of the automated column-based RNA (ribonucleic acid) extraction kits today. Whereas in Bhopal, the AIIMS and the Gandhi Medical College’s laboratories will run out of stock in another day. Kits at the Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre will last for two days, as will those with the Jabalpur laboratory. The other six laboratories across the State have low testing rates, according to the State Health Department. Enough machines “We have enough machines. In fact, we can even get more of them. But we have no testing kits,” Health Minister Narottam Mishra told Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan during a videoconference. “If you could send them as early as possible, it will be a great relief to us,” Mr. Mishra added. “We have a problem on the supply side,” said S. Dhanaraju, officer on special duty with the Madhya Pradesh Public Health Services Corporation Limited. “As a result, the testing output is affected. Unsteady supply is expected to continue till the end of this month,” he added. The manual bead-based RNA isolation kits can be used for 12 samples in an hour, whereas the automated ones can be used for 24. The vendors were mostly in Germany or the United States, both badly affected by the pandemic, Mr. Dhanaraju explained. “Companies are not supplying. Moreover, there is demand for kits all over the world. For the bead-based kits being manufactured domestically, procurement of raw material is hit as many components are imported,” he said. The State had placed an order for 1.16 lakh RNA isolation kits, of which it had received just 23,000 kits so far. The manual extraction kits were more or less available, said Ruby Khan, the official managing laboratories for COVID-19 in the State. “We initially had 5,000-10,000 automated isolation kits. We have run out of stock now,” said Ms. Khan, who is a deputy director in the State’s Directorate of Health Services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-runs-out-of-rna-extraction-kits/article31428837.ece
25 April 2020||Pune,||Serum Institute eyes COVID-19 vaccine by Oct.||The city-based Serum Institute of India has said that it expects the vaccine for COVID-19 developed by the University of Oxford in the market by October or November provided the safety and efficacy of the product is established during trials. The institute has partnered with the Oxford vaccine project as one of the seven global institutions that will manufacture the vaccine. “In around two weeks, we can produce five million doses a month and scale that up to 10 million after six months while typically producing a vaccine takes a long time,” SII CEO Adar Poonawalla told CNBC-TV18. Observing that there were a lot of people who thought that they would have a vaccine in a few months, Mr. Poonawalla said there was, however, a strong caveat. Trial process “If the vaccine works in the U.K. trial and we do another trial in India, which we are hoping to start shortly, in safety and efficacy, only then will it be available by October or November and that is only if we start producing at our personal cost in risk by the end of this month,” he said. Further, he said the institute would be using one of the existing facilities for manufacturing the COVID-19 vaccine, “However, it will take over two years to set up new manufacturing facility for COVID-19 vaccine,” he added. “Typically vaccines take many years but with the regulatory approvals in India that have been very carefully changed for this product development, we are very pleased to announce that we will be able to do it by the end of this year,” Mr. Poonawalla said. SII is currently looking at 4-5 million doses monthly and would start manufacturing early to save time in the hope that the trial would be successful. “So, we hope to build up 20-40 million doses by September-October in the hope that if the trial works, then we will have this product,” he said. Mr. Poonawalla said SII would be partnering with ICMR for the clinical trials and that he was in touch with the Department of Biotechnology. Talking about the decision and the risks involved, Mr. Poonawalla said: “We are not a listed company and we are not accountable for our actions to investors in terms of pure profits and returns. So, I was able to make this decision and take this risk on at the cost of our other vaccines that we are putting aside temporarily so that we can build up the scale here.” Mr. Poonawalla said that the manufacturing plant in Pune would have an investment of Rs. 500-600 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/serum-institute-eyes-covid-19-vaccine-by-oct/article31428856.ece
25 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Foodgrain stock will last till next March, says FCI chief||The stock of foodgrains available with the Food Corporation of India is “comfortable” to manage the situation till March next year, but it would be an exaggeration to hold that the stock is “far in excess” of the buffer stock requirement, which should include additional allocation, according to D.V. Prasad, Chairman and Managing Director of the FCI. Responding to the demand being made by food security activists that the Central government, with “enormous excess stock”, release more foodgrains to States free of cost or at a nominal price over and above the existing allocations, Mr. Prasad told The Hindu on Thursday that the buffer stock norms were fixed based on the requirement of wheat or rice at 5 kg a person for 80 crore beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act (NFSA), which was in line with the requirements of the law. Additional allocation “The norms have been determined, considering normal situations and they essentially provide for any production shortfalls. However, a pandemic, as we are witnessing today, is a different situation and it may demand a revision of the existing norms in view of the additional allocation of foodgrains at 5 kg a person, as being done under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY) for three months (April to June this year in the light of the COVID-19). In essence, the buffer norms now need to take into account the additional allocation too,” he pointed out. As on date, the total stock is 564 lakh tonnes, of which rice accounts for 284 lakh tonnes and wheat, 280 lakh tonnes. In the remaining period of April, May and June, it is expected that there will be an outflow of 200 lakh tonnes for the regular NFSA scheme, 5 kg free for each NFSA beneficiaries given under PMGKAY and the new schemes introduced for non-NFSA cardholders and NGOs. As per the norms fixed in 2015, the buffer stock, as maintained on April 1, was around 210 lakh tonnes, a figure which would change on the first day of July, October and January. Kharif procurement “As the Kharif procurement season for rice is approaching an end and wheat procurement has just started, the stock position at our warehouses will naturally be high on July 1. Wheat being once a year crop, it has to be stocked from July for almost a year to meet the year-long demand by the Targeted Public Distribution System (TPDS) till the arrival of the next crop. Similarly, we will have to wait at least for six months to start receiving the inflow of Kharif rice. Given our country’s pattern, we have to procure wheat in about three months for the entire year and rice over six to eight months. So, one should not take a look only at the overall figure, without taking into account the additional allocations due to COVID-19,” Mr. Prasad said. Good response Asked about the status of the scheme of providing foodgrains to those not covered under the NFSA (such as non-priority household cards), Mr. Prasad said the response had been “good.” So, far, 27,000 tonnes of rice and 18,000 tonnes of wheat had been lifted by the States. Maharashtra had received 16,326 tonnes of wheat (at a rate of Rs. 21 per kg) and 14,915 tonnes of rice (at Rs. 22 per kg). ‘It’s Centre’s call’ Among the southern States which had taken only rice, Kerala had obtained 1,967 tonnes of rice and Karnataka 9,609 tonnes. To a question whether rice would be given for these cardholders free of cost, as demanded by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, the official responded that “it is a policy decision [to be taken by the Union government]”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/foodgrain-stock-will-last-till-next-march-says-fci-chief/article31428858.ece
25 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Reshuffle likely in key departments||The Union government is expected to appoint secretaries in key departments and effect a reshuffle in the Central administration as more than seven secretaries are scheduled to superannuate this month. Among those schedule to retire include Health Secretary Preeti Sudan and Economic Affairs Secretary Atanu Chakraborty, both in key positions in the midst of COVID-19 pandemic that has massively hit the economy. It remains to be seen whether the PMO grants extension to both officials considering the pandemic. “There is some possibility of extension to see continuity in both crucial posts,” a senior official told The Hindu . Other secretaries scheduled for superannuation include Shipping Secretary Gopal Krishna, Women and Child Development Secretary Rabindra Panwar and Petroleum Secretary M.M. Kutty. The Secretary, MSME is also scheduled for retirement. Sanjeevanee Kutty, Secretary, Ex-Servicemen Welfare, is also set to retire from the service. According to government sources, reshuffle in the administration with key appointments is likely over the weekend. Key PMO post There are also several important vacancies in the administration. The most important vacancy is that of a Secretary in the PMO. Insiders said Additional Secretary in the PMO, A.K. Sharma, a long-time trusted aide of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, may be made Secretary since he has recently been empanelled to hold the post of Secretary in the Central government. Mr. Sharma is a 1988-batch Gujarat-cadre IAS officer. Another senior IAS officer in the PMO, Tarun Bajaj, a 1988-batch Haryana-cadre officer, has been empanelled along with Mr. Sharma. Whether he will be continued in the PMO or moved out as a full-fledged Secretary in the administration remains to be seen. Another important vacancy is in the Ministry of HRD as Secretary, School Education and Literacy. Currently, the post is being held by Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare. As per the buzz, Anita Karwal, Chairperson of CBSE, is most likely to be new Secretary, School Education and Literacy. She was also recently empanelled to hold the post of Secretary in the Central government. She is a 1988-batch Gujarat- cadre officer. Recently, the Department of Personnel and training (DoPT) empanelled 28 senior IAS officers belonging to the 1987 and 1988 batches to hold the post of Secretary or equivalent. The Centre picks up the officials from the State cadre or those serving in the Central government on deputation after the empanelment. Accordingly, several officials who were recently empanelled will likely be made full-fledged Secretary in the various departments in the government set-up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reshuffle-likely-in-key-departments/article31428812.ece
25 April 2020||Kolkata,||‘June’ arrives to lend a helping hand||While most celebrities are staying home and urging fans to do the same during the lockdown, popular Bengali actor Ushasie Chakraborty is out on the streets most afternoons, feeding stranded migrant workers. “While staying home is the right thing to do, one can’t entirely forget the plight of those going hungry. So we decided to set up a community kitchen with police permission,” said Ms. Chakraborty, hugely popular as the character of ‘June’ in Bengali teleserial Sreemoyee . “We are a team of eight people, including the lady who cooks. Apart from me, there are six local boys, Swaroop, Sourav, Chiranjeet, Kinjal, Arnab and Rangan — who oversee the cooking and distribute the food,” she said. “When the lockdown began, we were cooking for about 50 people. Then we started cooking for 150 people. Now we provide rations to those who have stoves to cook and prepare food for about 120 people who don’t have the means to cook,” she said. The food is cooked in a place called Bijaygarh in Jadavpur, and the daily menu includes rice and dal and a vegetable. Occasionally egg curry joins the menu, and on a couple of occasions there was chicken. Volunteers donate Ms. Chakraborty said, “We pool in money to run the kitchen. We receive donations from friends. A few of my friends in the U.S. helped out. The film fraternity is helping too. People like [director] Kamaleshwar Mukherjee and [actor-writer] Padmanabha Dasgupta have been helping. [Mr. Mukherjee] arranged for 50 kg each of potato and onion. [Music director] Debojyoti Mishra has also contributed.” “Earlier we would all gather every day to distribute the food, but now, as more [COVID-19] cases get reported, we realise we too are at risk and therefore take turns. We, of course, wear masks and gloves. We put the food in disposable plates and people pick them up,” she said. Among the most active groups helping the needy are Let’s Help, which is run by Debayan Datta, and a network of former and current students of Jadavpur University coordinated by Iman Kalyan Lahiri, a professor of International Relations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/june-arrives-to-lend-a-helping-hand/article31428864.ece
25 April 2020||Mumbai,||On birthday, Goa CM returns to first job as Ayurveda doctor||Goa Chief Minster Pramod Sawant, who turned 47 on Friday, returned to being a doctor by examining patients at a district hospital, where he was once employed. A Bachelor of Ayurveda Medicine and Surgery (BAMS), Dr. Sawant spent a few hours volunteering with a team of doctors at the district Asilo hospital in north Goa’s Mapusa. Dr. Sawant said that he had volunteered to assist the government hospital’s outpatient department (OPD), to show support to the medical team fighting from the front lines in the battle against COVID-19. “Serving the people has always been my passion and source of immense satisfaction. On my birthday today, I volunteered to join the team of doctors at OPD of the District hospital, Mapusa,” Dr. Sawant said in a social media post. Officials said that the Chief Minister spent half a day in the hospital, took a round and examined about 10 patients. “I am examining patients at this hospital for the first time since 2008, when I was employed here,” Dr. Sawant said. The Chief Minister quit his government job as a doctor of alternative medicine to join politics more than a decade ago. During his visit, Dr. Sawant condemned the attack on medical staff and front line personnel battling COVID-19 in some parts of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-birthday-goa-cm-returns-to-first-job-as-ayurveda-doctor/article31428867.ece
25 April 2020||New Delhi,||IIT-D’s coronavirus detection assay gets ICMR approval||IIT Delhi said it has got the approval from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for a probe-free coronavirus detection assay developed by it. The institute, in a statement on Thursday, said the assay had been validated at ICMR with a sensitivity and specificity of 100%, making IIT-D the first academic institute to have obtained ICMR approval for a real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based diagnostic assay. The assay was developed by researchers at IIT Delhi’s Kusuma School of Biological Sciences (KSBS). “Using comparative sequence analyses, the IIT Delhi team identified unique regions (short stretches of RNA sequences) in the COVID-19/SARS COV-2 genome. These regions are not present in other human coronaviruses, providing an opportunity to specifically detect COVID-19,” the statement read. It added that the method used primers targeting unique regions of COVID-19 that were designed and tested using real-time PCR. “These primers specifically bind to regions conserved in over 400 fully sequenced COVID-19 genomes. This highly sensitive assay was developed by extensive optimisation using synthetic DNA constructs followed by in-vitro generated RNA fragments,” it further read. The research team said the assay would be useful for specific and affordable high throughput testing. “This assay can be easily scaled up as it does not require fluorescent probes. The team is targeting large-scale deployment of the kit at affordable prices with suitable industrial partners as soon as possible,” the team said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iit-ds-coronavirus-detection-assay-gets-icmr-approval/article31428870.ece
25 April 2020||New Delhi,||Chidambaram asks govt. to facilitate travel of migrants||Former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Friday asked the government to facilitate the travel of migrant workers to their hometowns under strict conditions of health and safety. In a series of tweets, he cautioned the government that the desire of the people to be among their own could not be ‘suppressed for long in the name of a lockdown’. “The overwhelming mood and desire among migrant persons (and their families) is that, after May 3, they should be allowed to go back to their home states/villages. The desire to go back to their home states, to join their families, and to be among their own language-speaking people is an overpowering desire that cannot be suppressed for too long in the name of a lockdown,” the former Union Minister said. In a resolution on Thursday, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) — the party’s highest decision-making body — urged the government to arrange for the return of the migrant workers to their hometowns. “The CWC draws the attention of the Central Government to the necessity of framing a policy under which migrant workers who wish to return to their home states/villages (1) may be allowed to travel under strict conditions of health safety, (2) be provided with adequate money and food in the interim; (3) be allowed to return to work post the lockdown (4) compensation for the families of those migrant workers who have lost their lives in this period of crisis,” the resoution said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chidambaram-asks-govt-to-facilitate-travel-of-migrants/article31428823.ece
25 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||191 cases, 15 deaths in Gujarat||There was a sharp increase in COVID-19 infections in Gujarat, which added 191 new cases and 15 deaths on Friday, taking the total to 2,815 cases and 127 deaths so far. After neighbouring Maharashtra, Gujarat is the second largest State with number of cases and casualties due to the novel coronavirus. There are only seven recoveries on Friday, taking the total number of recovered patients to 265. As on Friday, 2,393 are undergoing treatment at various hospitals, while 29 are on ventilator support. Out of the 191 cases recorded on Friday, 169 are from Ahmedabad alone, while 14 out of 15 deaths also occurred in the city, which is the largest cluster with 1,821 cases and 83 deaths. Meanwhile, only 1,438 samples were tested from April 23 5 p.m. to April 24 5 p.m. as per the data released by the State health department. According to officials, the State has a capacity to test around 3,000 samples per day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/191-cases-15-deaths-in-gujarat/article31428827.ece
25 April 2020||PUNE,||Maharashtra records 394 cases, 18 deaths||Maharashtra reported 394 new COVID-19 cases on Friday as the State’s tally mounted to 6,817 cases, while 18 new deaths took the toll to 301. According to health officials, 11 of these deaths were from Mumbai, five were from Pune and two from Malegaon in Nashik. Mumbai’s death toll now stands at 178, while that of Pune district has risen to 67, with 63 reported from Pune city alone. “67% of the deaths reported had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease,” State Surveillance Officer Pradeep Awate said. While the surge was considerably lower than the staggering 700-plus case on Thursday, Mumbai’s tally soared to 4,447, with 242 of the 394 new cases reported from the city. The news was better for Pune city, which reported only 38 fresh cases, as against 100 on Thursday. The city’s tally reached 848. However, Pimpri-Chinchwad, which had hitherto kept the contagion in check, reported 13 new cases to take its total to 70. Along with the rural areas, Pune district’s cumulative tally has risen to 961. Hearteningly, the number of those discharged saw a rise, as 117 persons were discharged on Friday. The number of persons recovered stands at 957. Malegaon reported seven new cases, taking the city’s tally to 116, with 11 deaths. Areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (excluding the city) reported a jump in new cases, with seven reported from Kalyan-Dombivli to take its tally to 131. Seven more cases were recorded in Thane district whose total stands at 255.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-records-394-cases-18-deaths/article31428833.ece
25 April 2020||Srinagar,||Shopian records 38 fresh cases in four days||South Kashmir’s Shopian, which saw 38 cases of the novel coronavirus in four days, has emerged as another hotspot in Jammu and Kashmir, even as 27 more positive cases were reported across the Valley on Friday. Of the 27 fresh cases, an official said, five were detected in Shopian, which reported 33 cases in the past three days, mostly in Hirpora. Shopian has around 60 cases and over 44 are in the small far-off pocket of Hirpora village. “A team of doctors is already in the village and is testing people. Around 400 samples were taken in the area till date,” Deputy Commissioner, Shopian, Choudhary Mohammad Yasin, told reporters. He urged people to remain indoors. “The district administration is keeping a close vigil on the situation,” he said. Meanwhile, nine more people have tested positive in the hotspot Bandipora, taking the total number in the district to 108, thne highest in the Union Territory. “Out of 454 positive cases, 9 have recovered and five have died,” an official said. At least 65,722 travellers and persons in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shopian-records-38-fresh-cases-in-four-days/article31428843.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Arnab granted 3-week protection from police||The Supreme Court on Friday granted television anchor Arnab Goswami three weeks’ protection from any “coercive action” against him by the police in a hate incitement case. A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud said Mr. Goswami can use the time to apply for anticipatory bail. It also allowed the case registered in Nagpur to be shifted to Mumbai, where investigation would continue. The Bench stayed further action on other FIRs registered against him in States like Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Punjab, Telangana and Jammu and Kashmir. Mr. Goswami had moved the Supreme Court late on Thursday night. It had within the next couple of hours listed the the plea for quashing the FIRs before Justice Chandrachud’s Bench. In the hearing, Mr. Goswami, represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, justified the “extremely urgent circumstances” as several FIRs were registered against him by Congress party members in States ruled by the party or their political allies. Mr. Rohatgi argued that the FIRs were filed by Congress members in retaliation to his TV shows on Republic TV on April 16 and R. Bharat on April 21. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for the Maharashtra government, countered that comments igniting communal violence cannot be protected as free speech. He said nothing prevented Congress members from filing complaints. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is appearing in defamation cases filed by BJP members in several States. FIRs could be filed against anyone. The police should be given a free hand to investigate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arnab-granted-3-week-protection-from-police/article31428809.ece
25 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Decision on Puri Rath Yatra only after May 3||The managing committee of the Shree Jagannath Temple, Puri, will decide on holding the Rath Yatra after May 3, keeping in mind the revised guidelines for restrictions to be issued by the Union and Odisha governments. The Rath Yatra, which is witnessed by over one million devotees in nine days every year, is scheduled for June 24. The committee met on Friday, two days before the auspicious Akshaya Tritiya (April 26) when the construction of chariots begins. “The Central and State governments are the apex authorities to take decisions in respect of public health. We have to follow their instructions. We have requested the governments to ensure that rituals are not disturbed. It is up to the governments to decide whether the Rath Yatra can be held in the absence of devotees,” Dibyasingha Deba, Puri’s titular king and chairman of the managing committee, said on Friday. Mr. Deba said the managing committee decided not to hold any outdoor ritual till May 3, and the decision would be applicable to all Jagannath temples across the globe. The managing committee members will meet Puri Sankaracharya Nischalananda Saraswati to discuss how to perform rituals because of the restrictions. Sources in the State government said Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday held a phone discussion with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Rath Yatra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/decision-on-puri-rath-yatra-only-after-may-3/article31428845.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||India records largest single-day spike||Dr. Paul added that India with its surveillance system ensured that the government’s effort to control the disease became a Jan Andolan. Sujit Kumar Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) giving his presentation on how surveillance is being used to gather epidemiological intelligence and take required measures accordingly to contain the COVID situation said that currently in India actively monitoring 9,45,000 people. “Surveillance network has been set up at district level as well, so that household survey, quarantine and isolation are done as part of cluster containment plan. It is because of the combined efforts that the early infection rates were reduced,” he said. “During the initial period of lockdown, doubling time of cases decreased since people infected already were being detected; later it improved as lockdown put a brake on the spread of the infection. Our seven day doubling time increased from 4.2 in April 6 has gone up to 8.6 days on April 20. We had started our surveillance mechanism even before the first COVID-19 case was reported in India. This has played an important role in helping us contain the spread of the infection,” Mr. Singh said. “Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday interacted with all the State Health Minister and Health Secretaries through a video conference to review the preparedness and actions taken for management of COVID-19. He urged the States to focus on surveillance, house-to-house active case finding, early identification of cases and proper clinical management to ensure that the patients get timely treatment and mortality is reduced,” Mr. Agarwal said. Union Health Ministry has on Friday also written to States/UTs to ensure that all the facilities under National TB Elimination Programme (NTEP) remain fully functional in public interest and ensure that the diagnosis and treatment of TB patients goes without any interruption notwithstanding the COVID-19 pandemic situation.  The Ministry has added that even if the TB patient is unable to approach the health facility, arrangements should be made by the facility to deliver drugs at the doorstep of the patient wherever possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-records-largest-single-day-spike/article31428807.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Unions hit out at govt. for freezing DA and DR||Unions on Friday termed arbitrary the Centre’s decision to freeze the dearness allowance (DA) of its employees and dearness relief (DR) of pensioners and demanded its roll-back. In a statement, the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) denounced the decision announced on Thursday. “No doubt, the country has been passing through a financial crisis, but why should workers and employees be made the sacrificial item for the same. Quite a number of employees are deployed and consequently are involved in various governmental activities and services meant to combat the spread of the pandemic COVID-19...,” it said. The CITU said the government did not consult unions and federations of its employees before taking the decision. The All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) said the decision was “highly arbitrary and unfair”. “The very basis of payment of DA and DR is to compensate the employees and the pensioners for the increase in the cost of living... After the cost of living has gone up, it is unfair to deny the compensation to the employees,” it said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unions-hit-out-at-govt-for-freezing-da-and-dr/article31428808.ece
25 April 2020||Srinagar,||Kidnapped policeman rescued, 2 militants killed||Two militants, who kidnapped a policeman, were killed in a shootout in south Kashmir on Friday, according to the police. “A police party neutralised two militants and rescued a [kidnapped] constable. However, one policeman was injured,” Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said in a statement in a WhatsApp group. Police sources said the militants were travelling in a car along with the abducted policeman when they were stopped near a checkpoint by the Army and the police at Kharpora, Arwani in Bijbehera in Anantnag district, leading to a shootout. The policeman was kidnapped when he was heading home in Kulgam on Friday. It was second such attempt in the past two days in Kulgam. Earlier, militants abducted a policeman on Thursday evening but the police managed to rescue him. On Sunday, one policeman was killed in his house in Anantnag. The police on Friday said they allowed three families which identified slain militants killed in an encounter on Wednesday to participate in their burial in Sonamarg two days ago. “Three out of the four slain militants were identified by their families. These families participated in the burial in the presence of a magistrate,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kidnapped-policeman-rescued-2-militants-killed/article31428814.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||India must be self-reliant, says Prime Minister Modi||The Swamitva programme, he said, would help rural India leverage property for institutional credit and other benefits. The Prime Minister lauded panchayats and villages across India for implementing lockdown rules and social distancing norms. It showed how “rural India has channelled our traditional values to combat the pandemic in a way that astounds those with fancy degrees from abroad.” Since there was no real cure for COVID-19 , the simple mantra of do gaj doori (two yards of separation) needed to be propagated, he added. Mr. Modi’s statement on self-reliance comes at a time when new foreign direct investment (FDI) rules raise barriers for investments by certain countries and the new Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient policy for wresting back India’s lost dominance in the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-must-be-self-reliant-says-prime-minister-modi/article31428821.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Total lockdown in 5 Tamil Nadu cities||A senior official told The Hindu : “The data from the health bulletin for the past three days showed there were more cases in urban centres, especially Chennai. It was felt more people were out on the streets for various reasons. Unless there is a strict enforcement of restrictions, the lockdown will not yield fruitful results.” “Though the spread of the novel coronavirus has come under control in rural areas, there are chances of more spread in the urban pockets, especially in the areas where people gather in large numbers. Hence, there is an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in such Corporations as Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai,” said a government order issued later in the day. At a discussion on Friday, medical and public health experts opined that the spread of COVID-19 could be brought under control only if the lockdown was further intensified in urban areas. “The movement of the public would be restricted in other areas of the Corporations completely. Severe action would also be initiated against those who violate the lockdown conditions, besides the seizure of vehicles,” the order stated. “Wholesale vegetable markets such as the one in Koyambedu would function after complying with appropriate rules. Likewise, the sale of vegetables and fruits would be allowed only on mobile carts. There is no permission for other shops to operate during these days,” Mr. Palaniswami said. He said the stringent restrictions would be imposed in containment zones and disinfectants would be sprayed daily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/total-lockdown-in-5-tamil-nadu-cities/article31428819.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||U.P. to bring back migrant workers in phases||After the U.P. government recently sent 300 buses to bring back its students stranded in Kota, Rajasthan, Opposition leaders, including Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, had stressed that something similar should be done for labourers and workers stuck in other States. More than 8,000 students were brought back to the State, as per government estimates. Ayodhya became the 57th district in the State to record a positive case; a 25-year-old pregnant woman of Poorakalandar area tested positive at a private lab. District Magistrate Anuj Jha said the staff and doctors of the hospital where she was being treated — she visited it first on April 19 before getting tested on April 22 — along with her relatives were put under quarantine. “The corona positive lady is having no symptoms of the disease, she has no problems at the moment,” Mr. Jha said. The village she was from had been sealed as per protocol and medical staff were going door to door for contact tracing, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-to-bring-back-migrant-workers-in-phases/article31428820.ece
25 April 2020||Patna,||Can’t bring students from Kota: Bihar govt. tells HC||At a time when more than 12,000 students from Bihar, stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota, and their parents have been repeatedly appealing to the State government to ensure their early evacuation, the government in a reply to the Patna High Court on Thursday said while it was “sensitive to the plight of stranded students, but bringing them back would amount to violation of lockdown guidelines”. On Thursday, a group of students from Bihar observed a silent protest in Kota while sending out an SOS to the Bihar government to get them back as soon as possible. The students are stuck in different hostels and paying guest accommodations in Kota where they had gone to attend engineering and medical entrance coaching institutes. Earlier, the Uttar Pradesh government had sent as many as 300 buses to Kota to bring back the State’s stranded students. On Thursday, 38 students from Dadra and Nagar Haveli and six from Diu had left by three buses, while 18 buses from Assam and 31 buses with students from Haryana were reported to be ready to leave Kota on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cant-bring-students-from-kota-bihar-govt-tells-hc/article31428842.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Doing Ihsaan in Ramazan||Ramazan is the most revered month of Islamic calendar. Authentic hadiths reveal that the Prophet devoted himself more in worship in Ramazan than he did during other times. For centuries Muslims have been utilising Ramazan to emulate the Prophet and dedicate themselves to the cause of Islam through prayers and philanthropic acts. This time, however, they are bound to feel fettered by prophylactic restraints on their right to pray in mosques, thanks to the conflagratory spread of COVID-19. Nevertheless, these temporary restrictions should not be seen as an impediment to the practice of Islam, but an absolute necessity to stem the community transmission of the coronavirus. As an ethical system, Islam plays a key role in shaping human character. The Quran gives a code of behaviour, hudal lin naas (guidance to humanity), which not just differentiates between good and bad, but helps humans identify their rights and responsibilities in a society. One such societal obligation in the Quran (4:36) is the concept of ihsaan (disinterested kindness) which lists neighbours who are related ( jaari zil qurba ), neighbours who are strangers ( jaaril junubi ), friends, orphans and the needy among the beneficiaries of a person’s benevolence. This is the good character ( husnal akhlaaq ) which an authentic hadith in Muwatta asserts the Prophet was sent to perfect. As is obvious, Quranic huda (guidance) puts a great deal of emphasis on humanitarianism, making Islam more of an anthropocentric deen (system of life) than an obsessively theocentric religion; which is why there cannot be a greater act of philanthropy today for the Muslims than the ihsaan of fulfilling their Ramzan obligations from home.  A. Faizur Rahman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doing-ihsaan-in-ramazan/article31428844.ece
25 April 2020||Bhopal,||Plea to isolate high-risk gas leak survivors||As eight of the nine persons to die of COVID-19 in Bhopal were survivors of the gas tragedy, rights groups on Friday demanded that high-risk survivors having underlying chronic illnesses be immediately identified, isolated and given medical attention to help keep the disease at bay. Six of the first seven who died had been undergoing treatment for chronic illnesses such as cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and hypertension. The methyl isocyanate leak from Union Carbide pesticide plant here in 1984 caused the illnesses and the coronavirus infection hastened their death. Identification of the high-risk survivors could be done by the six State-run gas relief hospitals and the ICMR-run Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre and the National Institute for Research in Environmental Health, said Rachna Dhingra of the Bhopal Group for Information and Action. The rights groups, in a letter to Union Minister for Health Harsh Vardhan, have demanded that the survivors be quarantined at their homes or centres after identification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-to-isolate-high-risk-gas-leak-survivors/article31428835.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajnath asks forces to avoid funds wastage||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday asked the armed forces to spend financial resources by avoiding wastage in view of the economic burden imposed by COVID-19, the Defence Ministry said in a statement. In a videoconference with the three chiefs, Mr. Singh said he expected the forces to ensure their operational preparedness. “Stressing the requirement of jointness of the armed forces, the Defence Minister asked the Commanders in Chief to identify and prioritise tasks that could be accomplished quickly and assist in revival of the economy after the lockdown is lifted,” the Ministry stated. The conference was attended by the Chief of the Defence Staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajnath-asks-forces-to-avoid-funds-wastage/article31428848.ece
25 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam teacher questioned in poem row||Two Muslim organisations have filed complaints against a college teacher in Assam’s Darrang district for allegedly promoting “enmity between different religious groups” through her interpretation of a 1941 poem by Assamese writer Syed Abdul Malik.  Moi Asomiya (I am an Assamese) narrates how the Mughals had come to conquer Assam but stayed back and made Assamese their mother tongue. Rupa Rani Bhuyan, the teacher, posted on social media that it glorified Mughals. “She was summoned by the police and interrogated,” Darrang SP Amrit Bhuyan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-teacher-questioned-in-poem-row/article31428849.ece
25 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Farmers urged not to burn wheat straw||Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, farmers’ bodies in Punjab have come forward to ensure wheat straw is not burned on the fields this harvesting season. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) general secretary Jagmohan Singh said the bodies decided to make an appeal to all farmers as health experts suggested that smoke contributed to respiratory diseases, aggravated by the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19. “The farmers will have to incur some expenses, but the decision has been taken in the larger interest of society,” he said. But Mr. Jagmohan Singh demanded that the State allow paddy transplantation and not set any date for the process to be completed. “Because of labour shortage, more time is required to complete sowing.” Ajmer Singh, president of the BKU (Lakhowal), said his organisation would also urge farmers not to burn wheat straw on their fields. “We will spread awareness in villages.” Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union also urged farmers to break with the practice. The BKU (Krantikari) supported the call, its president Surjit Singh said, but it wanted the State to pay farmers a bonus of Rs. 200 per quintal of wheat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-urged-not-to-burn-wheat-straw/article31428860.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Joy amid lockdown||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/joy-amid-lockdown/article31428862.ece
25 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Centre hasn’t done enough for the poor’||The Indian government has to be more aggressive about spending money to support the poor during the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown, according to Nobel Prize-winning economist Abhijit Banerjee. In fact, India should not be afraid to print money to fund an expansion of welfare benefits, he told the BBC. So far, the Centre has announced a welfare package said to be worth around Rs. 1.7 lakh crore – just 0.8% of GDP – to provide extra food grain and cash support to vulnerable sections of the population. “We haven’t done anything close to enough,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-hasnt-done-enough-for-the-poor/article31428868.ece
25 April 2020||New Delhi,||BJP pushed M.P. into crisis, says CPI(M)||With a spike in positive cases in Madhya Pradesh, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said the BJP should be held accountable for pushing the State into a health crisis. “Responsibility for these shocking numbers in the entire Madhya Pradesh falls solely on the BJP whose top leadership was singularly focused on toppling an Opposition government, instead of being concerned about the grave health crisis in the State,” he tweeted, adding that their lust for power had jeopardised States’ efforts to contain COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-pushed-mp-into-crisis-says-cpim/article31428806.ece
25 April 2020||JAIPUR,||‘Resume child, maternal care in Rajasthan’||Health activists in Rajasthan on Friday called for the resumption of immunisation services for children and antenatal care for pregnant women, which had come to a standstill last month following the enforcement of lockdown. The Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, which acts as the State chapter of the People’s Health Movement, said the suspension of these services would lead to an abnormal rise in maternal and child health-related morbidities and mortalities. Though the State had claimed that the services were being provided at health facilities, very few people had availed them during March and April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/resume-child-maternal-care-in-rajasthan/article31428813.ece
25 April 2020||Mumbai,||Dharavi reports six fresh cases||Dharavi reported six new cases on Friday, taking the total to 220. This is the lowest single-day rise after April 15. It also reported its 14th death, a 60-year-old man from Gopinath Colony. The BMC is undertaking rigorous fever screening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dharavi-reports-six-fresh-cases/article31428824.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chinese firms stand by test kits||Leading Chinese makers of rapid testing kits for COVID-19 have expressed shock and surprise at the reports of malfunctioning of the devices they had supplied to India, saying the products have been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology. The clarification came as more Chinese supplies seemed set to arrive in India during the rest of the month. “Wondfo received import licence from India for Wondfo SARS-CoV-2 Antibody Test [Lateral Flow Method] on March 20, 2020. And the product was validated and approved by the ICMR through National Institute of Virology [NIV], Pune,” said a statement from Wondfo, one of the major global suppliers of rapid testing kits required to deal with the COVID-19 viral infection. A similar statement was issued by Livzon Diagnostics Inc, the other Chinese supplier that also supplied a bulk of the kits. They said the products met the ISO-9001 standards. The statements from the Chinese medical device companies came a day after the ICMR advised stoppage of use of rapid test kits for two days, largely due to complaints of variation in the tests. The controversy is, however, unlikely to dent the medical supplies from China. Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India was likely to get more medical goods from China. “In the past two weeks, around two dozen flights departed for India from five cities in China carrying nearly 400 tonnes of medical supplies, including RT-PCR test kits, Rapid Antibody Tests, PPE kits, thermometers etc. Around 20 more flights are expected to bring supplies from China in the coming days,” said Mr. Srivastava.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinese-firms-stand-by-test-kits/article31428854.ece
25 April 2020||Shimla,||H.P. CM urges Union Health Ministry for more ventilators||Himachal Pradesh CM Jai Ram Thakur on Friday urged Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to provide more ventilators to the State to meet any emergency arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. In a videoconference with Dr. Vardhan, the CM said that no positive case was reported from six of the 12 districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hp-cm-urges-union-health-ministry-for-more-ventilators/article31429104.ece
25 April 2020||Jaipur,||Brief 2||Over 10,000 people have been arrested and nearly 1.03 lakh vehicles seized for violation of lockdown orders and curfew in Rajasthan so far, a senior police officer said here on Friday. Around 9,000 of them were arrested under Section 151 of CrPC, ADG (Crime) B.L. Soni said. He said over Rs. 1 crore has been collected in fines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/brief-2/article31429105.ece
25 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Two held for assaulting doctors in Berhampur||Two youths who allegedly assaulted and abused doctors at the MKCG Medical College and Hospital in Odisha’s Berhampur have been arrested on Thursday. The two were irked when the doctors objected to their entry into the campus without wearing masks on Wednesday. The arrested were identified as M. Siba Patra and Nayan Swain from the Ankuli area of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-held-for-assaulting-doctors-in-berhampur/article31428834.ece
25 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||11 new cases take Punjab tally to 298||Punjab on Friday reported 11 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the State’s tally to 298, according to an official statement. The Health Department said that on April 24, six new patients were reported from Patiala, two from Mansa and one each from Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Amritsar districts. Punjab has so far seen 17 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/11-new-cases-take-punjab-tally-to-298/article31428841.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Police officers should be given risk allowance’||A retired police officer on Friday moved the Supreme Court for a direction to the government to make provisions for the payment of ‘risk and hardship’ allowance, incentives in the form of bonus and additional salary to the police officers serving on the front-lines of the COVID-19 lockdown. Bhanupratap Bharge, represented by advocate Amit Pai, contended that police officers above the age of 48, with medical conditions such as diabetes making them vulnerable to infection should not be deployed for duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-officers-should-be-given-risk-allowance/article31428826.ece
25 April 2020||IMPHAL,||Boxer Dingku allowed to go to Delhi for treatment||Boxer and Arjuna awardee Ngangom Dingko Singh of Manipur was allowed to go to Delhi in an air ambulance for cancer treatment after he tested negative twice for the novel coronavirus. Chief Minister N. Biren Singh gave him monetary assistance on Friday and wished him a speedy recovery. Congress MLA R.K. Imo has given the boxer Rs. 50,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/boxer-dingku-allowed-to-go-to-delhi-for-treatment/article31428828.ece
25 April 2020||BODI,TAMIL NADU||Two pregnant women forced to walk as police seize autorickshaw||Two pregnant women alleged that the autorickshaw in which they had travelled was seized by the Bodi police citing violation of curfew in force, which resulted in the two women walking down to their houses on Friday. The two women, one from Nandavanam Street and another from Santhana Mariamman Koil Street, went to a private hospital for a routine check-up. As they were expecting to deliver babies very soon, on the advise of gynaecologists, the two women planned to visit the Government Hospital for COVID-19 test before deliveries. So, they hired an autorickshaw from their respective homes and arrived at the GH. However, when they called the autorickshaw driver to pick them up and drop at their homes, he said the vehicle was seized by the police. “It was like a punishment as we had to walk back to our homes in the scorching sun,” the women, along with their relatives, told reporters and demanded action against the police. When contacted, Theni SP E. Sai Charan Tejaswi said the empty autorickshaw was seized by the police at 9.45 a.m. at Bodi as the vehicle was wandering in the vicinity. A police officer at the Bodi Town station said the autorickshaw was held as he did not say anything about the pick up or drop of the two women. So, the empty vehicle was seized, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-pregnant-women-forced-to-walk-as-police-seize-autorickshaw/article31429294.ece
25 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||72 new cases in T.N.; Chennai sees surge||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu increased to 1,755*, with another 72 persons testing positive on Friday. Chennai accounted for more than 70% of the fresh cases reported, taking its total case count to 452. Two more persons died of COVID-19 in the State. A 70-year-old woman who tested positive and was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, on April 21, died at 1 a.m. on Friday. A 67-year-old man, a resident of Chennai, was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on April 14. He died at 5.45 a.m. on April 22. His samples have returned positive for COVID-19, according to statements issued by the Health Department. With this, the State has reported a total of 22 deaths due to COVID-19. As of date, there are a total of 864 active cases in Tamil Nadu. The number of persons being discharged from hospitals is on the rise. Friday alone saw 114 persons walk out of various hospitals across the State. This has taken the total number of persons discharged to 866. The patients discharged include 38 patients from the Coimbatore ESI Medical College Hospital, 17 from the Government Vellore Medical College Hospital and 16 from the Karur Medical College Hospital. Of the 72 new patients, 52, including 17 women, were in Chennai. Six of them were aged between 10 and 20. An official of the Health Department said that patients in Chennai included six front line workers and 22 contacts of front line workers who had already tested positive for COVID-19. As per a bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, 13 persons who have tested positive in the State are primary persons, and the department has clarified that detailed investigation was under way. The remaining were contacts of COVID-19 patients. A total of 10 districts have reported fresh cases. Apart from Chennai, there were seven patients in Coimbatore, four in Madurai, two each in Ramanathapuram and Tiruvallur, and one each in Kancheepuram, Salem, Tenkasi, Tiruvannamalai and Virudhunagar. A total of 6,426 samples were tested today, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 72,403.  Protective gear According to officials of the Health Department, the State has a present stock of 68 lakh triple-layer masks, 5 lakh N95 masks and 3.6 lakh personal protective equipment (PPE). There are a total of 1.2 lakh RT-PCR testing kits. These were from the original orders of the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation — 145 lakh triple-layer masks, 37 lakh N95 masks, 21 lakh PPEs and three lakh RT-PCR kits, an official added. The Madras Medical College and the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital were part of a multi-centric trial for convalescent plasma therapy. An official said the institute was selected for the trial being conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research. The other centres are AIIMS and the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/72-new-cases-in-tn-chennai-sees-surge/article31429037.ece
25 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Release news portal founder: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday condemned thearrest of the founder of a portal, SimpliCity in Coimbatore on Thursday night, and said the AIADMK government was misusing its powers during a pandemic and called for his immediate release. In a statement, Mr. Stalin said the portal had published a news item based on DMK MLA Karthik’s statements against Local Administration Minister S.P. Velumani and for pointing out alleged shortcomings faced by government healthcare professionals and alleged corruption by some employees of a public distribution system (PDS) outlet. Mr. Stalin said the arrest of Andrew Sam Raja Pandian was illegal and reeked of arrogance of power. The attacks on the media by AIADMK ministers have been continuing, he said accusing minister Rajenthra Bhalaji of attacking the media earlier. “Now, minister S.P. Velumani, who acts as the shadow of the Chief Minister has used the police and misused powers to arrest journalists. The DMK condemns this,” he charged and sought the immediate release of Mr. Pandian. Journalists’plea Journalists in Tamil Nadu and other States have condemned the arrest of the founder of a news portal SimpliCity, Andrew Sam, in Coimbatore and have petitioned Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to take necessary action to release him immediately and withdraw all the charges. Terming his arrest as an unequivocal attack on press freedom, the journalists also requested the Chief Minister to immediately put an end to muzzling of the press and encourage reporting of facts. The petition said the stories published on the portal, based on which Mr. Sam was arrested, were well documented and aimed at enhancing public welfare. The petition pointed out that the portal was not the only news organisation to have reported the news and it was covered by all Tamil and English dailies. “Andrew Sam, the founder of SimpliCity, has been punished for doing his duty and maintaining his ethics. The reports are meant to alert the government about the issues at the ground level and bolster change,” the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/release-news-portal-founder-stalin/article31429008.ece
25 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Incineration of waste from houses of infected persons gets under way||The Chennai Corporation has started incineration of waste collected from residences of persons infected with COVID-19. Waste from houses where residents are quarantined is also being incinerated. Earlier, the waste from ‘infected’ homes was disposed of using the technique of ‘deep burial’, at designated locations in various neighborhoods. “Chennai Corporation has started incineration of the waste from homes of the quarantined in areas such as Tiruvottiyur, Manali, Madhavaram, Tondiarpet and Royapuram. Many zones such as Sholinganallur and Perungudi have done deep burial of the waste. Incineration is safe. So we will incinerate all the waste. At least two tonnes of waste have been incinerated on Friday at the incineration plant in Manali,” said a Corporation official. As many as 5,768 houses in the city have started sending waste to the incinerator in Manali. Some of these homes have residents who are on quarantine following infection of family members. Some of the residents in these homes have also been quarantined based on information received by contact tracing of COVID-19 cases. Direct route Officials said the residents of all 5,768 houses are cooperating with Corporation workers in preventing the spread of COVID-19 in the city. “The conservancy workers will give the residents a yellow bag and chemicals for disinfection. The residents will seal the bag with adequate quantities of disinfectants and hand it over to Corporation workers. The workers will take the waste directly in battery-operated vehicles to the incinerator. The waste will not go to any transfer station, to reduce the risk of infection in the neighborhood of the transfer station,” said an official.  Hand-wash facilities On Friday, the Corporation began setting up hand-washing facilities in all neighborhoods for conservancy workers. “The workers will use disinfectant to wash hands after completion of work. Over 19,000 workers are carrying out garbage clearance along 33,000 streets. More than 90% workers are reporting for duty. We have provided masks and gloves for the workers. All workers are taken home by special transport vehicles,” said an official. Royapuram is the zone sending the largest quantity of waste for incineration. As many as 2,310 families under quarantine in the zone have handed over waste to Corporation workers for incineration. On Friday, 2.25 tonnes of waste were incinerated and 2.29 tonnes buried at designated locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/incineration-of-waste-from-houses-of-infected-persons-gets-under-way/article31429005.ece
25 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||For second day running, Anna Salai closed for traffic||The city traffic police continue to block vehicles on Anna Salai and effected diversions at important junctions to prevent motorists from making unnecessary trips during the lockdown. Many motorists were caught unawares and found themselves stranded at important junctions such as Kotturpuram, Turnbulls Road, General Patters Road, Wallajah Road and Little Mount. M.N. Mayilvahanan, Deputy Commissioner, Traffic(South), said: “As many motorists are not aware of this measure, we are guiding them to take diversions at each junction. We will experiment with this on other roads also. No one has been stranded here. We are only diverting vehicular movement to other roads to reduce the traffic on Anna Salai.” People travelling from Guindy to Central can take a U-turn at Little Mount Junction and proceed on Taluk Road, Sardar Patel Road, Gandhi Mandapam Road and T.T.K. Road. Restricted usage “Local residents who live adjacent to Anna Salai from Little Mount to Anna Flyover use the arterial road and we are restricting people who come from other areas,” said the Deputy Commissioner. Motorists coming from Gandhi Mandapam Road would be allowed to proceed on Turnbulls Point and can reach Nandanam signal and proceed through Venkatanarayana Road, Boag Road to G.N. Chetty Road. Police said as many used Anna Salai, they had now diverted them onto T.T.K. Road or Beach Road. Further diversions on other arterial roads are likely after assessing the situation, officials said. They added that only ambulances and essential service vehicles were being allowed. The road was open in the vicinity of hospitals. Another senior police officer said, “Many don’t realise the seriousness of the pandemic. We have seized more than 1,300 vehicles on Wednesday.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/for-second-day-running-anna-salai-closed-for-traffic/article31428999.ece
25 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM urges Kejriwal to take care of 559 event attendees||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami wrote to his counterpart in Delhi, Arvind Kejriwal, on Friday, urging the latter to instruct the authorities concerned to extend the best possible care to 559 persons from Tamil Nadu who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event and have been quarantined/hospitalised in the national capital. Mr. Palaniswami also sought necessary medical assistance to those suffering from co-morbid conditions. In his letter, Mr. Palaniswami listed the details of the hospitals and quarantine centres, where the 559 individuals were quarantined or treated and said that the State government had been receiving a number of grievances with regard to the conditions of their stay. Grievances received While 183 persons were undergoing treatment at AIIMS Jhajjar Hospital, RGSS Hospital, LNH Hospital and DDU Hospital, another 376 individuals were under quarantine in centres in Badarpur, Dwarka, Bakkarwala West, Sultanpuri and Narela. “The individuals have been complaining that some of them are diabetic and suffer from co-morbidities. They are not provided timely meals at quarantine facilities. One Thiru. Muhammed Mustafa Hajiyar, who was in quarantine, expired on Wednesday morning,” Mr. Palaniswami pointed out. Whenever such grievances were received from quarantined/hospitalised individuals, the Principal Resident Commissioner in Tamil Nadu House, Delhi, has been taking up the issue with the Health and Family Welfare Department in Delhi or with the District Magistrates concerned, requesting necessary action, the Chief Minister said. Ramadan month “I request you to instruct the authorities concerned to extend the best possible care for the quarantined/hospitalised individuals and also provide necessary medical assistance to those suffering from co-morbid conditions,” he said. “As the Ramadan month is due to start, the authorities may be asked to provide food and medicine to them at appropriate times,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-urges-kejriwal-to-take-care-of-559-event-attendees/article31429028.ece
25 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||18% of residents housebound in 157 containment zones of city||At least 18% of city residents have been confined to their homes owing to the emergence of COVID-19 cases in various localities. And as many as 157 locations have been cordoned off by barricades to prevent the spread of the disease. The city reported more than 400 cases on Thursday and more than 50 new cases have been reported on Friday. Taking the initiative Chennai Corporation officials said they were taking initiatives to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in locations where positive cases have been reported. According to data compiled by the Chennai Corporation, over 3.6 lakh families in the city are confined to their homes without any permission to venture out on the streets because of reports of positive cases in their area. The city has an estimated number of 20 lakh households, all of which have been monitored on a daily basis by 15,000 workers. But the 3.6 lakh families in the containment zones are permitted to come out of the homes only for essential services. Essential services All the residents will get essential services with the assistance of Chennai Corporation officials. Residents in containment zones are requested to call Corporation helpline 1913 for assistance in getting essential services. Chennai Corporation officials said the restrictions on movement of the families will be lifted only 28 days after the last positive case in the location is reported. The civic officials will test all samples of persons with symptoms in containment zones to offer medical assistance.  According to data compiled by the Corporation, over 3.6 lakh families all over the city are confined to their homes without permission to venture outside||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/18-of-residents-housebound-in-157-containment-zones-of-city/article31429003.ece
25 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Recovered patients nudge ahead of active cases for the first time||For the first time since the number of COVID-19 cases began to rise in Tamil Nadu, the number of recovered cases in the State nudged ahead of the number of active cases on Friday. A total of 114 persons who had recovered from COVID-19 were discharged on Friday, taking the total number of discharged patients to 866. Despite 72 new cases being reported, the number of active cases stood at 864 in the State. Almost 50% of the total number of people who tested positive for COVID-19 (1,755*) have now been discharged in Tamil Nadu. According to the latest data published by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, among States with at least 50 cases, only Kerala and Haryana have reported more than 50% recovered cases. The total number of cases in these two States were, however, less than a third of the cases in Tamil Nadu. Across the country, only 21% of patients have been discharged after recovery so far. The number of recovered cases began to grow in the State since April 14, when 23 persons were discharged in a day — the highest number until then. Of the 866 persons who have recovered, 808 were discharged in the last 11 days, with a daily average of 73. Stopping growth In a pandemic with a low mortality rate like COVID-19, the number of recovered cases must steadily exceed the number of active cases at some stage, provided the exponential growth of new cases is stopped. (*This is inclusive of two patients who died in other States and one patient who tested negative after his death)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/recovered-patients-nudge-ahead-of-active-cases-for-the-first-time/article31429024.ece
25 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. raises Rs. 6,560 cr. through bond sales||The Tamil Nadu government has raised Rs. 6,560 crore through the sale of bonds, known as State Development Loans, between March 30 and April 21, according to data from the Reserve Bank of India. The State sold the bonds with various tenures, in the backdrop of revenue collection taking a hit and an increase in expenditure owing to the lockdown. The bonds were sold through public auctions conducted by RBI. T.N. raised Rs. 560 crore through sale of bonds with a tenure of 7 years and an interest rate of 7.25% on March 30. The interest rate spiked to 7.75%, when the State raised Rs. 2,000 crore through bonds with tenure of 10 years on April 7. A further Rs. 2,000 crore was raised through sale of bonds with a tenure of 9 years and an interest rate of 7.5% on April 13. The interest rates cooled off when the State sold bonds of Rs. 1,000 crore each on April 21 with tenures of three and four years respectively. The interest rate was 5.44% and 5.76% for these tranches. On April 7, the interest rates for bonds went up because there was a rush from States to borrow. The total notified amount of bond sales was Rs. 37,500 crore and accepted amount was Rs. 32,600 crore in that auction, according to research firm Motilal Oswal. However, the rates softened as the number of bond issuances came down to Rs. 13,100 crore and Rs. 7,600 crore during the auctions on April 13 and April 21, it added. Motilal Oswal also said that the Central government would have to relax States’ deficit and borrowing limits for FY21. Otherwise, States would have to curtail their spending at this difficult time, leading to humanitarian costs. The States and the RBI would have to manage borrowings more actively and carefully, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-raises-rs-6560-cr-through-bond-sales/article31429026.ece
25 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK accuses AIADMK of ‘hijacking’ canteens||The DMK on Friday petitioned Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and the Municipal Administration Department, accusing the ruling AIADMK of “hijacking” Amma Unavagams for deriving political mileage out of the COVID-19 lockdown. The party sought the framing of a transparent, open and fair scheme of participation of public and political parties interested in bearing the cost of food sold at Amma Unavagams, just as the AIADMK was bearing the cost of the food sold at the canteens in some localities. The DMK also urged the government to open more Amma Unavagams across the State. In the petition, R.S. Bharathi, DMK organisation secretary, said that the Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner received cheques from AIADMK district secretaries in north Chennai on the day he approved a circular to distribute free food, using donations received from philanthropists. He also said that newspaper reports claimed that AIADMK district secretaries paid the entire cost of food sold at the canteens in Villivakkam, Kolathur, Egmore, Harbour and Thiru-vi-ka nagar. “On the contrary, when our party leader M.K. Stalin gave a letter through Sekar Babu on April 14, seeking permission to bear the cost of food sold in the Kolathur constituency, to the Zonal officer Zone VI, no reply has been given till today,” he said. He said the sudden decision to hand over Amma Unavagams “by the illegal decisions of municipal authorities to serve AIADMK’s political ends are highly illegal, arbitrary and a colourable exercise of power”. The DMK’s petition came on the heels of the municipal authorities’ announcement that it would supply free food at all Amma Unavagams in the city till the lockdown is lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-accuses-aiadmk-of-hijacking-canteens/article31429034.ece
25 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sewage discharge into lakes dips, thanks to lockdown||Sewage discharge into two major waterbodies in the western suburbs of the city has reduced in the past month. Samples have been lifted from the Korattur and Ambattur lakes to ascertain the current pollution level, according to the Water Resources Department. The lakes, which were once primary freshwater sources and part of a chain of waterbodies in the western suburbs, had shrunk in size and were contaminated with sewage. Even during summer, both lakes continue holding water and have 70% of their storage capacity. Officials of the WRD said the sewage discharge into the two lakes had reduced by one-fifth over the past month. The decrease in industrial effluents could probably be due to closure of industrial units around the lake owing to the lockdown. Domestic sewage from surrounding localities has also reduced. “We have lifted samples at two or three points from both lakes. For instance, samples have been taken from near the weir of Ambattur surplus course that transports water to Korattur lake,” an official said. Results were awaited and would help ascertain the water quality and pollution level. The department would be able to take measures based on the results, the official added. The department was executing projects to turn lakes in Ambattur, Korattur and Retteri into eco-tourism spots. Environmental activists and residents noted that domestic sewage continued to flow into Korattur lake. Members of the Korattur Aeri Pathukappu Makkal Iyakkam (KAPMI), who have filed a case with the National Green Tribunal (NGT), southern zone, to protect the lake, said sewage flowed through the surplus course. After the NGT directive, the committee formed with the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board as nodal agency drafted an action plan to restore the lake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sewage-discharge-into-lakes-dips-thanks-to-lockdown/article31428996.ece
25 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Donations to CM’s relief fund continue||Karur Vysya Bank has donated Rs. 1 crore to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to support the government’s initiatives to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The demand draft for the amount was handed over by J. Natarajan, president and chief operating officer of the bank, to M.R. Vijayabhaskar, Minister for Transport, according to a statement. Annamalai University Engineering and Technology Alumni Association (AUETAA) said that it is providing food packets to daily wage workers and the under privileged. The association said it had been providing 600 food packets every day, since the lockdown was extended, and its members had been distributing the packets in Adyar and St. Thomas Mount areas. AUETAA is also planning to distribute rice, groceries, sanitisers to the poor, who have been the worst hit in the current crisis. It added that alumni could reach out via mail or its website. Groceries given away The All-India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA) said that its general secretary, C.H. Venkatachalam, handed over groceries and provisions, for the next 10 days, to authorities of the Perambur Railway Hospital, following a distress call from Railways officials seeking help for 30 stranded patients and their relatives from north India. Office bearers of the Tamil Nadu Petroleum Dealers’ Association (TNPDA), representing the petroleum dealers of Indian Oil, Hindustan Petroleum and Bharat Petroleum in Tamil Nadu, contributed Rs. 1 crore to the PM Cares fund, according to a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/donations-to-cms-relief-fund-continue/article31429029.ece
25 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin to ensure milk supply during complete lockdown||Aavin will ensure availability of milk in and around Chennai during the complete lockdown announced by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami from Sunday. “We will ensure additional milk availability at our own outlets and milk retailer points so there is no need for panic buying,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-to-ensure-milk-supply-during-complete-lockdown/article31429000.ece
25 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HCL Tech roped in for data support||Tamil Nadu has tied up with HCL Technologies to set up a state-of-the-art Disaster Management - Data Analytics Center, as part of strengthening its efforts to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. HCL is also helping improve and expand the State’s disaster management helpline (1070) through technological upgradation, manpower assistance and effective reporting mechanisms, according to a statement. The data analytics centre, housed in Ezhilagam building, Chepauk, and supported by HCL, will help capture data trends from across districts, in real time, and display them live to inform the government’s future decisions on the degree of response needed for each district and the graded relaxation of the current lockdown restrictions to resume economic activities, it added. “Our improved disaster management helpline will enable us to respond to citizens’ queries in a timely and effective manner  ,” J. Radhakrishnan, principal secretary/commissioner of revenue administration and State relief commissioner, said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hcl-tech-roped-in-for-data-support/article31429030.ece
25 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No-touch handwash stations in Avadi||The Avadi Municipal Corporation installed no-touch handwash stations at various public places across the locality as a precautionary measure against COVID-19. The stainless steel equipment, operated with a foot tap, has been installed in five places, including Amma canteens and Corporation Offices. The equipment, which have liquid soap dispensers, cost Rs. 46,000 each. Officials of the Avadi Corporation said about 400-500 people are expected to use the facility daily. There are plans to install more depending on the need.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-touch-handwash-stations-in-avadi/article31428997.ece
25 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Kodanad estate: HC rejects bail plea of accused||The Shollurmattam police in the Nilgiris district has informed the Madras High Court that trial in the 2017 Kodanad estate heist and murder case is in an advanced stage and 30 witnesses have been examined in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kodanad-estate-hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-accused/article31429013.ece
25 April 2020||CHENNAI/COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries seek easing of lockdown curbs||Representatives of various industrial sectors urged the government-constituted expert committee to allow businesses in rural areas, besides exports, to resume. During an interaction on Friday with the 21-member panel, constituted to go into the lockdown exit strategy, most representatives sought specific relaxations, even as they assured compliance with all precautionary measures, a senior official said. “They requested that the government consider opening industries in rural areas and also industries where the workers have been made to stay in hostels,” the official said. The expert committee is expected to submit its second set of suggestions to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami next week.  R. Ramamurthy, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, said the associations have said that industries will implement the procedures recommended by the government when the lockdown is lifted. “We have assured the government that we will do our best to create awareness among the MSMEs on the safety measures," he said. A. Sakthivel, chairman of the Apparel Export Promotion Council, said the council sought permission for export units to operate. According to Raja Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters' Association, the garment industry has urged the government to lift the lockdown. "The industry is crippled with the developments of last quarter and cannot afford to miss forthcoming opportunities,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-seek-easing-of-lockdown-curbs/article31429038.ece
25 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Tangedco officials not accepting self-assessment readings’||Local officials in Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) are not accepting the self-assessment readings that the micro units produce, saying that the previous month’s readings are already entered, micro industries here alleged. The Tangedco initially said LT and LTCT industrial and commercial consumers should pay the previous month’s charges for the current billing cycle as its personnel were unable to take readings during the lockdown period. Following objections from the consumers, it recently said that the consumers can take the reading and share it with the Tangedco local officials who will, in turn, estimate the bill amount and inform the consumers. “Our members have been running from pillar to post since morning as the officials are refusing to accept the self-assessment reading. The officials are saying that the previous month amount is already entered and it cannot be changed,” claimed Mr. James, president, Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Industries. “It looks like electricity is going to be a major issue to the small and micro units when the lockdown is lifted. Our members fear disconnection,” he added. According to Coimbatore and Tiruppur Districts Tiny and Micro Enterprises Association, the Tangedco officials say the units should pay the current consumption charges based on the self assessment reading within 20 days.  But industries are shutdown for a month now and the micro unit owners are struggling to pay wages to the workers and meet their daily needs. In such a situation, the industries need at least 45 days time to pay the bill amount, the association said. Memorandum The Association has sent a memorandum in this regard to the Chief Minister, Electricity Minister, and the District Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-officials-not-accepting-self-assessment-readings/article31429042.ece
25 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Works under MGNREGA to resume today||District administration will resume on Saturday the project to provide employment to persons from poor rural households, popularly the 100-day rural employment generation programme or MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Generation Act). According to sources, following the State Government’s order allowing MGNREGA works, the district administration had decided to permit the works, beginning Saturday. The State Government had on April 23 issued Government Order 203 permitting the work. The Government had ordered the stoppage of MNREGA work on March 26 to contain the spread of the COVID-19 virus. The order said works relating to irrigation and water conservation in rural areas would be permitted but not in containment zones and ‘red’ blocks (areas with more than 14 COVID-19 positive cases). It also directed the officers concerned to ensure that the workers wore masks, there were not more than one-third of the required number of workers and personal distancing norm was followed. Consequent upon the order, the administration had decided to resume the rural employment work from Saturday, Collector K. Rajamani said and added that the administration would resume the work in 105 of the 228 panchayats. On a precautionary note, the administration would not resume the work in peri-urban panchayats – those panchayats that bordered urban areas like Kurudampalayam, Somayampalayam, Malumichampatty, Perur Chettipalayam, Achipatti (near Pollachi) and many such areas. Interested persons from among the eligible should get in touch with either the block development officer concerned or anyone from his or her office or village panchayat presidents or vice presidents, said officials in the District Rural Development Agency. But those with fever, respiratory symptoms would not be allowed. The Agency’s Project Officer Ramesh Kumar said he had instructed all block development officers to ensure that in addition to masks, the workers had facility to wash hands at the end of the day’s work. He had also asked the officials on ground to ensure that the personal distancing norm was maintained in such a way that the distance between one worker and another was two metre. And, if any worker showed fever or other COVID-19-like symptoms, alert the block medical officer. The district administration was to have resumed work on April 21 but dropped it at the eleventh hour following instructions from the Government. The district has 1.02 lakh active workers registered under MGNREGA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/works-under-mgnrega-to-resume-today/article31429045.ece
25 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Policewomen help woman deliver male child||Two policewomen attached to Singanallur police station attended to a woman in labour in front of the station in Coimbatore city on Thursday evening. Singanallur Inspector M. Muneeswaran said that Revathi was on the pillion of a two-wheeler her husband Govindan was riding towards the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). She reportedly went into labour near the police station, following which the public in the locality informed the police. Upon receiving information, two policewomen – Krishnaveni and Babyrose – rushed to the spot. “We placed barricades at the spot on all four sides around the two-wheeler,” Mr. Muneeswaran said, following which the policewomen attended to the labour. Revathi was delivered of a male baby around 9.30 p.m. The police called an ambulance belonging to Aathma Trust to rush the mother and the baby to CMCH, he said. This incident comes a week after Tamil author M. Chandrakumar aka ‘Auto’ Chandran helped in delivering the baby of a migrant worker from Odisha in Singanallur on April 16. City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan took to Twitter on Friday to appreciate the two policewomen, and said the mother and the child were doing fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policewomen-help-woman-deliver-male-child/article31429058.ece
25 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||38 patients discharged in Coimbatore||A total of 38 patients, who recovered from COVID-19 were discharged from the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital here on Friday. Sources in the Health Department said that 19 patients were from Coimbatore district, 18 were from Tiruppur district and one patient was from the Nilgris. A total of 20 patients were female and 18 patients were male. The discharged included a six-year-old boy from Tiruppur district. The patients will be in house quarantine for the next 14 days. Salem Two patients who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital in Salem were discharged on Friday. The patients, a 30-year-old male who had attended Delhi conference and a 17-year-old female contact of a previous case - both from Thammampatti were discharged on Friday. According to doctors, the patients were admitted to the isolation ward at the hospital on April 2. R. Balajinathan, Dean of Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, P.V. Dhanapal, Medical Superintendent, Suresh Kanna, Head, General Medicine, K. Parthibhan, City Health Officer and other officials were present and cheered them as they boarded the ambulance to return to their homes. The doctors advised patients to be in home quarantine for another 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/38-patients-discharged-in-coimbatore/article31429056.ece
25 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Minister asks Centre to release pending grant||Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani on Friday appealed to the Central government to release the pending 14th Central Finance Commission grant and performance grant, said a release from the district administration. The Minister asked the Union Minister for Agriculture, Family Welfare, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, Narendra Singh Tomar, to release the pending grant of Rs. 548.76 crore for rural local bodies and the performance grant of Rs. 705.62 crore during a video conference held in the afternoon. Mr. Velumani also sought the Centre’s permission to pay wages in cash to workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in compliance with personal distancing norms and pay money right at the work place, closer to their houses. The Centre had permitted 27 crore man days’ work under the MNREGA and allotted Rs. 1,995.75 crore as wage component and Rs. 665 crore as material component. With the money, the State government had paid workers Rs. 665 crore for their work till March 31, and there was no pending amount, Mr. Velumani informed Mr. Tomar, the release said. The Minister briefed the Union Minister about 19,214 self-help groups producing 45.71 lakh masks, 76,000 litre sanitiser and 57,000 litre hand-wash liquid, the progress made under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-asks-centre-to-release-pending-grant/article31429046.ece
25 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Eight injured in road accident||Eight persons including the Annur Block Development Officer suffered severe injuries in a collision involving a container truck and a car near Annur on Friday. The injured were BDO Mohan (57), car driver Sampathkumar (55), assistant BDOs Swarnavelambal (47), Geethalakshmi (47) and Vijayalakshmi (45), work supervisors Rajammal (51) and Sivagangai (48) and Road Inspector Bakiyalakshmi (40). They were travelling in a government vehicle for official purpose when the truck collided with the car near Telungupalayam at 11.35 a.m. The injured were rushed to Annur Government Hospital for first aid and later shifted to a private hospital for further treatment. Mr. Sampathkumar and Ms. Vijayalakshmi were put on ventilators, while Mr. Mohan and others were out of danger. Annur police have registered a case. Efforts are on to nab the truck driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-injured-in-road-accident/article31429050.ece
25 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Ration token distribution postponed in Coimbatore||The district administration has postponed issuing tokens to public distribution system (ration) card holders for distribution of commodities for May. It was to distribute the tokens on April 24 and 25. According to sources, the State Government had sometime ago issued orders for early distribution of tokens and also the commodities for May. As per the order, the administration was to distribute tokens on the aforementioned two days and commodities from April 27. But at the eleventh hour, the Government asked the administration to stop token distribution. As per the revised instructions, the administration would distribute tokens to the 10.28 lakh card holders on May 2 and 3 and begin distribution of commodities on May 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ration-token-distribution-postponed-in-coimbatore/article31429041.ece
25 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Postal Department releases special cards||The Department of Posts, Coimbatore Division, has launched special post cards to celebrate the works of ‘Corona warriors’. According to a press release from Sudhir Gopal Jakhere, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Coimbatore, picture post cards were released on Friday in four categories on the theme: “We Salute to Corona Warriors”. The cards are to honour the frontline healthcare workers, police, postmen, and conservancy workers who are continuing their duty during the pandemic. In order to create awareness about personal distancing, the cards have a red cancellation. The press release added that customers can buy plain postcards, priced at Rs. 15 each, picture postcards with red cancellation price at Rs. 25 each and picture post cards with golden cancellation, priced at Rs. 50 each. The cards are available at all the head post offices and sub-post offices in the division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postal-department-releases-special-cards/article31429049.ece
25 April 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||More mobile vans to sell vegetables||With a rise in the number of COVID-19 cases and in the movement of a number of motorists, the Corporation officials have planned to step up the mobile vegetable vans from 70 to 200 vehicles daily. According to the Corporation officials, residents in all the 48 wards would get vegetables on their streets twice a week. The vehicles with the volunteers have been issued tokens. Every week, they shall renew the tokens and confine to the wards assigned to them. The vegetables will be available to the residents from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m.  The Corporation officials said that the mobile vehicles earmarked for containment zones shall not move to other wards. The grocery items shall also be available for the residents in the containment zones and different bags priced to suit all types of people have been designed, they added. The Corporation officials also said that the vehicles would cover a radius of 14 km within the jurisdiction and hoped the people would stay indoors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-mobile-vans-to-sell-vegetables/article31429295.ece
25 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Caring for them even beyond the classrooms||Taking the teacher-student relationship beyond classrooms, two government school teachers in Kodumudi block in Erode district provided financial support of Rs. 1,000 each to the families of 36 students, who are daily earners and lost their livelihood due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The teachers belonged to the Panchayat Union Primary School at Chittapullampalayam village, near Salaidpudur. Located in a remote area, it has 33 students from Odakaran Thottam in Anna Nagar. The school was started in 1955 and had served the needs of villagers in the locality for the past 65 years. Apart from these 33 students, the teachers also provided cash assistance to three other students of this village, though they did study in this school. “Most of the students’ parents are daily wagers who work in the construction and agriculture sectors, and are also involved in digging wells. Their livelihood was completely affected for over a month and we decided to extended support to the families,” said S.K. Umadevi, headmistress of the school. “They were without money for a month and hence we decided to provide them with Rs. 1,000 each”, she said. The headmistress and her colleague M. Leeladevi contributed Rs. 36,000 and visited the houses of the students on April 20 to hand over the cash. “The parents were initially clueless on the purpose of our visit. But when we explained, they were very happy”, she added. The teachers informed the local authorities of the purpose of their visit and travelled on a two-wheeler and distributed the cash on Monday. The teachers said their small contribution could be a big support to the families who were without an income for a month. Three students are children of single parent while one has no parents and is living with grandparents. Another student has three brothers. Therefore, the money will help them during difficult times, Ms. Umadevi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/caring-for-them-even-beyond-the-classrooms/article31429044.ece
25 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Over 12,000 cases registered for violations in Erode||The district police have, so far, registered 12,572 cases against motorists and shopkeepers for violating the prohibitory orders in the district as on Friday. Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan said the cases were registered against motorists for venturing out defying the orders and against shopkeepers for selling non-essential items and also selling beyond the permitted time. He said that a total of 400 four-wheelers and 6,500 two-wheelers were seized and were being released after detaining them for 20 days. Also, cases were registered against the motorists and fine collected from them, he added. On Friday, vehicles entering the district through various points were sprayed with disinfectant. Collector C. Kathiravan inspected the vehicle movement at the Parisal Thurai Four Road Junction, near Lakkapuram, where the vehicles entered Kokkarayanpettai in Namakkal district. Meanwhile, the Corporation levied a fine of Rs. 100 each on 173 persons for not wearing mask while moving on city roads. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan warned that second time violation would attract a fine of Rs. 500 and asked the public to ensure personal distancing when they were in market places and in shops. 84 cases in Salem The Salem City Police on Thursday registered 84 cases for violating prohibitory orders and seized 59 vehicles. On Friday, the police marked 12,971 vehicles with colour codes in Salem city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-12000-cases-registered-for-violations-in-erode/article31429053.ece
25 April 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown puts Hosur floriculturists in a fix||As a pandemic infested future looks gloomy, floriculturists are opening up their greenhouses to let in cattle to graze through their once coveted export quality cut flowers that put Hosur on the country’s map of flower exporting regions. Farmers are destroying their crops instead of bearing the costs of harvests for a market unlikely to exist post the COVID-19 lockdown. We anticipate an extended period of lull when lockdown is lifted, says Bala Siva Prasad, president of Hosur Small Farmers Association. “Without marriages, public gatherings, hotels, tourism getaways that enabled flower production, floriculture cannot survive.” Flower growers see only a third of their revenue during Valentine season’s export and domestic sales. But, half of its revenue comes during April and May, coinciding with Valarpirai Muhurtams and vacation with focus on the hotel industry. “The revenue we make now helps us sail through the months of Aadi (July-August) , Purataasi (September-October), when sales is less. That is why, interest moratorium by six months still will not help, because we will not recover during that season,” says Harish Babu, who has 10 acres of Gerbera and Rose in greenhouses in Bagalur. “We have permanent labour in the farm. But if the field is destroyed, to raise it all over again would cost Rs. 10 to Rs. 15 lakh per acre,” Babu says. Yet, he has let cattle into some of his greenhouses. Hosur has over 2,000 acres under green house cultivation and 5,000 acres as open field cultivation spread across Bagalur, Berigai, Kelamangalam and Thally. When the lockdown is lifted, there will be no infrastructure to start production as there will be no quality supplies, says Mr. Prasad. About 1,800 nurseries supply to farmers in Hosur. Since the lockdown, the nurseries with 50 to 60 days of planting cycle lost their production cycle without inputs. Assurances of procurement of flowers for the perfume industry does not account for the volume of the flowers cultivated. “Madurai jasmine was sold to the perfume companies directly at Rs. 120 a kg. But, now the requirement is only 5 tonnes and is procured at Rs. 60 a kg. Similarly, colour extraction units that depend on flowers like Marigold require less than 300 kg, while the production in Hosur is 10 tonnes. Also, the price is Rs. 6 to Rs. 8 a kg,” says Mr.Prasad. The input costs have become untenable for the farmers. The standing expenses of labour, chemical fertilizers, electricity, varies from flowers per acre. For Gerbera, Rose,Chrysanthemum, and carnations, the costs for an acre a day are Rs. 3,500, Rs. 4,500, Rs. 6,000 and Rs. 5,000 respectively. “An average cost per acre of Gerbera plantation is Rs. 55 lakh per month,” says Mr. Prasad. The sector provides direct employment to 20,000 workers and ancillary employment for 25,000 workers . For now, farmers want the government to provide maintenance costs and grant input costs; scale down horticulture term loan interest to 7 %; waiver of jewel loans against farm credit across agricultural sector. In Hosur, Bagalur, Thally, some farmers are converting their farms from cut flowers to vegetables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-puts-hosur-floriculturists-in-a-fix/article31429048.ece
25 April 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||22 persons discharged from Karur Government Hospital||Twenty-two COVID-19 positive patients, including a two-year-old baby, were discharged after treatment from the Karur Government Medical College Hospital here on Friday. Among those discharged were a two-year-old, a three-year-old and a six-year-old. Twenty-one persons among the discharged were from Karur district and another hailed from neighbouring Dindigul district. This apart, three persons who were kept under observation in the hospital were also sent home on Friday. With this a total of 144 COVID-19 positive persons, including 43 from Karur, 45 from Namakkal and 56 from Dindigul district, have been discharged after treatment from the hospital so far. As many as 192 others, who were kept under observation, have also been sent home. Currently, four COVID-19 positive persons from Karur district, five from Namakkal and 22 from Dindigul district were undergoing treatment at the hospital, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/22-persons-discharged-from-karur-government-hospital/article31429375.ece
25 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Chaos reigns as thousands gather at Collector’s office||Chaos reigned outside the Madurai Collectorate on Friday, as massive crowds gathered seeking the QR code pass for vehicles, disregarding all norms of physical distancing. Thousands of people, mostly small-scale vendors of essential commodities, waited in queues to apply for the district administration-sanctioned passes, for at least four hours. A directive was issued on Thursday night that police personnel would seize vehicles plying without a pass with QR code issued by the district administration. Medical officers, nurses and paramedics would be exempt from the rule. The order was issued after a meeting of high-ranking officials on Thursday evening, where ways to prevent the community spread of COVID-19 was discussed. The order added that people must only purchase essential goods from nearby shops and not venture out of their areas. Following the order, thousands gathered at the Collector’s office on Friday morning, fearing that they may not be able to continue their work every day. Most of them were milkmen, vegetable vendors, farmers and drivers of mini trucks. K. Kannan, a milk supplier, said drivers from 15 villages supply around 1,500 litres of milk to his shop every day. “The milk eventually reached homes through milkmen. We had initially received passes from the district administration, but they did not have QR code, so my wife and I have come to renew the passes,” he said. R. Ramar, who drives a mini truck, said the only way he earned something now was by transporting water cans and vegetables. “Without the new pass, there will be no way for us to survive,” he said. A. Shanmugaraj, who owns a meat shop in Bethaniapuram, said that he attempted to apply for a pass online, but the plea was rejected twice. “We have no choice but to come here and put our lives in jeopardy,” he said. The police dispersed the crowds by 10.30 a.m. and the Collector Office road was barricaded soon. Collector T.G. Vinay, in a WhatsApp message to mediapersons, said that people could use their existing passes. People should buy groceries and vegetables in their areas only and not travel to other areas, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chaos-reigns-as-thousands-gather-at-collectors-office/article31429302.ece
25 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||One dead, four test positive||Madurai Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple priest’s 70-year-old mother who tested positive for COVID-19 died on Thursday night. This is the second COVID-19 related death in Madurai district. The woman was first admitted to a private hospital after she had elevated renal parameters and breathlessness. When she was brought to Government Rajaji Hospital on Tuesday, a swab test proved negative for COVID-19. She did not have any travel history or contacts. On Thursday, however, after a second swab test, she tested positive and was transferred to the COVID-19 isolation ward. Her condition deteriorated overnight and she died on Thursday night. On Friday, the State Bulletin stated that there were four new positive cases of COVID-19, taking the count to 56. Among them is a 46-year-old GRH staff nurse residing on New Natham Road. She neither had any symptom nor travel history. The other patients were middle-aged men who also did not show much of a symptom. They were said to have contracted the disease through others who tested positive. They were residents of Vandiyur and S. Alangulam. The Zonal Task Force led by IAS officer C. Kamaraj, IPS officer S. Murugan, Collector T. G. Vinay, Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) E. Karthik and other officials addressed the press on Friday evening to discuss the four-day complete lockdown starting Sunday. Mr. Kamaraj said the primary focus would be on ensuring physical distancing among the public on Saturday. Collector said that additional police personnel and 43 senior officials from the district administration would monitor the situation on the ground from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m. as they anticipate panic buying prior to the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-dead-four-test-positive/article31429309.ece
25 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No forethought, planning’||Su. Venkatesan, MP, and P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan, MLA, have condemned the chaos that prevailed at the Collectorate here on Friday over QR code pass. In a statement, Mr. Venkatesan said directives regarding curfew and norms must be issued only after an assessment. He said a majority of the thousands of government employees, volunteers and others in essential services use two-wheelers without any pass. Announcing a overnight rule without taking into account administrative challenges had led to the chaos, he said. Mr. Thiagarajan said the announcement on QR code pass had caused confusion among the public, leading to people selling essential commodities to gather at the Collectorate without following any physical distancing norms. “Drastic decisions require forethought and planning. A lack of coordination between the police and the district administration had led to the chaos. Any such decision must be taken and implemented by providing at least a three-day notice, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-forethought-planning/article31429299.ece
25 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Now, new devices to track movement of patients||Two Electrical and Electronics Engineering students of P.S.R Engineering College in Sivakasi have designed a model each to detect movement of people leaving home quarantine area or hospital premises. In the first model, G. Vijaya Venkatesh has developed an ‘Automatic COVID-19 quarantine tracking module’ which helps in detecting the movement of those under home quarantine using passive infra-red radiation (PIR) sensor and radio frequency detection. If a person who is placed under home quarantine or at a coronavirus ward of a hospital attempts to leave the area, the PIR sensor fixed at the entrance of the quarantined area or hospital will sense the movement. The input will be sent to a processor and an alert will be sent to the security control room through GSM module. This way that person could be stopped from venturing out and spread the infection. In the second model, T. Vijay has developed a watch to track a patient’s movement. His model has a power supply unit, radio frequency transmitter and receiver, relay unit, a processor and GSM module. The receiver unit will be placed in the centre of the house. The transmitter in watch will continuously send signals to the receiver. An interruption in this signal will occur if a person tries to leave home and remove or damage the watch. An alert SMS will be sent to the security control room.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-new-devices-to-track-movement-of-patients/article31429303.ece
25 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Financial aid for workers||With the State government announcing financial assistance to members of welfare boards of unorganised sector workers, the Labour Department of the Madurai region has urged the workers to avail the financial assistance. The unorganised sector workers were pushed to much hardship following the national lockdown imposed in the country in order to tackle the spread ofCOVID-19.Construction workers, autorickshaw drivers and daily wage workers registered with welfare boards are being paid a financial assistance of Rs. 1,000, and also an additional assistance of Rs. 1,000. The Labour Department, Madurai Region comprising Madurai, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar districts, has requested those workers who do not have a bank account to open one and upload the details so that the financial assistance of Rs. 2,000 is given to them. The workers in Madurai, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram districts shall upload their details onhttps://aclsssmadurai.in/and thos in Virudhunagar district onhttps://forms.gle/ruteErp M5BrCyNn76. Details of the name of the beneficiary, bank account number, branch name of the bank, MICR code, IFSC code, membership number in the welfare board and Aadhaar card number should be uploaded on the website, said Joint Commissioner of Labour P. Subramanian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/financial-aid-for-workers/article31429307.ece
25 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to waive fixed power charges||Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry has urged Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) to waive the fixed charges till December to industrial units with high tension power connection, following the lockdown imposed to curb COVID-19 pandemic. Its senior president S. Rethinavelu has said in a press release that most of the micro, small and medium industries will be unable to pay the electricity bill due to the current crisis, as a consumer with HT power connection are required to pay 90% of the units that they have subscribed to, even if there was no power consumption. The tariff for each KVA (kilovolt ampere) for HT consumers is Rs. 350. In addition, they have to pay Rs. 8 for each unit of electricity they consumed.  In instalments Moreover, electricity bill for March, April and May should be collected after June in instalments, Mr. Rethinavelu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-waive-fixed-power-charges/article31429304.ece
25 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CM misrepresenting facts, says Kiran Bedi||Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi on Friday accused Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy of “misrepresenting facts and making false allegations” against her and the Union government. The Union Territory of Puducherry had benefited from various Central government schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Jhan Dhan Yojana(PMJDY), Kisan Samman Nidhi, Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana and Ujjwala Yojana after the lockdown was announced, the Lt Governor said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-misrepresenting-facts-says-kiran-bedi/article31429017.ece
25 April 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Betel nut unit in Pudukottai sealed||A team of Revenue officials on Thursday sealed a prominent betel nut processing unit in Pudukottai Town. Action against the unit was taken after it was found functioning without ensuring personal distancing among the over 100 employees, the Revenue Divisional Officer, Pudukottai M. S. Dhandayuthapani said. Based on information, a team of revenue officials led by Mr. Dhandayuthapani went to the unit and sealed the firm in which 95 women and 20 men were found working without personal distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/betel-nut-unit-in-pudukottai-sealed/article31429384.ece
25 April 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Whitefly pest attack on coconut palms||Coconut farmers along the Western Ghats in Virudhunagar district are a worried lot after the attack of Rugose Spiralling Whitefly on their palms in the last three months. The farmers have knocked at the door of Department of Agriculture seeking expeditious remedy from the invasive pest that has attacked some 400 acres of coconut groves. This district has coconut palms on some 10,500 ha in Srivilliputtur, Watrap and Rajapalayam taluks. “Traditionally, we were growing only native variety of coconut palms. But in the last two decades, we have been encouraged to go for hybrid varieties and such palms have been giving us higher yield in shorter duration,” said N.A. Ramachandra Raja of Tamizha Vivasayigal Sangam. The pest that was seen in Pollachi region three years back has come to Virudhunagar early this year. “Its infection has increased in the last one month,” he said. Stating that the whitefly was feeding on greenery of palms and making them turn pale and yellow and dry leaves wither within days, he said. He expressed apprehension that if the menace is not contained, farmers may suffer. Joint Director (in-charge) Sankar S. Narayanan said that officials of Department of Agriculture, along with agricultural scientists, have made field survey of the affected farms. “The gravity of the pest attack is less than 30% and farmers need not worry about yield loss till the attack crosses 50%. He said farmers had been told to go for forceful water spraying on palms as an immediate preventive measure,” he added. Hot weather condition is very conducive for the whitefly pest. “We had rain only for a couple of days earlier this month. If we get good rainfall, the pest will be washed off,” he added. Awareness of the pest and its control has been created among the farmers. Mr. Ramachandra Raja said that the officials should come up with an integrated solution for the pest menace and take it up at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/whitefly-pest-attack-on-coconut-palms/article31429306.ece
25 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Pedal-operated system to wash hands introduced||The Corporation has introduced pedal-operated water and the soap solution bottle here for the benefit of the people entering the public offices. As the public have been asked to wash their hands with soap solution and water as they enter the public offices like Collectorate, government offices, bus-stand, corporation administrative office, visitors have to open the water tap and then the soap solution bottle with their hands. “The engineering section of the Corporation has designed and fabricated this device,” said City Health Officer S. Arun Kumar. Similar equipment was introduced in Tirunelveli Corporation also on Friday. “We’ve supplied 5 equipment each to four zones of the Corporation for the benefit of the sanitary workers and others, who can wash their hands after the work without operating the taps with hands,” said G. Kannan, Corporation Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pedal-operated-system-to-wash-hands-introduced/article31429291.ece
25 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Rail parcel consignments witness steady rise||Tiruchi Railway Division has witnessed a steady increase in loading and unloading of parcel consignments during the lockdown period due to the introduction of parcel trains from Chennai to Nagercoil and back. The increase in loading and unloading is also attributed to the SETU SR helpline number launched recently to enable general public transport their parcel consignments to the destination concerned. A senior railway official said once the call pertaining to Tiruchi Division seeking assistance for parcel loading was received in the helpline number 90253-42449, it is intimated to the Tiruchi railway divisional authorities who in turn facilitate the customer in loading / unloading consignments in the respective station. The Tiruchi Division had received 38 tonnes of arecanut from Thrissur in Thiruvananthapuram Railway Division to Kumbakonam in Tiruchi Division on April 22 and 23. On April 21, the Tiruchi Division had loaded 26 tonnes of teak saplings from Villupuram to Khurda road station in Odisha State, said the official adding that the consignments were sent by the parcel special trains. The Chennai – Nagercoil parcel special is operated on the chord line section via Villupuram, Ariyalur and Tiruchi, while the Nagercoil – Chennai special parcel train is operated on the main line section via Thanjavur, Kumbakonam and Mayiladuthurai after arrival at Tiruchi Junction. The official said agricultural produce accounted for the lion’s share in terms of parcel consignments booked from Tiruchi Division with the figure being at 260 quintals. Medicines accounted for 34.63 quintals booked from the division up to April 22. Agricultural produce sent through parcel consignments and unloaded at Tiruchi Division was 272 quintals up to April 22. Medicines unloaded in the division were 54 quintals up to April 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rail-parcel-consignments-witness-steady-rise/article31429366.ece
25 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||V. Kalathur police station resumes work from office building||The V. Kalathur police station in Perambalur district, which had been temporarily functioning from a van after a police constable tested positive for COVID-19 last week, has begun to function from its own premises. The police station did not function in the building since last Friday with revenue officials sanitising the entire building spraying disinfectants at periodic intervals since then. All police personnel attached to V. Kalathur station, Home Guards and volunteers attached to it were immediately asked to be in quarantine and subject themselves to COVID-19 tests. As an ad hoc arrangement, the Perambalur district police authorities arranged a vehicle from which the V. Kalathur station began to function as the building had to be completely sanitised for few days. The police vehicle was stationed close to the station building where spraying of disinfectants was carried out by sanitary workers every day. Skeletal strength from other police station was deployed at V. Kalathur police station. Police sources said the V. Kalathur police station began functioning from the its building since Wednesday. A team of five police personnel led by a Sub Inspector was being deployed in shifts to man the station. The police personnel have been provided with masks. The Constable who tested positive for COVID-19 is currently undergoing treatment at the Mahatma Gandhi Government ,Headquarters Hospital in Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/v-kalathur-police-station-resumes-work-from-office-building/article31429385.ece
25 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Gandhi Market traders withdraw strike call||Traders of Gandhi Market, who had threatened to go on a strike demanding the reopening of the market, have withdrawn the stir plan after they were apparently assured that they can continue to operate from the temporary wholesale market along the Tiruchi-Chennai By-pass Road in the city. The traders on Thursday had called for reopening of the Gandhi Market amidst talk of a possible shifting of the temporary market to the city outskirts due to concerns over poor personal distancing norms followed there. The Gandhi Market was closed in March in view of the COVID threat and people started thronging the market to indulge in panic buying as prohibitory orders were announced. Ever since temporary retail markets were functioning in different parts of the city and wholesale market was temporarily functioning along the service lane between Ariyamangalam and Senthaneerpuram on the Chennai By-pass Road in the city. On Thursday night, traders associations of Gandhi Market threatened to go on a strike in protest against a reported move to shift the temporary wholesale market to the Samayapuram attu mandhai grounds. The district administration had earlier in the day issued a press release stating that the nine temporary retail markets, functioning in different parts of the city, would not function on Saturday and Sunday and the wholesale market on the Chennai By-pass Road would not function on Friday and Saturday (April 24 and 25) nights. A similar move was enforced the previous week too. Though there was no official word on shifting the wholesale market to Samayapuram, the traders representatives belonging to 27 different associations, held an urgent meeting at the Gandhi Market late on Thursday evening and announced a strike. At a hurriedly convened press conference in the night, Ve.Govindarajalu, state general secretary, Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu, demanded that the Gandhi Market be reopened as traders were facing much hardship. Pointing out that wholesale traders had agreed to move to the By-pass Road after the district administration decided to close down the COVID 19 threat, Mr.Govindarajalu said many outsiders were engaged in trade at the temporary market. On Friday, State Ministers Vellamandi N.Natarajan and S.Valarmathi, along with Collector S.Sivarasu, held a meeting with representatives of the Gandhi Market traders associations. Mr.Sivarasu reportedly told the traders that there was no basis for their strike threat as he had not issued any order shifting the wholesale market to Samayapuram. However, the traders representatives had insisted that the Gandhi Market be opened. After another round of consultations with Mr.Vellamandi N.Natarajan in the evening, the traders representatives said they have withdrawn the strike call as an agreement had been reached.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gandhi-market-traders-withdraw-strike-call/article31429389.ece
25 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||TNAU constituent colleges launch online classes||The Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College and Research Institute (ADACRI) and the Horticultural College and Research Institute for Women at Navalurkottapattu in Tiruchi, both constituent colleges of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, have started conducting online classes to ensure that both under graduate and post graduate students of the colleges continued their learning process during the lockdown period. Faculty members of both the colleges have been advised to engage students using suitable online teaching tools. The faculty were also instructed to work for home and engage in activities such as updating teaching/coaching material, preparation of questions banks, evaluation of assignments and unit-wise assessment of learning by students. Recently the teaching staff participated in a webinar and online demonstration on handling online classes, recording attendance and assessment of students organised by the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, which has already launched online classes, said P. Masilamani, Dean, ADACRI. As per the guidelines of the university, online classes were being conducted for post graduate students in department of agronomy, plant breeding and genetics, soil science and agricultural chemistry and plant protection. For undergraduate students of both agriculture and horticulture, online classes were being conducted using various tools. Faculty member were sharing lecture notes, power point presentations, assignments and conducting quiz and model tests for the students so that the learning process continued. The online classes have helped the students learn the subjects at their own pace and complete the tasks within the stipulated time. Student-teacher interactions were also being done through email groups and groups in social messaging platforms. The groups were also used to share reading material, clarify students’ queries and discuss course work. Dr. Masilamani said that students were also encouraged to register themselves in various useful online courses on agriculture education in SWAYAM, NPTEL and ICAR-e learning portals and other University Grants Commission resources. Emphasis was also laid on providing online coaching for students to appear for ICAR’s (Indian Council of Agriculture Research) all India entrance examination for admission to master degree programmes for 2020-21 session to be conducted by the National Testing Agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnau-constituent-colleges-launch-online-classes/article31429367.ece
25 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Online teaching not a cakewalk for most of BDU faculty members||:Experimentation with online teaching has seemingly not been a smooth sail for a large section of faculty members of Bharathidasan University though there is unanimity that adaptation to requirements of virtual classroom is inevitable in the current circumstances. More than a fortnight after the online engagement of students began, most of the teachers seem to be still in the ‘trial and error’ phase of learning to adapt to the technology platform. “The lockdown happened out of the blue. A basic orientation beforehand on the online teaching-learning mechanisms and platforms would have, perhaps, delivered the desired results,” a senior professor noted. “While we are comfortable with teaching in front of laptops, unlike in the classroom environment, there is no way to gauge the level of attentiveness with which the students listen to the lectures,” the professor said, observing that it will take some more time for feeling comfortable with two-way communication in the virtual classrooms. The main problem is reaching out to students in rural parts. They either do not have smart phones or connectivity is poor. There are also very many instances of both the factors hampering the teaching-learning process, another professor said. Since the Ministry of Human Resource Development encourages learning through online platform, it is possible that higher educational institutions would henceforth emphasise on students possessing smartphones as a pre-requisite for admission into academic programmes, M. Selvam, Syndicate Member, and Professor and Head, Department of Commerce and Financial Studies, said.  According to a retired teacher, it is not that easy for senior teachers on the verge of retirement who have for decades relied on ‘chalk and talk’ of teaching to suddenly feel comfortable with gadgets. This situation was not anticipated. But, in any case, universities would be acting in the interests of students by making technology-based academic activities an essential component of the curriculum, the teachers generally feel. Though group emails and WhatsApp platforms are extensively used to communicate with the students, a feeling has gained ground that henceforth, whether or not contingency situations arise, there must be a mandatory requirement for students to handle seminars on the online platform, the teachers emphasise. Vice-Chancellor P. Manisankar said the online initiative has just been undertaken and that an assessment of the impact was yet to be made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-teaching-not-a-cakewalk-for-most-of-bdu-faculty-members/article31429368.ece
25 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Crisis can prove to be change-maker’||Crisis situations such as COVID-19 pandemic can actually prove to be a change-maker, according to Shankar Venugopal, vice president, Technology Innovation at Mahindra & Mahindra’s Automotive and Farm Business wing. Speaking at an online conference titled ‘Defeat COVID-19 with COVID-20’, Mr. Venugopal re-tagged ‘COVID’ as ‘Create Optimise Visualise Innovate Design’ and suggested that businesses should get used to the new ground realities of the pandemic. The talk was hosted by the Tiruchi chapter of Young Indians, to observe World Creativity and Innovation Day (April 21). “Just as the ball point pen, instant coffee and automatic teller machine (ATM) were invented during World War II, COVID-19 can show the way to inventions that can be useful for technological development,” said Mr. Venugopal. Using the example of ‘Our Iceberg is Melting’ by John Kotter and Holger Rathgeber, where a colony of penguins faces a dilemma, Mr. Shankar talked about the importance of accepting change, and learning to keep up with the world. “Most of the inventions spurred by COVID-19 are based on frugal engineering using available resources,” he said, quoting instances of inventions like cardboard hospital cots, affordable face shields and ventilators made by both private and public sector companies in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crisis-can-prove-to-be-change-maker/article31429364.ece
25 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||No new cases reported||The central region did not report any new case of COVID-19 for the first time in a few weeks. The improvement comes after the districts enforced the lockdown and areas where patients tested positive were demarcated as containment zones, and all contacts of the positive patients were isolated and tested, officials said. S. Sivarasu, District Collector, Tiruchi, said that the residents must ensure that the lockdown norms are followed strictly. “Residents cannot come out just because we have no cases. For the district to be removed from the red zone the number of cases must not increase at least for a period of one week,” the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-new-cases-reported/article31429376.ece
25 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T delivers 100 face shields to GH||The National Institute of Technology- Tiruchi has manufactured and delivered 100 face shields to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Mini Shaji Thomas, Director, NIT-Tiruchi said re-usable 3D printed face shields were manufactured at the institutes’ Centre for Manufacturing Technology. The transparent screens that cover the face would help prevent droplets from entering the eyes, nose and mouth of doctors. “Work is also under way to design and develop a ‘smart ventilator’”, she said. “The face shield must be worn with a face mask and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). It is also reusable and can be washed with soap and water,” R. Yeganathan, Medical Superintendent, MGMGH said. M. Duraiselvam, Dean, Planning and Development, NIT-Tiruchi handed over the face shields to K. Vanitha, Dean, MGMGH and Dr. Yeganathan, Medical Superintendent, on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nit-t-delivers-100-face-shields-to-gh/article31429383.ece
25 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Police carry out raids against illicit brewing of arrack||The Tiruchi Rural Police has been carrying out intensive raids against illicit brewing of arrack during the current COVID-19. The raids against illicit distillation were carried out in Thuraiyur, Uppilliyapuram, Thottiyam, Kattuputhur, Ramji Nagar, Musiri and Kallakudi in the wake of closure of all TASMAC liquor outlets due to the lockdown. The action resulted in the seizure of 425 litres of illicit arrack, 1,235 litres of fermented wash and 114 litres of toddy, which were all destroyed on the spot. 55 cases have been booked and 62 accused arrested from March 24 to April 23. 22 motorcycles and three vehicles — four wheelers — have also been confiscated during the raids. In addition to this, the police seized 3,474 TASMAC liquor bottles, which were being stocked and sold illegally during the lockdown, besides confiscating six Puducherry liquor bottles. The seized bottles were destroyed. The police registered 200 cases and arrested 211 persons in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-carry-out-raids-against-illicit-brewing-of-arrack/article31429391.ece
25 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Work resumes at Chathram Bus Stand||The Tiruchi Corporation has resumed construction work at the Chathram Bus Stand after the Government allowed some activities to resume in various parts of the country. The work was suspended in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown. About 60 workers, mostly migrant labourers from Bihar had been staying at the site. Speaking to The Hindu , S. Sivasubramanian, Corporation Commissioner, said that food and welfare of the workers was being taken care of by the contractors. “They have been providing them with sufficient groceries and essentials,” he said. The workers will be completing minor works, such as erecting pillars using the material on hand, Mr. Sivasubramanian said. “There is no regular supply of material so they will only be finishing work with whatever is available on site,” he said. The workers had not left the site since the lockdown and are all safe, he said. They have all been practising personal distancing. As none of them have stepped out, there was no cause of worry, he added. The Chathram Bus Stand redevelopment work is being done at a cost of Rs. 17.34 crore under the Smart Cities Project. The work began on November 2 and was estimated to be completed in 24 months, officials said. “The lockdown has created some delay but we will try to finish the work within the stipulated time”, they added. The civic body has also begun minor works on redevelopment of the Karur Bypass Road. The road was being redeveloped as a ‘model road’ undertaken under the State Government's Infrastructure Gap Filling Fund at a cost of Rs. 8 crore. “The road is usually very congested and the lockdown has made our work easier,” a worker on the site said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-resumes-at-chathram-bus-stand/article31429382.ece
25 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Woman held for poisoning minor daughters||A 40-year-old woman was arrested on Friday on the charge of killing her two minor daughters by giving them a soft drink mixed with rat paste. The two girls who were undergoing treatment at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here succumbed on Friday. While one girl aged 13 years died in the early hours, another girl died in the evening. The arrested woman Santhameena, a widow, had been staying in a joint family at Samudhram village. Police sources said problem arose a few days ago after Santhameena’s husband’s brother found cash missing from his shirt pocket frequently and is alleged to have scolded her daughters. Fearing that her daughters’ would be blamed for future occurrences, Santhameena allegedly give her daughters soft drink mixed with rat paste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-held-for-poisoning-minor-daughters/article31429371.ece
25 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Persons with disabilities look for district-level helpline||People with disabilities here say they face difficulties in contacting the centralised toll-free helpline 18004250111, for meeting their emergency requirements like supply of provisions or medicines at doorsteps, during the lockdown period. Many opine that the response mechanism could be improved through start of an exclusive district-level control room. According to officials, the helpline operated from the office of Commissioner of the Welfare of the Differently-Abled functions with more than 10 lines for attending to the grievances of the callers. “However, getting a response from the helpliine is a time-consuming process. We have to keep calling repeatedly for a considerable duration of time. Not many have the patience to persist with making repeated calls,” Kamaraj of Police Colony, a person with orthopaedic disability said. State-wide, the helplines have addressed the needs of over 25,000 callers during the lockdown period. The helpline has addressed the needs of 1,837 people with disabilities in Tiruchi district, R. Ravichandran, District Differently Abled Welfare Officer said.  Grocery items, vegetables, medicines and other requirements are being routed to the needy callers through the respective Village Administrative Officers. Materials worth about Rs. 250 are being provided at the doorsteps of the disabled people. According to Mr. Ravichandran, the combined efforts of the Revenue Department and Non Government Organisations have reflected in immediate attention to emergency requirements. Now that the government has decided to deliver monthly rations at the doorsteps of the people with disability following extension of the lockdown period, the supply of rice, dal, cooking oil and condiments will considerably obviate the need for them to depend on the helpline, Mr. Ravichandran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/persons-with-disabilities-look-for-district-level-helpline/article31429377.ece
25 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Donate blood||The Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital requires blood for patients undergoing treatment at the hospital, including pregnant women and mothers. The district administration has arranged for a special blood donation camp on Monday and requested residents to come forward to donate blood. A special blood donation camp where personal distancing and other norms of the lockdown will be ensured will be organised at the National College in Karumandapam on Monday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Collector S. Sivarasu said that interested donors must send a WhatsApp message saying ‘Want to donate’ to 9443182847 or 9965519761 to register themselves for the camp. An SMS will be sent to the donor with the scheduled time for donation. The donor can use the SMS as a pass to travel to the venue to donate blood, he said, through a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/donate-blood/article31429369.ece
25 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Three minors detained for ‘defaming PM’||The Palakkarai Police here detained three minor boys after they allegedly spoke in a manner defaming Prime Minister Narendra Modi and uploaded the video on Tik Tok app. It subsequently went viral on social media. The incident occurred at Bheema Nagar area here on Thursday. Acting on a complaint, the Palakkarai Police detained the three boys- two of whom were aged 17 years and another a 15 -year-old. A case was registered against them under Section 45 of the Information Technology Act. All were released on bail, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-minors-detained-for-defaming-pm/article31429370.ece
25 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||e-passes not mandatory for two-wheelers||District Collector S.Sivarasu has clarified that there was no need to obtain e-passes for all two wheelers. The passes are not mandatory for all two-wheelers in Tiruchi and people need not believe messages being circulated in social media platforms and rush to the Collector’s Office, Mr. Sivarasu said in a press release. e-passes are issued only to those who require to travel for essential requirements such as medical treatments, funeral or marriages, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-passes-not-mandatory-for-two-wheelers/article31429374.ece
25 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Fishing activity suspended||Though fish price is going up, country boat fishermen have decided to stop fishing activity as they fear that a huge number of traders would throng their villages causing viral infection. Fishing operations across the State came to a grinding halt in the third week of March after the State and the Central governments declared lockdown driving seafood consumers towards dry fish. Even as this stock was depleting, country boat fishermen urged the State government to allow them to resume operations so that consumers would get seafood. The State government allowed country boat fishermen to fish in a regulated manner. However, mechanised boat fishermen could not do so as the 60-day annual fishing ban started on April 15. When the Centre exempted fishing operations by country boat fishermen from the lockdown, the fishing schedule imposed by the State government vanished allowing country boat fishermen to go for fishing on all days. Though country boat fishermen of Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts agreed to resume their operations, their counterparts in Kanniyakumari decided to abstain from fishing. Each country boat is permitted to carry a maximum of four fishermen with masks and sanitisers. The catches should be brought to the shore and sold to traders in a regulated manner instead of allowing a huge gathering on the shore for purchase of fish through auction, the usual procedure. As only country boat fishermen were allowed, prices increased and demand went up. While one kg of barracuda (ooli), which was sold at Rs. 350 earlier, was sold at Rs. 650 a kg, one kg of white snapper (velameen), which was sold at Rs. 300 earlier, was sold at Rs. 600. Price of ‘seela meen’ (seer fish), the premium variety, crossed Rs. 1,000 a kg from Rs. 600 a kg. When fishermen from all 10 hamlets in Tirunelveli district resumed work, traders of Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari, who had to go to Terespuram, Tharuvaikulam, Vembar and New Harbour Beach in Thoothukudi district for buying fishes, rushed to these hamlets. So, even small catches fetched huge money for the fishermen. “Our people enjoyed decent revenue after resuming operations,” said Raymond of Uvari, the largest fishing hamlet of Tirunelveli. One sardine was sold for Rs. 13, which is an unprecedented price in the local market due to huge demand. Previously, even during non-season, one could buy 3 to 5 sardines for Rs. 10. There is no need for going into the prices of barracuda, white snapper, silver pomfret or seer fish, he added. “While barracuda is sold for Rs. 650 a kg, bigger size seer fish has crossed Rs. 1,000 a kg,” says trader Antony Clyton of Kooduthaazhai, another coastal hamlet. However, country boat fishermen have decided to suspend operations as they are worried that traders, coming to their villages from various parts, might bring infection to their hamlets. “We cannot regulate traders who compete with one another for buying our catches. Consumers from villages close to our hamlets too are coming to buy fishes. All villages are thus crowded which cannot be controlled. So we’ve decided to suspend our operations as of now,” says fisherman Ramu of Idinthakarai. The fishermen look up to the Department of Fisheries and the police to regulate sale of fishes as and when they bring catches to the shore. “If officials design a system to sell fishes without crowd, it will be good. If such a system is put in place, all country boats in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi will start operations to bring down prices of fishes. Consumers too will get fresh, delicious and nutritious seafood at right price,” says Mr. Raymond.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishing-activity-suspended/article31429285.ece
25 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Officers to ensure timely dialysis of patients||The deployment of Assistant Block Development Officers at Kaavalkinaru check-post has made it easy the issue of e-pass for the patients going to the Kanniyakumari Medical College Hospital at Aasaaripallam in Nagercoil for renal dialysis. Since a good number of patients from southern Tirunelveli district undergoing dialysis are depending on the facilities available at Kanniyakumari Medical College Hospital at Aasaaripallam in Nagercoil, getting e-passes to reach the hospital from Valliyoor, Kallikulam, Vadakkankulam, Kaavalkinaru, Radhapuram, Chettikulam, Koodankulam and the coastal hamlets became a cumbersome exercise after the lockdown. As of now, those who have to travel to neighbouring districts for any emergency have to apply for e-passes through the websitetirunelveli.nic.in. Since it takes considerable time to get the mandatory e-passes owing to huge number of applicants that is growing everyday, the dialysis patients wanted it to be resolved at least for them. When the patients approached Radhapuram MLA I.S. Inbadurai to put in place a user-friendly mechanism for getting e-passes within the shortest possible duration as some of these patients have to go to the hospital twice a week for dialysis, he appealed to Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish to depute officials at Kaavalkinaru check-post, the spot closer to the Kanniyakumari district boundary. Subsequently, the Collector posted 4 ABDOs to work at this spot in four shifts. After applying for the e-pass, the applicant patients should come to the ABDOs at Kaavalkinaru check-post and give the ABDO there the code number they had received on submitting the application if they are yet to receive the e-pass. The official will immediately take steps for issuing the e-pass. If the clearing process gets delayed, the patient can continue his or her journey to the hospital. Even before the applicant reaches the Kanniyakumari district police check-post at Aralvaimozhi, the e-pass will be issued with the ABDO’s intervention. “If the process is still getting delayed due to server problem or some other technical glitch, the patient, on reaching the Kanniyakumari district police check-post at Aralvaimozhi, should inform the policemen there about their purpose of visit and the pending application for e-pass. Immediately, the policemen there will contact the ABDO on duty at Kaavalkinaru check-post to confirm if the application is genuine and the applicant is a patient going for dialysis. As the ABDO would confirm it, the patient can reach the hospital on time for dialysis and return home after the procedure,” Ms. Shilpa said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officers-to-ensure-timely-dialysis-of-patients/article31429292.ece
25 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Batting for bats||Even as bats roosting in trees close to residential areas face public ire following a report connecting the flying mammals to the ongoing pandemic, a group of naturalists here have started working on mending man’s strained association with them. After a recent research publication from Indian Council of Medical Research concluded that Bat coronavirus (BtCoV) are found in the common Indian Flying Fox (Pteropusgiganteus) and Fulvous Fruit Bat (Rousettus leschenaultii), public ire turned towards them. In some places, their roosting came under attack. However, less than 5% of the screened samples contained this coronavirus. It is very distantly-related to SARS-CoV-2 and, hence cannot cause COVID-19, the naturalists argue. “Due to misreporting of the study findings, people have panicked and started driving away the bats living close to their houses,” says Mathivanan, coordinator, Agasthyamalai Community Conservation Centre. In a bid to create awareness among the public, ATREE’s Agasthyamalai Community Conservation Centre (ACCC), Manimutharu, Nellai Nature Club, Tirunelveli and Muthamil Public School, Munneerpallam jointly organised an awareness programme here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/batting-for-bats/article31429283.ece
25 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||DMK MLA distributes essential items||DMK president M.K. Stalin’s appeal to party MPs and MLAs to help the needy during the lockdown has gone well with them, as Palayamkottai MLA T.P.M. Mohideen Khan distributed rice and vegetables to 500 poor families here on Friday.  After a few beneficiaries from nearby streets received the essential commodities from the MLA, the party cadre took the gift hampers in a cargo auto and distributed them to beneficiaries at their doorstep. “This will continue till the end of the lockdown,” Mr. Mohideen Khan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-mla-distributes-essential-items/article31429289.ece
25 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Teaching lockdown violators a lesson||In a novel attempt to warn violators of the COVID-19 lockdown, the Tiruppur district police have released an awareness video where violators are ‘punished’ by making them sit inside an ambulance with a person pretending to be a COVID-19 positive patient. This entire video/play was staged by the police with the help of volunteers at Palladam on Thursday. The video, which runs for three minutes and 51 seconds, was uploaded on YouTube by the social media unit of the district police and garnered nationwide attention on various social media platforms on Friday. The skit shows five youths riding bikes without masks. They are caught by the Palladam police during a vehicle check. “Do you know what will happen if you do not wear a mask?” Palladam Inspector (in-charge) G. Palaniyammal asks them and ushers them into an ambulance parked nearby. In the ambulance, a person is seen lying down wearing personal protective equipment (PPE), implying that he is a COVID-19 patient. Locked inside the ambulance, the youths plead with the police to release them, and two of them escape through the open window of the vehicle. Ms. Palaniammal addresses the viewers at the end of the video, noting that the youths have realised the danger of COVID-19. “When you roam outside, you will not know who has [COVID-19],” she warns in the video, requesting people to stay home and wear masks while going outside. “I have been receiving phone calls since morning,” Ms. Palaniammal told The Hindu on Friday, adding that those who called her assured her that people would not venture out unnecessarily after watching the video. Important message District Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal said the social media team of the district police conceptualised the awareness video. “People are still roaming on the roads. We wanted to drive home the message that [COVID-19] is everywhere,” she said. All the youths, including the ‘patient’, were volunteers who agreed to be a part of this skit, the SP noted. When asked whether the video inadvertently stigmatises COVID-19 patients, Ms. Mittal clarified it was “not about the patients” and rather stresses on the need for the public to be careful. “When you wake up to the reality, it should not be too late. That is the point which we were trying to drive home through this video,” Ms. Mittal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teaching-lockdown-violators-a-lesson/article31429032.ece
25 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Four fined for consuming wild boar meat||Forest Department officials levied a fine of Rs. 40,000 on four men on charges of consuming wild boar meat in Karadimadai under the Madukkarai forest range on Thursday. Officials said that V. Periasami (43), A. Veeran (28), S. Murugan (53) and S. Premkumar (28) were fined Rs. 10,000 each for the offence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-fined-for-consuming-wild-boar-meat/article31429065.ece
25 April 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Medical equipment worth Rs. 1.25 crore purchased||Medical equipment worth Rs. 1.25 crore have been purchased for use for treating COVID-19 patients in Tiruvarur district. The expenditure incurred for the purchase was met with the allotments made by the Members of Parliament and the Members of Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly from their respective Local Area Development funds, according to Food Minister R. Kamaraj. Disclosing this in a press release, the Minister said that equipment such as ventilators, blood pressure testing machines, private protective equipment (PPE), thermal scanner, mobile X-ray units, pulse oximeter and others would be used for providing treatment to the novel coronavirus infected patients. Earlier, the Minister kicked off the ‘Aarokiyam’ scheme by serving ‘kabasura kudineer’ to a batch of sanitary workers near the Tirvuarur Municipality. He said that Polymerise Chain Reaction (PCR) test had been conducted on 2,500 persons in Tiruvarur district and out of this only 29 persons tested positive for COVID-19 infection. And out of the 29 already nine persons have been sent back home after treatment and three others would get back to their homes on Friday. As part of the COVID-19 containment measures, 2,83,561 persons belonging to 56,773 families in the district have been screened for coronavirus symptoms and were being monitored by the health department officials, he added. Complaints Meanwhile, Collector T. Anand in a press release has stated that complaints regarding domestic violence or harassment to senior citizens could be lodged with the ICDS staff of the respective areas. For lodging the complaint the contact number of the staff could be obtained from thewww.icds.tn.nic.inwebsite where the visitors should click on the link “Know your DPO/CDPO/Supervisors /AWW”. 60-year-old discharged A 60-year-old person of Kumbakonam was discharged from the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital after treatment for COVID-19 virus infection. He has been advised to remain in isolation at his home for another 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-equipment-worth-rs-125-crore-purchased/article31429378.ece
25 April 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen asked to avail Rs. 1,000 relief||Fishermen in Tiruvarur district, who are yet to receive the Rs. 1,000 COVID-19 relief amount, have been advised to contact the Assistant Director (Fisheries) Office, Tiruvarur, over the phone or through e-mail to avail the assistance. Around 5,000 fishermen, including inland fishermen, in Tiruvarur district have enrolled their names in the Welfare Board for Fishermen. So far a little over 4,000 members have received the benefit. The remaining have been directed to submit their membership number, name, address, contact number, Aadhaar number and bank account details to the AD (Fisheries) Office at the District Collectorate campus, Tiruvarur over phone (04366) 224140 / 88259 60988 or email:adfisheriestvr@gmail.comofficial sources said. Meanwhile, the Thanjavur AD (Fisheries) Office sources said that around 9,000 out of 10,500 members of the Welfare Board in Thanjavur district had received the relief amount. The remaining members were directed to provide the details to the AD (Fisheries) Office over the phone (04362) 235389 to avail the relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-asked-to-avail-rs-1000-relief/article31429380.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Complete lockdown in Salem district during weekend||District Collector S.A. Raman has announced two-day complete lockdown in the district, on April 25 and 26. Complete lockdown will be exercised in the Salem Corporation limits till Tuesday, April 28, according to the orders by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. Mr. Raman said in a release that all shops, bakeries, weekly and vegetable markets and meat shops in the district would remain closed and advised public not to venture out on these days. Mr. Raman said that case would be registered against those stepping out of their houses for morning or evening walks and motorists, who venture out unnecessarily. He added that these persons would be admitted at hospital and would undergo tests for COVID-19. Mr. Raman said that those venturing out of their homes from Monday should compulsorily wear masks and action would be taken otherwise. He said that offenders would be fined Rs. 100 in first instance, Rs. 500 second time and case would be registered by the police under the Epidemic Diseases Act third time. He added that about 200 vehicles have been arranged in the district for door delivery of essentials. Mr. Raman advised public not to fly kites until the end of lockdown as they affect power supply. He said that stern action would be taken against the violators. Salons have also been advised to remain closed and they have been asked not to provide home service as it could cause spread of the disease. Public should offer full cooperation to government’s efforts to prevent community spread, he added. As on Thursday, five new cases were reported in Salem and containment measures are being carried out. J. Nirmalsen, Deputy Director of Health Services said that containment measures are being carried out at 10 places here and nearly 1.35 lakh houses are to be covered in relation with recently reported cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complete-lockdown-in-salem-district-during-weekend/article31429063.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Technology comes in handy for visually impaired people||Members of ‘Unnaipol Oruvan,’ a group formed on messaging platforms such as Whatsapp and Telegram, have been extremely busy for the past one month. The members are all visually impaired persons from across the State, who have been raising funds to supply essential commodities and financially support to the families of those with visual impairment and deeply impacted because of the lockdown. “Following the lockdown, with the contribution of the members and a few good Samaritans, we were able to collect around Rs. 90,000, which has helped in supporting the families of around 90 persons,” says K. Balamurugan, a Tamil teacher at A.S. Government Higher Secondary School in Sholavandan, who is also an administrator of the group. He said Rs. 1,000 is credited to the bank account of each beneficiary and an acknowledgement message is posted on the group. “For those families who do not have a bank account, we either give them cash or supply groceries at their doorstep with the help of our friends. Whenever we help a a family, we post the details to ensure credibility,” he says. The Whatsapp group with 190 members was started in 2015. Since the number of members in a Whatsapp group is restricted, another group was started on Telegram a year back. It has 380 members. “The advantage with Telegram is that it is more disabled persons-friendly and it is more secure than Whatsapp,” says T. Rajadurai, another administrator. These groups, which were started to share credible news and have meaningful debates, have turned into a platform to raise funds for the visually impaired people during times of crisis. These members have also contributed their bit during the Gaja cyclone and the Chennai floods in 2015. “We wanted to help the visually impaired, as being part of that community, we understand the distress they will have to endure during this period. Most of them, who would have petty shops or sell snacks in trains and buses, have lost their only means of livelihood. We believe that our small contribution would help them manage for some days,” says T. Mariselvam, a member from Virudhunagar. Another group Another Telegram group called Technocenter has also been functioning to help the visually impaired people to equip themselves with the latest technological developments. “There is a general notion that visually impaired people are not skilled enough to use digital applications. Ironically, technological development has empowered us. It has only proved that there is no barrier for those who wish to help,” says Mr. Balamurugan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/technology-comes-in-handy-for-visually-impaired-people/article31429298.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Residents in containment zone seek supply of essential items||Residents of Poompuhar Nagar in B.P. Agraharam in Ward 57 which comes under containment zone sought supply of essential commodities and gathered on the streets here on Friday. There are over 180 families living in the tenements who are daily earners and their livelihood was curtailed during the lockdown period. Since their area comes under containment zone, they were not allowed to venture out of their houses and have to depend on shops in their area. Residents said that they had lost all the money in the past one month purchasing essential commodities and currently they were left with no money to purchase any items. “Since there is no income for us, our children are suffering and the district administration should take steps to provide them with essentials.” Over 50 women gathered on the street in the area. B.P. Agraharam Village Administrative Officer Gomathi, Corporation Assistant Commissioner Ashok Kumar and Karungalpalayam police held talks with them. Residents expressed their grievance to the officials and wanted relief materials to be given to them free of cost at the earliest. Officials assured to take up the issue with higher officials and arrange essential commodities. Later, the residents left.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-in-containment-zone-seek-supply-of-essential-items/article31429051.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Six out of seven new cases from Coimbatore City Police||With Coimbatore district seeing the confirmation of seven new COVID-19 positive cases on Friday, six out of seven cases were from the Coimbatore City Police. Sources in the Health Department said that all these cases, including the police personnel, were from containment zones and were contact cases. Efforts for contact tracing are under way, sources added. Three women and three men were police personnel while the seventh case was a 20-year-old woman from Sirumugai. Out of the six police personnel, three were attached to Podanur police station. Consequently, Commissioner of Police Sumit Sharan ordered the police station to be temporarily closed for disinfection works. He told The Hindu on Friday that the police personnel will be working out of a private building near to the police station on Friday and Saturday and will return to the station on Sunday. Number of cases in Coimbatore district as on Friday was 141. Tiruppur district saw no new cases on Friday as its tally remained 110.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-out-of-seven-new-cases-from-coimbatore-city-police/article31429055.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cancer care: a war on two fronts||COVID-19 is more severe in the elderly population and people with underlying medical conditions, including cancer (present or past history). A number of studies from China and Europe have shown that the prevalence of cancer in patients with COVID-19 is 2%. The data from the tertiary cancer institution of Wuhan University showed a two-fold increased risk of COVID-19 in comparison to the general population. Cancer patients are more susceptible to the infection. There is significantly higher incidence of death or ICU admissions. A report from Italy states that 20% of deaths due to COVID-19 were in active cancer patients. Statistics suggest that mostly men with lung cancer are affected. Patient management  The initial steps of outpatient management are to minimise face-to-face contact using tele consultations and medicine delivery at home. Most cancer centres have established symptom screening for all stakeholders. If suspicious symptoms arise they are referred to the triage and later to treating facilities. Second, it is important to educate the patient and family for prevention. The new mantras are to ensure the continuum of care, get prepared for a new routine, protect healthcare workers to protect patients and reinforce support Several patients need imminent cancer care and it becomes imperative to tackle treatment decisions. These patients can be approached whether they have a COVID-19 situation or not. Cancer patients with new respiratory symptoms or with known COVID-19 exposure are highest priority for COVID-19 testing. For those cancer patients who test positive, anti-cancer therapies are withheld for the duration of the illness. The patient must be retested after symptom resolution twice and cancer treatment can go on after getting two consecutive negative results within a 48 hours. Prioritising Anti-cancer treatment: L1: Curative treatment with a high (> 50%) chance of success L2: Curative treatment with an intermediate (20% - 50%) chance of success  L3: Curative treatment with a low (10% - 20%) chance of success  L4: Curative treatment with a very low (0% - 10%) chance of success  L5: Non-curative treatment with a high (> 50%) chance of palliation or temporary tumour control  L6: Non-curative treatment with an intermediate (15% - 50%) chance of palliation or temporary tumour control (*L-Level) Risk of progression  Balancing risk from treatment delay vs. harm from exposure to COVID  Based on low risk of progression – safe to delay for more than three months.  Based on intermediate risk of progression – delay of three months may be acceptable.  For patients with high risk of progression – there should be no delay in treatment for cancer patients under the age of 70   Chemotherapy guidance  Patients in deep remission who are receiving maintenance therapy, stopping chemo can be an option  In patients where adjuvant chemo benefit may be minimal, hormonal therapies can be considered  Oral chemo and home infusions can be an option to consider  Heavily infected patient: Consider altering chemo schedule so lesser visits to hospitals  Immuno therapy: At this time no data available on the kind of impact of immunotherapy on COVID-19 infected patients. However, concern is on immue-related pneumonitis – which could increase the complications due to COVID-19  Allogenic Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation: Prudent to test potential donors, though there is absence of evidence of blood transmission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancer-care-a-war-on-two-fronts/article31429012.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rotary donates drone to police||To assist police surveillance of the COVID-19 lockdown, Rotary Club of Tiruppur donated a drone to Tiruppur City Police on Friday. District Governor of Rotary District 3202 A. Karthikeyan and Rotary Club of Tiruppur president Kavitalakshmi Srinivasan presented the drone to Commissioner of Police Sanjay Kumar. Mr. Kumar operated the drone in the presence of Deputy Commissioner of Police V. Badri Narayanan. “We purchased the drone for Rs. 1.2 lakh,” said K. Ravindran, Interact Chairman of Rotary Club of Tiruppur. He was one of the members of Rotary Club who present during the event. The model name of the drone was DJI Phantom 4, he noted. Mr. Narayanan told The Hindu that the drone will be kept in a central location at the Commissioner’s office and will be deployed wherever required in the city. A team of 10 police personnel will be trained to handle the drone. At present, Tiruppur North and Tiruppur South stations are using rented drones, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rotary-donates-drone-to-police/article31429061.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Seasonal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seasonal/article31429287.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle pass: Collector warns against violating norms||With vehicle passes issued to people for emergency travel, the district administration has asked them to follow the norms laid down for issue of passes and warned of action, including seizure of vehicles, for violations. After the lockdown, movement of vehicles were restricted with exemption given to vehicles for transporting essential commodities. Since, many need to travel on emergency purposes, the district administration started issuing vehicle passes. Applications with necessary documents can be submitted, both in person at the Collectorate and through portal. Collector C. Kathiravan said that passes are issued only for emergency travel based on proof submitted by the applicants. He said that vehicle number, travel route, date of travel and number of persons travelling are mentioned in the passes and the pass holder should travel only based on it along with the permitted number of travellers. “It is mandatory to follow the norms failing which the vehicle will be seized and action will be taken accordingly”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicle-pass-collector-warns-against-violating-norms/article31429052.ece
25 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Angadi expresses ire at those not following rules||Union Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi on Friday expressed anger at COVID-19 patients who are not following social distancing. “We have repeatedly requested COVID-19 patients under isolation in the district hospital to strictly follow social distancing and other rules. But still some of them are not doing so. If they violate such norms, they will die. Why should we worry about them?” he asked while speaking to reporters in Belagavi. “Doctors and officers have spent a lot of time and energy in explaining the dangers of the disease. They [patients] have been told it is fatal. But they don’t seem to understand. If they continue to violate the rules, they will suffer,” he said. ‘What can we do?’ To a question about complaints on keeping all suspected cases in the same hall and some inmates not following quarantine rules, he said the government could not do anything beyond a point. “After all, they should take care of their health. If they die as a result of not following quarantine regulations, let them die. What can we do about it? Why should we bother?” he said angrily. However, he reasoned that the violations were minor and infrequent, as otherwise there would be no recoveries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/angadi-expresses-ire-at-those-not-following-rules/article31428963.ece
25 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Armed police protection will be given to healthcare workers, govt. tells HC||The State government on Friday told the High Court of Karnataka that armed police protection would be provided to healthcare workers on COVID-19 duty, depending upon the location and local circumstances. A statement in this regard was filed in response to the court’s queries on April 21 on the State’s policy on providing police protection to health workers, given the attack on health workers, government officials and the police at Padarayanapura ward of Bengaluru city on the night of April 19, when some people were being taken to a quarantine centre. What happened Explaining the incident at Padarayanapura, which was been sealed and declared a containment zone, the government stated that on April 19, around 6 p.m., health officials of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike and police personnel went to Arafatnagar in the ward. They were assigned the task of securing 58 primary contacts of COVID-19 positive persons for being placed under quarantine and of transporting another 17 persons to be placed in institutional quarantine, under police protection. Around 8 p.m., the government’s statement said, a group led by one Wazeer Khan, unlawfully assembled and started protesting, obstructing the officials from executing their task of transporting another 15 persons to the quarantine centre. “At this stage, the officials pleaded with the crowd to cooperate, since the work they were executing was in the larger interest of the public. However, the pleas of the officials were unheeded and the unlawful assembly started pelting stones, assaulting health officials, BBMP officials, and police personnel,” the government told the court. The mob, according to the statement, also ransacked the temporary sheds constructed for executing duties and proceeded to neighbouring places, causing further destruction of public property and endangering lives and public safety. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna, taking noteof the government’s statement, directed that all police stations be instructed to act immediately whenever there is any need for protection forhealth workers. Earlier, the government also said that instructions had been issued to police units to invoke provisions of the National Disaster Management Act, 2006 if anyone obstructed healthcare workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/armed-police-protection-will-be-given-to-healthcare-workers-govt-tells-hc/article31428984.ece
25 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||They go where others fear to tread||Over the last couple of weeks, long work hours have become the norm for Sajidha, 35, an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA). She spends a better part of the day doing fieldwork in J.C. Nagar, and other areas in the city where COVID-19 positive cases have been reported. Every day ASHA workers are potentially exposing themselves to the coronavirus as they spend hours in the scorching heat tracing primary and secondary contacts, gathering travel history of residents in a locality and other data. They do this for a fixed monthly honorarium of Rs. 4,000 and a performance-based incentive. They have been told that they will get an additional incentive of Rs. 1,000 for carrying out COVID-19 related activities. “We leave home at 9.30 a.m. after wearing a mask and are done by around 2 p.m. We don’t drink water even in the scorching heat as when we are out on the field as there are no washrooms available,” said Ms. Sajidha. On average, they cover 25 houses a day. ASHA workers admit that their work can sometimes be challenging as residents do not cooperate with them, while some of them ask them to return later. “After two attacks on ASHA workers were reported in Bengaluru and Belagavi, the police accompany us when we do surveillance work in some areas,” she added. At the end of the work day, Sajidha returns home to her three children and husband who are worried about her safety. But she puts aside her fear of catching the virus and says, “This is the time that the nation needs our service more than ever before and we are proud to be the warriors fighting the COVID-19 battle,” she said. ASHA worker Nagalakshmi V., is assigned to Padarayanapura ward which is one of the two wards that has been sealed down by the BBMP. It has been in the news after violence erupted in the area on Sunday. “We have been told not to enter any home and conduct some surveys. Initially, people were reluctant to give us any details and would tell us to go away. But after the ward has been sealed, people are worried and are now asking us questions and talking to us,” she said. D. Nagalakshmi, State Secretary, Karnataka Rajya Samukyta Asha Karkarta Sangha, said that they face several challenges on the field and they are not given adequate masks and sanitisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/they-go-where-others-fear-to-tread/article31428955.ece
25 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||29 new positive cases reported in State||Twenty-nine new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in the State on Friday. With this, the total number of positive cases in the State stands at 474. Thy includes five cases from Ramanagaram district jail and 11 from the labour colony at Vidyajyothinagar in Hongasandra ward of Bengaluru. The 11 cases are contacts of patient-419, a 54-year-old migrant labourer from the same colony who was tested positive earlier this week. The total number of positive cases in the Hongasandra cluster now stands at 20. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has sealed the area, which has over 500 houses, apart from the temporary sheds on vacant land where the construction workers were staying. In addition, Bengaluru has reported three other cases. Besides that three cases were reported in Bagalkot, two each in Belagavi and Vijayapura, and one case each has been reported in Tumakuru, Chickballapur, and Mandya. Police to undergo tests All police personnel who are involved in quarantine and surveillance activities in Bengaluru will undergo tests for COVID-19. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said all the police personnel who have been working on the frontline to prevent the transmission of COVID-19 will be tested from Friday at a hospital in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/29-new-positive-cases-reported-in-state/article31428977.ece
25 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka High Court raises questions about BBMP’s claim||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday asked why the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) did not disclose the number of shelterless persons on the streets who are not ready to move to lockdown relief camps if the civic body had identified a large number of such persons. “Will people be allowed to stay on the streets? Will this not violate lockdown norms, including social distancing? What action was taken to ascertain whether people on the streets have symptoms of COVID-19?” A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna posed these questions as the government told the court that only 411 shelterless persons were housed in lockdown relief camps as many other shelterless persons were not ready to stay in relief camps. Interestingly, the government pointed out that the BBMP did identify far greater number of shelterless persons on the streets, other than the 411 housed in relief camps, but had not given the number of persons unwilling to move to relief camps. Observing that it could not accept the claim of the BBMP about people being unwilling to move to relief camps in the absence of supporting data, the Bench directed the government and the BBMP to submit by April 25 reports of the eight zonal joint commissioners on identification of shelterless persons on the streets and those who refused to go to relief camps. Reports sought The Bench also sought reports of 40 marshals who were given the task of identifying shelterless persons on the streets. Meanwhile, the Bench also asked the government and the BBMP to inform it of all the measures taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19 amongst the 1.41 lakh construction workers living in temporary sheltersacross Bengaluru city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-high-court-raises-questions-about-bbmps-claim/article31428967.ece
25 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||111 containment zones marked in Karnataka||There are a total of 111 containment zones in Karnataka. Over 31 lakh people reside in the buffer zones around the containment zones. At a press conference, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that a total of 31.68 lakh people from 6.77 lakh households live in the buffer zones. He also said that a total of 377 patients are tested positive for COVID-19 in the 111 containment zones. Around the containment zones, buffer zones are created by including the area within a 7-km radius and in urban areas, the officials can restrict it to 5 km. Mr. Kumar said the government has banned the movement of people in these zones and the delivery of all essentials will be done at the doorstep of citizens. He also said that these areas would continue to remain as containment zone until no COVID-19 positive case is reported for the next 28-days from the zone. The Minister said that 71 commanders are monitoring these zones and ensuring that there is no movement of people outside their homes. Mr. Kumar said that Bengaluru has 21 containment zones, while Kalaburagi has 16 such and Mysuru 14. All the primary and secondary contacts within the containment zones will be carefully monitored and they must be under home quarantine. The definition of a containment area varies from place to place. A circular states, “If a COVID-19 positive case is found in an apartment complex, then the entire block or apartment tower will be declared a containment zone. If it is a single block apartment, then the entire apartment complex will be declared as containment zone. Similarly, if the COVID-19 patient is found in an independent house or villa, the 100-m radius area, including the street on which the patient’s house is located, will be declared as containment zone.” In the case of slums in urban localities, the entire slum will be declared as containment zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/111-containment-zones-marked-in-karnataka/article31428973.ece
25 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Norms relaxed for rural industries in nine districts||In continuation of lockdown relaxations, the State government has eased restrictions for industries located in rural areas of nine districts not affected by COVID-19 — Yadgir, Koppal, Shivamogga, Hassan, Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Kolar, Raichur, and Haveri. Industries located in rural areas of the nine districts have been allowed to operate their activities from Friday. In an order issued by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, the government said industries located outside the limits of district headquarters are allowed to operate their business in the nine districts. With this, managements of industries, both private and public and manufacturing and non-manufacturing, located in rural areas of the nine districts have been enabled to start production process. All small, medium, and major industries have been enabled to operate business by strictly following the rules issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs. Authorisation letter Industries have to seek an authorisation letter from the joint director of the respective district industries centre for continuing operations, said the order issued on Thursday night. However, this exemption has not been given to industries located in rural areas of the Ramanagaram district as five people from Padarayanapura in Bengaluru, who have been lodged in the Ramanagaram jail, have been tested positive for COVID-19.   Already, the government has relaxed norms for operation of shops selling dry fruits, ice-cream, and juice (take-away only); shops selling educational books for students; shops selling electric fans; and construction in urban areas where workers are available on site and no workers are required to be brought in from outside.  The nine districts Yadgir, Koppal, Shivamogga, Hassan, Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Kolar, Raichur, Haveri||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/norms-relaxed-for-rural-industries-in-nine-districts/article31428976.ece
25 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||120 families evacuated after rain||Citizens woke up to thunder, lightning and heavy rain early on Friday morning. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) control rooms received many complaints of tree fall and water logging. A road partially caved in at Lakshmidevi Nagar slum in Laggere ward and a compound wall in the quarters of the Slum Board collapsed, damaging five cars, one autorickshaw and one goods auto. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar visited the spot and directed officials to shift the affected families to choultries and marriage halls. Local councillor Manjula Narayanaswamy said that around 120 families had been evacuated from the quarters, and a neighbouring building has been evacuated. “We have made all arrangements for their stay, including food, water and bedding,” she said. More rain expected Bengaluru will continue to receive rains in the next three to four days, said G.S. Srinivas Reddy of Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre. The city has received an average 16 mm rainfall since Thursday night. Byatarayanapura in Yelahanka division received the highest of 53.5 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/120-families-evacuated-after-rain/article31428962.ece
25 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 60 police personnel, jail authorities to go into quarantine||With five of the 126 people arrested in connection with Sunday night’s violent protests at Padarayanapura testing positive for COVID-19 in Ramanagaram District Prison, a total of 62 police and prison officials have turned primary contacts and will have to be quarantined. All staffers at the district prison — 30 of them — will be quarantined based on the advice of the District Health Officer (DHO), said Alok Mohan, Director-General of Police (Prisons). Family members of the prison staffers vented their anger against the authorities with H.D. Kumaraswamy, the former Chief Minister, who visited prison on Friday. “The staffers were not given any protective gear. They were only given masks and forced to interact with the inmates brought from a COVID-19 affected area in Bengaluru,” they complained. Meanwhile, they also demanded that the staffers have to be quarantined at the staff quarters itself, to which Mr. Kumaraswamy was non-committal. “The modalities of the quarantine process will be decided by the DHO,” said Mr. Mohan. Police officials in the city are also a worried lot. Personnel from J.J. Nagar Police Station and sleuths from the Central Crime Branch, arrested the riot accused who have now tested positive, interrogated them, took them for medical check-up and escorted them to the prison, and all of the have now turned contacts. “Anyone who has come into contact with the positive patient for at least 15 minutes has been categorised as a primary contact,” said a senior police official. There are 32 of them and they are being quarantined. They are presently staying at a police facility, away from their families and will be quarantined by Saturday morning, sources said. “The staff members are a bit worried and naturally are scared as well. But we are trying our best to maintain the morale of the force high,” said Shivaji Rao, inspector, J.J. Nagar, who has not been categorised as a primary contact. Meanwhile, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, city Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao, Additional Commissioner of Police Soumendu Mukherjee, DCP (West) Ramesh Banoth, and a host of other senior functionaries visited Padarayanapura and J.J. Nagar Police station on Sunday night when the violence broke out and the next morning, when some of those who have now tested positive were at the police station. Deliberations are on with medical authorities whether they would become secondary contacts and what precautions they need to take, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-60-police-personnel-jail-authorities-to-go-into-quarantine/article31428968.ece
25 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hongasandra: BBMP to survey pregnant women, elders, those with chronic illness||All roads leading to Vidya Jyothi Nagar in Hongasandra have been barricaded. At the end of the road, the cluster of sheet houses where nearly 200 migrant workers lived is deserted. On Friday, the number of COVID-19 positive cases stood at 21 within the community of migrant workers, most of whom hailed from Bihar. Health Department officials are trying to ascertain the source of the virus in patient 419. The patient was reportedly working at a construction site in Mangammanapalya. Sources said the building owner is absconding.  The BBMP, which has cordoned off a 100-150 metre radius around the cluster, is conducting a survey of pregnant and lactating women, senior citizens and those suffering from chronic ailments. There are 1,213 houses and 3,731 residents.“Over the past three days, we have been asking residents to stay indoors and not venture outside,” said a senior civic official. Officials in-charge of putting up barricades said that the residents came forward to suggest where the barricades could be put up. A total of 185 persons have been identified as primary contacts and 38 as secondary contacts. “We are still conducting surveys to identify secondary contacts. Once identified, they too will be immediately shifted to quarantine facilities,” said an official deputed to monitor the containment zone. The civic body has also begun distributing food kits to the residents. “The social profile of the area is mixed. Some residents from middle-class households refused the kits and urged us to give it to those in need,” the official said. The Shifaa Hospital on Queen’s Road and the 100-metre radius around the facility has also been cordoned off. A senior official told The Hindu that since this was a commercial area, there were no problems in that particular containment zone. “There have been no commercial activities around the hospital since the lockdown was announced,” the official clarified.  Containment zones in 20 wards BBMP’s war room report states that two wards in the city have reported 8 to 27 COVID-19 positive cases, three have 6-7, two have 4-5 cases, seven have 2-3 cases, while 22 wards have one each. Containment zones have been put in place in 20 wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hongasandra-bbmp-to-survey-pregnant-women-elders-those-with-chronic-illness/article31428959.ece
25 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Giraffe Gowri gets a companion at BBP||Amid the lockdown and calls for social distancing, Gowri, the lone female giraffe at the Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP), will be able to violate COVID-19 protocols. The park now hosts Yadunandan, a male giraffe born to Krishnaraja and Babbly in the Mysuru zoo, to keep her company. Aged one year and five months, Yadunandan was shifted from the Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Garden, Mysuru, to BBP on Friday. A release from BBP said the park was housing the lone female giraffe, aged around four years, which was also acquired from the Mysuru zoo in April 2018. “As Mysuru zoo currently houses seven giraffes, they have spared a male to pair with our single female giraffe. Central Zoo Authority, New Delhi, approved the Animal Exchange Programme for pairing and conservation education,” a release said. Narrating how the two giraffes took to each other, the release said, “On release of Yadunandan in the giraffe enclosure, Gowri walked towards the new arrival of her species. Later, both the giraffes started sniffing each other. They are responding positively towards each other and seem compatible.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/giraffe-gowri-gets-a-companion-at-bbp/article31428965.ece
25 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ramanagaram no longer in green zone||With five persons from Padarayanapura lodged in Ramanagaram jail testing positive for COVID-19, and need to quarantine 30 officials and employees of the prison, the district that so far enjoyed green zone status has lost it. On the day when the order to open rural industries in green zone districts was issued, Ramanagaram district, which was in the green zone, lost out on the opportunity. The Chief Secretary’s order on industries operating in rural areas explicitly excludes Ramanagaram while listing out the names of unaffected districts. “Who will now take the responsibility of irresponsibly converting Ramanagaram from green zone to red zone? Either the government or officials have to answer,” the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, whose Assembly constituency is in the district, tweeted. “The Chief Secretary’s order allowing industries in the green zone districts excludes Ramanagaram. Lack of far-sightedness and irresponsibility of the government are the reasons,” he said. In another tweet, he said, “Ramanagaram district residents have now lost peace of mind owing to stupidity of officials and rulers. People will not forget the role of the government in spreading the virus in Ramanagaram.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ramanagaram-no-longer-in-green-zone/article31428974.ece
25 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. extends help||Professional artistes and writers can now expect government help as it has decided to make a one-time payment of Rs. 2,000 to help them survive the COVID-19 lockdown. The Kannada and Culture Department has sought a list of artistes, theatre persons and writers facing hard times during the lockdown from all districts and academies, who will have to call for applications in each district and finalise the list and submit by April 29. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has agreed to provide a special grant of Rs. 2 crore for this. Professional artistes who haveworked for at least a decade and are in distress areeligible. Those getting monthly pension and government employees do not qualify.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-extends-help/article31428982.ece
25 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DCs directed to facilitate transport of labourers||The State government has directed the Deputy Commissioners of all districts to arrange KSRTC buses immediately for the movement of stranded migrant labourers and daily wage workers. This will enable stranded migrants to travel to their destinations to make operational construction activities in urban areas and farm-related work in villages. In a letter to Deputy Commissioners, Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar has instructed them to ensure the occupancy in such KSRTC buses is 40% at best. The district administrations have also been asked to provide gloves and masks to such travellers. However, movement to outside the State remains strictly prohibited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dcs-directed-to-facilitate-transport-of-labourers/article31428985.ece
25 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||NAAC initiates digital platforms||The National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) has initiated several digital platforms to address concerns of higher educational institutions. It has conducted a series of online meetings, webinars, programmes concerning assessment and accreditation activities, and many more are in the pipeline. NAAC has urged stake-holders to take note of these initiatives and reach out. For details, visitwww.naac.gov.inor call 080-23005222.     United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) has launched the Lockdown Learners programme for students and educators in India on the ongoing pandemic and its impact on sustainable development goals. Legacy School, Bengaluru, and UNODC have embarked on a collaboration to enhance joint efforts aimed at promoting youth engagement and awareness on sustainable development goals. For details, visithttps://lsb.edu.in/orwww.unodc.org/southasia/.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/naac-initiates-digital-platforms/article31428957.ece
25 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Online permission for re-starting industries||The State government has given some relaxation during the second phase of lockdown. Hence, road and infrastructure development works could be taken up in areas excluding HDMC limits and containment zone, Minister in-charge of the district Jagadish Shettar has said. Chairing a COVID-19 second phase lockdown review meeting here on Friday, Mr. Shettar said that the relaxation provides for operation of stone crushing units and re-start industries located in rural limits by strictly following social distancing and guidelines issued by the government. The district administration would be giving permission through online for starting these operations, he said. The NHAI and the PWD are allowed to resume their work. However, they have to submit the project details through online to the district administration and get permission. They can ferry workers to the place of work only once. They should provide all basic facilities, including food and medicine, by setting up temporary shelter homes, he added. He said that as per the guidelines of the Indian Cotton Corporation, procurement of cotton should begin in the district and this information should be publicised for the benefit of farmers. Strictly adhering to the guidelines, FAQ quality cotton should be procured from farmers, he added. Mr. Shettar asked the police not to create hurdles for contractors transporting cement, iron rods, sand and other building construction material. He has cautioned against holding congregational prayers at prayer halls during Ramzan which will start on April 25. Provision should be made to set up dry fruits stalls and fresh fruits stalls near Muslim-dominant areas so that people do not venture out in the open in search of these items, he said. Sand art tribute At a time when sporadic instances of attack on health staff and corona warriors are being reported, an artist has paid tributes to all those involved in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic through sand art. Encouraged by Deputy Commissioner Deepa M., artist from Dharwad Manjunath Hiremath has created a sand sculpture on the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) premises where doctors are treating COVID-19 positive patients in a specially set-up Isolation Ward. The objective of the sand sculpture created in an area of 10 sq ft is to pay tribute to doctors, nurses, police personnel, Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs), anganwadi workers and pourakarmikas, Manjunath Hiremath has said. On Friday, after the sand sculpture was completed, Mr. Shettar, MLA Prasad Abbayya, MLCs Srinivas Mane and S.V. Sankanur, Ms. Deepa and others appreciated the artist for his artistic tribute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-permission-for-re-starting-industries/article31429145.ece
25 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Minister defends police sub-inspector’s transfer||Minister for Law and Parliamentary Affairs J.C. Madhuswamy has defended the transfer of the police sub-inspector of Arehalli Police Station in Belur taluk following the arrest of a Hindutva activist for a post on Facebook. To a question at a press conference here on Friday, Mr. Madhuswamy said that earlier he was not transferred but sent on some other duty. Now, the Inspector-General of Police had transferred him. The government had decided so at that time assessing the situation on the ground. “We shifted him from the place, following protests. For his betterment only, we shifted him. At times, the government had to take such decisions to calm down a situation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-defends-police-sub-inspectors-transfer/article31429148.ece
25 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||95 roads blocked to curb spread of coronavirus||To contain the spread of coronavirus in Kalaburagi district, the district administration and the city corporation officials have blocked 95 roads in different localities to restrict vehicular movement. The 95 roads include not only arterial connectivity but also remote stretches and localities from where COVID-19 positive cases have been reported so far. The city corporation has purchased more than 1,000 corrugated metal sheets for blocking the roads to restrict the passage of four-wheelers, autorickshaws and even motorcycles from areas identified as containment zones. Besides main streets, the road connecting Azadpur, Hirapur, Hagaraga were blocked. A few connecting roads at Buland Parvez Colony, Ramji Nagar, Ganga Nagar, Rafi Chowk, Noorbagh, MB Colony, Mehboob Nagar, Veerendra Patil Nagar, Taj Nagar, Sangtraswadi, areas around Sedam Road and Aland Check-post were blocked with tin sheets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/95-roads-blocked-to-curb-spread-of-coronavirus/article31429142.ece
25 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||No rest even for the dead||The Dakshina Kannada district administration faced difficulty in conducting the last rites of a woman who died of COVID-19 in Mangaluru on Thursday as some people opposed the cremation planned in the city. Ultimately, she was cremated at her native place, Bantwal, early on Friday. The 75-year-old woman died at the Government Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru. She was undergoing treatment for stroke at a private hospital in the city before being shifted to Wenlock. She was a relative of the 50-year-old woman, also from Bantwal, who died of COVID-19 and Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) at the COVID hospital on April 19. The police said the district administration had planned to cremate the 75-year-old at a crematorium in Pachchanady. But a large number of people, who learnt about it in advance, gathered there to oppose it and urge the district administration to shift the body to Bantwal. The MLA for Mangaluru City North, Y. Bharath Shetty, who is also a doctor, went to the spot and asked the police not to shift the body to Pachchanady as the residents were charged up. According to the police, groups had gathered at the Bolur crematorium and at a few others to oppose the cremation. Subsequently, the authorities decided to shift the body to Bantwal. In a tweet sent out on Thursday night, Mr. Shetty said, “Cremation with fire is accepted method to dispose [of] dead body. However, thousands of people including women gathered at Pachchanady, in panic over rumours, and were reluctant to move. In order to protect law and order, we had to change plans.” Abandoned The police said after the body in the mortuary was placed in an ambulance at midnight, its driver learnt that many people had gathered at the crematorium at Bantwal. After driving the ambulance for a few metres, he suddenly abandoned the vehicle. He was counselled and sent to Bantwal along with a police force. The last rites were performed in Bantwal about 2 a.m. on Friday. “People had gathered there [in Bantwal] too. We managed to convince them and send them away before performing the last rights,” said Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmi Prasad on Friday. On April 19, when the body of the first COVID-19 victim was to be cremated at Bolur, the police faced resistance from locals, who even damaged some vehicles that were part of the convoy leading the ambulance shifting the body to Bolur. The MLA for Mangaluru City South, D. Vedavyas Kamath, Commissioner of Police P.S. Harsha and other officers convinced them to allow the cremation. “The resistance is because of awareness among people that burial or cremation of COVID-19 positive person will not spread the disease. The guidelines of the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Union government have made it clear. Steps need to be taken to clear the misconceptions,” said senior physician Srinivas Kakkilaya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-rest-even-for-the-dead/article31428986.ece
25 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Act against those trying to stop last rites of victims’||The Dakshina Kannada unit of the Indian Red Cross Society said on Friday that the State government should invoke necessary provisions of the Disaster Management Act or any other legal provision at its disposal and take action against anyone preventing the last rites of victims of epidemic diseases. This would work as an effective deterrent, it said and added that this will also infuse confidence among health workers who are rendering yeoman services to society. The district administration faced stiff opposition from people near crematoria in different parts of Mangaluru for carrying out the last rites of a 75-year-old woman who died of COVID-10 in the city on April 23. The body was then taken to the woman’s native place in Bantwal for cremation. Yathish Baikampady, chairman, Disaster Management Committee of Indian Red Cross Society, said in the release that Bantwal MLA U. Rajesh Naik had offered a place in his private estate for performing the woman’s last rites. It would place on record its appreciation of the MLA’s humanitarian act. Mr. Naik took the decision after consulting his family members and conveyed it to the district administration. The MLA told the district administration that it was his duty to pay respects to the mortal remains of all human beings whatever be the cause of death, the Indian Red Cross Society said. Meanwhile, Mr. Naik told The Hindu on Friday: “I was really pained to hear the opposition to cremating the body. I called officials at around 11 p.m. on Thursday and offered a place in my farmland for the purpose. It is sad that people are taking unfounded grounds to deny last rites to a COVID-19 victim.” Strangely, he said, he started receiving calls on Friday morning from several people, including a few from abroad, offering their land for the woman’s last rites. “But none came forward with this offer on Thursday night,” he said. People should not be carried away by unfounded grounds about the spread of COVID-19 but believe in the guidelines of the World Health Organization and the Union government which have ruled out that COVID-19 could spread through cremation/burial of victims of the pandemic, the MLA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/act-against-those-trying-to-stop-last-rites-of-victims/article31429146.ece
25 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Kerala too erects check-post on border||Close on the heels of Dakshina Kannada district reporting two COVID-19 deaths, the neighbouring State of Kerala has erected a border check-post at Talapady, next to Karnataka’s own check-post near here. Karnataka sealed all its inter-State borders, including that with Kerala, in the third week of March. The Dakshina Kannada district administration had also decided not to entertain medical emergencies from Kasaragod district following a huge number of COVID-19 positive cases being reported in that district. The State government, on March 30, invoked the provisions of The Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, to support its move. The Supreme Court intervened following a batch of petitions and ensured both States agreed on the movement of medical emergencies from Kasaragod district to Mangaluru, as per some agreed terms, on April 7. Border demarcation When the Kerala police erected a check-post about 100 metres from Karnataka’s check-post on NH 66 at Talapady village on Thursday, the Talapady Gram Panchayat objected to it, saying the area belonged to it. A joint survey was taken up to determine the border and it was found that the location of the check-post was actually in Kerala, said Mangaluru Assistant Commissioner C. Madan Mohan. Mangaluru Police Commissioner P.S. Harsha told The Hindu both the States have been ensuring strict lockdown at the border area. Movement of members of the general public is allowed only as per the agreed upon protocol, including medical emergencies, births and deaths. The city police have installed eight CCTV cameras at their check-post. It is also connected to the Kerala police, Dr. Harsha said, adding that there was absolute transparency. ‘Heated’ atmosphere Prakash Manjeshwar, a reporter with a Kannada daily working in Mangaluru and a resident of Manjeshwar in Kerala, said the border appeared like an international border, with police on both sides turning away people to the other side. “The atmosphere has become heated,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kerala-too-erects-check-post-on-border/article31428989.ece
25 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Sanitising vehicles||Once goods vehicles cross the Karnataka border at Talapady and enter Kerala, Transport and Police Department personnel sanitise the vehicle cabins. They also spray sanitiser on the side panels and wheels of the vehicles. Later, the goods vehicles are made to pass beneath a booth, the sensors of which will spray disinfectant liquid on the entire vehicle. Similar measures, however, are not being taken by Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sanitising-vehicles/article31428990.ece
25 April 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Shakespeare remembered||UN English Language Day and World Book Day through Audio/Video Conference was organised at LVD College in Raichur on Thursday to mark the birth anniversary of renowned English writer William Shakespeare. Venkatesh Devaru, vice-principal of the college, inaugurated the programme. Two each students from 10 colleges participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shakespeare-remembered/article31429143.ece
25 April 2020||Ramanagaram/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. does a volte-face on riot accused being lodged in Ramanagaram jail||After becoming the target of outrage by Opposition leaders and public from Ramanagaram district, the State government did a volte-face on its earlier decision and shifted 121 undertrials arrested from COVID-19 hit Padarayanapura ward back to Bengaluru on Friday. The statement of Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, in-charge of COVID-19 affairs, that the move to lodge accused from the affected areas in a green zone could have been avoided, only exposed the lack of coordination and left the State government embarrassed. There was palpable anger in Ramanagaram against the State government for lodging the undertrials in the district, as it was in the green zone. In judicial custody Ramanagaram District Prison, with a capacity of 200, was mostly emptied out on Monday and 121 people arrested for violence in Padarayanapura were lodged there. Five of them tested positive for COVID-19 during a medical test conducted by the district administration. “A decision was taken to shift them to a quarantine centre in Bengaluru to ensure the infection doesn’t spread in the district,” said a senior prisons official. Since these persons are either primary or secondary contacts ofCOVID-19 patients, they were treated as patients in need of medical care and shifted to the quarantine facility on the orders of the district administration. “Prisoners are shifted to hospitals when in need of medical care. They will remain undertrials in judicial custody, but in a hospital, in this case a quarantine facility,” a senior official said. All the 116 of them and 17 other prisoners who were in the Ramanagaram prison were shifted to Haj Bhavan, a government quarantine centre in the city, amid heavy police security and medical precautions on Friday. A fleet of KSRTC buses escorted them to Haj Bhavan. Several dozens of police personnel and healthcare personnel were pressed into service. Wearing of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits was made mandatory for the bus drivers and the police officials. Haj Bhavan was evacuated of others who were under quarantine. “We had 133 people under quarantine in Haj Bhavan, of which 110 finished their quarantine and returned home. Of the remaining 33, two of them tested positive and are being treated in a hospital. Other 31 foreign nationals were shifted to Orchid Resort at Yelahanka on Friday to accommodate persons from Ramanagaram prison,” said Sarfaraz Khan, nodal officer for Haj Bhavan quarantine facility. Containment zone Ramanagaram District Prison will be treated as a containment zone and sanitised, sources in the Prisons Department said. “We have identified 30 staffers at the prison and all of them will be put under quarantine,” said Alok Mohan, Director-General Of Police (Prisons). Mr. Mohan, defended the decision to lodge the undertrials in Ramanagaram district prison, as an administrative call to prevent a larger outbreak among prisoners in the State. The decision was taken by the State-level monitoring committee led by Mr. Mohan formed as per the Supreme Court guidelines on prisons during the pandemic. Since they were arrested in the city, they were supposed to be lodged in Bengaluru Central Prison. “But Bengaluru prison has over 5,000 inmates and lodging these undertrials there would have created a crisis of vast proportions. The Chief Superintendent of Bengaluru Central Prison submitted a memorandum requesting the department not to lodge these undertrials there. He suggested they can be lodged in Ramanagaram prison, also under his supervision. The committee deliberated on the proposal and found it was the best solution on hand and decided on the same,” Mr. Mohan explained. “All care was taken to ensure these undertrials do not come into contact with any other prisoners in the State. The decision was aimed at the larger good,” he said. Ramanagaram prison has a capacity of 200 inmates, but had 177 inmates. Of them 160 were shifted to Bengaluru Central Prison to make space for those from Padarayanapura. However, 17 senior prisoners, who work in the kitchen and other departments of prison administration, were retained. Now, they have also been shifted to the quarantine centre in Bengaluru along with the 116 undertrials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-does-a-volte-face-on-riot-accused-being-lodged-in-ramanagaram-jail/article31428971.ece
25 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Professional theatre artistes in dire straits during lockdown||With scheduled performances cancelled owing to the lockdown enforced to prevent the spread of COVID-19, several professional theatre troupes in Karnataka are in a difficult situation. There are 24 professional theatre troupes in the State. Many leading artistes of the Kannada cinema industry, including Dr. Rajkumar, have commenced their acting journey from professional theatre troupes. The annual fairs and chariot festivals of deities across the State, mostly from from January to April, attract a large number of devotees. These troupes camp in temple towns in north and central Karnataka for two months. The lockdown has disrupted their schedule. This year, after camping in a North Karnataka temple town, Sri Guru Khasgatheshwara Natya Sangha troupe had come to Togarsi village in Shikaripur taluk for the annual chariot festival of Sri Mallikarjuna Temple. Raju Talikote, Kannada actor and proprietor of the troupe, said the lockdown has put a stop to their tour. His troupe comprises 40 members, including artistes, technicians and workers. “The total expenses of our theatre troupe per month stands at Rs. 6 lakh. Troupe owners enter into annual contracts with artistes and workers. Even when there is no performance, we have to pay salaries. Usually, the money collected from the sale of tickets during annual fairs and in the summer holidays will be considerable. In the rural areas of Haveri and Ballari districts, where professional theatre troupes have a large fan base, three shows will be held a day. The profit we get from January to April sustains our activities for the entire year,” he said. With the cancellation of performances, troupes are finding it difficult to pay staff salaries and rent to the owners of the plots on which the camps are erected. Rajanna Jewargi, the lead artiste of Vishwajyothi Panchakshara Natya Sangha, said the State government should come to the rescue of the owners of professional theatre troupes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/professional-theatre-artistes-in-dire-straits-during-lockdown/article31428981.ece
25 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||PM chats up with senior BJP leader on phone||Prime Minister Narendra Modi called a 85-year-old M. Somashekhar Bhat, former president of the erstwhile Udupi Town Municipal Council and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, over telephone on Friday and enquired about his health. Mr. Bhat was at his residence here when Mr. Modi called him. Mr. Bhat told The Hindu that the call came at around 8.30 a.m. Mr. Modi sought his blessings. He also recalled that Mr. Bhat was associated with RSS leader Yadavrao Joshi. He told him that it was sad that the former Minister and BJP leader V.S. Acharya had passed away so quickly, Mr. Bhat said. Mr. Bhat said that when he informed Mr. Modi that Udupi district was just three days away from moving out of Orange Zone into a Green Zone with regard to COVID-19, the Prime Minister said that the entire country would unitedly fight the pandemic. Mr. Bhat said that the State unit of the BJP had sent a list of BJP leaders aged over 80 to the Prime Minister’s Office some days ago. Hence, he had received the call from Mr. Modi on Friday. On Thursday, another senior party leader Urimajalu Ram Bhat received a call from Mr. Modi, he said. Mr. Bhat said that he told Mr. Modi about his association with the RSS and Jan Sangh. Mr. Bhat spoke about his getting elected as municipal councillor in 1968, the first time the Jan Sangh came to power in the Udupi municipality under the leadership of the former Minister late V.S. Acharya who was the first president of the erstwhile Udupi Town Municipal Council. Mr. Bhat also told Mr. Modi that he had been jailed during Emergency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pm-chats-up-with-senior-bjp-leader-on-phone/article31429147.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Lockdown blues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-blues/article31428979.ece
25 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Now, umbrellas for social distancing||The Thanneermukkom grama panchayat in Alappuzha has come up with a novel idea of using umbrellas to ensure social distancing, an effective protective measure against COVID-19. As part of the Break the Chain Umbrella project, the local body will distribute at least 10,000 umbrellas to its residents. P. S. Jyothis, president, Thanneermukkom panchayat, says social distancing can be easily maintained in public places by using umbrellas. “Umbrellas are used as protection against rain and sun. The panchayat has a population of 50,000. We have urged our residents to make it a habit to use umbrellas in order to maintain social distancing. Umbrellas produced by Kudumbashree units will be distributed by Marari Marketing Limited,” Mr. Jyothis says. Of the 10,000 umbrellas to be distributed, 6,000 will be given to Kudumbashree members, 2,000 to workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. Subsidised rate They will be given umbrellas on loan and at subsidised rates. Besides, the people who do not have money to buy umbrellas will be given them through sponsorships. Thanneermukkom, which reported a COVID-19 case earlier this month, is one of the three hotspots in the district. Panchayat authorities say two masks would be given along with an umbrella. It has entrusted six Kudumbashree units with the production of one lakh masks. Minister for Local Self-Governments A. C. Moideen launched the project at a function at the Kerala State Drugs and Pharmaceuticals, Kalavoor, on Thursday. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac and others were present. On the occasion, umbrellas were given to health workers, Kudumbashree office-bearers and grama panchayat members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-umbrellas-for-social-distancing/article31429240.ece
25 April 2020||Chennai,KERALA||TN CM writes to Kejriwal on Delhi event issue||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami wrote to his counterpart in Delhi Aravind Kejriwal on Friday, urging the latter to instruct the authorities concerned to extend best possible care to 559 persons from Tamil Nadu who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event and have been quarantined/hospitalised in the national capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tn-cm-writes-to-kejriwal-on-delhi-event-issue/article31429234.ece
25 April 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Quarantine centre opened at Muttom||In the wake of four COVID-19 cases reported in the district on Thursday, a corona care centre was opened at Muttom, near Thodupuzha, on Friday. The centre will house a Maniyarankudi resident who ferried vegetables from Pollachi, two Velliyamattom residents who came from their workplace in Mysuru, and an estate resident from Elappara, all of whom were found positive on Thursday. The centre will also quarantine those who had come in contact with the positive persons, including three who had met the Maniyarankudi resident. Migrant workers under observation, who had no facilities for home quarantine, would also be accommodated at the centre. There are 13 rooms at the care centre. Officials of the Health Department said the Maniyarankudi resident reached Thodupuzha from Pollachi on April 21. He reached the vegetable shop at Kanjar in a pick-up jeep. He rested inside the shop while a few persons carried the vegetables into the shop. Later, he moved vegetables in the same vehicle to a shop at Ashoka Junction in Arakkulam. The police took notice of him as he travelled back home to Maniyarankudi in an autorikshaw, and sent him to quarantine. Those who had contacted him were also traced. Following the COVID-19 case reported from Elappara, all the shops in Elappara town were closed and the Health Department officials were in the process of tracing those who came in contact with the patient. He had got infected through a contact, and was detected positive when he came to a hospital with symptoms of fever. The district moved to the Orange zone on Thursday. There were no COVID-19 cases on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quarantine-centre-opened-at-muttom/article31429268.ece
25 April 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Vigil tightened on Wayanad borders||The Wayanad district administration has tightened vigil on the Kerala-Karnataka and Kerala-Tamil Nadu borders of the district by using drones and deploying more police officials to crack down on border crossings. The administration had plans to declare border villages in the district as COVID-19 hotspot areas and stop entry into the villages in the wake of the arrival of more people from neighbouring districts in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu by violating lockdown norms.  118 quarantined As many as 118 persons from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu were quarantined after they entered the district by flouting norms, Wayanad District Collector Adeela Abdulla told The Hindu on Friday . Many among them reached Wayanad from Coorg and Mysuru districts in Karnataka through forest as well as by crossing the Kabani river, and also from Nilgiris district in Tamil Nadu through illegal crossing points, and rural roads, Ms. Abdulla said. Villagers on the border areas had been directed to inform the police and Health Department officials about the movement of people from other States, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vigil-tightened-on-wayanad-borders/article31429231.ece
25 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Firemen act in time, child reunites with family||The timely intervention by Fire and Rescue Services personnel reunited a four-year-old boy with his parents in Wayanad on Friday. When Sajith, 29, an electrician living at Pallikunnu in the district, was at work at a site at Payyannur in Kannur, a COVID-19 case was reported in that area in the first week of March. After Health officials instructed all workers to go into self-quarantine as a precautionary measure, Sajith asked his wife Vishnu Priya to shift their son Jugal to her home at Kulappully in Palakkad district to avoid direct contact with him. After leaving Jugal at her Palakkad home, Vishnupriya returned to Pallikkunnu. On March 14, Sajith reached his house at Pallikkunnu and went into a 14-day self-quarantine. However, once the quarantine cycle got over, the national lockdown was already in force. Subsequently, the couple approached the district administration, seeking permission to bring their son back. “Though the district authorities granted me permission to bring back my child, my financial state did not allow me to hire a taxi for the purpose,” said Sajtih. “Finally, I sought the intervention of C.K. Saseendran, MLA, and Wayanad District Collector Adeela Abdulla,” he added. Ms. Abdulla directed the Palakkad regional fire station to make necessary arrangements for shifting the child. Subsequently, fire officials brought Jugal along with Vishnu Pranav, brother-in-law of Sajith, to Kozhikode. Meenchanda fire station officer A. Viswas handed over the boy to the couple at the fire station here in the presence of Mr. Saseendran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/firemen-act-in-time-child-reunites-with-family/article31429226.ece
25 April 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Three more test positive in Kasaragod; relief for Kannur||Three more persons tested positive for Sars-Cov-2 virus in Kasaragod district on Friday. While two of them, including a 38-year-old woman and a 14-year-old, are residents of Chengala, the third, a 26-year-old woman, is from Chemmanad in the district. All three got infected through contacts. Despite the new cases, the district has something to cheer about as two more persons were discharged from the Kanhangad District Hospital and three from the Kasaragod District Hospital. As many as 18 persons are undergoing treatment, while 550 have recovered. The district had the maximum number of cases reported in the State. However, according to the Health Department, the recovery rate in the district stands at 89.7%. The district still has 2,593 persons under observation. While 2,552 are in home quarantine, 41 are in hospitals. As many as 3,617 samples were sent for tests. The results of 393 samples are yet to come. Meanwhile, the Homeopathy Department has decided to distribute homeo immune boosters to people. The medicine will be distributed within the Kanhangad municipal limits. K. Ramsubramaniam, District Medical Officer, Homoeo, said fresh stock of immune boosters would soon arrive in the district, and they would be distributed in all panchayats. Three discharged Kannur heaved a sigh of relief as three COVID-19 patients recovered and no fresh cases were reported in the district on Friday. Three patients who were undergoing treatment at the COVID-19 Treatment Centre at Anjarakandy were discharged. With this, out of 111 persons who tested positive in the district, 54 have been discharged. As many as 2,453 people are still under observation in the district, with 57 of them in hospitals. Meanwhile, to speed up sample testing, a new virology lab was opened at Kannur Government Medical College Hospital here on Friday. T.V. Rajesh, MLA, inaugurated the lab, which is equipped with UV steriliser and advanced PCR machines for early detection of SARS-CoV-2. Medical College Principal N. Roy said the lab was equipped to test at least 45 samples a day and results would be available within six hours. To develop the facility, a sum of Rs. 15lakh was given from the MLA’s fund, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-more-test-positive-in-kasaragod-relief-for-kannur/article31429223.ece
25 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||PCB drafts list of local bodies polluting Periyar||The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has started preparing a list of local bodies responsible for letting untreated sewage and waste water into the Periyar. The move comes in the wake of frequent discoloration and fish kill in the river. The list is being drafted on a directive of the State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) on Solid Waste Management. The Kerala High Court had also asked the district administration and the PCB to address the worsening water quality of the river. Besides details regarding all local bodies on the banks of the river, the list will have data on the levels of biological oxygen demand (BOD) analysed from samples collected by the board from each region. The PCB had found that as many as 10 drains joining the river from Eloor, Aluva and Kalamassery municipalities had high biochemical oxygen demand, an indicator of organic pollution. The BOD of a drinking water source should be less than 2 mg/litre. The faecal coliform level was found to be well over the limit of less than 500 mpn (most probable number)/100 ml of water for a drinking water source. At a monitoring station at Aluva, the faecal coliform count hit an average of 1,13,000 and was over 2,000 at most other monitoring stations. Municipalities, including Aluva, Kalamassery, and Eloor, are yet to comply with a National Green Tribunal directive to set up sewage treatment plants. The tribunal had also asked the local bodies to identify establishments discharging sewage into drains. Meanwhile, the PCB reiterated its earlier position that the recent fish kill in the Periyar was triggered by low dissolved oxygen levels in the upstream and downstream of both Pathalam and Manjummel regulators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pcb-drafts-list-of-local-bodies-polluting-periyar/article31429229.ece
25 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Experts divided over efficacy of tests||At a time when there is a clamour for more testing to isolate those with severe acute respiratory syndrome corona virus (SARS-CoV-2), experts are divided on the efficacy of the tests. While one group opines that neither the reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) nor the serological antibody test has the sensitivity and specificity to detect the virus in just one test, the other says the tests are the only way to know the spread of the virus in the community. One rationales behind testing is screening, especially when the virus has caused a pandemic, says Rajeev Jayadevan, president, Indian Medical Association, Kochi. The number of RT-PCR tests done at government centres is too low in such a situation, he adds. The experts are also divided about the range of efficacy of the RT-PCR test – between 35% and 70%. However, they do agree that if the throat swab is taken correctly, the sensitivity can be 60-70%. “We have to do at least three tests to arrive at a confirmatory result,” says pulmonologist Jacob Baby. Actually, the tests should be done for a swab sample or sputum along with the serological antibody test to get a more accurate picture, says Dr. Baby. But, the whole testing will cost more than Rs. 4,000. The catch is in the affordability of such expensive tests that will still not give at least 99% accuracy. Hence, testing the population for SARS-CoV2 does not look a good option. Asymptomatic people It will be, therefore, difficult to isolate asymptomatic people with the antibody tests. The present strategy of social distancing, wearing masks, and breaking the chain are definitely more appropriate. According to immunologist and rheumatologist Padmanabha Shenoy, in a population where the number of people with infection is much less, antibody testing, which has 95% sensitivity, could throw up a number of false positive results, which would give an indication of being falsely immune to the disease. “As countries are still gathering evidence on the reliability of tests, it will be a while before the tests become helpful,” says Dr. Shenoy. Antibody tests would be more helpful when the numbers of infection is high, like in New York, but not in Kerala, he says. N. Vijayakumar, in-charge of the Regional Blood Transfusion Centre, Aluva, says though the serological enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay (ELISA) kits are still not available, they could be a better answer in a situation where the community has to be screened. “They do take more time - about two hours, but 96 tests can be done at a time, hence much cheaper option. The ELISA test will also be more reliable,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/experts-divided-over-efficacy-of-tests/article31429238.ece
25 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cancer patients wait for medicines||Sunanda (name changed), a 53-year-old Chronic myeloid leukaemia patient, is looking at an improbable scenario of spending nearly Rs. 1 lakh unless she gets her costly medicines, which were supplied for free before the lockdown. A patient of the Regional Cancer Centre (RCC) in Thiruvananthapuram, she used to get a free strip of tablets costing around Rs. 7,000 under the Karunya Benevolent Fund Scheme. The pharmaceutical company concerned delivered a month’s supply when she applied with the bill of that strip. Though she has registered with the government’s emergency medicine delivery service through the Fire and Rescue Services for uninterrupted supply of medicines during the lockdown, she claims she has been told that her representative will have to come to the hospital and complete some formalities for that to happen. She says under the prevailing circumstances, it is not safe to send her aged husband who is also not keeping well. There are more patients in a similar predicament. Regulations RCC authorities say that regulations are in place in the case of some rarely prescribed and slow-moving medicines owing to logistical and medical reasons though steps are being taken to address those issues as well. “We do not want to leave out anyone and we are working out things since we are facing an unprecedented situation,” says Sajeed A., RCC Medical Superintendent. He says the RCC, along with the Directorate of Health Services, has identified 21 hospitals across the State through which cancer treatment would be provided. In addition to this facility, the RCC is supplying prescribed medicines directly to patients in all districts through the Kerala Fire and Rescue Services and the Kerala State Youth Commission. Problem of misuse Jineesh Kumar, a Fire and Rescue Services officer in Thiruvananthapuram, confirms that some rare and costly medicines meant for cancer patients are not being made available under the emergency service citing apprehension of misuse. “The argument of misuse is baseless since pharmaceutical companies supply free medicines only against the bill of free strips supplied under the Karunya scheme, not to mention the verification by a doctor. So, this amounts to denial of right to treatment,” says S. Jessin, a lawyer practising in Kochi and whose mother is undergoing cancer treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cancer-patients-wait-for-medicines/article31429261.ece
25 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Prosecutors, police draw flak for lapses||The police officer and prosecutors who investigated and conducted the trial in the sexual assault and death case involving twin sisters at Walayar should be kept off from similar assignments, a judicial commission that probed the case has recommended. Former district judge P.K. Haneefa was appointed as the judicial commission to probe the case after a trial court acquitted all the accused for want of evidences. Flawed conduct Flawed conduct of the case was also believed to be a reason for the acquittal. The death of the two minor sisters and the acquittal of the accused had led to a huge public outcry in Kerala. The case witnessed two prosecutors being appointed and the second one returning to the job after being removed from the responsibility. Prime witness The commission noted that the life of the younger girl, who would have become a star witness in the case as she knew about what befell her sister, could have been saved if the police had acted with alacrity. It was 51 days after the death of the elder girl that the young one was found dead in their house. The sub-inspector (SI) concerned had deposed before the commission that the younger girl was under trauma after the death of her sister. Had he acted on time, she could have been saved if she was put under the guardianship of a Child Welfare Committee, the commission observed. The police officer also failed to record the statement of the mother of the deceased children that the elder girl was sexually assaulted and file reports accordingly, it was pointed out. The police and the prosecutors failed to bring before the court the evidences related to the sexual assault committed on the girl. Evidences lost Several pieces of crucial evidences, including the cloths of the elder girl, were lost. The police failed to collect the cloths of the victim and send them for chemical analysis, which would have yielded valuable evidences, the commission noted. The prosecutor could not convince the court about the need to have an investigation officer inside the court hall during the trial. Though the police tried to raise the demand, the prosecutor obstructed it, thus affecting the conduct of the case. The prosecutor also did not direct investigation into the areas that the police had missed to probe, it was found. Controversial officer The commission suggested that the sub-inspector who investigated the Walayar case in the early stages should not be put in charge of any such investigations in future. If he was currently probing any such case, he should be taken out of the responsibility, the commission recommended. Departmental action should be taken against the police officer, it was recommended by the commission.  The death of the two minor sisters and the acquittal of the accused had led to a huge public outcry in Kerala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prosecutors-police-draw-flak-for-lapses/article31429235.ece
25 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||A ‘Touch of Love’ from Bengal||Lakhs of migrant workers from West Bengal, stranded across Kerala in the lockdown, received some good news from their home State the other day. The roughly 10-lakh strong Bengali migrant community in Kerala are among the largest to benefit from a programme launched by the West Bengal government to reach out to their citizens stranded across the country through a dedicated Android-based mobile app titled Sneher Paras (Touch of Love). The app is expected to benefit around 40 lakh people, as States like Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka and Delhi also have a significant Bengali migrant population of between 2 and 3 lakh each. The West Bengal government has launched a platform of its own to download the app since making it available on Google Play Store will take at least a couple of days owing to the technical hassles posed by the lockdown. “The app was downloaded by 52,000 Bengali migrants by 5 p.m. on Wednesday. It has two specific objectives through which the government aims at reaching out to our citizens stranded outside,” P.B. Salim, Secretary, Chief Minister’s Office and West Bengal State Nodal Officer for people stranded due to COVID-19, told The Hindu over phone. The government plans a direct benefit transfer of Rs. 1,000 as an immediate assistance to every migrant registering in the app by uploading either their Aadhaar Card or Voter’s Identity Card as proof of their place of residence along with their bank account details. The use of Global Positioning System will also help to check the location of the registrants. Besides, the migrants stranded outside while undergoing treatment will be reimbursed up to 50% of their lodging and treatment expenses. Migrants looking to avail themselves of the benefits should download and register in the app by May 3. It can be downloaded from the linkhttps://jaibanglamw.wb. gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-touch-of-love-from-bengal/article31429218.ece
25 April 2020||KOCHI/PALAKKAD,KERALA||Lockdown deals a big blow to cement dealers||The current lockdown has hit cement dealers hard with a large number of cement bags facing damage in godowns across the State. Cement companies offer a shelf life of three months for their product, but civil engineering experts and contractors say cement will lose up to 20% of strength after one month. Cement dealers have called for an immediate government intervention to save the industry from an impending collapse. Around 12 lakh packets are at construction sites and with retailers. These include those whose three-month expiry date is over. Its quality will be compromised by 30% if it is used after six months, says Varghese Kannampilly, president, Kerala Government Contractors’ Association. “Though construction codes specify a three-month deadline, cement can deteriorate in two months or a lesser period if stored improperly,” says a Public Works Department official. Although the government offered lockdown relaxations for dealers of building materials, including cement, the district administrations in Malappuram and Kozhikode have hardened their stand as the districts continue to be in the COVID-19 Red zone. But in Kannur and Kasaragod, where COVID-19 hit harder, the administrations have permitted the cement dealers to clear stocks. Price rise “We are trying to convince the Malappuram and Kozhikode Collectors of the situation, seeking their help to tide over the crisis,” says Sirajudheen Ellathodi, general secretary, Kerala State Cement Dealers Welfare Association. Even when the lockdown has crippled the struggling industry, the companies have increased the price of cement up to Rs. 50 a bag. “The price hike came into effect on Wednesday. It is against an agreement made last year between the companies and the government that no further price increase would be made without the permission of the government,” says Mr. Sirajudheen. Those who bought cement for Rs. 375 a bag before the lockdown will have to pay Rs. 425 when they resume their work after the lockdown. Manufacturers had assured the government in 2019 that the price would be raised only after due consultations. With the assurance being breached, the Walayar-based Malabar Cements must increase its production and steps must be taken to import cement, Mr Kannampilly says. Cases Several dealers have dared to clear their stocks. Nearly three dozen cases have been registered across the State against dealers for violating the restrictions. Nine dealers have been booked in Malappuram district and one of them has been fined Rs. 25,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-deals-a-big-blow-to-cement-dealers/article31429247.ece
25 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Now, Coastal police deal with ‘smuggling’ of fishers||With the relaxation of lockdown restrictions in the fisheries sector, traditional boats have become an ideal option to ferry people across district and State borders, posing a challenge to the Coastal police. As several fishers were stranded in different coastal villages during the lockdown, many consider it as an opportunity to return home with the help of their mates. “In the initial days of the lockdown we had to quarantine over 300 fishers who came from different places. Then no incident was reported for a long time but with the traditional fleet resuming operations, cases are cropping up once again. In the second phase, more vessels will be allowed and then the situation may change. But we are all prepared with intensive surveillance already in place,” Alex K. John of the Coastal police, said. According to authorities, around 200 Tamil Nadu boats are at Neendakara and the fishers are desperate to get their vessels back. “On Thursday a person from Neendakara went to Neerody in Tamil Nadu, bringing back three persons from there on his craft. All three ventured into the sea the same day on another boat and are yet to return. We have quarantined the Neendakara resident and are expecting the others back by Saturday. As per a tip-off, there is a racket being run to smuggle fishers from Tamil Nadu,” said an official. The State has hundreds of fishers who are originally from neighbouring States. “They used to shuttle between the States and were distressed when the government decided to extend the lockdown. Then there are many fishers from Pozhiyoor, a coastal village bordering Kerala and Tamil Nadu. For many of us this new idea of borders does not make any sense and in the coming days you can expect many others to attempt the same,” said a fisher. He adds it is all the more easy to transport people from one district to another. Along with the restrictions in harbours, the Fisheries Department has made the daily registration of boats and crew mandatory to keep a tab on their activities. But even with the Marine Enforcement and the Coastal police patrolling the sea, it is difficult to nab violators without the cooperation of local fishers. “We have tried our best to warn them about the dangers involved in smuggling people from other States. Since Tamil Nadu has comparatively higher COVID-19 cases, we have asked them to stay alert and the majority of the fishers are supportive,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-coastal-police-deal-with-smuggling-of-fishers/article31429255.ece
25 April 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||MYL alleges misuse of free ration kits||Muslim Youth League (MYL) workers staged a protest in front of the Vadakara taluk office on Friday, alleging that Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] workers were misusing the distribution of free ration materials by illegally storing them in the local committee office of the party. The protesters, who also gheraoed the Vadakara tahsildar, sought his intervention to shift the items to a government building. They also sought a probe into the incident. The protesters, mostly comprising local MYL workers, who were later arrested by the Vadakara police, dismissed local CPI(M) leaders’ claim that the materials were stored in the party office owing to lack of space at the ration shop. Subsequent to inspection, Civil Supplies officials said the ration kits would be shifted to a government facility in Vadakara. CPI(M) leaders said they were only helping the Civil Supplies Department to store the articles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/myl-alleges-misuse-of-free-ration-kits/article31429221.ece
25 April 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||India, UAE coordinating efforts during pandemic||Despite a few incidents wherein expatriates were sacked from their jobs for the alleged circulation of Islamophobic social media posts, the Indian community has been enjoying the goodwill of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) during the COVID-19 crisis. Sources said the Indian Embassy in Abu Dhabi and the Consulate General of India in Dubai, in association with the UAE government, had been providing relief to the Indian community in distress. The Dubai Health Authority and other agencies have been looking after COVID-19 patients. A team of doctors and paramedics has been volunteering for the initiative supported by the Indian Business and Professional Council. In the past one month, the consulate has helped more than 4,000 persons by distributing food packets through the Indian Community Welfare Fund and various Indian organisations and associations in the UAE. Assistance is also being extended to people in various labour camps in Dubai. Besides, the Emirates Airlines has offered to help as many as 19 Indians at the Dubai airport as they could not travel back to India owing to flight restrictions. Around 80 Indian nationals died in the UAE in the past one month. According to a rough estimate, there are 34.2 lakh Indians in the UAE, and 8.30 lakh are from Kerala. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) had engaged in damage control following the circulation of the social media posts. Pavan Kapoor, India’s Ambassador in the UAE, had to issue a warning through his tweet which said: “India and UAE share the value of non-discrimination on any grounds. Discrimination is against our moral fabric and the Rule of law. Indian nationals in the UAE should always remember this.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/india-uae-coordinating-efforts-during-pandemic/article31429220.ece
25 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Two sustain burns in freak accident||Two persons sustained injuries in a freak explosion while burning waste materials near their house at Keezhur near Payyoli in Kozhikode district on Friday. The two, K.V. Narayanan and his son Biju, were admitted to the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital following the incident. According to the Payyoli police, the explosion took place when the father and the son were trying to burn waste materials kept inside a metal waste bin. In the explosion, the door of a nearby toilet and a few construction equipment were also destroyed. The injury of Mr. Narayanan and his son were not serious in nature, they said. Though the bomb squad and forensic experts examined the spot, they were yet to get any scientific evidence on the explosive. The police said investigation would be conducted into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-sustain-burns-in-freak-accident/article31429232.ece
25 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Faculty development programme held||Farook Institute of Management Studies (FIMS) conducted an online faculty development programme for college teachers on online teaching methods on Friday. Around 200 teachers from across the country participated. Sessions on various videoconferencing platforms, Google classroom, video-making software, and online collaboration tools were held as part of the programme. FIMS director Saji Kuriakose inaugurated the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/faculty-development-programme-held/article31429219.ece
25 April 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Baby’s death sparks concern at Payyanad||The death of a four-month-old girl owing to COVID-19 at the Institute of Maternal and Child Health (IMCH) in Kozhikode on Friday morning trigged panic among the people at Payyanad and neighbouring areas of Manjeri in Malappuram district. It is still not clear how and from where the child contracted the virus. The girl had suffered breathing difficulty at her house on April 17 and was taken to a private hospital at Manjeri by 12 p.m. Since she had pneumonia, the doctor advised the parents to shift her to the IMCH, a wing of the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. Epileptic seizure But she was admitted to another private hospital at Manjeri. The girl was finally shifted to the IMCH on April 21 when she had an epileptic seizure. She was diagnosed with COVID-19 on April 22. The authorities, however, could not get adequate details to prepare her route map. According to a medical bulletin from the IMCH, she was referred to the hospital after she developed ‘seizure and poor sensorium.’ Though she had no history of contact with any high-risk or low-risk category of COVID-19 patients or any epidemiological link with the disease, she was admitted to the special intensive care unit as she had severe acute respiratory infection. Her throat swab samples were sent for lab tests and they tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Ventilator support Though she was administered antibiotics for pneumonia and given ventilator support, she continued to be in shock and had respiratory failure. She had a cardiac arrest and died on Friday morning. Meanwhile, three COVID-19 patients were cured of the disease on Friday after treatment at Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri. They were shifted to the step-down ICU from the isolation ward. While four persons are still under observation after being cured, two continue to be under treatment for COVID-19 at the hospital.  (With inputs from Kozhikode bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/babys-death-sparks-concern-at-payyanad/article31429262.ece
25 April 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Man airlifted from U.K. for treatment in Kozhikode||A Malayali software engineer from Nottingham in the U.K., was brought to private hospital in Kozhikode on a chartered flight on Friday, surmounting the national and international lockdown restrictions. The special flight from Nottingham carrying Prasad Das, 37, and his wife and child reached Karipur in the morning. He was soon shifted to the hospital in an ambulance. A group of doctors led by gastroenterologist surgeon Abhishek Rajan attended to him. Hailing from Thalassery, Mr. Das, a software engineer with UST Global in the U.K., was being treated at Nottingham University Medical Centre for gastrointestinal ailment. As Mr. Das desired to continue the treatment at the Kozhikode hospital, Tom Aditya, Mayor of Bristol Bradley Stoke, who is of Kerala origin, sought the help of former Union Minister K.J. Alphons. Quick intervention Mr. Alphons got the clearance of the Central and State governments and arranged for airlifting Mr. Das on a chartered flight. He said he got the approvals of the Union Ministries of Civil Aviation, Home, and Health, Director General of Civil Aviation and the State government at lightning speed. “I have never seen things happen at such lighting speed. It’s nothing short of a miracle,” he said. Mr. Das was shifted to the private hospital after tests confirmed that he was COVID-19 negative. Doctors said that it was tough to bring a patient from the U.K., especially as there were restrictions all over the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-airlifted-from-uk-for-treatment-in-kozhikode/article31429245.ece
25 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Algae bloom chokes Achencoil river stretch||Algal bloom has resulted in heavy pollution on the Kumbazha-Kallarakkadavu stretch of the Achencoil river, posing a grave public health risk in the Pathanamthitta municipal limits. A study conducted by Binoy T. Thomas and V.P. Thomas of the Department of Botany at Catholicate College here, in association with the Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment and the Directorate of Environment and Climate Change, has found excessive growth of Euglena sanguinea and other algae along the mostly stagnant river stretch. Dr. Thomas told The Hindu that eutrophication — excess nutrients in water — and environmental changes were identified as the cause of the harmful algal blooms in the fresh aquatic system of the Achencoil. The Konni block panchayat, which had taken notice of the issue after those bathing in the river complained of skin problems, had convened a meeting to discuss the problem a year ago, Dr. Thomas said. According to him, the algal bloom that even changes the colour of the waterbody indicates the high pollution level caused by a heavy load of nutrients, fertilizers, and septic sewage. The check-dam on the riverbed at Kallarakkadavu, meant for recharging groundwater and wells during summer, has turned the river stretch into more or less a stagnant pool of polluted water, he said. Fish perish The algal bloom, spread over the river surface as thick scum, prevents the entry of atmospheric oxygen, thus killing fish and other aquatic organisms. Water quality tests on the stretch found that the coliform bacteria count was 1,800 in every 100 ml against the maximum permissible limit of 500 per 100 ml. An inspection by the State Pollution Control Board detected high coliform count along the river stretch. Dr. Thomas stressed the need to initiate safety measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/algae-bloom-chokes-achencoil-river-stretch/article31429270.ece
25 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Relief for three more persons||Three COVID-19 patients, including a 62-year-old woman, were cured of the disease and got discharged from hospital isolation wards, reducing the number of patients in the district to three, on Friday. The senior citizen from Vadasserikkara, near Ranni, had contracted the disease from her relatives who came from Italy. She tested negative for the viral infection on Friday. The previous test of her throat swab too was negative. She was given a warm send-off by the District Hospital staff after 46 days at the isolation ward. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja congratulated the hospital staff for their service. Also discharged Two men who came from abroad were the other two patients who were cured of the disease and got discharged from the General Hospital on Friday. As of now, only three patients remain at the General Hospital here, besides four others with symptomatic fever admitted to the District Hospital in Kozhencherry. No new COVID-19 case has been reported from any part of the district on Friday. At present, only 426 persons, 382 of them who came from other States and 44 contacts of the infected persons, have been home quarantined. A total of 161 persons, including the 14 cured patients, got discharged from isolation wards as on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/relief-for-three-more-persons/article31429272.ece
25 April 2020||Special CorrespondentThiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State starts sentinel surveillance||The State government on Thursday asked districts to take up sentinel surveillance for COVID-19 by collecting nasopharyngeal swabs from selected groups in the community and sending them to the designated labs for RT-PCR (reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction ) testing. Health Department officials said the process had been started off on a tentative basis since Thursday and that this would help detect if there were any active but asymptomatic cases in the community. District surveillance officers are in charge of the sentinel surveillance survey using RT-PCR, wherein swabs will be taken randomly from amongst health-care workers, police personnel, home delivery staff, guest workers and people in hotspot areas three times a week, officials said. A team, including a doctor, nurse and a lab technician, will tour the districts on the basis of pre-fixed route maps and collect samples. The samples will be apart from the routine samples that are sent from districts for testing. Sources said the State was also in the process of formulating guidelines for conducting pool testing using RT-PCR, to detect if any community transmission of COVID-19 was happening. A pooled testing algorithm involves the PCR screening of a specimen pool comprising samples from multiple individuals. If the test gives a negative result, then the entire pool is considered negative. But if the test gives a positive result, then the technician will have to go back and test every sample in the testing pool to check which samples had yielded the positive result.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sentinel-surveillance-begins-across-state/article31429248.ece
25 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital city removed from list of hotspots||The Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limits have been removed from the list of COVID-19 hotspots. The existing restrictions, however, will remain in the Ambalathara and Kalippankulam wards. Barring the two wards, the city limits will be considered an Orange zone similar to other parts of the district. Activities permitted during the lockdown period will be determined accordingly. Speaking to mediapersons here on Friday, District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said while certain exemptions would come into effect in the city, there would be no relaxation in vigil until the lifting of the lockdown. While access to the city was currently permitted only through six points, a decision on opening up more routes would be taken at a later stage. Access to the Ambalathara and Kalippankulam wards would be permitted only through two points each. Morning walkers Morning walkers would be permitted to walk outdoors close to their homes, provided they wore masks and refrained from crowding, the Collector said. The district authorities intensified surveillance at points where there were reports of people evading detection and crossing inter-State borders. Vehicles transporting essential commodities and other items were being thoroughly screened at the checkpoints and narrow paths were being sealed to prevent people from crossing over on foot. The Collector sought the assistance of the Kanyakumari district administration as part of such efforts. Besides, the Thiruvananthapuram Rural Superintendent of Police (SP) was in contact with the Kanyakumari SP to prevent undetected crossovers at the border. Inter-district movement would be permitted only for government employees, medical officers, and other health workers from Kollam. Special passes were being issued for other purposes after assessing each case in detail. He said taxis and autorickshaws would not be permitted to operate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-city-removed-from-list-of-hotspots/article31429275.ece
25 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No Green zone till May 3||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday said the State would have no COVID-19-free Green zones till May 3. He said the threat of the epidemic persisted. New cases had cropped up in different localities. The spectre of further flare-ups in the third phase of the lockdown loomed and the public must maintain social distancing and shun unnecessary travel. Hundreds of people are under observation for COVID-9 symptoms across Kerala. The State could ill-afford to let its guard drop. On Salary Challenge Mr. Vijayan clarified that the government had only deferred the payment of six days of wages from the salary of State government employees and teachers. It was not as if they had lost the wages irretrievably. The arrangement would continue till August for now. The State faced a deep financial crisis. It could not afford to meet the salary and allowances of employees in entirety. Mr. Vijayan hinted that the State would have to tighten its belt further and employees should brace themselves for more rigorous austerity measures. Non-resident Keralites The State was ready to welcome non-resident Keralites who wished to return home. It had made adequate arrangements for those who required quarantine or hospitalisation. Even asymptomatic returnees would have to isolate themselves at home for at least two weeks to prevent the possible transmission of the virus. Mr. Vijayan advanced the timing of his customary press conference from 6 p.m. to 5 p.m. in deference to the demand from Muslim women that they need to prepare for breaking the fast during the month of Ramzan. Diversion of ration He said the police had arrested A.K. Thyagarajan who local people in Munnar in Idukki had accused of siphoning off rations meant for the pandemic-affected. They had seized a vehicle and 67 bags of foodgrain. The Industries Department has earmarked 307 acres in its possession for the cultivation of vegetables. Tamil actor Vijay had contributed Rs. 10 lakh to the Chief Minster’s Distress Relief Fund.  The threat of epidemic persists and new cases have cropped up in various localities. Kerala should not let its guard drop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-green-zone-till-may-3/article31429257.ece
25 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M), CPI iron out differences||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] has placated the Communist Party of India (CPI) that had voiced concern over the government decision to engage U.S. company Sprinklr for analysing the COVID-19 data. CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran, who had aired his objections to the agreement and held discussions with CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Thursday, came out strongly against the United Democratic Front (UDF) on Friday accusing it of attempting to upset the COVID-19 containment efforts of the government, despite the model earning international acclaim. Mr. Rajendran, in an article in the party organ Janayugom on Friday, hailed the State government’s efforts in checking the virus spread and death toll. Flak for Trump He came down heavily on the U.S. administration that chose to trivialise the virus spread and the Central government for according a reception to U.S. President Donald Trump. At the same time, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his Cabinet colleagues came out in full swing and that became a model for the nation, Mr. Rajendran said.  He accused the UDF of ignoring the achievements of the government and maintaining a silence on the Centre’s neglect. Mr. Rajendran said the UDF and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were perturbed over the committed functioning of the government, which firmly stood with the people. He blamed the UDF and the BJP for adopting such a stance fearing a political setback.  Kanam hails government’s efforts in checking virus spread||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-cpi-iron-out-differences/article31429259.ece
25 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Serving food just to the needy||The number of people depending upon community kitchens within the city Corporation area has been coming down considerably in recent days after the civic body has taken measures to ensure that only the deserving get the benefits. The number of orders which had gone up to 91,000 on one of the initial days has come down in recent days, hovering around a figure of 50,000. Now, the demand is mostly from coastal wards, where the fish workers have been unable to go the seas. Janakeeya restaurants “A lot of calls still come from people who have options to buy or prepare food of their own. This scheme is meant for the most needy, the indigent, those in relief camps, or the bed-ridden. Except those in real need of it, the rest of them have been asked to shift to Janakeeya restaurants,” says a Corporation official. But Janakeeya restaurants, where meal parcels are available at Rs. 20 and for Rs. 25 for home delivery, have not received the expected response. Three such restaurants have been opened till now, but the number of orders has remained just around 1,000. Grocery kits are being provided to most of the guest workers as they prefer to cook their own cuisine rather than depend on the community kitchens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/serving-food-just-to-the-needy/article31429278.ece
25 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC seeks additional aid for operating services after May 3||Close on the heels of private bus operators, the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has approached the government seeking additional financial assistance for operations post lockdown, when social distancing will have to be followed to contain COVID-19. The KSRTC, which was operating 16.5 lakh km daily using 4,500 buses till March 24, estimates that the fleet will ply only 5.5 lakh km post lockdown. Curbs It has also taken into account the curbs on interstate and inter-district schedules that will continue once the lockdown ends on May 3. With social distancing in place, the number passengers in a bus will come down. On seats meant for two persons, only one person will be allowed to sit and two persons on seats that can accommodate three. People will not be allowed to travel standing on the bus. The KSRTC estimates that only 28 people can travel in an ordinary bus that can accommodate 52 passengers. “We are planning to operate only 1,500 buses and run two trips in mornings and evenings. Trips in the afternoon and late hours will not fetch any revenue. The KSRTC will need Rs. 64 lakh for these trips that will have to follow social distancing norms and disinfection procedures,” a KSRTC official says. As patronage will be less, the KSRTC is of the view that the earnings per km will hover around Rs. 14. The operating cost per km of these trips will be around Rs. 25, excluding salary of the crew. Besides incidental expenses, the ailing KSRTC is seeking Rs. 64 lakh for purchasing diesel, tyre, tube, and sanitisers(to be provided for commuters). Letter KSRTC Chairman and Managing Director M.P. Dinesh has submitted a letter to the government through the Principal Secretary, Transport. The private bus operators have approached the Chief Minister seeking waiver of motor vehicle tax and diesel at half the price, among other things, to operate the services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-seeks-additional-aid-for-operating-services-after-may-3/article31429233.ece
25 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nod to resume port work sought||Around 300 metres of the 3.1-km-long under-construction breakwater of the international multipurpose deepwater seaport at Vizhinjam has been damaged with high waves washing away 60% of the granite stones laid in the core area. The damage in the port side of the breakwater, a critical component of the project, is reportedly due to lack of armour protection. The seaside of the 700-m breakwater, which had been constructed, did not suffer any damage as large granite stones had been placed as cover for the core area. With the monsoon weeks away, Adani Vizhinjam Port Private Ltd (AVPPL), tasked with the execution of the seaport, has approached the government seeking immediate permission to start work to protect the core area. The works had come to a standstill with the lockdown from March 25. The AVPPL has pointed to the building up of high waves in Vizhinjam and forecast of the monsoon setting in the last week of May. Official sources said the District Collector had been asked to take a call on the request of the AVPPL. The lifting of hotspot status in the Corporation limits on Friday and the government’s decision to allow the functioning of quarries had come to the advantage of the AVPPL. In the core area, granite stones of 0.1 to 500 kg were used. Large granite stones of one to two tonnes had to be placed above it to prevent the onslaught of the high waves, sources said. Stocked The AVPPL has stocked large granite stones in the site and it can be used for providing immediate protection of 100 m. “We are ready to take up the work as labourers are available,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-to-resume-port-work-sought/article31429273.ece
25 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||More testing in Varkala||The district administration has expedited steps to collect throat swabs of all people who came in close contact with a Varkala native who was diagnosed with COVID-19 a day ago. The family members, including three children, and relatives of the 44-year-old patient, who hails from Puthenchantha, have also been placed under quarantine in their homes. While he had remained under quarantine for 28 days upon his arrival from Sharjah on March 19, he is learnt to have left his house after completion of the mandated period, official sources said. As many as 178 people were quarantined in the district on Friday, while 86 people completed their 28-day isolation period. Besides, 10 symptomatic people were admitted to hospitals and 11 others discharged after recovering from their ailments. There are currently 1,581 people under observation. These included 1,466 people who were in home quarantine and 43 who were being monitored in various hospitals. Seventy-two people were under surveillance at a Corona Care Centre in Mar Ivanios College hostel. Moreover, 36 throat swab samples were collected and 34 other test samples returned negative on the day. Vehicles seized The Thiruvananthapuram City Police registered 271 cases, arrested 252 people for violating the lockdown. As many as 179 people were also booked for their failure to wear masks outdoors. Eighty-four vehicles were also confiscated. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural Police registered 569 cases, arrested 570 people and seized 424 vehicles. An ayurveda response cell has come into being as part of the COVID-19 containment efforts. Led by DMO (Ayurveda) Robert Raj, the cell will prepare guidelines pertaining to the use of preventive medicines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-testing-in-varkala/article31429242.ece
25 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Robust plans to step up vegetable production||The Agriculture Department is working out strategies to counter a possible shortage of vegetables that could hit Kerala on account of the COVID-19 spread in neighbouring States. Through its Jeevani initiative, the department is planning to ensure food security by increasing internal production and strengthening marketing networks, said Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar on Friday . The State’s overdependence on neighbours such as Tamil Nadu for vegetables could prove a handicap if farming in those States is affected by the pandemic. If it triggers a drop in production, it could mean less imports and a surge in prices in the run-up to Onam, Mr. Sunil Kumar said. As an immediate measure, the Agriculture Department is planning to promote open precision farming in 10 locations in every panchayat under the Jeevani programme. The department will identify unused public and private land that could be used for cultivation. Kudumbashree units and voluntary organisations will be entrusted with the farming activities.   The Agriculture Department is also planning to popularise millets such as ragi which have a high nutritional value, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/robust-plans-to-step-up-vegetable-production/article31429243.ece
25 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU exams may resume next month||Kerala University has set its sights on resuming its examination process that was disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic by the second week of May. However, it has adopted a guarded stance on declaring its examination calendar. Vice Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai convened a meeting recently on the matter. The implementation of the schedule, however, will depend on the lifting of the restrictions and the travel ban that is in effect across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-exams-may-resume-next-month/article31429274.ece
25 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Steps on to clean up Erumakkuzhy||Thiruvananthapuram Corporation has initiated steps to clean up Erumakkuzhy, one of the biggest waste dumps here, and turn it into a landscaped garden. Mayor K.Sreekumar said work was on to separate biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste accumulated over the years. Work of clearing up the waste dump as part of the pre-monsoon cleaning activities has begun. Erumakkuzhy used to be a dumping yard for waste from the Chala market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-on-to-clean-up-erumakkuzhy/article31429277.ece
25 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SPC instruction||State Police Chief (SPC) Loknath Behera has advised operators of goods vehicles coming from other States to maintain self-declaration forms containing details of the drivers and helpers in the vehicles while crossing the border. He also wrote to Chief Secretaries and State Police Chiefs of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka to enforce the same prior to the departure of the vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spc-instruction/article31429276.ece
25 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||When grow bags too go green||To do away with plastic grow bags, the Kudumbashree Mission in the district has come up with organic grow bags from areca palm spathes. The Mission had assigned several tasks for its members during the lockdown period and making of organic grow bags was one of them. The main objective was to avoid the use of plastic in vegetable cultivation. As areca palm spathes were available aplenty in the district, there was no shortage of raw materials. Training for members of various blocks was provided through WhatsApp. Meanwhile, the cooking competition organised by the Kudumbashree Mission in the district has reached the fourth phase. Making of chammanthi and chammanthi podi with easily available ingredients from the kitchen garden is the theme for the phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-grow-bags-too-go-green/article31429224.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back to work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-to-work/article31429250.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Dual purpose||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dual-purpose/article31429265.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Battle against dengue||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/battle-against-dengue/article31429280.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back on track||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-on-track/article31429228.ece
25 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temperatures likely to come down in Coastal Andhra, Rayalaseema||Thunderstorms accompanied by hail and gusty winds have been predicted in the coming five days over the Rayalaseema region, which has witnessed a rise in humidity levels in the past two days. Anantapur witnessed strong winds on Friday evening, with some areas experiencing a power cut for some time. The Agriculture Research Centre at Rekulakunta in Anantapur district has warned mango, banana, papaya and sweet lime farmers to heed the advice of horticulture officials and take appropriate measures to safeguard their crops or risk extensive damage. Temperatures are likely to come down in coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema, said agrometeorologist S. Malleswari Sadhineni. “Rainfall and thunderstorm activity is likely from April 25 to 29 over coastal A.P. and Rayalaseema. Sweet lime crop in and around Garladinne and Anantapur has reached the harvest stage and the farmers could be the worst sufferers as thundershowers are likely on next Tuesday and Wednesday,” she said. On Saturday, Sunday and Monday, thunderstorms accompanied by gusty winds (30 kmph to 40 kmph) and lightning are likely to occur at isolated places over north-coastal A.P. and at isolated places in Rayalaseema.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rainfall-predicted-over-rayalaseema/article31429399.ece
25 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka govt. under fire for moving riot accused to jail||Soon after five of the Padarayanapura riot accused housed in Ramanagaram district jail reported COVID-19 positive, the State government on Friday came under scathing attack from the Opposition for the fiasco that has embarrassed it even as senior Ministers in B.S. Yediyurappa’s Cabinet were left to defend the government’s decision. On Friday afternoon, the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy stated that it was not appropriate to politicise the matter, and urged the government to set right the mistake that it had committed. “ The government is playing around. The government has committed a mistake,” he said, and added that the decision had no rationale. “I had warned the government before,” he told reporters outside the Ramanagaram jail on Bengaluru–Mysuru highway. In a statement, Mr. Kumaraswamy’s wife and Ramanagaram legislator Anitha Kumaraswamy also slammed the government for the fiasco. ‘Administrative decision’ While government sources indicated that the initial decision to move the accused to Ramanagaram jail was an administrative decision, the issue assumed political colour when Mr. Kumaraswamy, expressing fears of contamination, had opposed the decision, blaming Director-General of Police (Prisons) Alok Mohan for it. Deputy Chief Minister and Ramanagaram district in charge C.N. Ashwath Narayan’s opposition for testing COVID-19 in ESI hospital at Malleswaram, but allowing Ramanagaram to have the Padarayanapura riot accused also came under attack. However, by late Thursday evening when it became clear that two of the inmates had contracted the virus, Mr. Kumaraswamy threatened to launch an agitation to get the inmates from Ramanagaram jail vacated. In Bengaluru, Congress MP D.K. Suresh also blamed the government for the situation. Stating that the government would be held responsible if the virus spreads in Ramanagaram district, Mr. Suresh asked how these people were brought in without conducting tests on them. “ Though we appealed to the Home Minister, our requests were not heeded to,” he added. KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar said the BJP was targeting Ramanagaram since the party failed to win in the district. Sources in the government, however, defended the decision to shift the accused to Ramanagaram jail as one of “administrative” and not political, and in the larger good of prison inmates in the State. Even Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday defended the move and said it was as per the Supreme Court order. Dr. Ashwath Narayan, defending the decision, said there was no agenda in lodging the Padarayanapura riot accused in Ramanagaram, and that it was a logistical convenience. “It was not possible to keep them at Parappana Agrahara [Bengaluru Central Prison] where there are over 5,000 inmates. Where else could we have held them?”He acknowledged that Mr. Kumaraswamy had raised the fears with both the Chief Minister and the Home Minister. Sources said, “The 126 arrested had to be kept in a jail where there were no other inmates. We also looked at the nearest jail with lowest number of inmates and Ramanagaram jail, which has capacity to accommodate 200, had 177 inmates who could be moved elsewhere.” When asked why Ramanagaram, a green zone, was chosen for the purpose, sources said that since it was jail, the threat of contamination was limited. “The decision was taken by the State-level monitoring committee headed by Mr. Mohan after due deliberations,” sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-govt-under-fire-for-moving-riot-accused-to-jail/article31428873.ece
25 April 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials conduct COVID-19 tests for staff working in red zones||Women Development and Child Welfare Minister Taneti Vanitha visited a few junctions in the town and enquired about implementation of lockdown on Friday. She distributed masks to the public and the workers in petrol stations. The Minister appealed to the people to cooperate the government, maintain home isolation and prevent the spread of coronavirus. “Residents need to be more cautious, particularly in the red zones and cooperate with the municipal and police officials. The government is taking measures to supply all essentials at the doorstep,” the Minister said. Meanwhile, the Medical and Health department staff conducted medical tests for sanitation workers, grama volunteers and the police personnel deployed in the red zones. They performed medical tests at Tangellamudi Grama Sachivalayam on Friday. The staff were advised to wear masks and gloves and take all precautions before and after the duties. Necessary personal protection equipment have been distributed to the staff working in red zones, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-conduct-covid-19-tests-for-staff-working-in-red-zones/article31429406.ece
25 April 2020||GP Shukla,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown severely impacts TTD revenues||The nationwide lockdown has severely impacted the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam’s estimated revenues for the year 2020-21. The temple of Lord Venkateswara, visited by over 28 millions devotees in a year, has been kept out of bounds for devotees since March 20, ahead of the announcement of the lockdown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The TTD has an approved budget of about Rs. 3,309.89 crore for 2020-21 with the temple ‘hundi’ alone generating a revenue of Rs. 1,.351 crore followed by interest earned on investments (Rs. 706.01 crore). Other major receipts include Rs. 400 crore from the sale of laddus, Rs. 245 crore from sale of darshan tickets, Rs. 110 crore from accommodation and kalyana mandapam charges, Rs. 106.75 crore from the sale of human hair, Rs. 60 crore trust receipts and Rs. 57 crore by way of Arjitha Seva receipts. Needless to say, the revenue is directly proportional to the pilgrim turnout. In the 35 days since the closure of darshan at all temples under TTD’s fold, the revenue loss is said to be in the region of Rs. 200 crore which is all set to go up by the end of the lockdown on May 3.  Peak season Pilgrim rush peaks in Tirumala during the months of April, May and June which coincides with summer, and senior officials on condition of anonymity said the revenue loss could be between Rs. 300 crore and 400 crore as they fear that it would take a couple of months for normalcy to return in terms of pilgrim rush even if the lockdown is lifted on May 3. Should the lockdown be further extended, the TTD will be forced to revise its budget estimates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-severely-impacts-ttd-revenues/article31429408.ece
25 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSR Sunna Vaddi’ scheme to benefit 8.78 lakh women SHGs||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday launched the ‘YSR zero percent interest subsidy loan scheme’, under which the government credited Rs. 1,400 crore directly to the accounts of 8.78 lakh self-help groups benefiting 91 lakh women. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Reddy said the money credited directly into the accounts of the SHG women would help them in these difficult circumstances. ‘Naidu scrapped it’ The scheme had initially been launched by former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, he said, and alleged that it was scrapped by the TDP government headed by N. Chandrababu Naidu in 2016. “We have decided to revive the scheme in spite of the severe financial constraints so that our sisters, who are confined to their homes due to lockdown, will be able to tide over the difficult circumstances. The government has paid the interest component of the SHG loans as banks have been charging varying interesting rates ranging from 7-13%. With the disbursal of loan interest, each group stands to gain by Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 40,000,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Further, he said that the welfare of children and women was top priority of his government. Under the Amma Vodi scheme, benefiting 82 lakh children, an amount of Rs. 15,000 was being directly credited into the accounts of the mothers. House sites “Had coronavirus not spread, we would have completed distribution of 27 lakh house sites by this time. Now, we have decided to distribute the sites on July 8, the birth anniversary of Rajasekhara Reddy,” he said. The Chief Minister also said that several Acts had been strengthened to protect the rights of women. The Disha Act was brought in to provide succour to the women in distress. Thirteen Disha police stations were opened in the State, he added. Ministers P. Ramachandra Reddy and Botcha Satyanarayana were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-sunna-vaddi-scheme-to-benefit-878-lakh-women-shgs/article31429410.ece
25 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||PM scheme for volunteers||The State government has extended the coverage of Pradhana Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to village and ward volunteers. Under the scheme, all health workers fighting COVID-19 are provided an insurance cover of Rs. 50 lakh. A statement from the Chief Minister’s Office said there are 2.60 lakh village/ward volunteers in the State who are making signal contributions in the fight against the pandemic. The yojana has other benefits for poor households such as 5 kg wheat or rice and 1 kg of preferred pulses for free every month for the next three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pm-scheme-for-volunteers/article31428906.ece
25 April 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Issue order on rent deferment, tenants urge State government||Financially affected due to lockdown, many tenants in Visakhapatnam have been demanding that the government issue instructions to landlords and house owners to defer rent collections during the lockdown period on the lines of Telangana government. Small scale businessmen, private employees and daily wage workers have been requesting government to direct house owners to defer rents for three months or at least to collect half of rent amounts. Many citizens are requesting the same in social media, tagging the political representatives. It may be recalled that recently Telanagana government has directed the house owners not to collect house rents in view of the hardships faced by people due to lockdown. The government also asked people to dial 100, if the house owners harass for rents and number of such calls are received on daily basis. The TS government has also issued a GO to that effect on Thursday. K. Ganesh, who runs Vayuputra Health Club at Rama Talkies area, took social media route and expressed his issues through video messages. “I have been earning livelihood only through this gym. The gym space rent is about Rs. 30,000 and my house rent is Rs. 10,000. We pay all bills, rents and meet our expenses through the fee paid by the gym members. If the government passes any instructions to landlords to collect rents after lockdown in instalments, this will be very beneficial for us,” he said. A private employee and a resident of MVP Colony, N. Raju, said that the company in which he works has deducted 40 % of his salary and he has to manage the whole month with the rest of the amount. He said that paying rent in such juncture would further lead to financial troubles. “My salary is Rs. 25,000 and next month, I will receive just Rs. 15,000 next month. My house rent is Rs. 8,000. So now, should I save money to spend on essentials or I just give half of it to rent. The government should issue some orders to owners at least to collect half of the rent amounts, so that the rest we could give them after lockdown in instalments,” Mr. Raju said. Auto drivers, street vendors and daily-wage labourers, who are more affected, are hoping that the government would take a decision in their favour. “We earn some money only if we ply autorickshaws, but it is not possible due to the lockdown. We have been running our livelihood through meagre savings and the rations supplied by the government for the past couple of weeks. So we have requested our owner that we will pay two months’ rent by the end of May,” said P. Anand, an auto driver from Arilova.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/issue-order-on-rent-deferment-tenants-urge-state-government/article31429438.ece
25 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||RGIA gears up with transparent shields, staggered seating||Hyderabad International Airport is all set to make social distancing a new normal once it opens for passengers post government orders on lifting lockdown. Transparent shields at all check-in and cash counters, non-contact based payments, one-time use cutlery, sensor based sanitiser dispensing machines, and directly accessible boarding cards, among others, will be implemented at the airport, an official spokesman informed on Friday. While the airport is under lockdown since March 25, it has planned several changes to queues kerb side, check-in halls, security check areas and boarding gates, with social distancing markers. Passengers will be advised to wear masks and maintain social distancing in all areas with information displays and signages. Staggered seating arrangement on alternate chairs to maintain gap is also on the anvil. Deep sanitisation and fumigation of the entire airport building spread out across seven levels (1.27 lakh sq.ft) is being conducted zone wise daily by 100 member teams. Regular sanitisation of high contact surfaces such as desks, chairs, elevators, railings, CUSS, trolleys, handles, trays and baggage belts inside the terminals is being carried out and will continue when the airport reopens. Washrooms are sanitised daily, he said. Passengers will be encouraged to check in at home or use self service facilities and self bag tag facility. UV machines will be used to sanitise checked in baggage and bag tag dispensers will be made accessible to avoid any need for exchange of documents. Trolleys and baggage trays are to be disinfected after each use. Social distancing will be enforced in car parking too and all personnel will have to undergo thermal screening before entering the premises and will be provided masks and gloves. “We request passengers to support the measures like using masks, thermal screening and social distancing,” said CEO S.G.K. Kishore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rgia-gears-up-with-transparent-shields-staggered-seating/article31429160.ece
25 April 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-positive scribe, brother contacted over 100 people||A TV channel reporter and his public representative brother, who tested positive for coronavirus, had led a very active public life before they were sent to government quarantine earlier this week. This, now, is the most worrying factor that Jogulamba Gadwal district administration has to bear the brunt of. Officials The Hindu spoke to estimate that over 100 people need to be traced as primary contacts of these two. The silver lining, however, is that all the other family members of these siblings tested negative for COVID-19. “We suspect that the duo came in contact with more than 100 people, including politicians, local journalists, policemen and general public, because they led a very active public life till they were sent to quarantine on different days,” a senior official said. The officer said that the majority of them are secondary or tertiary contacts, whom the medical officers along with police will trace out and send them to government quarantine. Their immediate family members were tested negative. While one is an elected public representative, another is a journalist, and they interacted with several people as part of their job. He was actively reporting on the COVID-19 outbreak in the district and interacted with several politicians, policemen and locals, apart from his journalist friends in Gadwal and Mahabubnagar, the officer said. “The reporter contracted the virus from his sibling, who went to neighbouring Kurnool district in Andhra Pradesh for a personal work two weeks ago,” he said. Three more journalists who were sent to local government quarantine for being primary contacts of the victim were tested negative on Thursday. The duo were shifted to Gandhi Hospital and this the first instance of a journalist being tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-positive-scribe-brother-contacted-over-100-people/article31429165.ece
25 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vehicle on official duty caught ferrying passengers||The East Godavari police on Friday arrested the owner of a private vehicle that was reportedly hired by the Commercial Tax Department on charge of transporting passengers from Vijayawada to Visakhapatnam, in violation of the lockdown norms. According to police, Vemukuri Srikanth (35), a native of Eedupugallu near Vijayawada, had been ferrying people between Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam since March 21, by convincing the officials deployed at 12 checkposts en route that the he was on government duty. On Friday, the police tried to stop the vehicle with Srikanth and three passengers on board at the Tuni-Narsipatnam checkpost. Nabbed after a chase “We got suspicious as Srikanth tried to escape. We caught him after chasing him for eight kilometers on the highway,” said Tuni Circle Inspector K. Kishore Babu, adding that the accused had collected Rs. 6,500 from the passengers. The vehicle displayed the nameplate of the Deputy Commissioner, Commercial Tax Department, Vijayawada. The Deputy Commissioner, who hired the vehicle for official duty, went on leave prior to the lockdown, the police said. “The Commercial Tax officials confirmed that the Deputy Commissioner had no knowledge about it. We have seized the vehicle and registered a case. Further investigation is on,” said Mr. Kishore Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vehicle-on-official-duty-caught-ferrying-passengers/article31429411.ece
25 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven new red zones declared in E. Godavari||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy declared seven new COVID-19 containment zones across the district, as the total number of coronavirus cases touched 34 on Friday. Monitoring zones “The East Godavari district has 15 containment zones including seven in Rajamahendravaram city alone. Each zone is being monitored by the team of six officials to prevent the further spread of COVID-19,” said Mr. Muralidhar. In Rajamahendravaram rural, two locations have been declared as containment zones while in Samalkota urban, Kakinada city, Peddapuram, Kothapeta, Pitapuram, and Kattipudi, one location each was declared a containment zone. Officials from the medical and health department, revenue and civil supply, and local body authorities have been roped to monitor the containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seven-new-red-zones-declared-in-e-godavari/article31429424.ece
25 April 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anonymise data before handover, HC tells Kerala govt.||A Division Bench of the High Court on Friday directed the State government to anonymise the data on COVID-19 patients and those in home quarantine and to allow Sprinklr, the U.S.-based data analytics firm with which the government has entered into a contract, to access the data only after these are anonymised. The Bench of Justice Devan Ramachandran and Justice T.R. Ravi restrained Sprinklr from committing any act that will breach the confidentiality of the data. The court directed the government to obtain the consent of the citizens before collecting the data. The company was asked not to hand over the data to a third party and to return them as soon as the contractual obligations were over. The court passed the directives while admitting a batch of public interest litigations filed by Balu Gopalakrishnan of Thiruvananthapuram, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, and BJP State president K. Surendran, among others, challenging the agreement. The court directed Sprinklr to immediately transfer the residual or secondary data back to the government. Sprinkler has been restrained from advertising the project and using the name and emblem of the government. Govt. argument N.S. Nappinai, a Mumbai-based cyber lawyer appearing for the government, submitted that the privacy policy of the company and the international data protection norms ensured a high level of confidentiality of data. The agreement prevented Sprinklr from using the data for other purposes. The data were stored in an encrypted form in Amazon Cloud in Mumbai. Besides, the period of the agreement was for six months, beyond which the company could not retain the data. As the data were in India, criminal prosecution could be initiated under the provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000 for breach of confidentiality. On NIC services Additional Advocate General K.K. Raveendranath submitted that none of the government institutions were capable of doing big data analysis within a short time. The State government would take a call on utilising the services of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) for data analysis. Assistant Solicitor General of India P. Vijayakumar submitted that sensitive personal data should not be shared with a third party service provider. The State should have anonymised the data before sharing it. In fact, the NIC could process big data if the State had made the demand. The agreement did not safeguard the privacy rights of COVID-19 patients. The court adjourned the hearing on the petition by three weeks. CM’s reaction Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the court had handed the government a moral victory. Its rejection of the plea for cancelling the agreement was a forceful rebuttal of all falsehoods. The government would continue to engage Sprinklr and use its insight into COVID-19 occurrence and spread to inform the State’s containment strategy. The charges had not gained any traction with the public. The Opposition had attempted to distort the queries raised by the HC as observations against the government. ‘Vindicated’ However, the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party claimed the HC had vindicated their allegations of nepotism and corruption. The court had handed down a harsh judgment and set norms to protect the personal medical records of citizens from being stolen by Sprinklr. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran said Mr .Vijayan’s defence of the fraudulent deal had fallen like a palace of playing cards under judicial scrutiny.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anonymise-data-before-handover-hc-tells-kerala-govt/article31428875.ece
25 April 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||This schoolteacher has bowled the internet over||A routine game of backyard cricket from Mezhathur, near Pattambi in Palakkad district, has gone viral on social media, propelling Bindu Ozhukil, a 50-something high school Sanskrit teacher, into an internet star. Her husband, Raman Namboodiri, a 58-year-old ex-serviceman, was enjoying a game of cricket with their two college-going sons on Wednesday evening, when Ms. Ozhukil walked in to roll her arm over, sending down a few decent deliveries at her husband. Her husband and sons were mighty impressed by her hitherto unknown skill and her younger son, Navaneeth Krishnan, shot a video of his mother’s bowling. Overwhelmed by a wave of childhood memories when she used to play the game with her cousins at her ancestral home at Nelluvai, near Wadakkanchery in Thrissur, Ms. Ozhukil posted the video on Facebook the next day without having the faintest idea of what was to be in store. “We still don’t know how the video, which was shot just for fun, has gone viral. As our sons keep on saying, it seems to have completely gone out of our hands. We have been flooded with calls from our friends and relatives since then and it is now heard that it has been taken note of by some cricket officials,” said Mr. Namboodiri. In their 27 years of marriage, he had not known of his wife’s cricketing skills though she used to watch the game. Though Mr. Namboodiri and his sons have been playing cricket to overcome the lockdown blues, Ms. Ozhukil never joined them till that session which has gone viral. Now that her cricketing skills have been revealed, she has been invited to be more active in the family’s daily cricket session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/this-schoolteacher-has-bowled-the-internet-over/article31428887.ece
25 April 2020||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rising cases keep officials on their toes||Ever-rising positive COVID-19 cases and related deaths in Kurnool and Anantapur districts have kept the officials on their toes, with 27 new cases reported from Kurnool district and four in Anantapur. However, the silver lining is the discharge of one person from RDT Hospital in Anantapur. One death each has been recorded in these two districts, forcing the district administration and police officers to stringently implement the lockdown measures and take up vigorous containment activity. Meanwhile, Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath criticised Leader of Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu for repeatedly demoralising the people working in the frontline by saying there was no testing and results were being hidden. “Mr. Naidu is always a Doubting Thomas and refuses to believe even himself,” said Mr. Rajendranath and advised him to provide some constructive suggestions instead of just nitpicking. The Finance Minister reviewed the COVID situation in Hindupur with MP Gorantla Madhav, BC Welfare Minister Malagundla Sankarnarayana and district officials. Death in Hindupur Death of a 50-year-old woman hailing from Azad Nagar in Hindupur town has put further pressure on the officials in ensuring people do not panic. Two persons undergoing treatment here, have been referred to State COVID Hospital in Tirupati. One of them is a 70-year-old man from Gujarat, who had come to Hindupur, and a 48-year-old woman of Guntakal. Of the four new positive cases reported on Friday from the district are a 30-year-old GGH Anantapur nurse, a 28-year-old youth from Kammarpally, two youths aged 24 and 28 from Hindupur. The number of COVID patients discharged on Friday is now two and the total number of discharged persons has gone up to 13 in Anantapur district. There are 46 positive cases, 4 deaths, 13 discharged and 29 positive cases being treated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rising-cases-keep-officials-on-their-toes/article31429398.ece
25 April 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Positive cases unabated in Prakasam, Nellore||Four more persons — three in Prakasam district and one in SPSR Nellore district — tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. With this, the number of persons who contracted the virus in Prakasam district rose to 53. Kandukur, Chirala and Gudlur accounted for one new positive case. One of the infected persons from Prakasam district had been shifted to Nellore for treatment in the regional COVID-19 isolation centre. State Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, who inaugurated a disinfectant machine along with State Education Minister A. Suresh, maintained that the health situation in the district was well under control. The total number of confirmed cases in SPSR Nellore district rose to 68 after one more person from Nellore city tested positive for the virus. The number of active cases in Nellore stood at 60 after discharge of six persons following recovery. Two persons, including a doctor, had succumbed to the disease in the district. Tough time Meanwhile, Nellore police had a tough time in persuading people to confine themselves to their homes as most part of the city had been declared red zone. Industries Minister M. Gowtham Reddy, who held a video conference with captains of industry for reopening of closed down industries, said safety and security of the workers was of utmost importance to the State Government. The industrial units should get no objection certificate (NOC) before restarting their units in complaince with the guidelines issued by the Centre for running them in areas considered as green zones, he said. Tobacco auctions in traditional tobacco growing areas in the two districts remained stalled even after the relaxation came into force in view of more number of positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/positive-cases-unabated-in-prakasam-nellore/article31429402.ece
25 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown throws many industries into crisis||Several industries and business establishments both in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts are worried about payment of salaries, repayment of loans to banks scheduled for the first week of May. Many industries could not pay salaries to the staff and wages to workers in the first week of April, leading to agitations in places like Kothavalasa industrial zone of Vizianagaram district. Steel Exchange of India-Lakkavarapukota employees have been agitating for salaries for the last few days. Controlling them during lockdown period has become a tough task for the Police Department. It has deployed additional forces at the company. The police anticipated more such agitations in the next few days as managements of several companies are reportedly not in a position to clear their financial commitments including salaries and bank loans. As many a 43 major industries, including jute, sugar, steel, and ferro alloys are located in Vizianagaram district. Srikakulam has more than 50 industries including pharmaceutical units. Except, pharma companies, other industries are facing deep financial crisis due to the impact of lockdown. Business establishments, including textile shops in Vizianagaram, too are facing a similar situation. The rents of the shops rang from Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 3 lakh per month. They have also other commitments like power bills and salaries of workers. Vizianagaram Chamber of Commerce president-elect Kapuganti Prakash has urged the government to waive the interest on loans to all industries and business establishments. "Temporary moratorium on loans for three months is a small favour. The government should not insist on payment of employers' contribution for Provident Fund at least for three months," says Mr. Prakash while speaking to The Hindu.  INTUC State general secretary Mantri Rajasekhar has sought direct financial assistance from the government for employees and workers. "Revival of economic activity will take at least six months. Against this background, the government should come to the rescue of employees and workers," he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-throws-many-industries-into-crisis/article31429427.ece
25 April 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Domestic violence: help is just a call away for victims||The Andhra Pradesh Women’s Commission has launched WhatsApp and helpdesk numbers to protect women from domestic violence and harassment during lockdown. Victims can complain to WhatsApp No. 6301411137 for assistance. They can also use Helpdesk Nos. 9701056808 (director R. Suez) or 9603914511 (secretary M.J. Nirmala), according to Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma. “It has come to our notice that due to prolonged lockdown some unwanted developments and arguments are taking place in families, which are leading to physical and mental harassment and violence. The Mahila Commission will come to the rescue of such women on receiving the grievance,” Ms. Padma said. “The commission will provide accommodation, medical aid and counselling to the women, migrant women workers and pregnant women and their family members, who were facing domestic violence." Disha Centres It may be recalled that Disha Centres have received about 100 calls on physical and mental harassment, torture and violence in last 30 days. The CID police registered more than 80 cyber crime, including a few women harassment, cases during lockdown in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/domestic-violence-help-is-just-a-call-away-for-victims/article31428880.ece
25 April 2020||T. Appala Naidu RAMACHANDRAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown pushes 15,000 toddy tappers’ families to the brink||The blanket ban on tapping toddy owing to the lockdown imposed to check the COVID-19 pandemic has delivered a blow on around 15,000 families in East Godavari district, who eke out their living from the traditional vocation. The Excise Department is strictly implementing the ban on toddy tapping and sale to ensure the implementation of social distancing norms during the lockdown. According to officials, about 15,122 toddy tappers families are registered with the Excise Department. However, nearly 10,000 of them solely depend on the toddy tapping for livelihood. ‘Loss in peak season’ The toddy tappers say that toddy can only be harvested during the summer and the lockdown in the peak season has rendered them jobless. As cascading effect, several hundreds of families who eke out their living by selling toddy have also lost their livelihood. On Friday, hundreds of toddy tappers poured out their woes before Ramachandrapuram MLA Ch. Srinivas Venugopala Krishna. “During the summer, we tap toddy from the trees thrice a day. With the lockdown, we have been sitting at home without work. How will we run our families?,” they said. The toddy tappers appealed to the State government to provide them financial assistance. In a recent meeting with the officials in early April, Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu and his health counterpart Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas promised that they would take the plights of toddy tappers to the notice of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “During the meeting, I had suggested that the State government could consider offering a special package on par with the fishermen during the 61-day annual ban,” said Mr. Venugopala Krishna. The MLA distributed essential commodities to 300 toddy tappers families in Ramachandrapuram constituency on Friday. “I am trying to extend the necessary support to more toddy tappers in my constituency in the coming days,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-pushes-15000-toddy-tappers-families-to-the-brink/article31429426.ece
25 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||PM’s help sought to bring bodies from GCC nations||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the return of the remains of Keralites who died in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries due to reasons other than COVID-19. In a letter to the Prime Minister on Friday, Mr. Vijayan said the GCC countries required the Indian embassies there to give a “clearance certificate” to local authorities as a precursor to allowing the return of the mortal remains. The embassies, in turn, were insisting that the relatives of the deceased procure a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the Minister of Home Affairs (MHA) as a precondition for issuing the certificate. The position taken by the embassies contradicted the stance of the Central government, which had declared that a NOC from the MHA was not mandatory. Mr. Vijayan said the coffins could be transported as cargo on freight airliners. He sought a direction from the Centre instructing the embassies to issue the necessary clearances without approvals from the MHA. Congress leader M.M. Hassan is scheduled to protest in front of the Raj Bhavan seeking special flights to ferry Keralites back home. The party blamed the Centre and the State for doing little to help those confined to labour camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pms-help-sought-to-bring-bodies-from-gcc-nations/article31428878.ece
25 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram/Bengaluru/Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Newborn dies in Kerala, 29 cases in Karnataka||The third COVID-19-related death in Kerala, of a four-month-old female baby, from Manjeri in Malappuram district, was reported on Friday morning. The infant, with congenital heart disease, and under treatment for pneumonia and respiratory problems, passed away at the Institute of Maternal and Child Health (IMCH), at the Government Medical College Hospital in Kozhikode. Two deaths were reported in Andhra Pradesh, from Anantapur and Kurnool districts, taking the toll to 29. In Karnataka, a total of 29 new COVID-19 cases were reported on Friday raising the total to 474. The COVID-19 protocol was followed when interring the baby in Kerala. Samples from the child’s parents were sent for tests. Doctors who cared for her in Malappuram were asked to be in quarantine, and work was on to trace the source of infection. Condoling the death, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said it was a matter of concern that the source of the infant’s infection remained unknown. Massive efforts were on to trace the epidemiological links and to do testing on a large scale. On Friday, three persons tested positive in the State while 15 were declared disease-free, including a 62-year-old at Pathanamthitta who spent 47 days in hospital after testing positive. All new cases were from Kasaragod and they contracted the disease through imported cases. Kerala had so far reported 450 positive cases. While 116 were in treatment, 331 recovered. Kannur district has the maximum number of COVID-19 patients, with 56 persons in hospitals. Mr. Vijayan said as a stark warning that “nothing is over yet” on COVID-19. “We are looking at disease transmission projections which say we will have to arrange treatment facilities for several lakhs,” he said, at the media briefing. A.P. tests more In Andhra Pradesh, 6,306 samples tested in a day turned up 62 fresh cases, taking the tally to 955. So far, 145 patients had recovered and been discharged, while 29 succumbed to the virus and 781 were under treatment. Nearly 67% of cases were from Kurnool, Guntur, Krishna and Chittoor districts, the majority from old clusters, said Special Chief Secretary, Health K.S. Jawahar Reddy. The State government was focusing on extensive testing with an average of 1,018 tests per million people. As on Friday, Vizag topped the chart with 6,765 tests with an average of 1,577 tests per million. Also, 46 of 62 cases recorded in the last 24 hours were from old clusters, and 16 were from 10 new clusters. With this, the total number of clusters increased to 191. Two-thirds of the 191 clusters were in urban areas. Bengaluru police personnel involved in quarantine and surveillance work would undergo testing for COVID-19, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said. The latest cases included five from Ramanagaram district jail and 11 from the labour colony at Hongasandra ward, in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-month-old-dies-in-kerala-2-deaths-in-ap/article31428883.ece
25 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Helpline for power staff||Employees of Andhra Pradesh Transmission Corporation (APTransco) have been asked to contact the helpline over mobile number 94910 48957 in case they are intercepted by the policemen enforcing lockdown. Electricity employees need to work round the clock to ensure uninterrupted power supply in the State, but in case their movement in public places is objected to, they can call the 24x7 helpline to get the issue addressed, according to APTransco Joint Managing Director (vigilance and security) K. Venkateswara Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/helpline-for-power-staff/article31429405.ece
25 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sunna Vaddi benefits 4,622 groups in Tirupati||The disbursement of interest support under ‘YSR Sunna Vaddi’ scheme on Friday benefitted 42,530 women in 4,622 groups. MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy formally handed over the money in the presence of MCT Commissioner P.S. Girisha to the women, who collectively received Rs. 6.30 crore from the government. Mr. Reddy said that the disbursement was part of the ‘Navaratnalu’, the nine major schemes promised by the YSR Congress in its manifesto ahead of coming to power. Government whip and Chandragiri MLA Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy disbursed Rs. 17.45 crore as interest refund into the accounts of the SHG women in the five mandals falling under his constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sunna-vaddi-benefits-4622-groups-in-tirupati/article31429404.ece
25 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre’s decision to freeze DA draws flak||The Andhra Pradesh unit of the All-India Postal Employees' Union Group ‘C’ (AIPEU) has appealed to the Central government to reconsider its decision to freeze Dearness Allowance to postal employees up to July 2021. The union members mailed their representation to theUnion Finance Minister. The decision not to pay DA arrears for the period from January 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021 was ‘unfair’ as the decision would demotivate the employees who have been working with commitment during lockdown, union State secretary B. Sridhar Babu observed. “Deferment of dearness relief to the Central government pensioners for such a long period and denial of payment for 18 months amount to treating senior citizens very unreasonably and harshly,” he said in a statement released in Tirupati on Friday. Even as the Postal Department came in for laurels for transportation of medicines, medical kits, disbursement of pensions, conduct of savings bank transactions and delivery of essential letters, they were not paid incentives or special allowances like home guards, sanitary workers, doctors and paramedical staff who served during the lockdown period. “The 2.5 lakh Grameen Dak Sevaks, the most downtrodden and low paid employees, will be the worst hit,” said Mr. Sridhar Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centres-decision-to-freeze-da-draws-flak/article31429428.ece
25 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown times: Bonding with loved ones over video calls||Families and friends across the globe are using the internet to stay in touch with families and reconnect with old friends. Even the elderly are becoming tech-savvy in order to know how to make and receive video calls so that they can stay in touch with their grandchildren. Many homemakers who passed out of school decades ago are now reconnecting with long-lost classmates. “We studied together from Class I till Class X. Later, we got separated and my friend Suhasini got married. She is staying in Bangaluru. With the help of other schoolmates, I got her phone number and we are chatting regularly,” says P. Vaishnavi of Elurupadu village in West Godavari district. Old memories Suhasini shared her family photos and I too posted my details and we recalled our schooldays and our classmates, by names, says Vaishnavi. “My father was a retired railway employee. He worked in Rajamahendravaran, Guntur, Bhimavaram, Vijayawada and other stations. We used to stay in railway quarters and have many friends during schooldays. Almost all my friends settled well,” says S. Sai Krishna of Vijayawada. “When we were staying in railway quarters at Rajamahendravaran, Raja, Nani and Siri were my best friends. I contacted them on social media sites during the lockdown and they are very happy,” Sai Krishna told The Hindu.  Ch. Anjaiah, a retired APTransco employee of Kothagudem-Bhadradri district in the neighbouring Telangana State, was staying with his son at Eluru. “Several of my colleagues were retired and staying at different places. I contacted many of them and recalled how we spent duty hours and in the field. We shared the photos of the quarters where we stayed together.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-times-bonding-with-loved-ones-over-video-calls/article31428917.ece
25 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JICA-funded project makes for sweet mango harvest||Just when the farmers were ready to harvest the season’s first produce of mangoes, the lockdown was declared, preventing the local traders from lifting the produce and supplying it to the retail segment. ‘Farm to Family’, an initiative launched as part of the A.P. Irrigation and Livelihood Improvement Project - Phase II, financed by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and implemented by the departments of Water Resources, Horticulture, A.P. Food Processing Society and a few other allied wings of the State government, came to the farmers’ rescue. Value chain system The project aims at increasing the local productivity and enhancing marketing facility by supporting integrated farming systems within the Farmer Producers Organisation (FPO) structure, thus contributing to improving the farmers’ lives and creating a value chain system. A team from the E&Y LPP, the consultants for implementation of the project, devised an innovative way to ease the bottlenecks in the supply chain, where the farmers get their share of income and the buyers get to relish the naturally-ripened mangoes. Under the ‘Farm to Family’ initiative, mangoes are directly procured from the farmers and supplied directly to the consumers in select townships and gated communities in Hyderabad, based on consolidated demand placed by them. The E&Y LPP team partnered with an FPO called ‘Reddygudem Mandal Farmers Producers Company Limited’, with 350 farmers as members, to launch the initiative. “I am happy with this arrangement as I am spared the bagging, transportation, loading and unloading charges. I have received appreciated price and my produce is procured from the farmgate,” says Teneru Sambasiva Rao, a farmer. Senior consultant, E&Y, Bhojraju, said the farmers were being taught about selective harvesting so that they can pluck mangoes at the right time. Katsuo Matsumoto, chief representative, JICA India, said his organisation was keen on supporting and promoting innovations that could improve the well-being of people and help them tide over the present crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jica-funded-project-makes-for-sweet-mango-harvest/article31428911.ece
25 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘One pass per family will be issued in containment zones’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed the officials to closely monitor the situation in the red zones. Besides, he wants them to strengthen the telemedicine system and ensure medical assistance to the high-risk patients with other ailments. Also, he has stressed the need to make essential commodities available to the people, especially near the containment zones. At a review meeting on COVID-19 on Friday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the officials to issue only one pass per family in the containment zones. “Only the pass-holder should be allowed to come out,” he said. Enforce the preventive measures more strictly in Nandyal as more number of cases were showing up there, he said. Mobile labs The Chief minister asked the officials to set up mobile labs to conduct tests on migrant workers and those who were stranded at various camps. “Ensure hassle-free medical services to the dialysis patients,” he added. Referring to the YSR Telemedicine programme, he asked the officials to strengthen it further. Responding to it, the officials said that 8,395 people had consulted doctors under the programme. Medicines were also being delivered to the patients, they added. Stating that alternative measures were being taken to offer services under the programme, the officials said that services were being provided in the non-COVID hospitals. Details of the services being offered in such hospitals were being notified to the people so that the patients would not face any problem, they said. Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, explaining the measures being taken to contain the spread of COVID-19 in Kurnool and Guntur, said the pandemic was not prevalent in all parts of the districts but restricted only to a few areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-pass-per-family-will-be-issued-in-containment-zones/article31429413.ece
25 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||In the forefront of serving the poor||“We fold our hands and thank the South Central Railway (SCR) which is serving meal to the migrant labourers, homeless and the poor every day. The IRCTC and the RPF personnel are coming to the rescue of some thousands of people,” says a labourer, Arjun Singh. The IRCTC and the RPF personnel are serving pulihora (tamarind rice), vegetable pulav, sambar rice, and curd rice to the needy. “The IRCTC employees are preparing food in hygienic conditions at their base kitchen. Serpentine queues are found every day. We distributed about 1.54 lakh food packets during lockdown,” said Vijayawada Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) P. Srinivas. “The Railways, in association with NGOs Amrutha Hastam, Karuna Eye Foundation, Yuva Vikas, Nimble Women Welfare Society and Sarah Foundation, is distributing 6,500 food packets every day. Vijayawada division stood top in distributing food to the needy,” said the DRM. Essential commodities "Besides, employees of electric loco shed, workshops, signal and telecommunication, mechanical, scouts and guides, electrical and other wings are distributing essential commodities to the contract staff, licence porters and sanitation workers. Family members of the employees are busy preparing masks and sanitisers which are supplied to the field staff involved in freight and emergency maintenance,” said Mr. Srinivas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-the-forefront-of-serving-the-poor/article31428918.ece
25 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. cheating SHGs: Yanamala||TDP Polit Bureau member and Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu on Friday ridiculed the government for its zero interest scheme. “It’s not zero interest, but zero governance. There is zero governance even in these difficult times,” he said in a statement. “While the former Chief Minister, Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, had launched the ‘pavala vaddi pathakam’, the N. Kiran Kumar Reddy government had implemented the ‘zero interest scheme’. The TDP government, after bifurcation in 2014, had continued the scheme and cleared pending dues. The Kiran Kumar Reddy government too cleared dues kept pending by the Rajasekhara Reddy government. But, Mr. Jagan hasn’t cleared the dues,” he said. ‘Dues not cleared’ Referring to the zero interest scheme, he said the government was paying only this year’s interest without clearing the dues. “That too, only a part of this year’s interest has been paid. By withholding payments on a large scale, Mr. Jagan has openly cheated the SHGs,” the TDP leader alleged. While the YSR government had given Rs. 267.52 crore under ‘pavala vaddi’ scheme, the Kiran Kumar Reddy government had allocated Rs. 2,039 crore under the zero interest scheme. The TDP government had released Rs. 2,514 crore during its five year rule. It had also cleared pending dues it inherited from the previous governments, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said, and added that it led to piling up of Rs. 2,500 crore dues. The present government also did not clear these dues but paid interest only for 2019-2020 financial year, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-cheating-shgs-yanamala/article31429417.ece
25 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visit GGH only in case of emergency, women told||Collector A.Md. Imtiaz asked pregnant women requiring medical help to visit their nearest hospitals or local public health centres with the help of ASHA workers instead of travelling to the GGH during lockdown. Mr. Imtiaz said that GGH which had now been made a COVID hospital would treat only emergency cases. He appealed to the pregnant women to try to avoid a visit to GGH and even in case of visiting GGH only one person along with them would be allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visit-ggh-only-in-case-of-emergency-women-told/article31428907.ece
25 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP MP evicting lab a shocker: Naidu||TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Friday took a dig at Machilipatnam YSRCP MP Vallabhaneni Balashowry who was facing the charges of obstructing the diagnostic lab running out of his building in Hyderabad from undertaking COVID-19 tests. “This is a shocker at a time when the frontline soldiers are risking their lives to combat Coronavirus,” Mr. Naidu posted on his Twitter handle. A news channel reported that the MP had served an eviction notice to the owners of the lab. He allegedly did it after the lab started testing samples following an approval from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-mp-evicting-lab-a-shocker-naidu/article31429414.ece
25 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Do not violate lockdown norms during Ramzan’||Ramzan greetings poured in as the holy month began for Muslims with the sighting of the crescent moon. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy conveyed his greetings on Twitter. “Ramadan is a month to celebrate the gift of life & love. I wish my Muslim brothers & sisters across Andhra Pradesh a month blessed with the joys of family, peace & prosperity. I urge you to celebrate at home & pray for humanity to overcome this pandemic. #ramadankareem,” he tweeted on Friday evening. While extending his greetings, Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan appealed to people to stay indoors and offer prayers at home during the Ramzan month. “Right now, the country is passing through a difficult phase, and people of all communities should cooperate with authorities in curbing the spread of the coronavirus pandemic,” Mr. Harichandan said. Greetings pour in Telugu Desam Party national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu extended his greetings and urged Muslims to celebrate Ramzan safely and stay indoors. Deputy Chief Minister Amzath Basha Shaik Bepari, while extending Ramzan greetings, urged Muslims to offer their namaz five times a day , as well as the Friday and Taravi prayers, at their home and not venture out to visit mosques, violating the lockdown norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/do-not-violate-lockdown-norms-during-ramzan/article31429415.ece
25 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ordinance a part of poll reforms’||The State government on Friday submitted an additional counter to the High Court on the petition filed by N. Ramesh Kumar against the ordinance that resulted in termination of his services as the State Election Commissioner (SEC). In the affidavit, Principal Secretary (Panchayat Raj) Gopal Krishna Dwivedi said the government brought the ordinance as part of the reforms, and denied that it was personally targeted against Mr. Ramesh Kumar. He said the objective of reducing the term of the SEC was to appoint a retired judge of the High Court as SEC . The government also furnished information on the violence that had take place in the run-up to the conduct of the local body elections .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ordinance-a-part-of-poll-reforms/article31429418.ece
25 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||House sites: HC asks govt. to file affidavit in 10 days||A three-judge bench of High Court, headed by Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari, ordered that the government should file an affidavit in ten days in respect of the petition filed by Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti (APS) against the allotment of house sites to the poor in Amaravati under ‘Navaratnalu-Pedalandariki Illu’ scheme and the proposed modifications to the CRDA master plan. Unnam Sravan Kumar, counsel for APS, claimed to have photographic evidence of a layout consisting of plots measuring one cent each, allegedly laid by the workers employed by the government in spite of suspension of allotment of lands by the High Court during its hearing of a previous batch of petitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/house-sites-hc-asks-govt-to-file-affidavit-in-10-days/article31429419.ece
25 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YI Amaravati donates 700 PPEs, masks||Representatives of Young India-Amaravati, the youth wing of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), in association with Malaxmi Group, handed over 700 personal protective equipments (PPEs) and N-95 masks to Krishna Collector A. Md. Imtiaz. The PPEs will be given to the superintendents of the old and new Government General Hospitals at Vijayawada and Pinnamaneni Siddhartha Medical College Hospital, NRI Hospital-Mangalagiri and GGH-Guntur for their use by medical staff. This programme is supported by the Krishna district units of the Indian Medical Association and the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yi-amaravati-donates-700-ppes-masks/article31428909.ece
25 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HAM operators launch 24x7 helpline||A group of organisations of HAM operators has launched an exclusive helpline to address issues faced by the public. Christened ‘COVID-19 Ham Support Network Helpline’, it is a collective initiative of the Communication Services and R&D Centre, Amateur Radio Promotional Force, AMSAT-IN. “ We provide round the clock communication service,” said Ham Radio team coordinator K.V. Prasad (VU2JES). He said the group has been transmitting and receiving messages regularly through Ham Radio communication and also through WhatsApp. Mr. Prasad can be contacted on 9493258899 (WhatsApp), 9493800081 (SoftTalk), or 2435959 (landline).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ham-operators-launch-24x7-helpline/article31428908.ece
25 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sunna Vaddi scheme launched in district||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy formally launched the ‘YSR Sunna Vaddi’ (YSR zero interest) scheme through videoconference on Friday. Addressing the members of Self Help Groups (SHGs) as ‘his sisters’, the Chief Minister called upon them to make use of the scheme, being implemented for their welfare all over the State. The scheme was being extended to benefit 91 lakh women, despite the financial difficulties in view of COVID-19. Each group would get Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 40,000 into their accounts. Later, he interacted with SHG members in various districts. K. Padmavathi, mandal federation president of Anandapuram in Bheemunipatnam constituency, told the Chief Minister that they had already received the money under ‘student fee reimbursement’, ‘vidya vasathi’ and ‘Rythu Bharosa’ schemes. Apart from this, rice, dal, senagalu and bananas were given to them at a time, when they were reeling under the lockdown due to coronavirus. Village volunteers came to their doorstep and distributed Rs. 1,000 as relief. District Collector V. Vinay Chand told the Chief Minister that the government would bear the total interest burden of Rs. 64.16 crore, payable by 7,17,910 SHGs in the district between April 1, 2019 and March 31, 2020. Loans up to Rs. 3 lakh would have to be charged 7% as per the guidelines of the Centre. This amount would be borne by the State government as part of the ‘YSR Sunna Vaddi’ scheme. He reminded the SHG members that prompt repayment of the loans taken would help in strengthening of the SHGs further. He also said that cloth was purchased from APCO and given to the SHGs for preparation of masks. Addressing the women, after the videoconference, Minister for Tourism Muttamsetty Srinivasa Rao reminded the SHG members that the Chief Minister had kept his word despite the difficult financial situation due to COVID-19. House site pattas would be distributed to 27 lakh beneficiaries soon. He handed over cheques to SHG members and distributed masks. The SHG members, under the purview of GVMC, handed over Rs. 20 lakh as contribution to the CM Relief Fund for undertaking coronavirus control programmes. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, Joint Collector Venugopal Reddy and DRDA PO Visweswara Rao were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sunna-vaddi-scheme-launched-in-district/article31429432.ece
25 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Join war against capitalist forces: CPI(Maoist)||The Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee (AOBSZC) of the CPI(Maoist) has called upon the people to join the struggle against the capitalistic forces, which are out to destroy the earth for their selfish goals. In a statement reportedly released in its name on Friday, the banned outfit likened the capitalistic governments to COVID-19, which were out to destroy the world. “Capitalism has turned out to be the cause of all the ills plaguing the world. It is leading to exploitation of the poor and oppressed sections of society,” it said. ‘Destruction of environment’ “The capitalists are fragmenting the world and sharing the spoils based on their respective power. The capitalist industries are exploiting the natural resources such as timber, coal, gold, iron and bauxite in the backward countries. They are driving out the poor from their lands and forcing them to lead miserable lives in the slums in cities,” it alleged. The outfit further alleged that the capitalists, in furtherance of their selfish goals, were indulging in destruction of the environment by polluting land, water and air by dumping harmful industrial effluents. “The capitalistic policies are also leading to rising inflation and depriving the poor of their basic needs,” it observed. Dig at Modi govt. Over 1.70 crore people all over the globe were dying of hunger every year and half of them were children. Many do not have access to safe drinking water and basic amenities, it said. “India is also being influenced by the capitalist policies, and the Modi government, in its second stint, is following a pro-capitalist and anti-poor agenda. State governments such as Chhattisgarh and Odisha are competing with each another to please the capitalists by signing MoUs with them,” the committee alleged. “Special Economic Zones, mining projects, dams, thermal projects, airports, Expressways, ports and bullet trains are all meant to favour the rich,” the Maoist outfit alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/join-war-against-capitalist-forces-cpimaoist/article31429420.ece
25 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paddy, maize purchase centres set up in the district, says official||To procure paddy 27 purchase centres and for maize two centres have been set up in the district, according to Joint Collector L. Sivasankar. So far, 59 tonnes of paddy was purchased from 97 farmers and 168.5 tonnes of maize from 111, Mr. Siva Sankar said. While paddy was grown in 6,519 hectares, maize was raised in 663 hectares in a total of 16 mandal in the district. So far, paddy in 3,756 ha and maize in 404 ha was harvested. Farmers had to register in the procurement App with the help of the Agriculture Department officials. For maize, two centres in Padmanabham and Bhimili mandala were set up. The agriculture and horticulture assistants should display toll-free number 1902 and the procedure for paddy procurement, the Joint Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paddy-maize-purchase-centres-set-up-in-the-district-says-official/article31429442.ece
25 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC intensifies checks to curb spitting||The civic body has intensified checks to curb open spitting, open defecation and open urination, in the city. About Rs. 32,000 fine amount has been collected from persons who were found violating the orders since April 1. Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Additional Commissioner (Zone IV) Sanyasi Rao said that teams of civic officials have monitored in all the zones and imposed Rs. 32,000 as fine on the violators. A senior official from GVMC said that they have focussed on issue of open spitting which may spread the COVID-19. It may be remembered that as part of the measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the State government on April 12 had prohibited spitting in public places. After the move came into effect, the GVMC has been creating awareness through various means, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-intensifies-checks-to-curb-spitting/article31429439.ece
25 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sathya Sai devotees organise service activities||Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisation of Visakhapatnam district organised service activities and spiritual programmes to mark the ninth ‘aradhana mahotsavam’ of Sri Sathya Sai Baba. Devotees chanted Omkaram, Suprabhatham at their homes . The Ukkunagaram Sri Sathya Sai Seva Samithi provided breakfast, lunch, dinner and fruits on Friday to around 40 stranded labour from other Sates who were sheltered at Government Junior College at Aganampudi with the financial assistance of the CSI, Vizag chapter. K.K. Ghosh, Director - projects, RINL/Visakhapatnam Steel Plant and Vice-Chairman, CSI, presented a cheque towards one day’s food expenses to G. Ramakrishna, convener, Ukkunagaram Sri Sathya Sai Seva Samithi on behalf of the CSI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sathya-sai-devotees-organise-service-activities/article31429435.ece
25 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arcelor donates masks, PPE kits||Arcelor Mittal Nippon Steel India contributed Rs. 25 lakh to the district administration and Rs. 5 lakh to the GVMC towards fight against COVID-19, here on Friday. Representative of AMNS D.S. Varma handed over the cheques to District Collector and GVMC Commissioner. Earlier AMNS had donated over 10,000 masks and 300 PPE kits to the district administration and other organisations in the frontline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arcelor-donates-masks-ppe-kits/article31429429.ece
25 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Umbrellas distributed||Police Commissioner R.K. Meena along with physician Kutikuppala Surya Rao distributed 200 umbrellas, in the first phase, to police personnel deputed to the containment zone at Thatichetlapalem. He commended Dr. Surya Rao for his innovative ‘Kutikuppala umbrella principle’ to maintain social distance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/umbrellas-distributed/article31429434.ece
25 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ATC||Lok Sabha member M.V.V. Satyanarayana on Friday distributed vegetables worth Rs. 2 lakh to help the poor in Wards 10 and 13 benefiting around 2,000 persons. The Retired Zoo doctor Y. Rama distributed food and other necessities worth Rs. 12,000 to municipal sanitation workers of ward-16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/atc/article31429440.ece
25 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||406 cases booked on shopkeepers for irregularities: Collector||District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that the teams from Vigilance & Enforcement, Weights and Measurements, Tahsildars and police have conducted raids on 1,254 shops in the district and booked 406 cases for selling essential commodities at higher prices and indulging in other irregularities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/406-cases-booked-on-shopkeepers-for-irregularities-collector/article31429441.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Turning a deaf ear||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/turning-a-deaf-ear/article31429431.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Humane gesture||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/humane-gesture/article31429445.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mosaic of life||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mosaic-of-life/article31428885.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Risky fun||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/risky-fun/article31429422.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brisk business||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brisk-business/article31428913.ece
25 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ramzan this time a quiet affair||It is Ramzan-eve. At this time of the year, grocery shops would be flooded with buyers. There would be an abundance of fruit sellers and pushcarts would be piled with dates in the brightly lit markets in Charminar. From mosques, one would hear the Taraweeh congregation. But as Telangana witnessed an increase of 13 COVID-19 positive cases on Friday, taking the number of cases to over 950, Ramzan this year is a quiet affair. As the Markazi Ruiyat-e-Hilal (moon sighting) Committee announced the arrival of Ramzan on Friday evening, sirens from mosques went off. Unlike the preceding years, a rush at grocery stores was not seen. “As soon I heard the siren, I used to rush to buy dates and other groceries. But this year, I stayed at home because of the lockdown. With the rain, I did not even go to the roof to try to sight the crescent. Coronavirus has changed how we observe and welcome Ramzan. We will pray at home as much as we can for humanity and that normalcy returns soon. It is important to follow the government’s instructions,” says Abu Osman, an entrepreneur. Many left homes to buy essential supplies during the day, much before the 6 p.m. deadline. However, the hustle and bustle was missing. “Around 8 p.m., my mother, father and I used to go to the masjid for Taraweeh prayers. This year it will not happen,” notes Ayesha Syed, an engineer and resident of Manikonda. Since a vast majority of Muslims give alms in the form of Zakaat (2.5% of one’s annul savings) to the poor in the month of Ramzan, some said that they did this much in advance. “The Muslim clergy had said Zakaat can be given to the poor before Ramzan came. This is why some people from my family gave money to them or bought ration for them. There is nothing we can do at this time except help one another,” says Waseem Khan, of Noor Khan Bazaar.  CM’s greetings Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday greeted the public on the occasion of the beginning of the holy month of Ramzan. The CM said, “May this auspicious month further the spirit of harmony, happiness, and brotherhood in our society.” He stressed the need for staying indoors and offering prayers at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ramzan-this-time-a-quiet-affair/article31429183.ece
25 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Domestic power bill collections less than 25 % across State||The payment of power bills by domestic consumers for March, which expired on Wednesday, was abysmally low, thanks to the impact of coronavirus and lockdown. Senior power officials said the collections State-wide were less than 25%. The two power distribution companies in the State had appealed to the electricity regulator to be allowed to stop their metre readers from visiting houses and take the readings on apprehensions that it may create disharmony between owners and the visiting staff over fears of transmission of the virus. Therefore, they proposed that the bills of March last year (2019) be held good for now and the payment mode be made online by various platforms. For new connections post-March last year, the bill of February this year will apply. The excess or shortfall in payments will be adjusted in subsequent months bills. In the absence of physical reading of meters and door delivery of bills, the regulator while conceding the request of Discoms directed them to text the bill amount to the registered phone numbers of consumers. But, many of them did not get the messages though the bill amount was uploaded against their unique numbers on the websites of respective Discoms. Senior officials said the collections were about 25% of normal in Southern Power Distribution Company limits comprising erstwhile districts of Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Medak, Mahbubnagar, Nalgonda and part of Nizamabad and 22.5% in Northern Power Distribution Company limits covering the rest of the State. Power demand The power demand from domestic sector in SPDCL was Rs. 623 crore every month, including receivables from government establishments. The same was Rs. 203.30 crore in NPDCL. There were 1.11 crore domestic services in the State, constituting 74.59% of total services which also include commercial, industrial, agricultural and other low tension users. The officials ruled out disconnecting services for non-payment as it involved field staff visiting houses which was already given a go by. But, postponement of payment could be considered for some more time in view of the present circumstances with a late fee. They said the demand for February was almost met since the lockdown commenced just after the expiry of deadline in March. Lower bill The bill for March payable in April was lot more beneficial to consumers as people were confined to homes which resulted in consumption of power for air-conditioners, fans, TVs and other electronic gadgets going up considerably. This was not the case in March last year when the bills were far less due to normal conditions and equivalent amount was payable now. Only tenants who rented houses after March last year might grumble as they are liable to pay for power consumed by previous occupiers. Otherwise, they too consumed high power due to confinement at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/domestic-power-bill-collections-less-than-25-across-state/article31429192.ece
25 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Novel’ birthday gesture in COVID times||A Hyderabadi living in Denver, USA, Alfred Asher Paul Talluri, succeeded in making his mother’s 60th birthday a special occasion on Friday, thanks to Malkajgiri DCP Rakshitha K. Murthy and her team. While the lockdown due to coronavirus outbreak prevented Mr. Paul and his family living abroad from being able to see his mother, Kutty Hadassa Paul, on this special day, she received a surprise birthday greeting by Neredmet inspector A. Narsimha Swamy himself, who sang a a song to her in person. Ms. Paul, a retired teacher, is a resident of Sainikpuri and lives alone. Holding the mic himself and with the support of an audio speaker, the inspector sang a popular Hindi birthday jingle that goes ‘Baar Baar Din Yeh Aaye’ and two coronavirus awareness songs composed by him. On Friday morning, Mr. Paul contacted the DCP and expressed his anguish over not being able to travel to India. “As my mother lives alone, I was looking to see if I could request your department to send a representative to personally wish her on behalf of my family, my brother’s family, uncle and aunt in the US. My mother loves surprises and I am sure it would make her day. I will be ever grateful if you could honour my special request in the current circumstances,” Mr. Paul’s message to DCP read. Moved by his request, Ms. Murthy asked Neredmet inspector to ‘surprise’ her with his greetings. “She was surprised and thrilled. Since we were unable to get her a cake, our team went to greet her with a fruit basket,” Ms. Murthy told The Hindu . She was also given a hand sanitiser, mask and gloves. She said that a noble act like this in such grim times goes a long way in cheering people up. “Her eyes moistened. It was immensely satisfying for us to see the joy that we were able to make her feel on this special day of hers,” inspector Swamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/novel-birthday-gesture-in-covid-times/article31429162.ece
25 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC for alternatives to disinfectant tunnels||The Telangana High Court on Friday sought to know if there were any alternatives to disinfectant tunnels that can be used at public places to check coronavirus. A Bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A. Abhishek Reddy, after hearing a PIL plea, directed Advocate General B.S. Prasad to secure instructions from the government on the availability of any alternatives to disinfectant tunnels. The Bench was hearing the petition filed by a lawyer seeking direction to the government to install disinfectant tunnels at public places. The lawyer contended that such tunnels or chambers (through which individuals can walk through while chemicals are sprayed to clear bacteria or virus) should be put up at markets, Rythu Bazaars and other places. He contended that people were not following social distance norms while buying groceries, vegetables and other items. To check the spread of virus in this situation, setting up disinfectant tunnels would be a better option. They are available in the market for around Rs. 1 lakh. The government can procure such tunnels or take the help of NGOs or philanthropists to set them up at markets, court premises and hospitals, he said. The Bench, however, said that the Union Ministry of Health had already issued an advisory stating that spraying disinfectants like sodium hypochlorite was harmful. In this background, the government can explore if there were any other alternatives to disinfectant tunnels, it said. The matter was posted after two weeks for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-for-alternatives-to-disinfectant-tunnels/article31429173.ece
25 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IICT joins hands with pharma firm for drugs against coronavirus||Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR)-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) is collaborating with a city-based integrated pharmaceutical company ‘LAXAI LifeSciences’ to jointly develop and manufacture Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) and Intermediates to reduce the dependency of the Indian pharmaceutical sector on Chinese imports. IICT is working with LAXAI for synthesis of drugs being used in the fight against coronavirus with primary focus on Umifenovir, Remdesivir and a key intermediate of Hydroxy Chloroquine (HCQ). India, one of the largest producers of the anti-malarial drug, HCQ, has seen a spurt in demand in the recent weeks, informed director S. Chandrashekar on Friday. The country has sent HCQ to over 50 countries over the last few days, including the United States, and this collaboration will result in a cost-effective process with minimal dependency on China for key raw materials. In addition, Remdesivir, which has been previously administered to Ebola virus patients, is currently under clinical trials to evaluate the efficacy and safety against COVID-19. The director said that the outbreak has exposed the ‘disproportionate reliance’ of the Indian pharmaceutical industry, third largest in the world by the volume of drugs produced, on Chinese raw materials. With the delayed delivery and increased pricing pressure of these raw materials, the Indian pharma sector is staring at supply shortages. Hence, the Union Cabinet chaired by PM Narendra Modi has approved a special package for promotion of bulk drug manufacturing in India and reduction of dependence on China realising that drug security and undisrupted access to essential medicines is critical for public health, he pointed out. LAXAI Life Sciences Pvt. Ltd. was established in 2007 to accelerate the discovery chemistry campaign of global pharmaceutical companies. The firm has grown into an integrated pharma company with presence in API / formulation development as well as API manufacturing. It also has access to USFDA/GMP manufacturing facilities through its subsidiary, Therapiva private limited. The collaboration will use the know-how for commercial manufacturing of APIs and intermediates which will then be taken up at USFDA/GMP approved plants held by LAXAI through its subsidiary, Therapiva private limited, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iict-joins-hands-with-pharma-firm-for-drugs-against-coronavirus/article31429157.ece
25 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID prevention kits handed over||COVID-19 prevention kits consisting of masks and hand sanitisers were handed over to sanitary workers of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) and personnel of Karkhana police station here on Friday. Controller of Defence Accounts (IDAS) K. Venkat Rao and chairman of the Coastal India Development Council (CIDC) G.V.R. Shastry were behind the donation in the presence of SCB CEO S.V.R. Chandrasekhar, IDES and others. The SCB and police department are doing yeoman’s service to the society in these crucial times and CDA Secunderabad is complementing their services in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic by providing prevention kits, said Mr. Rao. He advised employees to maintain personal hygiene, social distancing and ensure cleanliness of surroundings. Asad’s endeavour Hyderabad parliamentarian Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday handed 178 PPE kits and 2,640 mini-kits to the government at Shastripuram in the presence of MA&UD Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar, Mayor Bonthu Rammohan and GHMC Commissioner Lokesh Kumar. Each PPE kit comprises N-95 mask, triple layer mask, latex gloves, a 200 ml sanitiser bottle and a PPE suit. The mini-kit consists of N-95 mask, triple layer mask, latex gloves, and a 200 ml sanitiser bottle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-prevention-kits-handed-over/article31429158.ece
25 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Medico attending COVID ward not allowed to enter flat||A junior doctor who attends COVID-19 patients at Gandhi Hospital had a bitter experience when committee members of the apartments she stays at tried not to allow her into the building two days ago. Dr Snigdha said that over 10 committee members who ganged up used filthy language during argument over the issue. A third-year post-graduate student in Orthopaedics course, Dr Snigdha has been attending duties in isolation wards of the hospital for the past three weeks. She used to stay at a hostel on the hospital campus. Her husband who stays in Bengaluru also attends COVID-19 patients. However, she started to stay at her brother’s own flat in Mansoorabad from the past one month. The apartment’s committee members apparently informed her bother that she cannot stay in the apartment as she attends COVID-19 patients. "When my brother, sister-in-law and I returned to the apartment on April 22 afternoon, around 10 to 15 committee members stopped us at the gate, made us stand and did not allow me in. They said ‘you are working for government and not for us’ and asked me not to stay in the flat. I went into the flat after police intervened," Dr Snigdha said. She lodged a complaint with Vanasthalipuram police who said the committee members did not have any right to stop her when the flat owner did not have any objection. The police said they would register a case after receiving her complaint. She along with Telangana Resident Doctors Association (RDA) and Telangana Junior Doctors Association took the issue to notice of Health Minister Eatala Rajender. RDA president G Srinivas said if a doctor working in front line stays at a place, he/she will spread awareness about the infectious disease. "Doctors use Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), N95 masks, which are disposed after coming out of isolation wards. People should support doctors who work in front line," Dr Srinivas said. Same experience More than 10 sanitation workers who are facing the same issue are hoping they too will be allowed to go to their home. It was published in these columns that the 10 sanitation workers who reside in Chengicherla were chased away by their neighbours for working in COVID-19 isolation wards. Holding sticks and brooms, they asked them to either quit working at the hospital or stay away from the locality. They have been staying at Swami Shivananda shelter home on the hospital campus for the past 22 days. "Even to this day, they threatened to attack if we go back to our home. It is a problem to stay away from children," said D Yellamma, who works as a sweeper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/medico-attending-covid-ward-not-allowed-to-enter-flat/article31429186.ece
25 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Several schools fall in line on fee payment||After Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s categorical statement on tuition fee for schoolchildren to be collected on a monthly basis, and subsequent government orders, several schools seem to be falling in line. Parents from several schools have received messages saying fee would be collected monthly and those who have already paid the first term fee should agree to adjusting the same for the coming three months rather than asking for refund. The Hyderabad Public School, Begumpet, sent a message to parents saying the payment mode has been revised and earlier mails on first term fee be ignored. ‘Phoenix Greens-School of Learning’ has put out a detailed message to parents, stating how they were continuing last year’s fee structure. It said some parents had already remitted the first term fee and requested them to agree to adjustments in future payments. However, those who are yet to pay will be charged on monthly basis only. For several parents who paid the transport fee and food fee in advance for this term, schools have requested them to support the transport employees and caterers by not demanding the refund of the same for the unused period. Delhi Public School (DPS), Miyapur, Kennedy Global School and Jubilee Hills Public School also reacted similarly, rolling back the enhanced fee structure and promised to adjust the same for those who had paid in advance. However, several schools still seem to be weighing their options on adjusting the fee of other heads into the tuition fee. Now, the biggest fear of parents is how schools will adjust the fee from a variety of heads. “There is no clarity on this and we need to wait and see. Will they twist the orders to their convenience or respect the GOs,” said a parent of a child of DRS International School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/several-schools-fall-in-line-on-fee-payment/article31429167.ece
25 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth urges LS Speaker to move privilege motion||Malkajgiri MP and TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy has sought a privilege motion against Republic TV journalist Arnab Goswami for making ‘derogatory’ remarks against AICC president Sonia Gandhi. In a letter to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla he said that Ms. Gandhi was not only a senior MP but also parliamentary party leader and president of the Indian National Congress. He said the abusive statements against her have put the decency and decorum of the entire House at stake. “And as the Speaker of the House, it is on you to safeguard the dignity of the House and its members as well,” Mr. Reddy said seeking the immediate arrest of the journalist. “This attack on someone who has not only spent the last 50 years in service of our country but also witnessed the sacrifice of her husband’s and mother-in-law’s lives for the nation to stay united is atrocious and highly condemnable,” Mr. Reddy said while seeking the privilege motion. He also sent a letter to Privilege Committee Chairman Sunil Kumar Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-urges-ls-speaker-to-move-privilege-motion/article31429199.ece
25 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Constable accused of assault punished’||The police constable accused of assaulting a bike rider in Waranparthy before the latter’s nine-year-old son was suspended, the police told the Telangana High Court. Suspension of the constable of Wanaparthy town police station, Ashok Kumar, was eventually revoked. But he was further punished with postponement of increment for two years, the police said. This was stated in an affidavit filed before the HC over a letter (written by a lawyer and taken up as PIL petition), by the Additional Director General of Police (Organisations and Police Reforms) Rajeev Ratan. While the bike rider Murali Krishna behaved inappropriately with the policemen on duty on April 1, the constable being member of a disciplined force acted in high-handed manner, the affidavit said. The policeman’s behaviour spoilt image of the police in the public. In the petition it was alleged that six policemen beat up the bike rider after taking him to police station. The matter was inquired in the presence of the bike rider. “As per his statement no excesses were committed by any police officer in the police station,” the affidavit said. A police team was on duty identifying traffic rule violators when the bike rider, with his son sitting pillion, was seen over-speeding. He was stopped. Verification revealed 13 e-challans of different traffic rule violations were pending against the bike rider. The traffic SI imposed another fine. Refusing to clear the amounts, the bike rider entered into an argument and tried to leave the place. He caught hold of the constable’s collar, abused him and slapped him, the affidavit said. A case was registered against the motorist. In another PIL petition for security for medical staff, the HC directed the government to file an additional counter affidavit explaining details of measures taken for security of medical fraternity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/constable-accused-of-assault-punished/article31429171.ece
25 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||South Central Railway feeds 2.08 lakh poor||The South Central Railway (SCR) has provided free hot meals to about 2.08 lakh needy people, including its own sanitary workers and porters, in the last 25 days across various locations converting the base kitchens into round-the-clock service kitchen utility for staff to plan, procure material and cook meals continuously. It has been using the Railway Protection Force (RPF) resources and support plus other departments as well as voluntary agencies to serve bulk food needs beyond the railway properties to migrant workers, daily wagers and others. Of the 2.08 lakh free meals supplied to date, about 1.48 lakh have been cooked and provided by Indian Railway Catering & Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) and about 60,000 meals by various departments and NGOs working with railway organisations. Parcel loading An official spokesmanof the organisation said that freight was being loaded for the first time from Medhcal railway station with Hyderabad division loading 46 tonnes of essential commodities. At the regular loading station of Kacheguda, 95.35 tonnes of perishables (like lemons) and 20.78 tonnes of hard parcels (including medical equipment, edible oils and chilli powder among others) at Nizamabad and Dharmabad stations were loaded, the spokesman said in the statement. Potential customers can call helpline 9701370083 for getting any further assistance, the spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/south-central-railway-feeds-208-lakh-poor/article31429175.ece
25 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||April bills also to be based on last April||With the lockdown being implemented in the State extended till May 7, the domestic consumers of electricity would have to pay energy consumption bills for April payable in May as directed by the Electricity Regulatory Commission — equivalent to the bills of April 2019. According to the officials of the discoms, the electricity bills for the month of April 2020 are being auto generated based on the consumption charges of April 2019. They expected the average electricity bills for April 2020 to be almost equal to their bill amounts for April 2019, but the consumption in April 2020 would be higher compared to April 2019 as people were confined to their home due to lockdown and working from home. They, however, stated that the bill amounts would be adjusted automatically from May 2020 bill, issued in June by taking the actual energy consumption data recorded in the meters.  High billing Admitting that the average electricity bills issued for March and payable in April appeared high in some cases, the officials of the two discoms said the excess amount collected against the actual consumption would be adjusted in the bills to be raised for May in June. The officials of Southern distribution company suggested the consumers to register their mobile numbers on their websitewww.tssouthernpower.comfor getting SMS alerts on the bills raised every month and also to pay bills through various online payment platforms available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/april-bills-also-to-be-based-on-last-april/article31429195.ece
25 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BJP chief on day-long fast for farmers’ cause||Alleging that the State government failed to provide enough procurement centres and farmers were denied the support price on one pretext or the other Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar sat on a day-long fast at the State BJP office on Friday. Mr. Sanjay said the fast was to draw the attention of the government to the problems being faced at the ground-level though the government has been making tall claims. Situation at the farmer-level was pretty bad, he claimed. Facilities at the IKP centres were poor and also at the paddy procurement centres set up by the State. He recalled how some farmers in Sircilla burnt their produce reflects the agony of the farmers but the State government was ignoring the basic issues and were threatening the farmers with police cases. He said BJP’s observations were based on the party leaders’ visits to procurement centres in all the districts for two days. “We are highlighting the issues raised by the farmers with us,” he said. Mr. Sanjay alleged that government was not even speaking about the crop losses due to unseasonal rains and the Cabinet did not even discuss it . He also alleged that middlemen were being encouraged with the active support of the TRS party leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-chief-on-day-long-fast-for-farmers-cause/article31429201.ece
25 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor reviews online classes||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan appreciated the university authorities for conducting online classes during the lockdown period and advised students to focus on studies. The Governor, who reviewed online classes via a video conference with registrars of all State universities on Friday, also wanted students to download Aarogya Setu app to keep abreast of COVID-19 advisories. The registrars informed the Governor that their universities were conducting online classes and about 70% students attending these classes, while the remaining are not in a position to attend them due to connectivity problems as they live in rural and remote areas. Around 80% of the syllabus for PG students and 70% of under-graduate syllabus has been completed. The Governor requested the NSS students and programmers to actively participate in voluntary services to help provide succour to the needy and poor people in these testing times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-reviews-online-classes/article31429166.ece
25 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Holy month to begin today||The Markazi Ruiyat-e-Hilal (Moon sighting) Committee on Friday announced that the first day of the holy month of Ramzan would correspond to Saturday. In a press release Maulana Qubool Badshah Shuttari said the Ramzan crescent was sighted in Hyderabad and other parts of the country. He urged Muslims to pray at home. and follow the rules of the lockdown as laid down by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/holy-month-to-begin-today/article31429184.ece
25 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Plantations in Malkaram have best survival’||The 22 hectares of plantation raised in Malkaram reserve forest of Shamshabad division in Rangareddy district has registered a survival rate of 99% making it the best plantation raised by the State Forest department, said Principal Chief Conservator of Forests R. Sobha. The PCCF inspected plantation sites and nurseries on Friday and distributed essential commodities to workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plantations-in-malkaram-have-best-survival/article31429176.ece
25 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Chief Secretary visits Annapurna Centres||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on Friday said 300 Annapurna Centres were providing meals to 2 lakh people in the city. Mr Kumar was speaking in Toli Chowki where he visited one such centre with Municipal Administration and Urban Development Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar and Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Commissioner Lokesh Kumar. The CS said the government was willing to increase the number of Annapurna Centres if there was a requestr. He said Centres which previously worked from noon would now open at 10.30 am.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chief-secretary-visits-annapurna-centres/article31429180.ece
25 April 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Video calling helps migrants||For the stranded migrant workers housed in the State-run temporary shelters here, the video calling and movie screening facilities provided by the district administration at the relief shelters in the town are providing some kind of solace to them in these difficult times. The lockdown induced by the COVID-19 threat displaced many migrant workers, including seasonal farm labourers, workers of the construction firms, granite factories and other industries, leaving them in the lurch. Dozens of the distressed migrant workers are presently sheltered in two relief camps set up at Shadikhana and Ambedkar Bhavan in the town. Keeping in view the larger concentration of migrant workers in the industrial and agricultural hubs of the district, the administration has opened as many as 18 relief camps to provide shelter and food to the displaced workers. These relief camps have become temporary homes for more than 480 migrant labourers, including those who were stopped midway while on their way back home on foot to far off places. Thanks to the initiative of Collector R. V. Karnan, the authorities have made available video calling facility and installed TVs and LCD screens in some of the relief camps to help the migrant workers stay in touch with their families. “We have provided access to free mobile data to the migrant workers in possession of smart phones to stay connected to their kith and kin during their stay in the temporary shelter at Ambedkar Bhavan here,” said K Satyanarayana, Deputy Director, Social Welfare, Khammam. “We are trying to pass the time by watching old Hindi movies and playing carrom in the shelter home,” noted Ramesh from Asawari village in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/video-calling-helps-migrants/article31429206.ece
25 April 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||Peddapalli declared virus-free||Collector Sikta Patnaik announced Peddapalli as COVID-19 virus-free district after declaring the two containment zones as free zones in Ramagundam coal belt region on Friday. The Collector along with Ramagundam legislator Korukanti Chander and Ramagundam Commissioner of Police V Satyanarayana visited the containment zones in Annapurna Colony and GM Colony in Ramagundam Municipal Corporation limits and declared them as free zones. It may be recalled that the district administration announced containment of Annapurna Colony on April 3 following a markaz returnee testing COVID-19 positive, and on April 6 - GM Colony was also declared ‘red zone’ after another Delhi returnee tested positive. Both the positive cases were treated in Gandhi Hospital and they were tested negative after 14 days treatment. Now, the district has no virus related cases and has been included in the green zone. Talking to newsmen, the Collector said lockdown and curfew would be enforced strictly till May 7. The fight against the virus has not ended and it would continue for some more days, she said. Appreciating people for supporting the district administration in controlling the spread of the deadly virus, she thanked the police machinery, Medical and Health department officials, and the sanitation staff. Ramagundam legislator K Chander wanted the police officials to maintain the checkpost on the district borders and strictly screen new entrants. He also advised the police to keep a close surveillance on the migrant labourers and others entering the district through forests and villages by foot. He wanted people to alert the authorities if they notice any suspected virus case in any part of the district. Mayor B Anil Kumar, Deputy Mayor Abishek Rao, Municipal Commissioner Vijay Kumar and others were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/peddapalli-declared-virus-free/article31429203.ece
25 April 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Suryapet relieved with discharge of positive cases||After a tense three weeks which saw an exponential rise in number of COVID-19 positive cases — from one to 83 — the Suryapet district administration has reason to smile. The first positive case reported in the district, of a Nizamuddin Markaz returnee, was cured and discharged from the hospital on Thursday. And three of the six members of his wife’s family at Wardhamanukota, reportedly infected by him, were also discharged on Friday. Exactly three Thursdays ago, on April 2, the 35-year-old from Kuda Kuda locality in the municipality limits had tested positive, setting off the alarm bells. And within two days, the administration had a cause for concern when his primary contact, a popular town pharmacist also tested positive. “That was how the chain of infection reached the town. Wardhamanukota family head was also a Nizamuddin Markaz returnee, but the infection reached there with his son-in-law from Kuda Kuda. The first case, the pharmacist and the six who tested positive at Wardhamanukota were all asymptomatic till they were diagnosed,” a senior official involved in the operation said. In fact, the second positive case, the 23-year-old town pharmacist was the first person to be discharged, on Tuesday, officials said. According to Medical and Health officials, the discharged patients who were treated at Gandhi Hospital, Hyderabad, tested negative twice and showed healthy condition in all the tests. All of them will now be on a 28-day home quarantine and medical teams will follow-up their status every day. District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy, speaking to The Hindu , said the latest development only comes with important message for all public. “COVID-19 curability is linked to co-morbidity, and hence people should not panic, but report symptoms in the early stage. Social distancing is the preventive medicine,” he said. Residents with any queries can dial 1800 425 1972, the district’s 24-hour COVID-19 helpline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/suryapet-relieved-with-discharge-of-positive-cases/article31429188.ece
25 April 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT,TELANGANA||Despite being shunned, they rise to the occasion||The poor people have been the most affected by lockdown and some good Samaritans have come forward to help them in some way or the other. Doing their bit to the society, the transgender community in the city, which is always relegated to the margins, came forward and did a lot of charity work. The transgenders led by O Laila in Warangal city hosted lunch for eight days to slumdwellers. Now they are providing lunch for 70 select elderly people. They gave away groceries enough for one month to 170 households in the slums and cash of Rs. 500 each. The transgenders are shunned by the society and are forced to beg on trains, at bus stands and other public places. They lack public patronage except on rare occasions such as festivals and fairs. However, they showed their humane face during the ongoing crisis where thousands of people, mostly daily wage earners have been affected due to the lockdown imposed to prevent spread of dreaded coronavirus across the country. The transgenders in Telangana, who have an association Telangana Hijra Transgender Samithi (THTS), exhausted all their money and are now looking up to the State government to come to their rescue. Speaking to The Hindu , THTS general secretary O Laila said she personally sent Rs. 2,500 cash to 600 of her community members in various districts of Telangana, supporting them for at least one month during the crisis. “There are about 48,000 transgenders in the State and nearly 600 members in erstwhile Warangal district. We have submitted a memorandum to the State government and MLC K Kavitha was supporting us. Some of our members got 12 kg rice and Rs. 1,500 cash. But not all members got it as many of us do not have ration cards. We are asking the government to extend the benefit to all members irrespective of ration cards,” she said. According to her, the Bala Vikasa NGO has distributed grocery kits to 170 transgenders in Warangal city. “We are the worst affected. We desperately need government support and request the government to extend all welfare schemes to us as well. Many of us live in rented houses which is a problem as we are unable to pay rents now. And due to the lockdown, we do not have any income now,” Laila said, adding that they welcome the State government’s decision to extend lockdown in the welfare of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/despite-being-shunned-they-rise-to-the-occasion/article31429178.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Transmission potential of pre-symptomatic persons appears to be low||There is fear and anxiety among people ever since outbreak of COVID-19 which has become a pandemic leading to lockdowns till May 7 with much uncertainty ahead. In this interview, Director of Hyderabad Chapter of the Indian Institute of Public Health G.V.S. Murthy and his wife medical microbiologist wife P. Vishalakshi explain about the virus spread and bust a few myths.  What are common ways of getting infected? Major pathway for infection is through close contact and through large droplets (>5 micron in size) that fall rapidly to the ground and do not travel more than one meter. They can reach a person in close contact or a surface like table tops, door knobs, cardboard, cutlery etc. within that distance range. Direct face-to-face contact with an infected COVID-19 patient for a long time increases the risk of infection or sustained contact of more than 15 minutes can be dangerous. This does not discount other potential modes of transmission but they account for only a small proportion. What about persons not showing any clinical features of infection? World Health Organization (WHO) states that to date there is no documented evidence about transmission of COVID-19 from people not having any clinical signs of the disease. We know that for every 10 people coming in close contact with a positive patient, there would be 7-8 asymptomatic, while 2-3 people develop symptoms. Is asymptomatic transmission a good thing? Yes, because these people are unlikely to get infected again in the present cycle and therefore, add to ‘herd immunity’. It simply means the proportion of people protected from future infection, either through vaccination or from having the disease. Once a critical proportion of the population is ‘protected’, it reduces the number of people who can get infected. The ‘herd immunity’ varies for each disease. Can you give us an example? For measles, it could be as high as 90-95% and for diphtheria it is 80-85%. Experts believe for COVID-19, if herd immunity is 55-60% it can help in breaking the transmission chain. Since, there is no vaccine available at the moment, it is only those infected and recovered who are our line of defence. Hence, recovered patients and those asymptomatic, are critical elements. It is not necessary for every ‘exposed’ person to get infected? Higher the dose of exposure to the virus, higher is the risk of infection. A fleeting exposure to a small amount of virus may not result in an infection. Clinical signs like cough, fever, sore throat etc., show up in 3-4 days and can continue for 14 days but maximal viral shedding occurs early therefore early identification is crucial. So, tracking such persons and isolating them can contain the spread. Who should be put in isolation? Tracing those who have come in contact with an infected person should be kept under close supervision and isolation till they are free of any clinical manifestations. However, the transmission potential of such pre-symptomatic persons appears to be low. This again is a good sign for us. Are lockdowns going to halt transmission? Holding back a large proportion of population is a good short-term strategy but it does not prevent the susceptible from getting infected in the future. Sudden opening up can expose a large number of susceptible people, so opening up gradually helps the government monitor how the situation is panning out and if necessary, the ‘sluice gates’ can be closed down again. But, hand washing, personal hygiene and protection practices should be ingrained in our minds forever.  Holding back a large proportion of population is a good short-term strategy but it does not prevent the susceptible from getting infected in the future Dr. G. V. S. MurthyDirector of Hyderabad Chapter of the Indian Institute of Public Health||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/transmission-potential-of-pre-symptomatic-persons-appears-to-be-low/article31429198.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||A promise to keep||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-promise-to-keep/article31429169.ece
25 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Six test positive for virus in Gautam Buddha Nagar||Six persons, including a CRPF constable, tested positive for COVID-19 in Gautam Buddha Nagar on Friday, an official release said. The other five are residents of JJ Colony of Noida Sector 8, one of the hotspots in the district. According to district surveillance officer Sunil Dohare, all five were in institutional quarantine in Sharda isolation facility. “The CRPF constable is a resident of Mayur Vihar in Delhi,” he said. A health department official said that the constable and his wife got themselves tested at a private hospital in Sector 41 in Noida after the constable developed mild symptoms. “The constable tested positive while his wife tested negative,” he said. With this, Gautam Buddha Nagar has 109 positive cases out of which 53 have been cured. In Ghaziabad, a pharmacist working with the Northern Railway tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, official sources said. All the doctors and staff working at Arya Nagar Health Unit of Northern Railwa were tested on Friday and were sent to home quarantine. Sources said the pharmacist is a resident of Ghaziabad’s Kaila Bhatta, which is a hotspot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/six-test-positive-for-virus-in-gautam-buddha-nagar/article31429132.ece
25 April 2020||New Delhi,||CM appeals to recovered patients to donate their plasma, save lives||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday termed “encouraging” the limited trial of plasma therapy on patients at a city hospital and appealed to recovered COVID-19 patients to step forward and donate their plasma to save the lives of serious patients. Two of the four patients on whom the trial was conducted at Lok Nayak Hospital would be shifted out of intensive care three days after the therapy, he said. He also said that Delhi government would ask for permission from the Centre to use plasma therapy on all serious patients based on the next trial. “Our efforts in the fight against the virus are two-fold. First is how to contain the spread of COVID-19, which includes social distancing, lockdown and various other measures, and the second is how to control the deaths caused by the pandemic... We got permission to conduct the trial on patients admitted at LNJP Hospital and we have tried the therapy on four patient. The results are satisfactory. We have Dr. Sarin, who is the head of ILBS hospital, to monitor the whole project,” the Chief Minister said. Dr. S.K. Sarin said, the initial plan was to use plasma therapy as per the age-old tradition used in 1900s. If the therapy was used on a patient in the second stage of infection, which is the pulmonary phase (affecting the lungs and causes difficulty in breathing), it was possible to neutralise the virus as well as stop organ failure. The main aim of therapy, he said, was to not let any infected person reach the third stage, which is called the ‘cytokine storm’, and cure their lung infection. Only the people who have recovered from COVID-19 will have to give their blood. ‘Show patriotism’ “We need people to show their patriotism by donating blood so the others can be treated. We have people who lost their lives because we did not get blood from anywhere... Plasma is extracted from the blood of the person who has recovered and the rest of the blood goes back into their body,” he said. “Donating blood is also good for your longevity and you feel young as new blood is developed... Plasma therapy is also inexpensive as compared to other medical treatments and medicines that our country cannot afford to import,” Dr. Sarin said. ‘Excellent results’ According to Mr. Kejriwal, plasma transplant on two out of four patients was done on Tuesday. Their respiratory rates and oxygen saturation levels had improved. While the first two patients would be discharged from the ICU, the remaining two had also shown excellent results. “We had got the permission for limited trials from the Central government. They had permitted us to conduct the trial on a few patients admitted to LNJP Hospital and then notify them based on their success for further trials. This has come as a ray of hope to us, and doctors are trying their best to save the lives of the patients,” the Chief Minister said. ”It is the responsibility of the people, who have recovered, to come forward and help those who are recovering. You will be saving lives,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cm-appeals-to-recovered-patients-to-donate-their-plasma-save-lives/article31429123.ece
25 April 2020||New delhi,||Three deaths, 138 new cases||Three deaths and 138 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Friday, taking the toll to 53 and total number of cases to 2,514. Of the total cases, 857 people have recovered and there are 1,604 active cases. For the first time since the Delhi government started declaring areas as ‘containment zones’, one such area in east Delhi was on Friday removed from the list after authorities found no new positive case in the locality for four weeks. A containment zone has a stricter form of lockdown and entry and exit of people are not allowed in these zones. More doctors infected Meanwhile, a doctor at Safdarjung Hospital told The Hindu that “three doctors working in the medicine ward have tested positive in the last two days. They were working in a non-COVID ward but people with fevers were treated here. The doctors could have been infected by the patients.” A second doctor at the hospital also confirmed that three doctors were infected. “In total, five doctors, one nurse and one technician of the hospital have tested positive so far. All of them were on non-COVID duty,” the second doctor said. When contacted, Dinesh Narayan, Public Relation Officer (PRO) of the hospital, said: “No authentic information is available on this at this point.” Dr. Balvinder Singh, Medical Superintendent of the hospital, did not respond to multiple calls and messages seeking comment. Meanwhile, samples of about 50 workers of a kitchen in Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospital have also been taken after a female dietician tested positive for the virus, a hospital official said on Friday. The results are expected in two days. Also, at least four more people working at Delhi government-run Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital in Jahangirpuri, including guards and nurses, tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, taking the total number of infected staff to at least 20, according to a hospital document accessed by The Hindu . Jahangirpuri is one of the 92 “containment zones” in Delhi.  Meanwhile, results of about 160 journalists who were tested by the government for COVID-19 have all returned negative. “I pray for your safety and good health. You guys are also our frontline corona warriors [sic],” Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Twitter. Naming those tested Though a list of test results of 162 journalists with their names and other details were found on social media, the Delhi government spokesperson said the government did not release the list. “We have tested more journalists and the results will be out in the coming days,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-deaths-138-new-cases/article31429126.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘65% of stranded workers have not received any government support’||A survey of migrant workers in distress in Delhi under the COVID-19 lockdown has shown that 65% of the respondents had not received any form of government support, either in the form of dry ration or cooked meals. A majority of respondents who received food support said that the amount was inadequate. The telephonic survey was conducted by the Delhi units of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) that have been working to provide relief material to migrant workers stranded in the NCR. The survey was conducted with 506 “group leaders” representing 8,870 workers between April 10 and April 18, the CPI(M) said. “6% of the respondents do not have a ration card or Aadhaar card making them ineligible for the Delhi government’s policy of providing dry ration,” the survey said, adding that 3.5% of the respondents did not have a ration card, AADHAR card or a bank account making them ineligible for any direct government support through the Public Distribution System or Direct Bank Transfer. The survey also found that 29% of the workers did not have any rice, 51% had no atta, 52% were doing without pulses, and 54% did not have any cooking oil. “This signifies the near-starvation level of a majority of workers and their families,” the report noted.  3.5% of the respondents did not have a ration card, AADHAR card or a bank account making them ineligible for any direct government support through the Public Distribution System or Direct Bank Transfer Survey||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/65-of-stranded-workers-have-not-received-any-government-support/article31429130.ece
25 April 2020||New Delhi,||3 workers of sanitation dept. infected||At least three people working in the sanitation departments of the south and north civic bodies have tested positive for COVID-19, senior officials said on Friday. Around 48 employees who came in contact with the staff have been put under quarantine. In the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), 53-year-old sanitation worker Ramesh* posted in Daryaganj, and 43-year-old Rani* working in Tagore Garden tested positive. The civic body’s spokesperson said that neither of the employees were deployed at a hotspot or were engaged in disinfection work. Ramesh, who was admitted to AIIMS on Wednesday and is currently on a ventilator, had attended duty only twice this month, said the corporation. Meanwhile, nine of Rani’s colleagues have been asked to self-isolate at home. Her husband, also a sanitation worker in the same ward, tested negative on Thursday but was called in for a re-test at Lok Nayak Hospital on Friday. In the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, an Assistant Sanitation Inspector in the Rohini Zone has tested positive. A senior official said that the infected person had self-isolated as soon he felt unwell. They added that all his contacts are in home quarantine and the family members were tested on Friday. A total of 39 staffers in the Department of Environmental Services have been placed under quarantine, all of whom were reportedly asymptomatic.   (*Names changed)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-workers-of-sanitation-dept-infected/article31429133.ece
25 April 2020||New Delhi,||HC seeks Centre’s reply on central AC safeguards||The Delhi High Court on Friday sought response of the Centre and the city government on a plea that no centrally air-conditioned buildings, including courts, be used without taking precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Bar Council of Delhi Chairman K.C. Mittal, in his petition, contended that “the cough, sneeze or tear dispersal of an infected person would be in aerosol form” and the “same can be picked, ingested and circulated by the central air-conditioning units”, like the ones installed in the High Court. He further contended that while droplet infection can be dealt with by sterilisation, once aerosol infection enters the air ducts of the central air-conditioning system, it could potentially infect dozens if not hundreds of persons present in a building. The High Court has listed the case for further hearing on May 1. The application was filed in the main petition on air pollution which the Delhi High Court had initiated on its own in 2015 to deal with the poor air quality in the national capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-seeks-centres-reply-on-central-ac-safeguards/article31429122.ece
25 April 2020||New Delhi,||CISF proposes steps for post-lockdown metro services||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which guards metro rail premises in the NCR, has asked its personnel to stock personal protective equipment, including face masks, for at least three months in a post-lockdown scenario when services resume. Though a decision has not been taken on when metro services will resume as the second phase of lockdown comes to an end on May 3, the CISF has prepared a detailed proposal.  It has been proposed that friskers and x-ray screeners should additionally wear face shields or visors to protect their face, especially eyes, from any kind of exposure. The CISF has also proposed that the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation deploy additional staff to ensure social distancing among passengers. It will also be mandatory to wear face masks while entering the metro channel. Around 12,000 CISF personnel are deployed in the NCR to secure over 160 metro stations. An official said that the Aarogya Setu app with inbuilt e-pass feature could be employed for identification of suspected persons having COVID-19 infection, adding that it will not be compulsory. The CISF said hand sanitisation or washing facilities should be available at entry points, and thermal screening will be done. The official said that those with high temperatures and symptoms of cold, cough and other flu like symptoms will be denied entry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cisf-proposes-steps-for-post-lockdown-metro-services/article31429137.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||After lockdown, IGIA to deploy queue managers||Delhi’s IGI Airport is preparing to resume operations once the lockdown is lifted and has prepared a strategy to ensure social distancing across its premises and a sanitised environment. The measures will include additional queue managers, seating arrangements where passengers form queues as well as UV machines to sanitise checked baggage. The additional queue managers will be found at the entrance gate, check-in halls, security check areas and boarding gates to ensure passengers follow social distancing norms. There will be signages at various points as well as staggered seating arrangements. There will be additional seating arrangements where passengers form queues, such as check-in facility, security area and immigration counters. This will be necessary as waiting time is expected to increase with only alternate counters operating to maintain required distance. Self-service facilities “Passengers will be encouraged to check-in at home or use self-service facilities such as self check-in, self bag tag, scan and fly, etc. The airport also plans to install UV machines to sanitise checked baggage,” stated the white paper prepared by the Delhi International Airport Limited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/after-lockdown-igia-to-deploy-queue-managers/article31429128.ece
25 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi’s peak power demand reduces by up to 49%||Delhi’s peak power demand has reduced by up to 49% with commercial and industrial activities virtually at a standstill due to the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19, discom and power department officials said. Official data stated that the peak power demand during the day has reduced by 40-50%, while the peak electricity demand during the night has reduced by around 20-30%. The higher reduction in the day’s power demand is due to the closure of commercial and industrial establishments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhis-peak-power-demand-reduces-by-up-to-49/article31429127.ece
25 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Tribal people bring water to their two villages||Through their collective effort, tribal people of two remote, adjacent villages in Chitrakonda block in Odisha’s Malkangiri district have built a water supply project that has saved them from the rigours of water collection in the lockdown during this summer. Motivated by the grassroot-level activists of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), around 100 tribal families of Tantaguda and Panaspunji under Gajalmamudi panchayat of Chitrakonda block decided to alleviate the water crisis on their own. The tribal people did not wait for any financial support from the government in the project. “We never knew it will be a saviour during the lockdown,” said Balaram Golari and Raghunath Hantal, the CPI(M) activists of the area. These two played a key role in uniting the local tribals for the project. Construction of the water supply project started on January 2 and got completed in first week of March. Now, the tribal women of these two villages are saved from walking over two kms to collect water from a mountain stream. An amount of around Rs. 3 lakh was spent on the project. The money was contributed by around 100 tribal families of the two villages. Every family contributed as per its financial condition. But all of them provided free labour for its construction. The project includes a top covered concrete tank at a hill top in which water of the perennial stream gets collected. An over 2 km-long pipeline transports water from this tank to the two villages. The project uses no pumps and gravity makes the water flow downstream. The localites designed the whole project without taking any technical support. According to Mr. Golari, they are planning to extend the water supply to three more nearby villages through similar community effort. Odisha secretary of CPI(M) Ali Kishor Patnaik lauded the party workers and tribals. “This project is an eye-opener for the administration that several remote villages in Malkangiri district are yet to get proper water supply.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tribal-people-bring-water-to-their-two-villages/article31429120.ece
25 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Five test positive in Odisha’s Bhadrak, State tally 94||Five men, who recently returned to Odisha’s Bhadrak district from neighbouring West Bengal, were found positive for COVID-19 taking the State’s total to 94 on Friday. Contact tracing and follow up action was initiated by the State government’s Health & Family Welfare Department in the villages from where the new cases were reported during the day. According to the State government, the districts of Bhadrak, Balasore and Jajpur, which were close to West Bengal, have reported as many as 33 cases during the past six days. These cases include West Bengal returnees and their close contacts. The State government has imposed a 60-hour-long complete shutdown in these three districts starting from 10 p.m. on Thursday to contain the spread of COVID-19. The shutdown restrictions are being strictly implemented by the administration and police. Of the total 94 cases, as many as 33 have been discharged from hospitals after treatment and 60 patients are under after treatment at different COVID-19 hospitals. One COVID-19 patient has died in the State so far. A total of 170 persons were in hospital isolation on Friday, the government said.  ‘Remain vigilant’ Meanwhile, State government’s chief spokesperson on COVID-19 Subroto Bagchi appealed to the people of the three districts to remain vigilant and ensure strict quarantine of those coming from outside. Only by ensuring quarantine of the returnees that the elderly people and children in the villages can be kept safe, he said. Informing that a family had recently managed to enter the State from West Bengal by misusing an ambulance, Mr. Bagchi said an ambulance, which engaged itself in carrying fake patients with the intention to make money, may not be free of COVID-19 itself. The family in question was caught at the border and the members were quarantined, he added. On the other hand, with another exclusive COVID-19 hospital becoming operational in Kalahandi district on Friday the total number of such hospitals increased to 33 with combined capacity of 5476 beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/five-test-positive-in-odishas-bhadrak-state-tally-94/article31429115.ece
25 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Lightning claims 6 lives||Six persons, including three youths, died when lightning struck at different places in Odisha on Friday. Deaths were reported from Mayurbhanj and Keonjhar and Balasore districts. Three youths had gone for fishing near Badapathura village under Khunta police station when lightining struck them. The deceased were identified as Jamini Mohanta, Dibya Shankar Mohanta and Koshish Mohanta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/lightning-claims-6-lives/article31429106.ece
25 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||11 new virus cases in Punjab, overall tally climbs to 298||Punjab on Friday reported 11 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the total tally to 298 in the State, according to an official statement. State health department said on April 24 six new cases were reported from Patiala, two from Mansa and one each from Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Amritsar districts. Punjab has so far seen 17 COVID-19 related deaths. As many as 70 patients have so far recovered in Punjab, it added. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, meanwhile said he would go by the advice of the expert committee, set up to formulate Punjab’s lockdown exit strategy, in the matter of opening up the State. During a online meeting with leading industrialists, economic experts and diplomats-ambassadors of various countries, the Chief Minister said any decision on lifting the lockdown-curfew would be taken on the basis of recommendations of the 20-member expert committee, which is expected to submit its report on Saturday. Reiterating that his priority was saving the lives of Punjabis, the Chief Minister said “the life of my Punjabis is more important. Factories can be restarted but we can’t get people back.” If the expert committee, which includes medical experts and doctors, recommends opening, either partially or completely, we will do so, he said in response to questions. “I will go by their advice,” he declared, but made it clear that the health of the people was the priority, even though the State government was aware that the lockdown could not be kept in place indefinitely.  Virus curve Pointing out that Punjab had witnessed three peaks in the COVID-19 curve in the past 40 days, the Chief Minister said it may not be possible to lift the lockdown completely for some more time, but the State will examine the recommendations of the expert committee and the prevailing ground situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/11-new-virus-cases-in-punjab-overall-tally-climbs-to-298/article31429108.ece
25 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Hooda demands relief for MSMEs in Haryana||Former Haryana Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Friday said the State government should provide special relief to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and cottage industries immediately, which are reeling under crises owing to the ongoing lockdown. “Incomes have reduced to zero due to the lockdown and the revenue of the entire MSMEs sector has come to a grinding halt. Despite this, the entrepreneur is constantly burdened with his workers’ salary, loan instalments, rent, commercial tax and fixed electricity bill with no support from the government. It seems as if the government has left them to fend for themselves,” said Mr. Hooda in a statement. He said according the Small Scale Industry Manufacturers Association most of the industries are on the verge of closure. “This can result in large-scale of unemployment. Therefore, it is important to consider the demands of these industries while there is still some time for recovery and special economic relief should be given to them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hooda-demands-relief-for-msmes-in-haryana/article31429113.ece
25 April 2020||Chandigarh,||Over 1 lakh helpline calls in Haryana||Haryana’s COVID-19 helpline is proving to be very useful for the people and has received over one lakh calls so far this month, an official statement on Friday said. The COVD-19 control room helpline number is resolving problems faced by people due to the COVID-19 lockdown and during this month, 1,07,995 calls were received, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare department, Rajeev Arora said in the statement. Besides, tele-medicine service is also being provided on the helpline and anyone can get a free consultation from doctors over phone, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-1-lakh-helpline-calls-in-haryana/article31429118.ece
25 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Man dies of COVID-19 in Meerut, death toll now 4||One person infected with COVID 19 passed away in Meerut on Thursday night, taking the toll in the district to four, an official release said. Both his sons have also tested positive. One of the deceased’s sons is the personal assistant of a local Bhartiya Janta Party leader. Though the leader and his family have tested negative, they have been quarantined for 14 days. 86 cases so far A health department official said the deceased was a diabetic and had developed pneumonia. Meerut has recorded 86 COVID 19 cases so far. On Friday, the borders of Shikarpur town in Bulandshahr were sealed after five persons were tested positive on Thursday. According to the district information department, the town has 11 active cases. Most of them had come in contact with the Ayurvedic doctor who passed away in a Delhi hospital on April 10. Meanwhile, in Aligarh’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital one more junior resident doctor was tested positive on Friday. “As per preliminary information, she didn’t come in contact with the surgeon who was tested positive on Thursday. Her husband is also a resident at JNMH. The contacts of both of them are being traced. On Friday, reports of 60 health workers, including doctors, working at JNMC came out and only one was found positive.” Vice-Chancellor Tariq Mansoor urged Muslims to maintain social distancing and personal hygiene during the month of Ramzan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-dies-of-covid-19-in-meerut-death-toll-now-4/article31429116.ece
25 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Footwear sector hit hard by transport ban||Hit hard by the lockdown, much like other sectors, the footwear industry in Haryana’s Bahadurgarh, the hub of country’s non-leather footwear manufacturers with an annual turnover of around Rs. 18,000 crore, hoped to make the most of the resurgence of economic activity in the rural areas during the Rabi crop harvest season, but it fails to reap the benefits due to continued ban on transport of goods. Though many wholesalers falling in the rural areas have the permission to operate and the shops in the villages, most of them multi-purpose selling groceries to agricultural products to footwears, are also open, the footwear manufactures in Bahadurgarh struggle to procure permission to transport their products. “During the harvest season, the slippers (chappals) are in high demand in the rural areas. We have finished goods lying in our godowns, but don’t have the permission to transport them,” said Narinder Chhikara, senior vice-president Bahadurgarh Footwear Park Association. Though the manufactures have been allowed intra-State movement of their goods just two days back, the permission for the movement of goods outside the State remains elusive. Mr. Chhikara said the manufacturers had discussion with senior Union government Ministers, but no solution was found. Spread across the industrial areas of Bahadurgarh, including the Footwear Park, around 1,000 footwear manufacturing units employ over two lakh workers, most of them migrant. Though Agra and Kanpur remain the hub for leather footwear, Bahadurgarh footwear manufacturers have around 50% share in the country’s non-leather footwear industry. It exports good worth around Rs. 2,000 crore annually. Though a large number of workforce stays in Bahadurgarh, a small section is settled in Delhi’s Mundka and Nangloi areas as well. Confederation of Indian Footwear Industries president Rajkumar Gupta said the national body of footwear manufacturers’ had decided not to resume operations post-April 20 and wait till May 3 since they could not operate with the supply chain not being functional. He said the manufacturers felt there was a little sense in resuming production when the wholesalers and the retailers were allowed to open and inter-State transport of goods was not allowed. “Ours is a labour-intensive industry and maintaining social distancing norms as per the Ministry of Home Affairs Standard Operating Procedures is also difficult. Even if we decide to open putting our lives and the lives of workers into risk, it is not worth since the supply chain is not functional,” said Mr. Gupta.  Knotty issue The transportation of the workers also remains a knotty issue for the industry. Though the administration had earlier allowed the workers staying within a radius of 150 metres to come through their owns means, the limit has now been increased to five km after much persuasion. But the issues still remain.  We have finished goods lying in our godowns, but don’t have the permission to transport them Narinder ChhikaraSenior VP, Bahadurgarh Footwear Park Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/footwear-sector-hit-hard-by-transport-ban/article31429117.ece
25 April 2020||Patna,||Bihar teachers seek regular salary||Over 70,000 vitrahit (non-funded) teachers of Bihar have appealed to the State government to take over their educational institutions and meet their demand for regular salary. “Since 2012 we’ve not been paid any salary…we made several representations to the government and for the last two years our petition is pending in the Patna High Court... as many as 16 of them have died of different diseases in last four months while coronavirus has taken just two lives in the State yet,” Raushan Kumar, a non-funded teacher at Sonepur Mahila College, told The Hindu over phone. Mr. Kumar is also the State coordinator of a forum named Anudan Nahi Vetanman . He also rued that recently the State Education Minister announced Rs. 4 lakh compensation on the death of contract and regular teacher but the non-funded teachers were kept out of this compensation. Over 70,000 non-funded teachers in the State are teaching in 725 middle schools, 515 intermediate colleges and 225 degree colleges in the State under government’s non-funded educational policy’ 1981. “We impart higher education to as many as 55% of students in Bihar and have been participating in all welfare schemes of the government like Jan Jivan Hariyali and others, but whenever we demand our salary the government choose to see the other way,” said another teacher Ravindra Kumar Dubey, who teaches at MS College, Tajpur in Saran. Like Mr. Kumar several other non-funded teachers like Manju Kumari, Vibha Kumari, Deepak Kumar, Ajoy Jha too have appealed to the Bihar government to look into their demand like the eight other States have done for their non-funded teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bihar-teachers-seek-regular-salary/article31429109.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||No takers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-takers/article31429111.ece
25 April 2020||Washington,||‘China may have known of virus in Nov.’||U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo charged on Thursday that China may have known of the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) as early as November, renewing accusations that Beijing has not been transparent and again drawing ire from China. “You’ll recall that the first cases of this were known by the Chinese government maybe as early as November, but certainly by mid-December,” Mr. Pompeo said. “They were slow to identify this for anyone in the world, including the World Health Organization,” he told conservative radio host Larry O’Connor. Mr. Pompeo said the U.S. still wanted more information from China, including the original sample of the SARS-CoV-2 virus detected in the metropolis of Wuhan. “This issue of transparency is important not only as a historical matter to understand what happened back in November and December and January, but it’s important even today,” he said. “This is still impacting lots of lives here in the U.S. and, frankly, around the world.” China hit back on Friday, saying Mr. Pompeo’s remarks were “totally groundless and entirely for the purpose of blaming others”. Mr. Pompeo’s comments ran “counter to the general consensus of the global community”, Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said at a daily press briefing, adding that China had “provided timely information to the world”. China initially closely guarded information of the virus and silenced whistleblowers. The first official acknowledgment of what became a global pandemic came on December 31 . Critics say that Mr. Trump is seeking to deflect from his own handling of the crisis, which he claimed to have “totally under control” in January but has since killed more than 50,000 people in the U.S. — more than any other country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-may-have-known-of-virus-in-nov/article31428794.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||‘South Asia needs a humanitarian response to the COVID-19 pandemic’||As the world combats the deadly coronavirus pandemic, Sri Lanka’s former Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe underscores in an interview the need for a collective response in South Asia, focussing on both, health and economic revival. Edited excerpts:  Well before the COVID-19 crisis hit us, you have been an advocate of greater regional cooperation. How can it help at such a time? You see, this is a good time for a regional cooperation programme. This is a global pandemic without a global leadership. Maybe the region can’t provide leadership for all. But the first virtual meeting of SAARC leaders was good, looking at the background and the problems that are there. We must treat this as a humanitarian issue and come up with a regional response. Maybe one or two countries, for instance, India and one other, could put up a proposal, which then can be looked at by others, and possibly amended. Let us all work together. We [Sri Lanka], for instance have a good public health system. So has Kerala. We can work together on that. Countries in the region have each pledged money towards the recently set-up SAARC COVID-19 Emergency Fund. But each country is administering its funds based on requests made bilaterally, rather than through a common pool... There has to be a common centre. The SAARC Secretariat and someone who is in-charge. The Secretariat itself has limited staff, so you must have someone in-charge of it. I think it may be better if they are placed somewhere more centrally, working with relevant medical authorities. What do you mean by centrally located? I don’t know if it can be handled from Kathmandu alone. If you can, well and good. But you may need another city. It can be Bengaluru, Colombo, any city. But you see a greater role for the Secretariat too? Yes, the Secretariat works with the one in-charge. One person overall, who has everyone’s confidence, should deal with it. In regard to the Secretariat, the advantage is that the ambassadors accredited to SAARC are there. That is the plus point of Kathmandu. We are seeing some tensions in the SAARC COVID-19 response, with Pakistan saying the SAARC Secretariat should handle the funds. You need someone in-charge there. I’m not saying it is not the Secretariat. But India has a leading role. Pakistan can’t match India’s funding. Let Pakistan make a proposal and one another country should get together. Someone should make a proposal and give it to the Secretary General who will talk with the others, and then we finalise it. It is not India-led, the effort is SAARC-led, but let India give the input. Similarly, let Pakistan, Bangladesh give theirs. Let the Secretariat put it together. We have to look at issues pertaining not only to health, but also to our economies. The World Bank’s Chief Economist for South Asia recently told The Hindu that managing migrant returns, service sector revenue losses and ensuring food security for the poorest will emerge key priorities for the region. Do you agree? Well, there’s one more. Keeping enterprises going big or small — if they collapse, the whole formal sector goes. It’s the total economic activity that is at stake, other than production of safety [PPE] suits, gloves and medicines. I think SAARC can also develop a standby industrial base on this. How so? We could start companies to start manufacturing. Of course, when they start their prices may not be that competitive, but we decide on it and everyone buys from one or two companies earmarked for it. Job creation will also be a major challenge, isn’t it? Especially since migrant workers from the region, who were working in West Asia, are returning and may not go back. We have to work this out. Remember tourism is big in the Maldives, Sri Lanka, parts of India, Nepal. How do you manage that? I would look at some of the climate change issues, and also modernising agriculture. We have got to create jobs. You have to have helicopter money. The thing is the problem we have with our debts and the amount we owe to the international sovereign bonds. So, it is more a question of dealing with the London Club than the Paris Club, but I think a common approach would help us. For Sri Lanka, while the bilateral debts are perhaps negotiable, the terms of the sovereign bonds are ruthless, aren’t they? That’s a big one, yes. That is why you can’t do anything on the rupee debt. We’ll have inflation. That is one thing we can work on as a unit. More broadly, do you also see a potential shift in the region towards expansionary fiscal policy, a basic income? We see that talk picking up globally. You have to. You have to move away from some of those [past policies]. If you look at the IMF reports, they say it is bad this year, it might pick up next year. I don’t know, if we don’t find a remedy quickly, next year is also going to be bad. We should plan for two years. When you say move away from some established policies, what do you mean? You have to look at some sectors that you are going to pump in money into. We have focused on inflation, but inflation is really down. Then, the question of raising money — commercially and otherwise, how much can the London Club give us? That is really the big issue for all of us. And the fact that for India and Pakistan, it is a big amount, maybe a few billion dollars. So it is better to go as a team and take it on. Speaking of the pressures of the international money market, do you think it’s time to rethink the prevailing economic model? Well, the free markets have to flow. But some of the countries that are doing well [in their COVID-19 response] have a more social market economy. How do you think COVID-19 will impact the global order? China and the U.S., two powerful countries, have been hit so badly. Europe is going to get the worst of it. And what will the U.K. do? They’ve lost a market, and in this situation, you can’t gain a market in a hurry. What President Trump is trying to do is to keep the economy going so he won’t be second-guessed by China. But China actually had a lockdown and they are now re-starting. The problem for China, like all of us in different ways, is that the markets are in the western world. Until the western world picks up, we have to move towards other markets also. I think India should reconsider coming into the RCEP [The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership], even at a later stage.  This is a global pandemic without a global leadership||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/south-asia-needs-a-humanitarian-response-to-the-covid-19-pandemic/article31428791.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||We will build ties in the neighbourhood: Taliban||The Taliban would like to build ties with all neighbouring countries, including India, said its spokesperson Mohammad Suhail Shaheen, and claimed that the group would even enact a law against foreign terror groups conducting operations against any other country, if it comes to power. “We would like good relations with all countries in the neighbourhood on the basis of mutual respect and mutual interests,” said Mr. Shaheen when asked about ties with India. “We will never want any foreign organisation using Afghan soil to target another country. We will bring a law to stop any such activity,” he added, speaking to analysts during an internet-based seminar organised by Delhi-based think-tank, “Global Counter-Terrorism Council” (GCTC). On Thursday, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar tweeted that he and U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo “exchanged views on the Afghanistan situation.” Their conversation followed another call over the weekend with Mr. Zalmay Khalilzad who had welcomed “Indian engagement in regional and international efforts for a lasting peace in Afghanistan, and discussed “the need for both the Afghan government and the Taliban to accelerate prisoner releases, support a prompt reduction in violence, and start intra-Afghan negotiations,” which are currently at an impasse. Dependent on Pakistan Speaking at the GCTC “web seminar”, Amar Sinha, member of the National Security Advisory Board and former Ambassador to Kabul, said there was little point in participating in a dialogue process involving the Taliban, while it remains dependent on Pakistan for support and safe havens, and until it eschews violence. India has thus far not recognised the Taliban, which has had links with terror groups like the Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad, who have targeted Indians in Afghanistan. India was also not invited to a UN-led regional conference on the peace process last week. However, speaking at another online interaction organised by the Washington-based United States Institute of Peace (USIP), Masoom Stanekzai, the head of the 21-member peace delegation appointed by Mr. Ghani, said he hopes that India will be invited to the next regional conference, given its “contribution to Afghanistan’s reconstruction.” During the 45-minute interaction with analysts, Mr. Shaheen said a future Taliban dispensation in Afghanistan would be radically different from the “Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan” that the Taliban ran from 1996-2001. Mr. Shaheen said the Taliban will be “committed to education and working rights for women”, which would be in sharp contrast to the past, and even present of some of the districts that the Taliban controls in Southern Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/we-will-build-ties-in-the-neighbourhood-taliban/article31428796.ece
25 April 2020||Washington,||Trump will try to postpone U.S. poll: Biden||Presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden has predicted that U.S. President Donald Trump will try to postpone the country’s November election in an attempt to win. “Mark my words, I think he is gonna try to kick back the election somehow, come up with some rationale why it can’t be held,” Biden said during an online fundraiser Thursday. The 77-year-old former Vice-President said it is “the only way he thinks he can possibly win.” Six months before U.S. voters head to the polls, Trump’s mind is already in election mode. But with a pandemic raging and job losses climbing to 26.4 million on Thursday, Mr. Trump’s path to victory may be harder than he anticipated. Mr. Biden, highlighting Mr. Trump’s recent threat to veto emergency funding for the U.S. Post Office, claimed it was an example of the President’s intention to “do all he can to make it very hard for people to vote.” While mail-in voting and absentee ballots remain methods many say could help limit voters spreading coronavirus, Mr. Trump maintains they create the potential for fraud. Media briefings? Meanwhile, dozens of U.S. States have postponed their primary races, which will officially determine who will be the presidential nominee. The 73-year-old Mr. Trump has been criticised for turning his daily White House coronavirus briefings into campaign events — rallying his base and taking swipes at his detractors such as Mr. Biden, who is sheltering at home. “We have a sleepy guy in a basement of a house that the press is giving a free pass to, who doesn’t want to do debates because of COVID,” Trump said during the Thursday briefing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-will-try-to-postpone-us-poll-biden/article31428799.ece
25 April 2020||WASHINGTON,||Uproar after Trump suggests ‘injecting disinfectant’ as cure||The makers of Lysol and Dettol warned on Friday that their products should not be used as an internal treatment for the COVID-19 after President Donald Trump wondered about the prospect during a White House briefing. Mr. Trump noted on Thursday that researchers were looking at the effects of disinfectants on the virus and wondered aloud if they could be injected into people, saying the virus “does a tremendous number on the lungs, so it would be interesting to check that.” That prompted a strong warning from the maker of disinfectants Lysol and Dettol, which said it was issuing a statement to combat “recent speculation.” “As a global leader in health and hygiene products, we must be clear that under no circumstance should our disinfectant products be administered into the human body (through injection, ingestion or any other route),” said the statement from Reckitt Benckiser. Mr. Trump has often talked up prospects for new therapies and offered rosy timelines for the development of a vaccine as he encourages states to move to reopen their economies. Sunlight, humidity On Thursday, the White House also pitched “emerging” research on the benefits of sunlight and humidity in diminishing the threat of the coronavirus. Past studies have not found good evidence that warmer temperatures and higher humidity of spring and summer will help check the spread of the virus. But William Bryan of the Department of Homeland Security said at a White House briefing on Thursday that there are “emerging results” from new research that suggest solar light has a powerful effect in killing the virus on surfaces and in the air. He said scientists have seen a similar effect from higher temperatures and humidity. A biocontainment lab in Maryland has been conducting testing on the virus since February, Bryan said. “The virus is dying at a much more rapid pace just from exposure to higher temperatures and just from exposure to humidity,” Mr. Bryan said. “I hope people enjoy the sun. And if it has an impact, that’s great,” Mr. Trump said, adding, “It’s just a suggestion from a brilliant lab by a very, very smart, perhaps brilliant man.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uproar-after-trump-suggests-injecting-disinfectant-as-cure/article31428804.ece
25 April 2020||Frankfurt,||German court tries IS jihadist over genocide||An Iraqi man, who is believed to have belonged to the Islamic State, accused of genocide and murdering a child belonging to the Yazidi minority who he held as a slave, went on trial in Germany on Friday. Taha al-Jumailly, 27, also stands accused of crimes against humanity, war crimes and human trafficking in the case in Frankfurt. His wife, a German woman, has been under trial at a Munich court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/german-court-tries-is-jihadist-over-genocide/article31428800.ece
25 April 2020||Washington,||U.S. death toll crosses 50,000||The novel coronavirus has killed more than 50,000 people in the U.S., after one of the deadliest days of the pandemic which saw 3,176 deaths, according to a tally on Thursday from Johns Hopkins University. It now has 870,468 confirmed cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-death-toll-crosses-50000/article31428805.ece
25 April 2020||Goma,||Goma, DR Congo, April 24, 2020 (AFP) -||At least 12 rangers were killed on Friday in an attack in Virunga National Park, a UNESCO World Heritage site in the restive east of the Democratic Republic of Congo, a park spokesman said. It was one of the deadliest attacks in the park, Africa's oldest and most biologically diverse protected area. Another six people were wounded, the spokesman told AFP, adding that four other civilians passing through the area were also targeted.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/goma-dr-congo-april-24-2020-afp/article31428789.ece
25 April 2020||Budapest,||Budapest, April 24, 2020 (AFP) -||Hungary signed on Friday a China-financed loan agreement for a high-speed railway linking Budapest and Belgrade, billed as Hungary's biggest ever infrastructure investment and one whose contract details could be kept secret for a decade. The 350-km-long high-speed rail line would form part of a planned railway connection linking central Europe with the Chinese-run Piraeus port in Greece. The project is part of China's ambitious “Belt and Road” initiative.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/budapest-april-24-2020-afp/article31428802.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Power play during a pandemic||In Madhya Pradesh, March 20 will be remembered for two things. It was the day when Kamal Nath bowed out as Chief Minister, bringing to a close a month-long power tussle in the State. It was also the day when four people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Jabalpur. Around noon, a political spectacle, long coming, played out at Nath’s residence in Bhopal, atop the Shyamala hills, overlooking the Upper Lake. Among the hundreds of journalists who had assembled there for a press meeting was a 62-year-old man, unknowingly carrying the virus. On the dais, in the open-air hall, stood a sullen set of Ministers. The government had been rocked by desertions from within the ranks. At the centre, a chair and table were set, from where Nath would later announce his resignation. “Please come forward, and closer,” Narendra Saluja, media coordinator for the Chief Minister, gestured to journalists. Chairs were pulled with a screech, and arms and knees rubbed against each other as journalists, perspiring in the heat, huddled together to catch sight of the Congressmen on the dais. “I had no idea I was carrying it,” the journalist, who remained asymptomatic through the 10 days of his treatment, said after his recovery. His daughter, 26, a postgraduate student in London, tested positive on March 22, days after her return. Hers was the first case in Bhopal. Despite being faced with an unprecedented health crisis from March, by when cautious States had already closed down public places, prohibited gatherings, and ramped up health infrastructure and marshalled doctors, Madhya Pradesh was embroiled in political wrangling. The virus was knocking furiously at its gates. By April 12, SARS-CoV-2 had gripped Indore, where 10% of the infected had died, the worst case fatality rate for any Indian city. Worse, it had penetrated the State health unit. By April 24, as many as 110 health officials and their family members were infected in Bhopal. As for the police in Bhopal, 41 personnel and their family members have contracted the illness so far. The signs of an impending crisis were clear. On March 2, when the Centre issued its fifth travel advisory, the Congress was busy rescuing its MLAs reportedly being held hostage by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at a Manesar hotel. On March 10, abandoning the State’s preparation for the pandemic, Health Minister Tulsiram Silawat was cooped up at a Bengaluru resort with 21 rebel Congress MLAs, who quit later. Until that day, 63 COVID-19 cases had been reported nationwide. By March 16, the virus had infected 126 people and killed two. It had entered 13 States, including neighbouring Maharashtra and Rajasthan. That was when a vexed BJP, sniffing power, chided the Speaker’s decision to adjourn the Vidhan Sabha session, in view of the pandemic’s threat, as a ploy to buy time. A single-man Cabinet Madhya Pradesh reacted late to the pandemic owing to Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s zeal for power, claimed Jitu Patwari, State Congress working president. “Otherwise, the State could have been saved. Around the time we planned to procure additional medical equipment, the Health Minister ran away. He had sold himself to the BJP,” he said. On March 4, Nath held the first secretary-level meeting on the illness. The next day, a helpline was set up. Next, the IIFA awards ceremony, Nath’s long-cherished dream, was cancelled. On March 7, schools and colleges were ordered shut. Patwari alleged that the BJP “punctured a moving vehicle”. The day after Chouhan took oath as the Chief Minister on March 23, Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed a nationwide curfew. Nath alleged Parliament was made to function just to offer a chance to the Speaker to run the Madhya Pradesh Assembly too. “This was so that my government could be toppled,” he alleged. The turmoil not just delayed the State’s reaction, but the Centre’s too, said Sachin Jain, of the Right to Food campaign. “The lockdown was imposed 10 days late. Airports could not have shut operations as MLAs had to be flown to different cities citing horse-trading,” he said. The day after taking charge, Chouhan looked away from the uptick in the COVID-19 cases to seven, instead preferring to reverse decisions taken by the outgoing regime first. He ordered the closure of the case of an economic offence against Jyotiraditya Scindia, who had crossed over to the BJP, cancelled appointments made to various commissions, and shunted out the Rajgarh Collector. For nearly a month, Chouhan ran a single-man Cabinet. An opinion piece published by the public relations department even dubbed his role heroic, describing him as a “one-man army”. It was only on April 21 that five Ministers were appointed. Two of the Ministers, including Silawat, have held the health portfolio in the past. “Along with Chouhan, they did not develop the health infrastructure in the State, for which they owe an explanation now,” said Rasheed Kidwai, Visiting Fellow, Observer Research Foundation. In addition, the setting up of a COVID-19 task force, headed by State BJP president V.D. Sharma, has drawn flak for having on its ranks only politicians and their lackeys. “Compare Maharashtra’s team, comprising health experts, with ours, composed of only political lackeys,” said Kidwai. An unlikely hotspot On April 3, at 11 p.m., the Bhopal district administration released a list of new patients after deleting one name from it. The virus had penetrated the Health Department, the institutional bulwark supposedly meant to guard the State against its advance. Two days later, it was declared that an IAS officer, tasked with procuring drugs and equipment for the State, and also the Ayushman Bharat Yojana MD, had tested positive. No one knows where he got the illness. Today, the office of the Directorate of Health Services has turned into Bhopal’s biggest, and most unlikely, hotspot. Cases within the department, to its embarrassment, have refused to ebb. The virus is taking down at least two officials every day. Directors heading different verticals, doctors, peons, personal assistants, clerks and drivers have all have been infected. The six-floor office complex, Satpura Bhawan, was evacuated, sealed for 15 days, and sanitised repeatedly. Officials self-quarantined, as operations were moved online. The case of the Principal Secretary, Public Health and Family Welfare, who tested positive the next day is the most peculiar. For at least three days, the department’s senior-most bureaucrat refused to be admitted to a hospital. Meanwhile, the residential enclave for bureaucrats and Ministers in Bhopal, Char Imli, was cordoned off. She continued releasing media bulletins every evening, and Chouhan hailed her resilience. Pressure mounted on her after a photograph of four health workers, dressed in personal protective equipment and tending to her house, went viral on social media. Moreover, she was publicly accused of not self-isolating, despite her son’s return from the U.S. The Madhya Pradesh Human Rights Commission stepped in, seeking a response from the government over officials sidestepping treatment protocol. In the end, she relented and moved to a private hospital along with other infected officials. Not a dedicated ‘COVID-19’ facility until then, the hospital was immediately designated as one. Meanwhile, other infected health workers showed reluctance to be treated at the AIIMS, Bhopal, with many alleging inadequate facilities. Another private facility was already treating their co-workers, and they were eager to shift there. “Well, they were infected together and wanted to recover from it together,” said Faiz Ahmed Kidwai, Health Commissioner. Within the disease incubation period, an unusual bustle had taken over the Directorate March-end. Files changed numerous hands, back-to-back meetings were held, and officials moiled in the emergency mode against the pandemic. The National Health Mission staff also moved to the building to give a leg-up to mitigation efforts, but only to cram the space further. Making matters worse, the community medicine department of the government-run Gandhi Medical College, which guides the State government in tackling the outbreak, went into quarantine on April 10, after a junior resident in the department tested positive. The team included a member of the COVID-19 technical advisory panel to the government. As of April 24, six staffers of the AIIMS, including doctors, had been infected too. The Principal Secretary, the Ayushman Bharat Yojana MD, and an Additional Director are the primary nodes of the spread within the department. The Deputy Secretary of the Medical Education Department and an Officer on Special Duty with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, both IAS officers, have been infected too. COVID-19 affects cops too The day the Health Department registered its first case, the police found four of its personnel infected too. “Officials from the two departments were in contact at the workplace or casually,” said Rahul Rajak, a researcher who is mapping the outbreak in Bhopal. Cases from the two departments converge mainly in TT Nagar, where a police housing society and a battalion are located, and several doctors reside. Health workers from different areas infected at least three policemen residing there while they were on duty. But in one case, a doctor and a policeman, both residing in TT Nagar, had mutual contact. These policemen unwittingly carried the virus to their workplace, to the Aishbagh and Jahangirabad police stations. Batons, wireless sets, arms and logbooks changed hands with co-workers at the end of shifts. It was common for cops to squeeze into a patrol vehicle or a riot-control bus, awaiting orders. Infected officials unintentionally brought the virus upon family members — wives and mothers are infected mostly — in 19 different areas across the city. Stepping out for casual meetings or buying groceries, they in turn became potential carriers. To break this chain, the entire city police, 2,100 personnel, have checked into hotels. Decoding the purpose of a meeting is important, said Rajak. “It reveals a patient’s physical proximity and the level of interaction with primary contacts, crucial for infection.” Swift action is the key to trump the virus, so once the infection is confirmed, patients get a call from a centre asking for who they met, and how. More than half the infected in Jahangirabad, another hotspot with 55 cases, are primary contacts such as family members. Bhopal stared at the grim prospect of the densely populated area becoming like Indore’s congested hotspots. The Bhopal administration swung into action and took 1,000 samples for testing, to pre-empt an outbreak. There is no single source for the infection in Bhopal. Several isolated cases have sprung up in 23 hotspots, having at least three cases each. All patients have been categorised along four verticals — the police, the health department, Tablighi Jamaat members, and others. Contrary to Chouhan’s claim, experts are yet to come across a strong link of the Jamaat members who have tested positive and other cases, either in Bhopal, where 23 members are infected, or in Indore. From one tragedy to another In an eerily familiar pattern now, eight of the nine who succumbed to the illness in Bhopal were survivors of the gas tragedy in 1984, which compromised their immunity severely. Two of them died on a hospital bed. After developing symptoms, the rest carried the virus unaware, hopping from hospital to hospital, scrambling to negotiate the paralysed healthcare system and a crippled referral system. Some landed outside shut hospitals, others were denied admission by hospitals fearing infection. Pushed to the brink, the patients could manage to reach a COVID-19 hospital only too late. In one case, a man, gasping for breath, was taken to a government-run hospital, where no one provided him with oxygen support. Worried seeing his condition worsen, the sons lifted him out of an ambulance, but he died on the way inside within seconds. Another was denied ambulance service and admission by two private hospitals. The virus attacked six of them so viciously, and swiftly, that they could not even wait for their test results to come in. Illnesses such as asthma, tuberculosis or cancer, caused by the methyl isocyanate leak from a pesticide plant in 1984, hastened the process. From 1998 to 2016, 50.4% of the survivors suffered from cardiovascular problems, 59.6% from pulmonary problems and 15.6% from diabetes, according to the Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC). Five of the deaths occurred when the ICMR-run BMHRC, the only super speciality facility for the survivors, remained out of bounds for them for 23 days. On March 23, tens of admitted patients were arbitrarily discharged as the facility was converted into a COVID-19 facility. Three died later of non-COVID-19 diseases. The government, facing flak, has restored the facility to treat only the survivors. Not all who died were publicly declared the gas tragedy’s survivors by the Bhopal district authorities. Rachna Dhingra, of the Bhopal Group for Information and Action, said the ICMR-run National Institute for Research in Environmental Health, Bhopal, tasked with intervening for the survivors’ health, had not made any effort so far to identify, screen or test the gas tragedy survivors who also had chronic illnesses. “The institute should be pulled up for dereliction of duty for the deaths,” she said. Referring to instances of patients being denied treatment in non-COVID-19 hospitals, Prabhakar Tiwari, Bhopal Chief Medical and Health Officer, said, “No hospital can deny admission to patients. Screening has been authorised at the six State-run hospitals too.” Thanks to the intervention by the Madhya Pradesh High Court, all patients of the BMHRC will be screened for COVID-19 now. Outbreak in Indore The largest and most populous city of Madhya Pradesh, Indore, had a close shave with the virus in January. Two Indian students had returned from China’s Wuhan, jostling with the pandemic then, but tested negative. Three months later today, a terrifying spectacle is playing out. Numbers have surged to four digits, deaths are piling, yet authorities are clueless about the outbreak’s source. By April 12, deaths in Indore had shot to 32. Salil Sakalle, Professor, Community Medicine Department at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College (MGMMC), believes this could be explained by the fact that 55.3% of the 47 dead by April 17 having had illnesses such as diabetes, hypertension, morbid obesity and chronic renal failure. These illnesses, combined with the virus to cause their deaths quickly. In addition, he said, 74% of the dead were above 50, with most reporting late to hospital. “They already suffered from respiratory distress by the time they first contacted the health system. And some carried a higher viral load,” he said. In fact, nearly 30% of the deceased suffered from such acute distress, they didn’t survive to see their COVID-19 test results. Ujjain also sends its patients to Indore for treatment. As many as 10.7% of its patients have died of the illness until April 24. So, health experts are wondering whether the strain is of a more virulent type. “Most mortalities in the State have occurred in this area, and we are trying to find out the cause,” said Jyoti Bindal, the college’s Dean. Indore has recorded 55 of the 92 deaths in the State, and neighbouring districts Ujjain, Khargone and Dewas with it make up 85% of all the deaths. The college will send samples to the National Institute of Virology for automated gene sequencing virus culture, to ascertain the strain’s nature. As recent cases were mostly primary contacts of the infected, already in quarantine, it was helping to stop the spread to newer areas, said Akash Tripathi, Indore Commissioner. The outbreak in Indore, which detected its first case on March 22, had occurred in densely populated adjoining clusters, with no single source. In most cases, the spread in newer areas had separate carriers. By April 14, cases had grown by almost four times in 10 days to 427. As of April 24, the number had soared to 1,029, making up around 66% of the State’s tally. Faced with spiralling cases and deaths, 12 doctors and seven nurses getting infected until April 22 and health workers being roughed up and chased away on two occasions while conducting a survey, Indore authorities have started regulating the information flow. First, the MGMMC was divested of its daily task of releasing a three-page comprehensive media bulletin. By contrast, district authorities have been issuing a single-page bulletin. Second, an Additional Director in the State Public Relations Department, Mangla Prasad Mishra, has been deputed by the State government to “resolve the crisis within Indore’s electronic media, especially pertaining to official figures,” as he put it. On April 18, the State bulletin inexplicably removed 17 cases in six districts over the previous day, to bring down the tally. On April 16, the government claimed to have tested 3,896 samples, a dubious 41% jump from the previous day. This further dented the credibility of official figures, as the spike was incongruous with individual testing data from centres and much higher than testing patterns nationwide. In Bhopal, another journalist who took part in Mr. Nath’s meeting tested positive later. “Cases are surging rapidly and no one seems in control. The appointment of a Health Minister, at last, is a good step,” said the first journalist who tested positive for the virus. On April 22, Narottam Mishra was appointed to helm the Health Department, rudderless for 40 days. But the political drama, and backroom manoeuvering, is far from over. Though the virus is here to stay and gnaws at a crumbling health system, 24 seats in the State Assembly will be up for grabs within five months. “No matter how important an event, human life must come first,” said the journalist.  Cases are surging rapidly and no one seems in control. The appointment of a Health Minister, at last, is a good step. Journalist who tested positive for the virus   The State could have been saved. Around the time we planned to procure additional medical equipment, the Health Minister ran away. He had sold himself to the BJP. Jitu Patwari State Congress working president   Along with Shivraj Chouhan, they (Tulsiram Silawat and Narottam Mishra) did not develop the health infrastructure in the State, for which they owe an explanation now. Rasheed Kidwai Visiting Fellow Observer Research Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/power-play-during-a-pandemic/article31428788.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Troughs and crests in the pandemic response||The novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, that causes the disease COVID-19, has proven the ultimate stress test for governance systems globally. And governments worldwide are failing, showing up for all to see how poorly prepared they were for this examination. Even those governments that are likely to be rated relatively highly by scholars of public policy studying this moment later will not pass the examination unscathed. Such is the virality and lethality of this pathogen that success will be measured in hundreds of lives lost, compared to the tens of thousands of fatalities experienced elsewhere. Yet, the common challenges faced by all governments to fight COVID-19 must not mask the considerable variation in their performance which holds lessons from which we must learn. Stages in the response Disease outbreaks, even global pandemics, are scarcely new. The playbook for dealing with them therefore is well understood and has been honed by practices and lessons gleaned from hard-fought battles. A first stage is early clear-eyed recognition of the incoming threat, and, in the case of COVID-19 at least, requires the unpalatable decision to lock down society. Ideally this is done with full consideration of how to support the most vulnerable members of society, especially in a country such as India, where so many survive hand-to-mouth. This is a phase aimed at buying time, of flattening the epidemic curve, so that public health facilities are not overwhelmed; and, for using this time, paid for by collective sacrifice, to secure the personal protective equipment (PPE) and medical supplies necessary to save lives. The second phase of the pandemic response is slowly to ease the burden on the economy by permitting a measured return of business activity so that livelihoods and supply chains can be restored. This stage can only be safely executed if accompanied by a war-footing expansion of testing capacity so that new infections can be identified and isolated at once, allowing contact tracing to be implemented by masses trained to do this crucial and painstaking work in communities across the country. The final stage, which for COVID-19 seems a lifetime away, is a mass vaccination programme and then the full rebuilding of economic and social life. None of this is easy, but, like an examination in a dreaded subject, one’s only hope is early and persistent preparation and, at crunch time, remembering the lessons learned. What drags systems down So, why have governments failed to do better? And what separates successful responses from failed ones? Answers lie in three main limitations of contemporary governance systems. First, for all the defensive finger pointing, opportunistic politicking and xenophobic posturing — exemplified best by the peevish current occupant of the White House but hardly unique to him — this is not a crisis that can be tackled without robust and multidimensional international cooperation between nations. From the epidemiologists whose data-driven models inform policy debates about how and when to lift quarantines, to the medical community identifying more effective treatments, to the research scientists racing to find a vaccine, we are watching in real time the benefits of intellectual collaboration that does not stop at national borders. But the nationalistic turn in global politics over the past two decades has reduced investment in and undermined the legitimacy of the very institutions that facilitate international partnership at the very time they are needed most. Prime Minister Narendra Modi did well to convene the leaders of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) nations in mid-March to discuss the possibility of a regional response, but that video-conference call also highlighted that there have been no summit-level meetings of SAARC since 2014, in no small part due to India-Pakistan jingoism that has victimised the regional organisation. Similarly, last week’s outburst by United States President Donald Trump that resulted in his demanding that the U.S. end its funding of the World Health Organization (WHO) not only endangers American lives by cutting off his own administration’s access to vital international data, but also directly affects India which receives significant funding and expertise from WHO (with ~10% of its overall WHO financing in 2019 coming directly from the U.S.). Second, pandemic response requires a whole-of-government strategy, for which political will and legitimate leadership are vital to convene and maintain. Textbook examples Germany and Kerala provide two powerful though different examples of this in action. In Germany, in spite of a high level of federalism that gives its States (Länder) a lot of power, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s ability to mobilise the entire system has allowed Germany to emerge as a success story in Europe. In Kerala, as Patrick Heller described in this daily last week ( The Hindu, Editorial page, April 18, 2020), State Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan convened a State response team at the earliest possible moment and has provided the full weight of his office in support of a coordinated public health strategy that has been accepted by the State’s citizens who have learned to trust the government in such situations. Yet these two examples stand out in part for how rare they are. Consider again the cautionary tale of the U.S. where some State Governors have yet to issue stay-at-home orders, and others are rushing to open the economy against the express advice of public health experts, all while the U.S. President urges citizens in States governed by his political opponents to seek “liberation”. Third, we are seeing first hand the consequences of starving public health systems of necessary funds and resources. The comparative advantage of the private sector is efficiency; the need of the hour in pandemic response is redundancy, or, more precisely, excess capacity. Most hospitals do not need invasive ventilators normally, just as they do not need vast stocks of PPE and extra intensive care units beds, but these are essential goods right now as we brace ourselves for a flood of sick patients into hospitals. Watching the advanced health-care system of northern Italy buckle under the unimaginable pressures to which it was exposed over the past six weeks should be a cautionary tale for all countries that thought turning health care over to private actors was responsible governance. It is not. Again, consider Kerala, which has consistently ranked at the top of State rankings for health expenditures, and which has, as a result, a well-functioning local public health system capable of implementing the test-isolate-trace protocols critical for fighting COVID-19. A State in contrast For a sharp and worrying contrast to Kerala’s success, consider Madhya Pradesh. While State Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan earlier earned plaudits for his investments in infrastructure, health expenditures are low, with the State ranking dead last in this category as in NITI Aayog’s data. This will undermine the State’s ability to fight the virus, which given the rapid growth of cases and a relatively high case fatality ratio, looks increasingly vulnerable to a debilitating outbreak. But even more worrisome is the abdication of good sense by the political class in the State. Even as the threat of COVID-19 was apparent, and as Kerala had put its State response into action, a soap opera in Madhya Pradesh was in full swing, with defections and the collapse of the Congress State government. Then, while the rest of the country was practising social distancing, Mr. Chouhan was at the centre of incongruous images of large-scale packed celebrations. Now, finally, a full month after its new-old Chief Minister was inaugurated on March 23, Madhya Pradesh finally has a Health Minister. Wish him luck; he is going to need it. Irfan Nooruddin (@irfannooruddin) is the Director of the South Asia Center at the Atlantic Council and professor in the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University in Washington DC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/troughs-and-crests-in-the-pandemic-response/article31428781.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Bihar’s dystopian moments and a looming crisis||Should the government of Bihar get the benefit of doubt or should it, along with its political partner, the Central government, not be held solely responsible for its poor performance today? The Centre’s much-touted spirit of ‘cooperative federalism’ has been nothing more than a hollow promise. There is a glaring gap between stark ground realities and propaganda. India’s federal system is badly challenged today with partisan Governors, misplaced policies and languishing financial assistance. Bihar is no exception. States, including Bihar, have been in the throes of financial stress from before; the novel coronavirus outbreak and the national lockdown have further weakened their fiscal position. In fact, Bihar is still waiting for the elusive ‘special status’ that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised during elections and again soon after Nitish Kumar formed the government with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Sadly, it has proved to be another ‘jumla’. Bihar has had a long history of suffering because of a persisting feudal political culture that neglected efforts to create industrial capabilities and employment opportunities in the State. Consequently, the exodus of labour has become a new normal since the 1990s. Despite the fact that construction of new roads and overbridges made through central assistance in Mr. Kumar’s first term along with the contractual recruitments (especially in schools) could draw a few migrants back to the State, the situation on the migration front remained grim. Mr. Kumar has been in power for 15 years, yet the fate of these workers has not improved. They continue to be vulnerable and compelled to work without any legal protection. The forgotten people With the global pandemic and national lockdown causing unprecedented loss to lives and livelihoods, Bihar’s vulnerabilities have come full circle. The State government has failed to ensure proper equipment and health-care facilities to the people. It has also dealt with migrants with disdain. A large number of Bihari migrants in Delhi, Mumbai and other parts of the country were left stranded when the lockdown took effect. Some of them tried their best to stay wherever they were, but finally gave up as they had no money or food to survive. The heart-rending visuals of the poor and helpless migrants desperately walking from Delhi/National Capital Region back to Bihar reflect the hollowness of the State’s approach to tackling a disastrous disease and the consequent lockdown. Also, some recent developments show that the government adopted a selective approach in disaster management. For example, while an MLA from the ruling party was issued a special pass to travel to Kota in Rajasthan to bring his child back from there, countless others were left to face socio-economic hardship and apathy Within the State, pauperisation is in full swing and the hunger is just killing; Biharis with no support of remittances are on the fringes in their own homeland. In Gaya and other parts of Bihar, children were seen eating roasted frogs. What could be more pitiful than this in a country that will have food grains of over 100 million tonnes in warehouses by the end of April, and as according to the Food Corporation of India (FCI), where the annual produce is expected to be record 292 million tonnes in year 2019-20? Reportedly, India has enough in macro projection. Reportedly, India has too little with lack of insight in disaster management in a trying time such as this. Floundering health care In Bihar, public health was the next thing after education that became corrupted and collapsed. Opening of new hospitals including an All India Institute of Medical Sciences and few others were hardly beneficial for the poor living in rural areas since they do not have the means to avail them. Unlike the highly publicised claims of Mr. Kumar, health-care facilities at district and block levels are in pathetic shape. As per National Health Profile 2019 of Central Bureau of Health Intelligence (CBHI),  there are 7,13,986 total government hospital beds available in India. More precisely, this amounts to 0.55 beds per 1,000 population. Many States even lie below the national figure, Bihar is one of them, experiencing an acute shortage of government hospital beds with just 0.11 beds available per 1,000 population. This is something alarming in a State that was once known for its socialistic leanings. The odd match-making of allies in the ruling government is not creating room for the resolve to help people. Irrespective of the fact that Bihar has now a new grammar of politics, the State government has failed to give due weightage to the health sector. Even when Mr. Kumar may no longer be charmed with socialism, how can he overlook the unimaginable hardship of the poor, the unemployed and the marginalised? He must bargain for more from the Centre, because his alliance with the BJP has not benefited Bihar. The people of Bihar are still waiting for the fulfilment of the promises made by Mr. Modi and Mr. Kumar. Ram Vilas Paswan, who holds charge of Food and Public Distribution at the Centre must think of universalising the Public Distribution System. As a leader from Bihar, he should think of the migrants from Bihar and elsewhere in the country, and ensure basic supplies to them even without ration cards. Mr. Kumar should enable timely policy advocacy for this. Also, he should not be wary in seeking the views of the Opposition’s views in terms of crisis management and a plan to rebuild. As the global and national order is in a phase of reset, it is no longer an option for Bihar to ignore chronic issues such as industrial backwardness, unemployment and outbound migration. For Mr. Kumar, who was once known as ‘Sushasan Babu’, the time has come to follow Raj Dharma. What is expected from him is to be dutiful, not the balancing plays of caste arithmetic and crossing the fence merely for political survival. The state of affairs in Bihar is worrisome; accordingly, policies and plans have to be prioritised. Politics in the State should not defeat the aspirations of millions of Biharis who have already suffered too much. For sure, the land of Bihar should never be known as the ‘imaginary homeland’ for its people who are now home-bound as the cities which they contributed to build have failed them. Yashwant Sinha is India’s former Minister of Finance (1998-2002) and Minister of External Affairs (2002-2004). Atul K. Thakur is a Delhi-based policy professional and columnist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bihars-dystopian-moments-and-a-looming-crisis/article31428784.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Joining of giants||Facebook’s decision to invest Rs. 43,574 crore for a 9.9% stake in Reliance Industries Ltd.’s Jio Platforms marks a rare coming together of two giants who have a reputation for market domination. The focus of their combined might is the India retail sector, a difficult terrain as large parts of it are still unorganised. But then for the same reason, it holds potential for huge disruption. In recent years, the retail space has been an ongoing battlefield for behemoths such as Amazon and Walmart, themselves globally dominant players. The other interested parties in this are payment services companies such as the Softbank- and Alibaba-backed Paytm, and Google, which runs Google Pay. But the combination of Facebook and Reliance will be difficult to beat — they seem to have both the marketplace and the payment solution sides covered. For Facebook’s WhatsApp messaging service, India is the biggest market with over 400 million users. It currently awaits regulatory approval for its payment solutions. Jio is now India’s No. 1 telecom brand by user base, less than four years after it launched its service. And then, JioMart is a recently-launched commerce marketplace, which seeks to connect local retailers with consumers. And this is why, “the largest investment for a minority stake by a technology company anywhere in the world” (as a Reliance Industries press release put it to describe the Facebook move) has been notably accompanied by an agreement to “further accelerate” business on the JioMart platform using WhatsApp. In short, it is a win-win deal for both players. While its social media services and messaging services have been extremely popular in India, Facebook has however struggled to get past regulatory concerns in India over some of its ambitious projects such as its free limited Internet offering Free Basics and digital currency Libra. While it stays blocked in mainland China, Facebook now gets to participate in a stronger way in one of the world’s fastest growing markets for e-commerce. Reliance can rely on the popular messaging service to accelerate the building of its marketplace. It has also received handy money to reduce its debt. The deal, coming as it does at a time when the world is fighting the coronavirus pandemic, is a thumbs up to India’s potential. It is noteworthy that this is the largest foreign direct investment in the technology sector in India. But will the deal that brings together the world’s largest social media company and the group that is a leader in everything from oil to data lead to more consolidation and fewer players, as it happened in the telecom sector? It is a big question mark, and the deal should not be passed without closely scrutinising this. For, the future of India’s Internet economy is at stake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/joining-of-giants/article31428777.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||No 100% quota||The Supreme Court is right in considering cent per cent reservation as anathema to the constitutional scheme of equality even if it is for the laudable objective of providing representation to historically deprived sections. The verdict quashing the reservation of 100% of all teaching posts in ‘Scheduled Areas’ of Andhra Pradesh for local Scheduled Tribes is not against affirmative programmes as such, but a caution against implementing them in a manner detrimental to the rest of society. A five-judge Constitution Bench found that earmarking teacher posts in areas notified under the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution adversely affected the interests of other candidates not only from Scheduled Castes and other backward communities but also other ST communities not native to those areas. Of course, what the State government did, in its original orders of 1986, and thereafter, in a subsequent order in 2000, was not without its own rationale. It found that there was chronic absenteeism among teachers who did not belong to those remote areas where the schools were located. However, its solution of drafting only members of the local tribes was not a viable solution. As the Bench noted, it could have come up with other incentives to ensure the attendance of teachers. Another aspect that the court took into account was that Andhra Pradesh has a local area system of recruitment to public services. The President, under Article 371D, has issued orders that a resident of a district/zone cannot apply to another district/zone for appointment. Thus, the 100% quota deprived residents of the Scheduled Areas of any opportunity to apply for teaching posts. Affirmative action loses its meaning if it does not leave the door slightly ajar for open competition. Dr. B.R. Ambedkar observed during the debate in the Constituent Assembly on the equality clause, that any reservation normally ought to be for a “minority of seats”. This is one of the points often urged in favour of the 50% cap imposed by the Court on total reservation, albeit with some allowance for relaxation in special circumstances. It is still a matter of debate whether the ceiling has innate sanctity, but it is clear that wherever it is imperative that the cap be breached, a special case must be made for it. Such a debate should not divert attention from the fact that there is a continuing need for a significant quota for STs, especially those living in areas under the Fifth Schedule special dispensation. In this backdrop, it is somewhat disappointing that courts tend to record obiter dicta advocating a revision of the list of SCs and STs. While the power to amend the lists notified by the President is not in dispute, it is somewhat uncharitable to say that the advanced and “affluent” sections within SCs and STs are cornering all benefits and do not permit any trickle-down. Indian society is still some distance from reaching that point.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/no-100-quota/article31428776.ece
25 April 2020||Chennai,||Testing times for Indian speedsters||These are unprecedented times for Indian cricketers. In particular, the pacemen who need to be monitored continually. But there is no cricket happening, no grounds, no gyms, and even the NCA is shut down. When the Indian team members are away from the National side, they are given a follow-up schedule — it differs from cricketer to cricketer — by the side’s strength and conditioning coach Nick Webb. Generally the span of each workout routine is three weeks after which the player concerned has to get back to Webb on the progress made. In fact, there is constant online interaction between Webb and the team members. Spike in injuries But then, lockdowns can upend the best of systems. In fact when there was a lock-out in the NBA for 161 days in 2011, there was a spike in injuries when the athletes returned. Many were simply not match-fit on their return. In the case of the Indian cricketers, in particular the pacemen, the situation is challenging to put in mildly. Running is crucial and while they can use a treadmill, the Ground Reaction Forces (GRF) when you run in the open spaces are absent. And the GRF is critical to the development of strength and conditioning of a cricketer. Aware of the stumbling blocks, these will be times when the Indian team-management and the NCA will be coordinating closely online. Metabolic conditioning is crucial for pacemen to maintain their fitness and take it to the next level. Here the athlete goes through a series of exercises, different in nature in quick succession. The metabolic energy pathways are particularly helpful in assessing the strength and cardio efficiency of an athlete, a leading Indian trainer said to The Hindu . Someone like the Indian bowling coach Bharat Arun has a testing job, in keeping his pacemen battle ready. ‘Shadow bowling’ He could suggest ‘shadow bowling’ — bowling with a shortened run-up if the paceman concerned has a garden in his home. Then Arun can ask the bowlers to visualise bowling at different batsmen; this can enable the bowler to evolve mentally even as he stays battle ready, in his mind at least. Overweight trap But then, this is a period when the cricketers could be in a horizontal position at home, watching endless television and putting on a lot of weight. Then they become out of shape, and unfit for battle. Fortunately, the present bunch of Indian pacemen are fitness conscious and, with the stakes so high, are unlikely to fall into the ‘overweight’ trap. Not for nothing has Arun stressed depth in pace bowling and a pool of pacemen. India has quite a few pacemen waiting in the wings of international cricket but sadly, with IPL out of the picture, they too would be short of match practice. For those like Ishant Sharma, whose ankle injury flared up in New Zealand, the lockdown period will offer quality time to recover and rehabilitate. Keeping the Indian paceman match-fit in these times is Arun’s biggest challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/testing-times-for-indian-speedsters/article31428944.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||India seeded fifth in Nations Cup||India’s strongest-possible squad is seeded fifth out of six teams in the inaugural $180,000 Online Nations Cup chess tournament to be played from May 5 to 10. Interestingly, the FIDE announced Russia’s Vladimir Kramnik as India’s advisor. Two days ago, Kramnik had declined the offer to be the “captain” of the Indian team. China, winner of both men and women gold medals in the last Chess Olympiad, heads the seeding with the average rating of its players being 2717. Europe (2687), Russia (2662), USA (2641), India (2605) and the “Rest of the World” (2597), follow in that order. Following a double round-robin league, the top two teams will play the final on May 10, in this competition played on rapid time-format.  The squads: India: Viswanathan Anand, Vidit Gujrathi, P. Harikrishna, K. Humpy; Reserves: B. Adhiban, D. Harika. Advisor: Vladimir Kramnik.   China: Ding Liren, Wang Hao, Wei Yi, Hou Yifan; Reserves: Yu Yangyi and Ju Wenjun. Captain: Ye Jiangchuan.   Europe: Maxime Vachier-Lagrave, Levon Aronian, Anish Giri, Anna Muzychuk. Reserves: Jan-Krzysztof Duda and Nana Dzagnidze. Captain: Garry Kasparov.   Russia: Ian Nepomniachtchi, Vladislav Artemiev, Sergey Karjakin, Aleksandra Goryachkina; Reserves: Dmitry Andreikin and Olga Girya. Captain: Alexander Motylev.   USA: Fabiano Caruana, Hikaru Nakamura, Wesley So, Irina Krush; Reserves: Leinier Dominguez Perez and Anna Zatonskih. Captain: John Donaldson.   Rest of the World: Teimour Radjabov, Alireza Firouzja, Bassem Amin, Mariya Muzychuk; Reserves: Jorge Cori and Dinara Saduakassova. Captain: Arkady Dvorkovich .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-seeded-fifth-in-nations-cup/article31428926.ece
25 April 2020||LONDON,||Women in Blue’s England tour postponed||The Indian women’s team’s tour of England, starting June 25, has been postponed as the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) on Friday suspended all forms of professional cricket in the country until at least July 1. The Indian women were supposed to play four ODIs and two T20 Internationals during their two-week trip that would have ended on July 9. The ECB clarified that nine rounds of fixtures would be lost in the County Championship season but “blocks for red-ball cricket and white-ball cricket will be held in a revised schedule.” ECB CEO Tom Harrison said: “As much as we remain hopeful that we can deliver some cricket this summer, we are in the midst of a worldwide crisis and our priority — over and above the playing of professional sport — will be to protect the vulnerable, key workers and society as a whole. “That’s why, simply put, there will be no cricket unless it’s safe to play. Our schedule will only go ahead if Government guidance permits.” International cricket, featuring England men’s and women’s teams, will look to be scheduled from July until the end of September, with the West Indies Test series and the whole women’s series against India (Vitality T20Is and Royal London ODIs) both moving from their original slots. “Our plan is to reschedule international matches as late as possible in the season to give the best chance of play. The Vitality Blast will also now occupy the latest possible season slot to offer as much time as possible to play a County short-form competition,” said Harrison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/women-in-blues-england-tour-postponed/article31428931.ece
25 April 2020||CHENNAI,||More Indian paddlers entering top-100: Dua||Coaches ought be like the head of the family, and treat each one of their players as members of the family and as equals, said Manjit Dua, the current chief National table tennis coach. Dua, a multiple National champion and an International medallist, is delighted at the growth of table tennis in India. “It is looking up and is in the stage when the world is taking note of its achievements. More and more youngsters are entering the top-100 in world rankings in different categories,” said Dua, during a video conference with SAI coaches, on the ‘importance of coach and his/her advice’ on Friday. Dua said sparring with Ranbir Bhandari, the first Indian to play in the [German] Bundesliga league in the 1950s, helped improve his game and hone his technique. “He (Ranbir) is still active [at 95 years of age] and involved in TT, and comes for the Delhi State-ranking tournaments,” he said. Dua said he realised the importance of physical fitness when the Table Tennis Federation of India sent him for a two-month training stint to North Korea in 1973. “I trained very very hard in conditions which were -10 to -20 degrees Celsius. I used to practice serving nearly 5000 times a day. Playing against pen-holders helped me. I picked up my physical fitness there,” he said. On his vision for Indian table tennis, the 66-year-old said it’s difficult to predict anything with the pandemic, but expressed hope that “most of our players will take part in 2021 Olympics.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/more-indian-paddlers-entering-top-100-dua/article31429022.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Parisian dreams still alive for Javia, Vaishnavi||The Parisian dreams of Dev Javia and Vaishnavi Adkar, who won the Roland Garros junior wild card tennis tournament in February, are still alive. The organisers of the second Grand Slam of the season were quick to postpone the tournament to September 20 in light of COVID-19. With nearly 150 days to go, there is still hope that sports events of such magnitude will revive normal life. “The tournament is postponed and we are working on a new date for the final of the Junior Wild Card. We advise you to temporarily stop applying for visa. We will send you the updated invitation letter as soon as we have the new dates,” wrote the organisers to the two players. Unlike India, where it was an eight-player draw, Mexico had an elaborate programme scheduled, featuring over 200 athletes playing over many stages. The event was also scheduled in China and Brazil. The champions from the four countries will compete in Paris. The champions from the Paris tournament will get a junior wild cards for the Roland Garros tournament. While Dev Javia, the talent left-hander from Ahmedabad, is keeping himself busy by training with bands and focusing more on the mental aspect, Vaishnavi Adkar is utilising the “rebound sports equipment” to stay in touch with tennis. “It is a big advantage to stay in a joint family. Vaishnavi, my brother’s children, and my younger daughter Asmi are enjoying these compulsory days,” said Vaishnavi’s father Nihar Adkar. Daily sessions “There are also daily, joint zoom sessions and tasks assigned by her coach Kedar Shah, that keep Vaishnavi busy and happy,” added Nihar. Javia, meanwhile, said: “The plans were to prepare for the French Open. But the virus has put a stop to it. Still, the goal stays the same.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/parisian-dreams-still-alive-for-javia-vaishnavi/article31429068.ece
25 April 2020||New Delhi,||ICC explores safe ball-polishing||The use of artificial substances to polish the cricket ball, which effectively means ball tampering, could be considered for legalisation when the game resumes after the COVID-19 pandemic that has made bowlers wary of applying saliva on the red cherry.  ESPNCricinfo has reported that administrators are “open to the option of allowing for the use of an agreed artificial substance to polish the ball under the supervision of the umpires.” The matter of saliva being unsafe was raised by the ICC’s medical committee and it would be addressed before cricket resumes. Shining the ball is an integral part of cricket as it helps the bowlers swing the ball. Following the chief executives meeting of the ICC on Thursday, its medical committee, headed by Peter Harcourt, had issued an update.  Next step “Our next step is to create a road-map for the resumption of international cricket which will include criteria for decision-making and check-list for what needs to happen,” Harcourt said. Former India pacer Venkatesh Prasad supports the idea of not using saliva on the ball. “When action resumes, they should use only sweat for some time as safety of the players is paramount,” Prasad, who played 33 Tests and 161 ODIs for India, told PTI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/icc-explores-safe-ball-polishing/article31428930.ece
25 April 2020||Kozhikode,||Whatmore ready for the Baroda innings||Dav Whatmore has completed his quarantine period in his Melbourne home. He had flown to Australia from Singapore after helping the host win the Asian Cricket Council Eastern Region T20 tournament. The next assignment for the World-Cup winning coach is Baroda. Last month he had indicated to The Hindu that he would be back in India to take charge of another Ranji Trophy side, after his three-year stint with Kerala. Like the rest of the world, the Sri Lanka-born former Australian Test batsman has no idea when he would be able to begin his new job. “I hope to reach India in August and I am very much looking forward to my new assignment,” Whatmore told The Hindu over phone from Melbourne. “I decided to take up the offer from Baroda because I felt it would be challenging.” He likes to work on the Indian domestic circuit, which he rates as good as anywhere else in the world. “The impact of the coronavirus on world cricket could be huge, of course,” he said. “The season in England should have begun now and the IPL is not going to start anytime soon.” So as a coach what would he tell the cricketers during this time of lockdown? Keep fit “Keep yourself fit; that is the only thing you can do now,” he said. “You don't have to worry about your skill set; it would return to you.” He reported that things were getting better in Australia. “We are on the path to recovery,” he said. “There has been a significant drop in the spread of the virus.” Whatmore is disappointed though that he has not been able to meet his mother. “She is in a facility and is not allowed to meet anyone because of the lockdown. I talk to her on phone regularly, though. “Yes, I have a lot of time on hand; so I do a bit of gardening and walk my dogs.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/whatmore-ready-for-the-baroda-innings/article31429209.ece
25 April 2020||New Delhi,||Manohar gets two-month extension||International Cricket Council chairman Shashank Manohar, who is expected to step down in June, may get a couple of months’ extension as the ICC’s Board meeting is set to be postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In all likelihood, ECB chairman Colin Graves will replace the former BCCI president, who, it is learnt, has decided against seeking an extension for a third two-year term. “Manohar is going but he will probably stay on for another two months as the annual meeting in June looks highly unlikely at the moment considering the global situation,” an ICC Board member told PTI. “So it might be in August that ICC will have a new chairman.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manohar-gets-two-month-extension/article31428928.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kohli says he will never leave RCB||The love and loyalty of the fans will never let him leave Royal Challengers Bangalore till the time he is playing in the IPL, skipper Virat Kohli said on Friday. During a live session on Instagram with former South Africa captain and RCB teammate AB de Villiers, Kohli said winning the tournament remains the goal but he would not leave the team irrespective of the results. “It has been such an amazing journey. It is always going to be our dream, winning the IPL together. There is no scenario where I could think of leaving the team ever. “You can feel emotional about the season not going well, but till the time I am playing IPL, I am never leaving this team. The fans, their loyalty has been amazing,” said the India skipper. The South African echoed Kohli’s words. “Same for me. I never want to leave RCB, but to do that I got to keep scoring runs. I am not the captain you see,” said the de Villiers in jest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-says-he-will-never-leave-rcb/article31428942.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Gambhir performs last rites of domestic help||Former India opener Gautam Gambhir performed the last rites of his deceased domestic help after her mortal remains could not be sent to her home in Odisha due to the national lockdown. Gambhir, also a BJP Lok Sabha MP, posted a tribute on his Twitter page for his employee Saraswati Patra, who was working at his residence for the past six years. “Taking care of my little one can never be domestic help. She was family. Performing her last rites was my duty,” he tweeted. “Always believed in dignity irrespective of caste, creed, religion or social status. Only way to create a better society. “That’s my idea of India! Om Shanti,” said the 38-year-old Gambhir. Media reports in Odisha said the 49-year-old Saraswati hailed from a village in Jajpur district. She was admitted to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital a few days ago and was battling diabetes and high blood pressure for a long period. She breathed her last while undergoing treatment on April 21. Union Minister of Petroleum and Steel Dharmendra Pradhan appreciated Gambhir’s gesture. “Taking care of Saraswati throughout the course of her illness, he also ensured her dignity in death by performing her last rites himself,” Pradhan, who also belongs to Odisha, tweeted.  Taking care of my little one can never be domestic help. She was family. Performing her last rites was my duty||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gambhir-performs-last-rites-of-domestic-help/article31428936.ece
25 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Of shared birthdays and dressing rooms||Very few have had the privilege of sharing the dressing room and their birthdays with cricketing legend Sachin Tendulkar. One of them is former BCCI senior selection panel chairman M.S.K. Prasad. “I can’t think of any cricketer — with such phenomenal achievements — who was so modest and down-to-earth,” said Prasad in a chat with The Hindu on Friday. “As captain, I remember his big role during my Test debut against New Zealand in Mohali (1999). “What do you have to say, he asked me, when I joined him at 22/5 after being put in to bat on a wet pitch. I promised him that I will stay unbeaten if he held one end up. Unfortunately, he got out after hitting a couple of boundaries and then I saw the last three batsmen dismissed. I remained unbeaten on 16. “After the innings, Sachin walked up to me to say – ‘you lived up to your word’. This is the kind of humility you won’t see in many superstars,” said Prasad. “The other very touching moment with Sachin was on the 1999 Australian tour. We were all sitting in a lounge. He was with his months-old baby boy and slightly grown-up daughter. My wife was standing with my daughter when I had to go out for some work. To her surprise, Sachin walked across, picked up the baby and gave her his seat. She was floored by the gesture.” “There was constant sound of knocking coming from his room, and mind you, he was always given a suite. When I went to his room, I saw he and Ajit Agarkar knocking with a wet ball for hours. I mean such was his passion or madness, if I am permitted to say,” said Prasad, revealing that Sachin made a “stunning 116 out of 238 in the 1999 Melbourne Test”. One of Prasad’s most treasured moments is when he gets birthday greetings (46th) from the ‘Little Master’ (47th for him).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/of-shared-birthdays-and-dressing-rooms/article31429150.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pro League season extended||The second season of the Hockey Pro League would continue till June 2021 although when it would resume is still uncertain. The complete lockdown of sports activities due to COVID-19 has forced the International Hockey Federation (FIH) to stretch the competition into next year, it said in a communique on Friday. The Pro League was originally scheduled to be held from January to June 2020 in the run-up to the Tokyo Olympics but only 1/3rd of the Games were completed till early March The third season has been re-scheduled from Sept. 2021 to June 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pro-league-season-extended/article31429066.ece
25 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Nagaland eases curbs with a buzz||Apiary or honeybee farming and transportation of beehive products were among a slew of major economic activities that resumed in the State from Friday. This followed an announcement on the relaxation of restrictions by Nagaland’s Chief Secretary Temjen Toy on Thursday evening. Nagaland has not recorded any COVID-19 positive cases so far, although a resident tested positive in Assam soon after being referred by a private hospital in the State’s commercial hub Dimapur on April 12. “Inter and intrastate movement of planting materials and honeybee colonies, honey and other beehive products have been permitted to resume,” Mr. Toy said. Other activities allowed include collection, harvesting and processing of minor and non-timber produce by a certain category of people, and plantation, processing, sale and marketing of bamboo, areca nut, cocoa and spices plantation. Food processing industries, stone crushers, sawmills and brick kilns have also been permitted to operate but in rural areas. Officials of the Nagaland Beekeeping and Honey Mission (NBHM), a State government undertaking, said the relaxation would help the cottage industry associated with apiary get some respite. Some 14,000 beekeepers in more than 400 villages accounted for 420 metric tonnes of honey that Nagaland produced in 2017-18, up from 120 metric tonnes when the mission was formed in 2007. According to the NBHM, the annual per capita consumption of honey in Nagaland is 100 gm compared to the national average of 8 gm. Range of honey The State produces a range of honey with varying colours and taste such as sweet, bitter-sweet and sweet-tangy. The most valued honey is from the rock bees and stingless bees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/nagaland-eases-curbs-with-a-buzz/article31428920.ece
25 April 2020||London,||London, April 24, 2020 (AFP) -||The first court hearing in a tabloid breach of privacy case brought by the Duchess of Sussex began in London on Friday, over the publication of a letter she wrote to her estranged father. Meghan Markle is suing Associated Newspapers, which publishes the Mail on Sunday and Mail Online, for printing parts of her letter to Thomas Markle in August 2018.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/london-april-24-2020-afp/article31428922.ece
25 April 2020||Los Angeles,||Tom Hanks sends letter, typewriter to bullied boy named Corona||Hollywood veteran Tom Hanks has penned a heartfelt letter to an Australian boy who was bullied by his peers over his name — Corona. The eight-year-old boy first wrote to Mr. Hanks, enquiring about the actor’s health after his recent coronavirus attack. He also mentioned the bullying he faced. Mr. Hanks replied, “You know, you are the only person I’ve ever known to have the name Corona — like the ring around the sun, a crown.”PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/tom-hanks-sends-letter-typewriter-to-bullied-boy-named-corona/article31428946.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 11:50 IST,||Sudoku - April 24, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-24-2020/article31430234.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 11:44 IST,||Sudoku - April 25, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-25-2020/article31430216.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Cold cut dreams||I’d been dreaming of an open sandwich piled with all kinds of goodies, for a while. There’d be a layer of iceberg, topped with sliced tomatoes, onion rings, and cheese. Chopped cucumber would go on top of that and then a dash of ketchup. Finally, there’d be a moist piece of ham, dotted with mustard sauce. Lockdown does this to you. It makes you imagine the unimaginable. But as the short man with a palm inside his coat lapel told us, nothing is impossible. I am (as I have often confessed) not much of a carnivore. But with all abattoirs shut, I have been getting a desperate urge for something meaty. I did a frantic search on the Net, and found that something called Deli Chic was delivering pork, meat, and fish across the city even in this period of lockdown (A-21 Nangal Dewat Basement – behind Indian Spinal Injuries Hospital — Vasant Kunj; 011-26132971, 9810002023 for WhatsApp messages; Delhichic.co.in. I called and placed my order. I asked for some pork ham (250g for Rs. 325) and pork frankfurters (250g for Rs. 390). Deli Chic added some chicken seekh kababas (250g for Rs. 165) to the order. The food arrived, and I had breakfast for dinner that day — frankfurters grilled to a nice shade of brown, ham on toast, and some feta-tossed salad on the side. The frankfurters were huge — one was enough for two — and soft. The ham was nicely moist and somewhat lean. We had the seekh kababs the next day, and thought they were superb. The meat was succulent, yet firm, and had not been coloured or over-spiced. My friends (all equally antsy in this terrible period) ordered some pork and mutton products, too. For unknown reasons, one friend asked for chicken bacon. I went back to the website and found that they had something called chicken oven-roasted ham (250g for Rs. 275). We placed an order for that, along with boneless pork cut (400g for Rs. 315), chicken mince (500g for Rs. 200) and, since we had not had mutton in a while, some mutton burger patties (300g for Rs. 275). Most of their products are pre-cooked. The mince was not, of course. We cooked it with spices, mixed it with boiled potatoes, covered with crumbs and air-fried it. The mutton burgers reminded me of those days when we had mince cutlets in restaurants – the ground meat, lightly spiced, would be shaped into thin patties (not the chunky kind that you get in burgers) and made for an excellent main dish. The chicken ham, however, was rather dry and a bit too salty. With the pork cuts, I am preparing a dish that is a great favourite at home — pandhi curry. Months ago, I had ordered the Kachampuli vinegar and the special Coorgi masala that you use in the pandhi curry. Watch this space for more about the curry. Deli Chic was started in 2016 and has been keeping a close eye on quality. Initially, its owner Girish Wadhwa tells me, the meat was sourced from Mumbai, but now most of the processed pork products come from Gurugram. The processed food is then packaged by Deli Chic in a glass chamber. The products were earlier sold in cardboard boxes, but now come in vacuum packed packages. The personnel — including delivery boys — maintain high hygiene, he says. The site also includes a sweet corner. I am happy with the pork ham. Breakfast tomorrow will be a dream come true. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/cold-cut-dreams/article31429089.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Classy folk with clean feet||A few days ago, I wrote in praise of the folks who do the real work in our lives while we’re busy going off and doing important things that don’t matter at all. Not the kind of thing I’m known for writing. (Not that I’m ‘known’ for anything.) I got a few likes. I was surprised to find a friend who never engages with me on social media or in real life – as ideal a friend as you can get, if you ask me – gliding elegantly (wearing a tasteful Bengal cotton sari, I’m guessing) into my dusty, low-income page. “While that may be true,” she commented, possibly sipping chilled sherbet. “I feel we are eating healthier food, using less oil, everything seems to last forever ... but best of all, our house feels cleaner and our feet aren’t getting dirty even when we walk barefoot !!” I would have let it go. Honest. Had it not been for another equally lovely woman who rarely engages with me – another closet foot fetishist, apparently – who burst in to share the life-affirming good tidings of how well her Size 9s were doing during the lockdown. “Yes!! My feet are SO clean,” she said. “My daughter, Kuladeepti, just back from the US, swabs the floor these days. Looks so cute in her Daisy Dukes. I absolutely adore my maid Roja and all, but, overall, we are saving so much water, oil and Vim and feeling SO much healthier!” If one of them had spoken about her newly Fair & Lovely feet thanks to the much-needed, if sudden, removal of those muddy-trottered people we hire out of the goodness of our hearts, despite their soiling our Italian marble floors, I may have let it go. But twice (sorry, Ian Fleming, we’ve removed a step) is enemy action. While high-class people delighting in their newly clean feet tops the list of no-nos during the lockdown, may I go out on a limb and offer tips on what else one could refrain from doing? Pretty please? Kindly desist from writing poetry about the plight of the migrants, no? I beg of you. However lyrical you think your poem may be, all I see is: Poor people are suffering, sniffle/That makes me so sad, sob. Because I’m sensitive, weep/So I’ll write about them, boo-hoo From my house/With the AC on. And all their suffering will vanish/(Should I put up a selfie, too? Hmmm.) I’m reminded of the scene in Quo Vadis where Emperor Nero has his tears collected for posterity in a vial. The principal purpose of Art, someone said, is to comfort the disturbed and disturb the comfortable. Not comfort the fatted. Also, please don’t post pics and recipes of things like aruchavitta beluga caviar with Maggi masala or gulab jamun in organic nectar with gold sprinkles. Seriously. That’s really, really wrong. I don’t have to tell you why. Shashi Tharoor, I love you, sir. The idli you posted may have been humble but it had 16 accompaniments and a small drum of ghee on standby. Also, I beseech you all, no pics of Spain or Italy from your vacation last year, no sari challenge and, most definitely, no videos of celebrity men supposedly being real men and posing with brooms (while you can literally hear the enslaved in-house help muttering off-camera). And whatever the compulsion, no workout videos in ill-fitting tights. I really don’t have to say why. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/classy-folk-with-clean-feet/article31428755.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Why Anupama Kundoo’s Wall House in Auroville is showcased in Apple TV+’s ‘HOME’ original show||Now that we are social distancing and self-isolating, we are becoming more spatially aware. How do we get more natural light in? How do we revamp the energy of a space? Cue shows on OTT platforms — from Grand Designs to The Creative Indians — that can inspire us to make our homes our sanctuary. One of the latest to join this subculture is Home on Apple TV+, a deep and personal dive into a dwelling’s cultural identity, the historical ethnography of the architect, and the collective impact on architectural design and lifestyle. The story of Auroville’s famous Wall House, and its creator Anupama Kundoo, encompass the ‘India’ episode (Apple approached the architect after seeing her work in Italy, where she created a replica of the house at the Venice Architecture Biennale in 2016). “I am at peace with the lockdown,” Kundoo, 53, tells me over the phone from Berlin, “because I did not wait for an outer circumstance to be able to live on the inside. The main resource I have is time and how I spend that is a great inward experience.” On the show, her house — a linear yet massive structure of wood and other earthly elements — is a reflection of her personality: sure of itself and unrelenting in creativity.  Spaces with life The nine-part docuseries that visits innovative houses around the world begins with Anders Solvarm’s Nature House in Sweden. There is also the community space, Listening House, in Chicago, and a 344 sq ft apartment in China that seems limitless. As for Kundoo’s house, well, Auroville (where it is located) is a hub of architectural goldmines — buildings such as Satprem Maïni’s Vikas Settlement and Roger Anger’s Matrimandir Temple come to mind. But the foundation of Wall House stands out for its functional appeal as well as striking design. It features brick masonry, an arching roof of guna (burnt clay pipes) , and long steps to establish spatial parameters. Living up to its name, the spaces inside can be redefined with adjustable walls (she worked with local craftsmen to create ferrocement screens that can be pulled and pivoted to open up the main living spaces). Reduced energy demands of the 20-year-old house are entirely met by solar photovoltaics for electricity, along with a solar water heater and pump. But more importantly, Kundoo was mindful about not using steel; all experiments were undertaken to minimise reliance on materials like steel and cement. These materials, she points, out require huge energy and infrastructure to produce and exclude local building skills and participation. View from within Until production for Home actually unfolded, Kundoo says she did not realise where the project was headed. “Its concept is refreshing because it does not look at a home as an object created for others. In today’s culture, I have often seen that people are very concerned with how things appear to others, what kind of statement it makes. The show looks at a home from the inhabitants’ points-of-view. I’m really happy about that because, as an architect, I get to see how people understand that the home is an extension of oneself.” The episode also sees international experts in the field examining Wall House. “I would say it is primarily an art object,” says Rahul Mehrotra, Founder Principal of architecture firm RMA Architects of Mumbai + Boston, adding, “The house has many contradictions inherent in it and these come from [Kundoo’s] impulse to experiment. It is experimentation with craft.” Sean Anderson, curator, Museum of Modern Art, brings the builders into focus. “[Kundoo] recognises that building with materials is not just about the thing itself but the people. It is a house that is made by many hands and their fingerprints remain,” he comments. As for Kundoo, ask her what the West can learn from India in terms of architecture and she responds: “Since we are not a mainstream industrialised nation, we still engage directly with the way we make things. The West can learn a lot about personal engagement... actually, it is already happening given we are all staying at home now and reflecting. It is not just how your home looks but also your food culture, your morning routine... one now has the chance to reconfigure all of that.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/why-anupama-kundoos-wall-house-in-auroville-is-showcased-in-apple-tvs-home-original-show/article31428743.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Pursuing the digital collector||One of Sonal Singh’s treasured possessions is a book in which she jots down the tail numbers of every aircraft she has been on. “I’ve always had an obsession with planes,” laughs the managing director of Christie’s India, whose job requires her to frequently fly in and out of her base in Mumbai to connect with collectors and build relationships with the art community. For instance, at the end of February, she was in Chennai for the Rotary Club of Madras’ annual charity art auction (supported by Christie’s). A few weeks later, she was set to fly to New York for two modern and contemporary Indian art sales — but the auctions and her trip were put on hold due to Covid-19. “I don’t think I will be going back to that pace of life anytime soon,” says Singh, adding that now “all our interactions with clients, colleagues and the broader art community are through our phones”.  Virtual is real  With much of the world struck by the pandemic, the screen has become the foremost way to experience art — museums and art fairs are relying on online viewing rooms, and curators are hosting exhibition walk-throughs on Instagram. Auction houses are also adapting. While online auctions have been attracting buyers, especially new collectors, for a few years, the houses are now looking at the medium with renewed vigour — enhancing their digital presence by upgrading websites to make them more interactive, designing digital catalogues and announcing a wider roster of online-only sales. After consolidating its London and New York sales into a compact affair in June, and postponing its Spring auction calendar to July, Christie’s recently announced 40 online-only sales for April and May. “We’ve more than tripled the schedule,” says Singh, sharing that the themed sales include Andy Warhol’s Polaroid prints, furniture from the 18th century, jewellery, watches and handbags. “The luxury departments have also been enhancing their sales calendar, converting a number of live sales to online. And we are exploring the possibility of an online sale for Indian art as well,” she says.  Pushing the market  If the recent auction results of Christie’s and Sotheby’s are anything to go by, collectors haven’t lost their appetite for art. Last month, Sotheby’s Modern and Contemporary South Asian Art sale in New York totalled $4.8 million with 91.1% of lots sold. Christie’s online auction of rare wines and spirits (March 24 to April 7) brought in $1.1 million, while its sales in London — like the ‘Chieveley House, Berkshire and Five Private Collections’ auction — were also well-received, selling 95% by value. “These results indicate that our collectors’ passions are very much alive,” observes Singh. To continue engaging with their audiences, Christie’s has now enhanced its Private Sales offerings. The online viewing rooms have been upgraded to make them “visually more interesting and help clients have a better insight of the objects on sale”, alongside other aids such as “our online consignment tool and enhanced preview capability for catalogued property”. The team is also working on ‘Zoominars’ (webinars on Zoom) to be offered by specialists, and efforts are “going into all social media opportunities such as the Mini-Program on WeChat” — Christie’s endeavour on the mobile app where its 1 billion users can browse its sales calendar, get real-time results and learn more about the lots through online catalogues, condition reports and editorial stories. “We are looking at the positives and opportunities, as a chance to re-centre our business and accelerate innovation,” concludes Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/pursuing-the-digital-collector/article31428748.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Me and my pie||One of those easy truisms that is dished out about India is the duality of it — “there are two Indias,” they always say. Mostly, the second India is well out of sight of the first. It pops up occasionally at a traffic signal when a persistent mendicant has to be shooed away or lectured about finding a job. Or sometimes it appears as a line of naked bottoms when the train edges out of a station at dawn. Mostly, it is disguised as a flower seller or vegetable vendor whose tribulations are never allowed precedence over the nagging suspicion of their “over-charging” ways. But, as someone once said, the average urban Indian’s closest brush with poverty is invariably the ubiquitous domestic help. Through interactions with this being, without whose presence their lives are rendered extraordinarily unliveable, they dish out vast generalisations about poverty and economics. Equally helpfully, filtered through the largesse extended occasionally to this being, they are able to form impeccable opinions about their own munificence. Then along comes the pandemic, flippantly breaking boundaries and gate-crashing communities with absolutely no respect for privilege. Who would have thought a wholesaler in Chandigarh would be infected by the same disease as Prince Charles? Was it AIDS that last showed such little respect for wealth? Today, the rich sequester themselves in luxury, live-in valet and all, while the poor try social distancing stuck five to a room. The middle-classes pick and choose. They want the jhaadu-pocha woman to come to work, but they chase away the frontline health worker who lives in their building. Social distancing is killing us, they groan, while ensuring the sweeper reports to work each day. As I sift through onions at my neighbourhood grocer’s these days, I see exquisite apparitions buying cucumbers in cut-off denims. Waiting in a long line at the billing counter, I hear a cultivated drawl from a man in scruffy WFH shorts and dirty pigtail: ‘No whole grain. No focaccia. They’ve only got white, babes.’ In unspoken agreement, the second billing line is reserved for Dunzo couriers, young, harassed-looking men with lists, asking the salesgirls to help them find astonishing necessities. ‘Arab sauce enda shelf, akka ?’ They are in a rush; if they cannot find the arrabbiata here, they have to try the next store before 1 pm. The exquisite apparition might get away being out on the streets after 1 pm, but the Dunzo guy might get to feel the temper of an impatient cop. For the first time in memory, my grocer’s stock looks tired and brown — spotty cauliflowers and five sad-looking melons. The fresh supplies truck has not arrived. Waiting in line I fantasise I am in Poland in an old WWII movie and that next week I might be squabbling just to take home a wilted cabbage. It’s that infectious post-apocalyptic scent in the air. The sense of unreality is most pronounced on social media. One realises there is something warm and comforting about food; perhaps that is why everyone is talking about it incessantly. But as recipes and photographs scroll infinitely, there is also something unconsciously obscene about the obsession. Timelines respect no priorities, so within seconds of seeing an ineradicable image of migrant workers scrounging for semi-edible fruit from a heap of rotting bananas, you move seamlessly to someone baking rich banana bread. The video of a ragged man scooping up handfuls of milk spilt on the road segues to a post about blueberry cupcakes winking from someone’s new dessert cloche. Hundreds of labourers who have taken refuge under a bridge somewhere in Delhi apparently make do with one meal a day. In another Delhi suburb, policemen complain of residents demanding strawberries and Figaro olive oil without which, they say, they cannot cook. Photographs of nurses working without masks and of a woman weeping for the dead son in her arms alternate with nostalgia photos of #MeAt20, the hashtag that is trending during Covid-19 in a bewildering spike of narcissism. Unless narcissism is  survival instinct on overdrive. Words like ‘basic’ and ‘necessity’ have become shape-shifting monsters, no longer to be relied upon. We need a new language to make sense of these streaming visions but we receive only static, sounds falling between frequencies, unable to become speech. But listen, between the static there is silence. A deep, welcome and almost tangible silence. It seems to be the silence that precedes a rebirth, but it could also just be the silence of a long night. But mostly it is a magnificent and humbling silence, as if the Earth were speaking and we are meant to listen. And listen we would, but we first have to pose with a glass of wine and a slice of that banoffee pie we baked. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/me-and-my-pie/article31428728.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Cancel corona culture||The Covid-19 pandemic has gone viral in a way that has even the Faisus of the world sick with envy, but given that most influencers aren’t really more gifted than microscopic vermin, this would have been an easy feat for this cell-sized organism. The scare, however, is real and you know I know that when it is well past 10 am and I still haven’t picked out a watch and Eau de Toilette to wear for the day. While complete order hasn’t entirely been disrupted, even I was shocked when I admittedly pondered about not bothering with trousers — as I could simply wear a formal tuck-in shirt over pyjamas and get by swimmingly. Dark times indeed. As the lockdown nears its end, here are a few of my Corona peeves.  1.Social media: It was supposed to be a respite, the oasis to retract to when one wanted to be social minus the physical proximity or face-to-face awkwardness. But with Zoom and WhatsApp, people are invading my living room from the comfort of theirs, which means I can’t even ask them to leave or, as I’d prefer, throw them out. The only good bit about online meet-ups, these ingrates don’t get to scrounge any alcohol off me.  2.Photoshop throwback:I always forget how fragile the populace is today. With salons shut, people’s looks are reverting to how they were originally meant to look and there is no Insta-filter to remove that massive blemish, aka face. So what we have is everyone asking each other to post old photos again. And they are calling it a ‘Challenge’! Worst yet, others accept it with no less pride than a valiant Roman gladiator. Talk about lowering the achievement bar.  3.Challenges : From asking me to draw a carrot or an orange to doing some stupid push-up set or an idiotic dance, why can’t people learn to not just physically and socially but also mentally isolate? Read a book or Netflix, I don’t care. And stop calling these ‘challenges’. But if you really want one, here you go: I challenge you to sit quietly, without a word, verbal or typed, to anyone, not even to yourself, for 48 hours. And then, tag yourself and do it all over again!  4.WhatsApp v ideos : From conspiracy theories to quack remedies, WhatsApp is the breeding ground for made-up news. What’s worse is the amount of intelligence people apply before feeling the irrepressible need to share them. What we have, consequently, is more junk and spam flying in the virtual void. This has been the least productive of weeks and yet my phone memory is running out. It is so bad I almost miss the random call-centre folk with their rote offers for personal loans and insurance.  5.Social i solation : For a population where an outing for two means bringing the driver, nanny and Man Friday along, being expected to do your own dishes, cooking, laundry and ironing is a sped-up life sentence. I love what Reebok and Under Armour are doing with their online workout videos. But by the time I am done scrubbing floors and making beds, I am too pooped to bother with anything. I have never been so jobless and yet so tired in my life. So Under Armour it is for physical fitness and routine chores for the much-needed mental grounding that us Indians need.  6.Sense of achievement: With nothing to accomplish and nowhere to flaunt it, people of all genders are resorting to odd-mods — from growing beards to self-inflicted hair cuts and becoming self-styled chefs — and then putting it out there, seeking approval and appreciation. And the new mantra is to go live: whether you interview someone or just rant, everybody is the star of their own feature presentation. Even Andy Warhol couldn’t have imagined that 15 minutes of fame would become as common as a cold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cancel-corona-culture/article31428757.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Carnival 2020: Around this time of the year, celebrities like Rihanna are usually in the Caribbean islands for a string of celebrations. Now, the US Virgin Islands has opted for a virtual carnival, with live streaming of traditional dance and music. On April 30, there is a Zoom party with DJs from the region, and every Saturday at 1.30 am IST, DJ Avalanche will spin dance tracks — for those who are up late anyway, why not join in? Follow @usvifestivals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article31428759.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Singalong with ARR||AR Rahman's latest collab — 'Hands Around The World' — featuresWe Are The Worldanthem creator Ken Kragen, and pop stars like Cody Simpson and Natasha Bedingfield. An AR app allows people to take a photo holding hands with their favourite celebrity. For more details and information on how to help, visit hands.world. And tomorrow, at 12.30 am IST, San Franciscans and others around the world are invited to sing Tony Bennett’s classic ballad ‘I Left My Heart in San Francisco’. Share your bit on social media with the hashtag #SingOutSF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/singalong-with-arr/article31428761.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Get a green thumb||Farmer, agriculturist and home gardening expert Prabhakar Rao is conducting a series of Zoom workshops on how to grow fresh, organic food at home, with no access to gardens, soil, commercial fertiliser or seeds. Follow @hariyaleefarms on Facebook for the schedule. LazyGardener, a retail platform, has a 21-day series, now available on their YouTube channel, which covers topics like growng microgreens and preparing your plants for the hot days ahead. They are now sharing vlogs documenting a day in the life of plant parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/get-a-green-thumb/article31428763.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Clicking in quarantine||If you want to upgrade your photography and post-production skills, sign up for these upcoming workshops with Chennai Photo Biennale. Today, CPB co-founder Varun Gupta will conduct a one-day virtual session on photo archive management and digital processing using Adobe Lightroom. From 10 am to 4 pm. A #TeenPhotoAcademy workshop begins on April 28, and will be held every Tuesday and Thursday at 5 pm, till June 11. At Rs. 5,000 per head. Details and registration on chennaiphotobiennale.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/clicking-in-quarantine/article31428765.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Watches & Wonders: More than 30 premier brands are bringing this show (formerly SIHH) to virtual life from 4.30 pm IST. An important showcase in the watch world, it will have Richemont marques and smaller independent brands. Details at watchesandwonders.com. Meanwhile, Cartier is launching a standalone site today, with new pieces. Clearly, the Covid-19 crisis is accelerating change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article31428767.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||STEM for kids||From making a balloon-powered car to building a bridge from spaghetti, Dyson has come up with 44 science and engineering challenges for children to attempt during the lockdown. For kids aged seven and above, each challenge comes with a plan, a list of materials, tips to complete it, and a scientific explanation. On jamesdysonfoundation.co.uk. Mastercard’s signature STEM curriculum, Girls4Tech, features cryptology, detection and big data modules, which are now accessible on their website. Details: girls4tech.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/stem-for-kids/article31428769.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Focus on folk||India’s Culture Ministry is all set to showcase the country’s traditional art forms through YouTube, Facebook and Twitter. Today, the lineup includes string puppetry, marginalised folk practices of West Bengal and Punjab and tribal musical instruments. Artistes are also supporting the folk music community with a relief fund through Anahad Foundation.Let's Folk Togetheris a series on their YouTube and Facebook channels, featuring Shankar Mahadevan, Amit Trivedi, Papon, Raghu Dixit, Mame Khan and more. Till April 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/focus-on-folk/article31428771.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Double bill||Looking for some laughs this weekend? Kanan Gill made his Netflix debut yesterday withYours Sincerely, Kanan Gill. He shares his achievable goals of the past and dissects the relationship between Indians and the art of small talk-big talk. He goes head to head with Bhargav Ramakrishnan on Amazon Prime Video. InKungFu Bonda,Ramakrishnan talks about growing older, his observations on adulting, parents, marriage and surprisingly, grill gates, to leave you a little more at peace with your own life's developments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/double-bill/article31428773.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||We have a busy day today on Instagram: at 9 am, 21-time Ironman finisher Deepak Raj will be in conversation with Sunalini Mathew fromThe Hindu, about fitness in what are hopefully the final days of the lockdown. At 6 pm, Nischay Parekh of Parekh & Singh will share his playlist of Indian independent artistes to listen to during self-isolation, with music writer Anurag Tagat. And in her Sunday session, columnist Vasudha Rai will be joined by nutritionist Shonali Sabherwal for a chat about gut health. At 5 pm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lockdownwithweekend/article31428775.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Parekh’s playlist for self-isolation||Singer-songwriter Nischay Parekh’s listening tastes are understandably shaped by his bandmate, drummer-producer Jivraj Singh aka Jiver. One half of dreampop duo Parekh & Singh, the Kolkata-bred and Dubai-based Parekh – who recently launched his Hindi project Nishu earlier this year – is currently tuning into everything from industrial to electronic to classical and some Indian indie as well. We asked him to share some of his current favourites.  Catch Nischay Parekh in conversation with Anurag Tagat today at 6 pm, live on @thehinduweekend Instagram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/parekhs-playlist-for-self-isolation/article31428753.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Stand up for craftspeople||“The Corona epidemic has broken our back,” says a normally cheerful Aarti Patra, part of a group of sabai-grass basket-makers in an Odisha village. Rajkumari Joshi, a craftswoman from Sadhna, a women’s cooperative we work with in Rajasthan, agrees. “All the women here are feeling completely helpless and in need. We do not have work,” she says. Other artisans tell Dastkar they wonder what will finish them first — the virus or hunger. It is a curious time. Not just fear of a possibly mortal disease, but a lockdown of all social and economic activity. For craftspeople, dependent on daily production and sales, life has come to a halt — there are no melas , no sales, no raw material, no money to feed their families. We have worked with them for decades, now we share their pain. “All our orders have been cancelled,” Vimal Kumar, a young Rajasthani potter, explains. “Even if we try our best, we will not be able to clear this stock for two years at least. This will cause not only debt, but a decrease in production. Craftspeople will be out of jobs for a long time,” he adds. Will crafts and their makers survive? Those videos, of jobless migrant workers walking homewards, were incredibly moving. Craftspeople, equally affected, remain invisible and therefore ignored — by the Government, by the media, even by those who used to buy their products. Outside the safety net of regular salaries or social security, they are helpless. The global economy is predicted to contract 3%. Even as Italian fashion house Armani makes protective overalls, and Louis Vuitton turns out face masks instead of luxury luggage, craftspeople too will need to adapt to changing times. Craft is sadly not an essential; it is the first thing to be struck off consumer wish lists when purchasing power diminishes. Different crafts and communities need different solutions — disposing of existing stock, planning their re-entry into what will be a very changed market. Skills have to be targeted to differing markets; some making functional products of everyday use, others creating one-of-a-kind pieces for high-end buyers. Lessons in resilience Though many fear the impact of COVID 19 may be the end of craftspeople, still reeling from demonetisation and the unplanned imposition of GST, it is their creativity and resilience that could save them. I remember what Ajrakh master craftsperson Ismail Bhai Khatri said after the 2001 Kutch earthquake, standing in the ruins of his devastated home, “All we want is the means to stand on our feet again, we will rebuild our own lives ourselves.” Sitting at our makeshift work-stations, answering appeals from craftspeople all over India, Dastkar is moved by that same resolute spirit. Women used to making fine embroidery or bandhani are turning their hands to mask-making. Urmul Seemant in Bajju made 5,000 masks in the first two weeks, Rangsutra has distributed 26,000. Craftspeople, not content to sit lamenting, realising that art is communication, are using it to create awareness — much needed in rural areas with little access to news or medicare. Bhilwara in Rajasthan had numerous early fatalities. Kalyan Joshi, a local traditionalphadpainter, created a series of colourful posters, inspired by WHO health directives. Bhilwara is now free of infection. Mohan, a Sanjhi paper cutter from Mathura, followed suit with a piece on ‘Krishna in the Time of Coronavirus’. He quips that with schools closed, it is a great time to pass on his family tradition: “Normally my son is busy with school and play. In this lockdown, he has thoroughly enjoyed learning the family skill, and I’m enjoying teaching it to him.” Hirabhai and Laxmiben Chauhan from Gujarat, both over 70, have been appliqué artisans all their lives. Suddenly sales have come to an end. Undaunted, they are using the lockdown “to think and create new designs for our next exhibition. Moreover, we look forward to the wedding of our grandchildren when this lifts (if we are still alive and healthy). For that we are preparing new songs”. Many crafts communities are reaching back to old folk stories, family songs and rituals for comfort. They see no need to congregate at mandirs and mosques. “Worship happens in your heart,” says one. Others are rediscovering long-lost techniques. Like Madhubani craftsman Devendra Jha, who has been using chemical colours for years. Unable to buy paints in the lockdown, he went back to making natural colours at home. In it together As Dastkar responds to distress calls from across India, we know our aid is a temporary sop. Craftspeople, the second largest employment sector in India, need sustained investment and assistance. Housebound, it’s easy to feel helpless. But the courage and spirit of these artisans keeps us from despair. Government, crafts organisations and designers need to come together and work closely with the craftspeople, listen to their voices, build on their strengths, think out of the box. Anand Mahindra’s response to the plight of banana farmers — getting his factory canteens to substitute banana leaves for plates — is a brilliant example. To end with master craftsman, Prakash Joshi, “We are artists and the artist shapes the tomorrow with his art, dissipating the negative energy because after a thick dark night there is always a golden morning.” While we celebrate that spirit, we need also to help craftspeople rediscover that golden morning. Laila Tyabji of Dastkar has been working with artisans all over India for the last 40 years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/stand-up-for-craftspeople/article31429085.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Why Anupama Kundoo’s Wall House in Auroville is showcased in Apple TV+’s ‘HOME’ original show||Now that we are social distancing and self-isolating, we are becoming more spatially aware. How do we get more natural light in? How do we revamp the energy of a space? Cue shows on OTT platforms — from Grand Designs to The Creative Indians — that can inspire us to make our homes our sanctuary. One of the latest to join this subculture is Home on Apple TV+, a deep and personal dive into a dwelling’s cultural identity, the historical ethnography of the architect, and the collective impact on architectural design and lifestyle. The story of Auroville’s famous Wall House, and its creator Anupama Kundoo, encompass the ‘India’ episode (Apple approached the architect after seeing her work in Italy, where she created a replica of the house at the Venice Architecture Biennale in 2016). “I am at peace with the lockdown,” Kundoo, 53, tells me over the phone from Berlin, “because I did not wait for an outer circumstance to be able to live on the inside. The main resource I have is time and how I spend that is a great inward experience.” On the show, her house — a linear yet massive structure of wood and other earthly elements — is a reflection of her personality: sure of itself and unrelenting in creativity.  Spaces with life The nine-part docuseries that visits innovative houses around the world begins with Anders Solvarm’s Nature House in Sweden. There is also the community space, Listening House, in Chicago, and a 344 sq ft apartment in China that seems limitless. As for Kundoo’s house, well, Auroville (where it is located) is a hub of architectural goldmines — buildings such as Satprem Maïni’s Vikas Settlement and Roger Anger’s Matrimandir Temple come to mind. But the foundation of Wall House stands out for its functional appeal as well as striking design. It features brick masonry, an arching roof of guna (burnt clay pipes) , and long steps to establish spatial parameters. Living up to its name, the spaces inside can be redefined with adjustable walls (she worked with local craftsmen to create ferrocement screens that can be pulled and pivoted to open up the main living spaces). Reduced energy demands of the 20-year-old house are entirely met by solar photovoltaics for electricity, along with a solar water heater and pump. But more importantly, Kundoo was mindful about not using steel; all experiments were undertaken to minimise reliance on materials like steel and cement. These materials, she points, out require huge energy and infrastructure to produce and exclude local building skills and participation. View from within Until production for Home actually unfolded, Kundoo says she did not realise where the project was headed. “Its concept is refreshing because it does not look at a home as an object created for others. In today’s culture, I have often seen that people are very concerned with how things appear to others, what kind of statement it makes. The show looks at a home from the inhabitants’ points-of-view. I’m really happy about that because, as an architect, I get to see how people understand that the home is an extension of oneself.” The episode also sees international experts in the field examining Wall House. “I would say it is primarily an art object,” says Rahul Mehrotra, Founder Principal of architecture firm RMA Architects of Mumbai + Boston, adding, “The house has many contradictions inherent in it and these come from [Kundoo’s] impulse to experiment. It is experimentation with craft.” Sean Anderson, curator, Museum of Modern Art, brings the builders into focus. “[Kundoo] recognises that building with materials is not just about the thing itself but the people. It is a house that is made by many hands and their fingerprints remain,” he comments. As for Kundoo, ask her what the West can learn from India in terms of architecture and she responds: “Since we are not a mainstream industrialised nation, we still engage directly with the way we make things. The West can learn a lot about personal engagement... actually, it is already happening given we are all staying at home now and reflecting. It is not just how your home looks but also your food culture, your morning routine... one now has the chance to reconfigure all of that.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/why-anupama-kundoos-wall-house-in-auroville-is-showcased-in-apple-tvs-home-original-show/article31429093.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Pursuing the digital collector||One of Sonal Singh’s treasured possessions is a book in which she jots down the tail numbers of every aircraft she has been on. “I’ve always had an obsession with planes,” laughs the managing director of Christie’s India, whose job requires her to frequently fly in and out of her base in Mumbai to connect with collectors and build relationships with the art community. For instance, at the end of February, she was in Chennai for the Rotary Club of Madras’ annual charity art auction (supported by Christie’s). A few weeks later, she was set to fly to New York for two modern and contemporary Indian art sales — but the auctions and her trip were put on hold due to COVID-19. “I don’t think I will be going back to that pace of life anytime soon,” says Singh, adding that now “all our interactions with clients, colleagues and the broader art community are through our phones”.  Virtual is real  With much of the world struck by the pandemic, the screen has become the foremost way to experience art — museums and art fairs are relying on online viewing rooms, and curators are hosting exhibition walk-throughs on Instagram. Auction houses are also adapting. While online auctions have been attracting buyers, especially new collectors, for a few years, the houses are now looking at the medium with renewed vigour — enhancing their digital presence by upgrading websites to make them more interactive, designing digital catalogues and announcing a wider roster of online-only sales. After consolidating its London and New York sales into a compact affair in June, and postponing its Spring auction calendar to July, Christie’s recently announced 40 online-only sales for April and May. “We’ve more than tripled the schedule,” says Singh, sharing that the themed sales include Andy Warhol’s Polaroid prints, furniture from the 18th century, jewellery, watches and handbags. “The luxury departments have also been enhancing their sales calendar, converting a number of live sales to online. And we are exploring the possibility of an online sale for Indian art as well,” she says.  Pushing the market  If the recent auction results of Christie’s and Sotheby’s are anything to go by, collectors haven’t lost their appetite for art. Last month, Sotheby’s Modern and Contemporary South Asian Art sale in New York totalled $4.8 million with 91.1% of lots sold. Christie’s online auction of rare wines and spirits (March 24 to April 7) brought in $1.1 million, while its sales in London — like the ‘Chieveley House, Berkshire and Five Private Collections’ auction — were also well-received, selling 95% by value. “These results indicate that our collectors’ passions are very much alive,” observes Singh. To continue engaging with their audiences, Christie’s has now enhanced its Private Sales offerings. The online viewing rooms have been upgraded to make them “visually more interesting and help clients have a better insight of the objects on sale”, alongside other aids such as “our online consignment tool and enhanced preview capability for catalogued property”. The team is also working on ‘Zoominars’ (webinars on Zoom) to be offered by specialists, and efforts are “going into all social media opportunities such as the Mini-Program on WeChat” — Christie’s endeavour on the mobile app where its 1 billion users can browse its sales calendar, get real-time results and learn more about the lots through online catalogues, condition reports and editorial stories. “We are looking at the positives and opportunities, as a chance to re-centre our business and accelerate innovation,” concludes Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pursuing-the-digital-collector/article31429094.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||IIT researchers develop tool to predict spread of COVID-19||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology in Delhi have developed a web-based dashboard for predicting the spread of COVID-19 in India. The institute on Friday said that the mobile-friendly dashboard, PRACRITI (PRediction and Assessment of CoRona Infections and Transmission in India) gives detailed State-wise and district-wise predictions of COVID-19 cases in India for a three-week period, which is updated on a weekly basis. The institute said that researchers believe that such a platform will be highly useful for healthcare organisations as well as local and central authorities to efficiently plan for different future scenarios and resource allocation. Researchers said that a key parameter of interest on COVID-19 is the basic reproduction number (R0), pronounced ‘R naught’ and its countrywide variability. “R0 refers to the number of people to whom the disease spreads from a single infected person. For instance, if an active COVID-19 patient infects two uninfected persons, the R0 value is two. Reduction of R0 is key in controlling and mitigating COVID-19 in India,” the researchers added. PRACRITI provides the R0 values of each district and State based on data available from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, National Disaster Management Authority, and the World Health Organization. N.M. Anoop Krishnan, Civil Engineering Department, IIT Delhi, said: “Getting the district-wise R0 value is crucial as this will enable authorities to know the exact rate of spread in India locally.” His colleague Hariprasad Kodamana, Chemical Engineering Department, said that the three-week prediction provided by the dashboard can be of immense help to policymakers for planning strategic interventions for controlling COVID-19 spread. The model also accounts for the effect of different lockdown scenarios such as the effect of locking down district boundaries, and implementing different levels of lockdown within a district. The distinguishing feature of the model, the institute said, is the inclusion of the effect of movement of population across district/State boarders in the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/iit-researchers-develop-tool-to-predict-spread-of-covid-19/article31429077.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Ensure mosques are able to use loudspeakers for azan’||The Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) on Friday asked Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to ensure that the police does not stop mosques from using loudspeakers for azan. In a letter, the DMC said it had received reports from some districts that the police had been making announcements that carrying out of azan has been prohibited. Ramzan is starting from April 25. The DMC assured officials that mosques will meticulously follow COVID -19 restrictions regarding social distancing and the number of people gathered at one spot. ‘Loudspeakers removed’ “The issue of azan is very pressing due to the beginning of the month of Ramzan when Muslims fast and break their fast on hearing the azan at sunset. The Commission received information from some areas where policemen are telling mosques to stop azan and in some cases they have even removed the loudspeakers,” the DMC said in its letter. The DMC also asked the L-G and CM to ensure that Muslims living in quarantine camps who will be keeping fast during Ramzan are given food according to the timings of their fast. ‘Probe deaths’ In the letter, the DMC also alleged that members of the Tablighi Jamaat in quarantine camps were not being treated well and that breakfast was being served at 11 a.m., and dinner at 10-11 p.m. “The food is hardly edible. People are having stomach problems and some are vomiting. Medical facilities and medicines are not being provided... some of the inmates are diabetic and heart patients. Doctors rarely visit the patients. Inmates are not given necessary and life-saving medicines as a result of which two diabetic patients have died in a quarantine camp at Sultanpuri,” the commission said. Mohamed Mustafa (60) died on April 22 while Haji Rizwan died about ten days earlier as they were diabetic, the DMC said, adding that the men died due to denial of diabetic medicines and erratic food supply. The commission has requested the L-G and CM to order an inquiry into the deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ensure-mosques-are-able-to-use-loudspeakers-for-azan/article31429074.ece
25 April 2020||New Delhi,||Jamia panel hits out at arrests||The Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC) on Friday hit out over the arrest of two of its members as well as activist Umar Khalid in connection with the north-east Delhi riots, stating that they had been framed in an “imaginary conspiracy” behind the incident. The two students, Meeran Haider and Safoora Zargar, were active members of the JCC, a collective of students and alumni of Jamia Millia Islamia. They were active in protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens, the group said. “These arrests by the police have little ground and the charges seem to have no rhyme or reason” the group said. While Safoora was reportedly granted bail in the case,big charges were slapped against her, the group said. “The FIR audaciously claims that women and children were brought to the streets in Jafarabad by these “conspirators” in order to create riots,” it said. The group argued that it was being targeted and organisers from other protest sites were arrested earlier, cases filed against them and “they were assaulted by the police in some cases”. ‘No part in riots’ “It is almost certain that more protesters will be framed and arrested in the conspiracy invented by Delhi Police. JCC reiterates that it played no part in the riots, and will be proved before any court of law,” it said. The group appealed to all political and civil organisations to put out “democratic responses” against the “dictatorial use of repressive power against dissenters” and urged JMI to break its silence and stand with its students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jamia-panel-hits-out-at-arrests/article31429083.ece
25 April 2020||New Delhi,||White tigress dies in Delhi zoo||A 13-year-old white tigress died at the Delhi zoo on Wednesday evening, said zoo officials on Friday. The tigress, which was born in the zoo, was cremated on its premises on Thursday. “We noticed on Tuesday that the tigress had become less active and had not eaten the food we gave on Monday. We alerted the doctors and treatment was started, but the animal died around 6 p.m. on Wednesday,” a zoo official said. The official said that all precautions were taken by the zoo staff to avoid any contact with the animal. Earlier this month, the Central Zoo Authority in a letter to zoo officials said that COVID-19 has been confirmed in a tiger in a zoo in New York and directed all of them to be careful. “Zoos in the country are therefore advised to remain on high alert; watch animals 24x7 using CCTVs for any abnormal behaviour/symptoms; keepers/handlers not to be allowed in the vicinity without safety gear, preferably PPE ; isolate and quarantine sick animals; and have least contact while providing food,” the letter said. Samples sent The official said that samples of the tigress have been sent to Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly. “The cause of death will be clear once the report comes,” the official said and added that IVRI will ensure that the tigress’ samples will be tested for COVID-19. R.A. Khan, curator of the National Zoological Park, did not respond to multiple phone calls and messages. ‘Multiple lapses’ Former member secretary of Central Zoo Authority, D.N. Singh, said that there were multiple lapses on the part of zoo authorities. “Director of Delhi zoo is bedridden for the last one week. The post of Joint Director has been vacant since December 2016,” he said. “On Tuesday, doctors had advised to give the animal rectal saline, which will be absorbed faster. But the zoo authorities did not do it. According to my sources, the animal had dehydration,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/white-tigress-dies-in-delhi-zoo/article31429079.ece
25 April 2020||New Delhi,||Policeman shifted to private hospital||After an Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) of Delhi Police complained of the poor state of a quarantine centre in east Delhi, where he was being kept after testing positive for COVID-19, he was shifted to a private hospital on Friday morning. A senior officer said the ASI, who was posted in Crime Branch office at Kotwali, tested positive for the virus on Thursday. He was then taken to staff quarters in Mandoli prison premises, which was made a quarantine centre. He has a spine problem and was unable to sleep on the floor and also needed a western toilet but did not get one, said the officer, adding that the ASI alleged that there were no arrangements of mosquito repellent in the flat. “Fumed over the facilities in the flat, the ASI recorded a video and forwarded it to other policemen. The case was then brought to the notice of senior officers after which a cot and a mosquito net were arranged. On Friday, he was shifted to Apollo Hospital,” the officer said. It is suspected that the ASI got infected from a family in his neighbourhood in Shahdara. “After scanning all of his [ASI] contacts, three policemen — who shared the same office room with him — have been sent into home quarantine,” said the officer. Rs. 1-lakh compensation Meanwhile, the police have sanctioned Rs. 1 lakh to its personnel who have been tested positive during their duties. There are 21 policemenwho have tested positive for COVID-19. Among them, 14 personnel are from Central district, one from traffic and six from north-west district. The police headquarters will arrange the payment from Delhi Police Welfare Society for the personnel expeditiously through the DCPs (Delhi) concerned, a letter stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/policeman-shifted-to-private-hospital/article31429081.ece
25 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Supervise disposal of COVID-19 waste’||The National Green Tribunal has directed a team of officials from the Environment, Health, Defence and Water Resources Ministries to supervise the handling and scientific disposal of COVID-19 waste, along with officers from the Central Pollution Control Board. While observing that a large amount of bio-medical waste generated can itself be a source of the disease, a Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said: “The virus spreads mainly by droplets and also by touch of contaminated articles. Large scale testing has been and is being done. By way of precaution, masks, gloves, PPE etc are used which are disposed of thereafter.” Stating that the in view of the coronavirus pandemic challenges like gaps in compliance of bio-medical waste rules needed to be addressed, the green panel that guidelines issued by the CPCB needed further revision. Additionally, the Chief Secretaries of all States and Union Territories were directed to closely monitor the scientific storage, transport, handling, management and disposal of COVID-19 waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/supervise-disposal-of-covid-19-waste/article31429070.ece
25 April 2020||New Delhi,||NCLT seeks Gymkhana response on Centre’s plea||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Friday sought response from Delhi Gymkhana Club Limited on a petition by the Centre to dissolve the General Committee of the 106-year-old club alleging mismanagement. The tribunal has asked the club to respond to the contentions raised in the petition and posted the case for further hearing on May 13. In the petition, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs sought permission of the tribunal to appoint 15 persons as directors of the General Committee of the Club to manage its affairs. As an interim relief, the ministry also sought immediate suspension of the General Committee of the club and appointment of a central government nominated Administrator. Advocate Vikas Singh, who represented the club, said due to the COVID-19 lockdown, the club was closed and appropriate response to the petition could be given only if the club was allowed to be open. The Ministryalleged that “the management of the company are not able to generate any income for this company (Club) on account of sports which is a major objective of the company and for which lease of land was allotted by the Ministry of Urban Affairs in the year 1928”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nclt-seeks-gymkhana-response-on-centres-plea/article31429069.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police form six panels to assess safety of personnel||With 30 police personnel testing positive for COVID-19 and over 250 staffers in quarantine, Delhi Police has constituted six committees to assess and improve measures to safeguard personnel deployed in containment zones, a senior police officer on Friday. The decision was taken during a meeting called by the Delhi Police Commissioner. Police personnel are at the forefront of the fight against COVID-19 and they need to protect themselves first before they can protect others, said the force. The committees will visit police stations, police colonies and containment zones to assess and improve preventive measures to curb the spread of COVID-19. The committees will also inspect the status of preventive measures at all pickets, quarantine centres and hospitals. It will also note good practices so that they can be implemented across the board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-form-six-panels-to-assess-safety-of-personnel/article31429080.ece
25 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man, wife arrested for killing parents||A retired government employee and his wife were found murdered with multiple stab wounds at their residence in Dwarka’s Chhawla on Friday. The couple’s son Satish (35) and daughter-in-law Kavita (35) have been arrested in connection with the case. DCP (Dwarka) Anto Alphonse said the victims were Raj Singh (61), who had retired from municipal corporation last year, and his wife Omwati (58). On Friday morning, the couple’s daughter reached their residence in Durga Vihar with a cousin and knocked on the door. “Satish and his wife didn’t let the daughter and the cousin enter. Their behaviour was not normal. After this, the cousin entered the house through the back door,” said an officer. “They then saw the elderly couple lying on the bed with multiple wounds. The motive behind the murder is likely property issue. The time of the murder is yet to be ascertained. Interrogation is under way,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-wife-arrested-for-killing-parents/article31429084.ece
25 April 2020||New Delhi,||CAIT to launch e-commerce marketplace||The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Friday said it would soon lunch a national e-commerce marketplace to help local kirana stores take orders online in association with the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trader (DPIIT) and other bodies. In the present situation, people who are especially in tier two and tier three cities, are particularly dependent on local stores for supply of goods but are facing many challenges, the CAIT said. The platform is being developed to overcome these, it said, adding that this would be meant as a permanent e-commerce platform for digitising existing businesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cait-to-launch-e-commerce-marketplace/article31429082.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||What the NGT said||Following a plea moved by NGO Akhand Bharat Morcha, which alleged that illegal use of loudspeakers at mosques in an east Delhi locality, was adversely affecting public health, the National Green Tribunal had last year directed Delhi Police to implement a surveillance mechanism and take action against those who violated noise pollution norms. In September 2017, the NGT had directed the Delhi government and the Delhi Pollution Control Board to ensure that religious places in the area strictly adhere to the guidelines on noise pollution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/what-the-ngt-said/article31429072.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Carnival 2020: Around this time of the year, celebrities like Rihanna are usually in the Caribbean islands for a string of celebrations. Now, the US Virgin Islands has opted for a virtual carnival, with live streaming of traditional dance and music. On April 30, there is a Zoom party with DJs from the region, and every Saturday at 1.30 am IST, DJ Avalanche will spin dance tracks — for those who are up late anyway, why not join in? Follow @usvifestivals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article31429090.ece
25 April 2020||April 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Watches & Wonders: More than 30 premier brands are bringing this show (formerly SIHH) to virtual life from 4.30 pm IST. An important showcase in the watch world, it will have Richemont marques and smaller independent brands. Details at watchesandwonders.com. Meanwhile, Cartier is launching a standalone site today, with new pieces. Clearly, the Covid-19 crisis is accelerating change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article31429091.ece
