29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||51 more deaths as cases near 30,000||India has reported 1,594 new cases and 51 new deaths related to COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 29,974. This includes 22,010 active cases, 7027 discharged and migration and 937 deaths. The country currently is registering a recovery rate of 23.3%, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday. Rising doubling rate “For the last 14 days, our doubling rate is 8.7, while for the last 7 days, it is 10.2 days. In last three days, it is 10.9 days roughly,” Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said in an interacting with directors/ heads of Department of Bio-Technology, through video-conferencing. He added that no fresh case reported in 80 districts since last 7 days and 17 districts have not had a case in 28 days. “In 47 districts, no case has been reported in the last 14 days, while 39 districts have not reported a case since last 21 days,” he said. Data from State Health Departments has put the nationwide death toll at 965 and the total number of cases at 30,317 with 22,008 active cases. Maharahstra continued to report the maximum number of cases with over 8500 active cases. Gujarat reported 226 new positive cases, with Ahmedabad alone accounting for 164 in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of the affected people in the State to 3,774, a Health department official said. Ahmedabad reported its highest single-day fatalities with 19 deaths, taking the overall death toll in the state to 181. The Health Minister has said that India will be able to produce RT-PCR and antibody test kits by May-end. “All processes are in advanced stage and production will start after getting approval from ICMR. It will help us in meeting our target of 1 lakh tests per day by May 31. We have issued directions to expedite the development of anti-body detection kits, real-time PCR based detection kits and vaccines for COVID-19 under ‘Make in India’,” Mr. Vardhan said. Stating that India is tackling COVID through a graded, pro-active and pre-emptive response strategy, Dr. Vardhan noted that the Ministry has issued guidelines on home isolation for very mild/pre-symptomatic patients. “Patients who have a requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation will have the option for home isolation. These guidelines are in addition to guidelines on appropriate management of suspect/confirmed case of COVID-19 issued by Ministry earlier,” he added. The Ministry has also written to States about reports of private hospitals hesitating to provide critical medical care to to their regular patients needing dialysis, blood transfusion, chemotherapy and institutional deliveries on account of the fear of contracting COVID; many are also keeping their premises closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/51-more-deaths-as-cases-near-30000/article31458703.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Accuracy of tests more in Telangana, says Eatala||The dip in COVID-19 cases continued in Telangana as only six cases were detected on Tuesday and 42 people were discharged. The total number of cases touched 1,009, of which 610 are active cases, 374 were discharged and 25 people have died. The six positive cases are from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits. Addressing a press conference on Tuesday evening, State Health Minister Eatala Rajender said that accuracy in detection of cases is higher in Telangana. During the press conference, he allotted significant time for reacting to the criticism from various sections of the society that less number of tests were being conducted in the State. Since the past few days, people from various sections of society, including government doctors, have pointed out that less number of tests were being conducted in the State which could lead to delayed detection of cases. Comparison was drawn between number of tests conducted in Telangana and other States. “The total number of tests conducted in India is 7,16,733 and 29,434 people tested positive. The percentage of positives (of total samples tested) is 4.1%. A total of 19,063 samples were tested in Telangana and 1,009 tested positive . So the percentage of positives is 5.3%. Our accuracy is more. The guidelines framed by Indian Council of Medical Research and Central government are effectively followed,” Mr Rajender said. Reacting to comparison with neighbouring States where more number of tests are conducted, the Health Minister said that what matters is number of cases detected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/accuracy-of-tests-more-in-telangana-says-eatala/article31458937.ece
29 April 2020||CHENNAI,||121 new cases, 103 in Chennai||Chennai witnessed another surge in COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, accounting for 85% of the 121 persons who tested postive across the State. Among the new patients are two infants — a five-day-old baby in Chengalpattu and a seven-month-old child in Chennai. With 103 fresh cases, Chennai’s tally of COVID-19 cases soared to 673. In fact, the State’s overall tally crossed the 2,000-mark on Tuesday. Tamil Nadu reported its first COVID-19 case on March 7. The total number of cases crossed the 1,000-mark on April 12. The count has doubled in 16 days, reaching 2,058*. There are 902 active cases — persons undergoing treatment in hospitals. A 68-year-old man from Chennai, who was admitted to a private hospital, died due to COVID-19, taking the death toll due to the infection to 25, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. Only five districts reported fresh cases. Apart from Chennai, Chengalpattu accounted for 12 persons. There were three cases in Kallakurichi, two in Namakkal and one in Kancheepuram. “There are plans to deploy more teams in the containment zones in Chennai. The number of cases in other districts are negligible, and the cases have started to decline in many districts. In fact, there are a number of districts that have not reported new cases in the last seven days. Chennai is the main worry as of now,” an official said. Those who tested positive included two one-year-old children, a two-year-old girl, two eight-year-old children and a nine-year-old boy. With this, a total of 121 children in the age group of 0 to 12 have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. There were 18 primary persons - unlinked source of infection - among the fresh cases, for which investigations were on. Twenty-seven patients were discharged, taking the total number to 1,128. The highest number of discharges were in Chennai (195), followed by Coimbatore (120) and Tiruppur (83). The number of samples tested so far has crossed the 1 lakh-mark in the State. A total of 1,01,874 samples, including 7,093 on Tuesday, and 93,189 individuals, including 6,850 individuals on Tuesday, were tested. A total of 1,908 samples were under process. Those under home quarantine numbered 30,692 persons while 47 were in government quarantine facilities. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/121-new-cases-103-in-chennai/article31458796.ece
29 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Govt. may take Ordinance route to clear legal hurdles||The State government is likely to promulgate an Ordinance to clear the legal hurdles to its decision to defer the salary of government employees and teachers. The Kerala High Court on Tuesday had stayed for two months the operationalisation of the government order to defer the payment of six days’ salary from April to August to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. The Cabinet is likely to clear the draft Ordinance on Wednesday and set the ground for deducting the salary. The stay order was set to compound the fiscal woes of the government which was striving hard to garner resources for meeting its routine expenditure. Inadequate funds Finance Department sources told The Hindu that the Rs. 2,000 crore left at its disposal was grossly inadequate to foot the salary bill, leave alone the service pension and other expenses. The estimated outgo for salary and pension is Rs. 3,800 crore. Had the court not stayed the decision to defer the salary, the government would have saved Rs. 500 crore a month. The returns from Goods and Services Tax for the month has been pegged at Rs. 150 crore, the revenue deficit grant from the Centre at Rs. 1,276 crore and a trickle of Rs. 574 crore from petrol cess and other sources. Of the approved limit of Rs. 25,400 crore for the current financial year, the government has already borrowed Rs. 6,000 crore. On deciding to expend the Rs. 2,000 crore for clearing the salary and pension bills, the government would again have to opt for market borrowing to meet the other committed expenditure and the additional burden incurred by COVID-19. Disbursal of full complement of the salary would still be a tough task. On deciding to promulgate the Ordinance, the government could buy time to decide its future course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-may-take-ordinance-route-to-clear-legal-hurdles/article31458996.ece
29 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||62 frontline staff have caught the infection till date: official||Sixty-two frontline staff — 31 healthcare providers, 12 doctors, 12 nursing staffers, five sanitation workers and two pharmacists who were dealing with COVID-19 patients — have contracted coronavirus till date, said Special Chief Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy. Many personnel of Revenue and Police departments have also been infected, he said. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, Dr. Jawahar Reddy said that Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan and all other staff at the Raj Bhavan tested negative for COVID-19. He said they were tested after four staffers of the Raj Bhavan tested positive. Meanwhile, for the third time in a row, the State has reported more than 80 fresh COVID-19 positive cases, taking the tally to 1,259. During the last 24 hours, 82 samples tested positive of the 5,783 tests conducted, according to the latest bulletin by the Health Department. So far, 80,334 tests have been conducted and the State continues to stand first among States with 1,504 tests per million population ratio. Of the 82 fresh cases, 75 are from existing clusters and the rest are from green zones. No deaths have been reported during the past three days, and 23 patients were discharged. So far, 31 patients have died while 258 patients have recovered. Kurnool and Guntur districts began reporting a huge number of cases after a brief lull. Kurnool reported 40 new cases and has crossed the 300-mark, while Guntur reported 17 new cases. They are followed by Krishna district (13), Kadapa (7), Nellore (3) and Chittoor and Anantapur one case each. So far, Kurnool has witnessed 332 positive cases. It is followed by Guntur (254), Krishna (223), Nellore (82), Chittoor (74), Kadapa (65), Prakasam (56), Anantapur (54), West Godavari (54), East Godavari (39), Visakhapatnam (22), and Srikakulam (4).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/62-frontline-staff-have-caught-the-infection-till-date-official/article31458691.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ministry does U-turn on plasma therapy||Plasma therapy is not an approved treatment for COVID-19 and is only one of the several therapies being explored currently, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The therapy is still at an experimental stage and the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) is currently studying its efficacy, it added. “ICMR has not given any clearance for its use as a prescribed treatment and the misuse can have fatal outcome for the patients,” the Ministry said. The Health Ministry statement comes days after the Drug Controller General of India gave its go-ahead to a proposal by the ICMR for the clinical trial of convalescent plasma therapy in COVID-19 patients as per the protocol developed by the Council. Evidence not enough At the daily press briefing, Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said currently there are no approved therapies for COVID-19 and there is not enough evidence to claim that plasma therapy can be used for treatment of the disease. The ICMR has launched a national-level study to look into the efficacy of plasma therapy in treatment of COVID-19. “Till the ICMR concludes its study and a robust scientific proof is available, plasma therapy should be used only for research or trial purpose. If plasma therapy is not used in proper manner under proper guidelines, then it can also cause life threatening complications,” he cautioned. Last week, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had asked the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) to contact recovered COVID-19 patients to come forward for blood donation, from which convalescent plasma could be collected and used. “As mentioned by ICMR, the convalescent plasma will be really helpful in treating severe and serious COVID-19 patients,” Mr. Vardhan had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ministry-does-u-turn-on-plasma-therapy/article31458700.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Uncertainty clouds admission to undergraduate courses in city||Uncertainty looms over the future of students looking to enrol in undergraduate programmes in universities across the city as they have not yet completed their board examinations due to COVID-19 lockdown and the admission season is fast approaching. In a meeting with Union Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal and Education Ministers from other States, Delhi Education Minister Manish Sisodia said that it would not be possible to conduct pending board exams for Classes X and XII, and suggested that the students be evaluated on their performance in internal exams. “It may not be feasible to conduct the remaining exams for Classes X and XII even in May-June. Having exams thereafter will delay the next academic cycle heavily,” Mr. Sisodia said. He appealed to Mr. Pokhriyal to direct the Central Board of Secondary Education to evaluate Class X and XII students on their internal exams scores, as was proposed for Classes IX and XI. The University Grants Commission has recommen-ded that the academic session 2020-21 commence from September 1 and the admission process be carried out between August 1 and 31. If the necessity arises, provisional admission may be allowed and the last date for submission of documents for qualifying examination be set as September 30. Last year, Delhi University, which sees the bulk of applications for undergraduate courses, had started the admission process on May 30. This year, it has not issued any notification on the admissions yet. Jawaharlal Nehru University will close the registration for admissions on April 30 and is scheduled to conduct the entrance examination in mid-May. Mr. Sisodia also proposed reduction of syllabus by 30% in all classes for 2020-21. He requested the MHRD to provide Doordarshan and AIR slots to the Delhi government to broadcast classes. “If you grant us the slots, we will have our teachers on board to conduct the classes as per our lesson plan,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uncertainty-clouds-admission-to-undergraduate-courses-in-city/article31458885.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. starts planning for Haridwar Kumbh Mela||Crowds, or even the prospect of one, may be anathema everywhere, but the government has begun planning for the Maha Kumbh Mela in Haridwar, Uttarakhand, in January 2021. The gathering has a long history and draws large crowds from the world over, who come to take a ritualistic dip in the Ganga. An April 16 meeting, organised by the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG), the Water Ministry body overseeing the clean up of the river, discussed funds needed by the Uttarakhand government for providing community toilets and urinals for the attendees. The Maha Kumbh Mela is organised once in 12 years, and the last time the event was held in 2010, about 10 million reportedly congregated in the city. For organising the event, the State sought Rs. 85 crore from the NMCG for creating 16,075 community toilets (made of fibre and portable) and 20,000 community urinals. However the Executive Committee of the NMCG deferred a decision on the grounds that several other components of the proposal — making provisions for dustbins and solid waste management — were not yet included and a decision on the project would be taken at the next meeting, according to a record of the minutes of the meeting. Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, Director-General, NMCG, did not respond to a request for comment. Routine meeting The meeting was convened via video-conference and had officials from the NMCG, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Uttarakhand and is held every month to decide on funding for projects to clean the Ganga as well as its tributaries. A participant at the meeting told The Hindu that there was no discussion with Uttarakhand on whether it would be safe to organise the Kumbh Mela, given that the world is yet to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic and the global case count continues to increase. “There was no discussion on whether the organisation of the Kumbh would be impacted by COVID-19. But there’s a lot of time left and the situation could change. If there’s still as much of a risk as there is now, I’m sure measures will be taken,” the person said. However, preparing logistics in advance was par for the course, given the size of the event. A similar Kumbh was organised in Prayagraj in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-starts-planning-for-haridwar-kumbh-mela/article31458705.ece
29 April 2020||GHAZIABAD,||2 priests found dead on U.P. temple premises||Two priests were found dead in a temple in a Bulandshahr village in the early hours of Tuesday, the police said. The murders sent shockwaves in the region as it reminded locals of the Palghar incident in Maharashtra, where two priests were allegedly killed by a mob. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath asked the police for a report by the evening. Within two hours, the police arrested a person in a neighbouring village and charged him with the murder. Santosh Kumar Singh, Senior Superintendent of Police, Bulandshahr, said the chowkidar of village Pagona found the bodies of Sher Singh, 35, and Jagdishdas, 55, on the Shiv temple premises around 5 a.m. “The villagers said Murari, a drug addict, had stolen the priests’ chimta [tongs] on Sunday and the priests had berated him. He was nabbed in an inebriated state in his underwear. An FIR has been filed against him under Section 302 of the IPC,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-priests-found-dead-on-up-temple-premises/article31458699.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Plasma therapy trials yet to take off in State||Six days after the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) approved a proposal by a private hospital to take up clinical trials for plasma therapy in collaboration with Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI), the process is yet to take off in Karnataka. This is despite two recovered COVID-19 patients having donated their plasma and three more coming forward to donate on Tuesday. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar told The Hindu that a decision has been taken to revamp the clinical trials team to speed up the process.  ‘Different views’ Sources alleged that the delay was owing to “differences” between doctors within the BMCRI. While one group of doctors is in favour of the trials, another is seeks to know why a private hospital should be involved when the BMCRI can take it up. The BMCRI has also applied to the DCGI seeking approval for phase II of the trials, which is pending. Sources allege that a senior BMCRI doctor, who is part of the clinical trials team, is not ready to share the blood groups of critical patients. Plasma therapy can be done only if the donor and recipient blood groups match. BMCRI dean and director C.R. Jayanthi, however, denied any differences. Ms. Jayanthi said the trials had not begun as “no patient in the ICU so far fell in the DCGI’s inclusion criteria”. She said, “We cannot permit the trials in violation of the inclusion criteria. As and when we get eligible patients, who fall in the inclusion criteria, we will start the process.” However, sources insisted that there were four patients in the ICU after the DCGI approval came on April 22 and one of them was eligible. “The eligible patient succumbed to the disease on Sunday,” sources said. Dr. Sudhakar said, “One of the BMCRI doctors in the clinical trials team was of the opinion that when the therapy could be done by BMCRI doctors themselves, there was no need to involve private doctors.” Denying that it meant non-cooperation or differences among doctors, the Minister said, “In the interest of patients, we are now revamping the clinical trials team. I have asked the BMCRI dean to replace the particular doctor with another senior doctor.” “The most important thing is we should have eligible patients who fall in the DCGI’s inclusion criteria. Moreover, it is important that such patients should give us their consent for the trials,” he added. MoU signed  U.S. Vishal Rao, associate dean, Centre of Academics and Research at HCG Hospitals, said the memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the BMCRI was signed on Tuesday. “We will assist Victoria Hospital to initiate the phase I clinical trials and hope to attain some fruitful results. Based on the results of the trials, we hope to extend this therapy to patients across the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plasma-therapy-trials-yet-to-take-off-in-state/article31458743.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Explain MHA order on full wages, SC tells govt.||The Supreme Court has given the Centre two weeks to explain a Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) order, issued on March 29, directing employers to pay full wages to their workers during the lockdown. A three-judge Bench, led by Justice N.V. Ramana, on Monday, allowed Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the government, to file his response to a batch of petitions filed by several companies challenging the constitutional validity of the March 29 order, which mandates that industry, shops and commercial establishments, without exception, pay their workers without any deduction in the name of COVID-19. The petitions said a blanket direction to private establishments to pay full salaries against no work was arbitrary and violative of Article 14 (right to equality) of the Constitution. ‘No obligation’ “It is implicit in the fundamental right of an employer to trade or business that there is an obligation to pay when work is actually done and there is no obligation if no work is done. An employer and employee have reciprocal promises whereby the right of an employee to demand salary is reciprocal to performance of work by such employee. The employer has a right to not pay if no work is done,” the petition filed by private firms such as Nagreeka Exports Limited and Ficus Pax Private Ltd. said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/explain-mha-order-on-full-wages-sc-tells-govt/article31458707.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,||39.5% patients in Karnataka discharged||Eleven new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Karnataka on Tuesday, taking the State’s total to 523. Six of them are from Kalaburagi. On Tuesday, the number of patients discharged, at 14, was more than the number of new cases. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said 39.5% of the total 523 patients have already been discharged. Seven of the 295 patients isolated in different hospitals across the State are in intensive care units. Besides Kalaburagi, three new cases were reported from Bagalkot district and one each from Bengaluru Urban and Gadag on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the Health and Family Welfare Department has collected samples from the labour colony at Vidyajyothinagar, Hongasandra ward, and Padarayanapura, which the BBMP marked as containment zones after several COVID-19 cases were detected. Mr. Suresh Kumar said 145 random samples taken from Hongasandra and 70 from Padarayanapura had tested negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/395-patients-in-karnataka-discharged/article31458742.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Geared up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/geared-up/article31458697.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||$1.5 billion ADB loan to fund COVID response||The Government of India has taken a $1.5 billion loan from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) to fund its immediate response to COVID-19, both in terms of the health and socio-economic impacts. The bank is also in talks with the government to fund further stimulus measures, including support for Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises and for extending health services through public-private partnerships. The money, translating to more than Rs. 11,000 crore, will be spent to implement the containment plan and rapidly ramp up the test-track-treatment capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/15-billion-adb-loan-to-fund-covid-response/article31458706.ece
29 April 2020||New Delhi,||Capital reports no death for third consecutive day||No COVID-19-related death was reported in Delhi for the third consecutive day on Tuesday. The city, however, reported 206 fresh cases, taking the total number of cases to 3,314, according to the Delhi government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/capital-reports-no-death-for-third-consecutive-day/article31458882.ece
29 April 2020||New Delhi,||Shut down Azadpur Mandi, demand traders||With 11 confirmed COVID-19 cases, and another suspected case emerging from it on Tuesday, the traders’ union at Azadpur Mandi has demanded that the wholesale fruits and vegetable market be shut down and declared a containment zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shut-down-azadpur-mandi-demand-traders/article31458883.ece
29 April 2020||GURUGRAM/NEW DELHI,||Gurugram police increase vigil at Delhi borders||The Gurugram police on Monday heightened the scrutiny of vehicles at its border with Delhi, allowing entry to only those with movement passes or catering to essential services. The Delhi police have arranged accommodation for around a thousand of its personnel staying in NCR in view of the increased vigil at the borders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gurugram-police-increase-vigil-at-delhi-borders/article31458884.ece
29 April 2020||Udhagamandalam,||for nearby||A total of 1,250 tonnes of tea from the estates of small tea growers in The Nilgiris will be supplied to lakhs of homes in Kerala during the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/for-nearby/article31458840.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,||With fewer patients, doctors take pay cut||Several private hospitals in the city that have stopped elective surgeries and are focussing only on emergency cases are struggling to pay salaries to staff, including doctors. Most are functioning at less than 20% of their patient capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-fewer-patients-doctors-take-pay-cut/article31458745.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Restrictions eased on industries in rural areas||The State government on Tuesday eased restrictions on industries in rural areas in a few more districts. With this, industries have been allowed to operate in Chamarajanagar, Koppal, Raichur, Chitradurga, Ramanagaram, Shivamogga, Haveri, Yadgir, Kolar, Hassan, Davangere, Udupi, Kodagu, and Chikkamagaluru districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/restrictions-eased-on-industries-in-rural-areas/article31458746.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Haj Bhavan turns de facto jail||With a total of 137 undertrials from Ramanagaram jail, including 116 persons accused in the recent Padarayanapura violence, being shifted to Haj Bhavan quarantine centre, the bhavan has now turned into a de facto jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haj-bhavan-turns-de-facto-jail/article31458747.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||What is PM’s exit strategy: Cong.||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi consulted Chief Ministers on the lockdown, the Congress on Tuesday said the “nation is waiting” for him to spell out a clear exit strategy for the containment that ends on May 3. “We once again appeal to the Prime Minister to come out with a clear exit strategy for the lockdown, to state the road map for economic revival and to deal with the health pandemic post May 3 as also restrict the lockdown only to hotspot zones,” Congress communication chief Randeep Surjewala told reporters through videoconference. The Prime minister was expected to lead the nation in crises like these. “No one has still heard from the Prime Minister about the exit strategy or the road map and that is an area of serious concern,” he said.  Financial plan Mr. Surjewala claimed that the Chief Ministers requested the Prime Minister to tell the nation what is the exit strategy. “What is the road map for the future post 3rd of May? How is the Prime Minister going to come out with financial action plan part-II as Shrimati Sonia Gandhi has repeatedly demanded, and so have many other experts, to mitigate starvation, kick-start the economy, return of the migrant labour or starting small, medium and micro businesses,” he asked. On Monday, Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, after the videoconference with the Prime Minister, told reporters that most of the Chief Ministers had urged Mr. Modi to adopt a cautious approach to lifting the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/what-is-pms-exit-strategy-cong/article31458626.ece
29 April 2020||Bhopal,||Fatality rate in Ujjain at 14.28%||Madhya Pradesh reported 57 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 2,387. On the day, seven deaths were reported across the State. However, a cause of concern is the fatality rate in Ujjain, a neighbouring district of Indore, which shot to 14.28% on Monday, arguably the worst in the country. The rate is even higher than that of Ahmedabad, Mumbai and New Delhi, which have recorded more than 20 times the cases found in Ujjain. Faced with spiralling mortalities, Ujjain officials are scrambling to shore up a crumbling health infrastructure in the city, where all is dependent on just one private medical college. Even patients from neighbouring Agar Malwa and Ratlam districts are treated there. The hospital’s senior management has gone into quarantine; several staff members refuse to attend to duties and patients complain of bad quality of food and lack of proper treatment. Just four of the 17 deaths until April 27 occurred on the hospital’s beds, while the rest could not even reach in time. “Around eight could not wait to see their test results,” said Additional Collector Sujan Singh Rawat. The case fatality rate for Indore, where it had touched 10% around mid-April, dropped to 4.6% on Monday. On the same day, it was 1.7% in New Delhi, 3.3% in Surat, 3.8% in Mumbai, 5% in Ahmedabad and 7.6% in Pune. The rate is a measure of disease severity which records the proportion of those who die from a disease among all those diagnosed. The administration received complaints of improper treatment at the Ujjain hospital, said H.P. Sonaniya, district COVID-19 nodal officer. The government has set up CCTV cameras in wards to keep an eye on the treatment. “The main issue was food, which we have resolved now,” he said. Skipping duty Majority of class-4 employees, including sweepers, had stopped coming for duty fearing infection. The hospital’s director and its medical superintendent, who was ill, and the attached college’s dean, all went into quarantine. “We have given the hospital additional staff of 11 workers. Those who were not returning to duty have been asked to come back. Nine have returned,” added Mr. Rawat. The State suspects that the outbreak in Ujjain had occurred owing to carriers who returned from Indore. On Tuesday, Madhya Pradesh reported seven deaths. Ujjain reported three deaths, while Bhopal, Dewas, Raisen and Ashoknagar districts reported one death each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fatality-rate-in-ujjain-at-1428/article31458645.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre starts preparing for post-lockdown urban services||Officials of the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry were on Tuesday asked to start preparing the post-lockdown protocols for the various urban missions and services, including operation of Metro trains. Minister of State for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri reviewed the progress of the various urban missions, including the Smart Cities Mission, the Swachh Bharat and the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban), being implemented by the Ministry. Status check Officers presented the status of the missions and were asked to prepare protocols, an official said. For instance, the officers were asked to have the protocols for restarting Metro services ready, the official said. After the meeting, Mr. Puri said in a tweet that he had reviewed the progress of the flagship missions with the Secretary and senior officers. “Happy to note that the missions are also contributing extensively towards COVID-19 related work along with their normal work and implementation of projects.” Among the urban infrastructure pressed into service are the integrated command and control centres built as part of the Smart Cities Mission that are being used to monitor the spread of the pandemic and the response to it. “Integrated Command & Control Centre in Agra Smart City has transformed into District Control Room for fight against COVID-19. It offers doorstep delivery of items of daily need, security services, detection of loitering, medical assistance & other services to citizens,” Mr. Puri said in a tweet. While construction activities have been allowed with certain conditions, availability of workers has been hit as the lockdown led migrant workers to return to their hometowns or are stuck in camps on the way. However, Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry Secretary Durga Shankar Mishra said works under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) had started. “229 projects worth more than Rs. 27,000 crore have started/restarted under AMRUT with available local manpower in 10 States. All prescribed precautions for fighting COVID-19 are being observed. This will provide livelihood opportunities to those who have lost their jobs temporarily,” he said in a tweet after the meeting concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-starts-preparing-for-post-lockdown-urban-services/article31458651.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Gearing up for floods during pandemic||With the southwest monsoon around the corner, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) is preparing to face the twin challenges of COVID-19 and floods in different parts of the country. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast a normal monsoon, which is expected to hit Kerala on June 1. “In the rainy season, managing the situation in areas that have been reporting COVID-19 cases, particularly in the hotspot and containment zones, will be an uphill task. Given the forecast, it will require more preparation,” said a senior NDRF official. There is a chance of above normal rain in August and September, according to the IMD. Over the past week, the NDRF has been working on an action plan to meet all possible exigencies. The top brass has been briefing the field formations on measures to be taken. The organisation has been in constant touch with the IMD and the local administration in the respective States. Assam, which witnesses heavy rains and flash floods during the monsoon, leading to several deaths and displacement of lakhs of people in the affected areas, had asked for monsoon pre-deployment of NDRF teams. “Response teams in other States are awaiting further instructions. It is an unprecedented situation wherein more than 90% resources will have to be mobilised. Last year, when the country recorded the best monsoon over the past 25 years, 200 of the 216 teams had to be deployed in close to 20 States for rescue and relief operations. Before that, we also responded well to Cyclone Fani which had hit eastern India in the first week of May 2019,” the official said. The NDRF has taken note of the latest IMD warning of the likely formation of a low pressure area over the south Andaman Sea and the neighbourhood around April 30, which is likely to intensify into a depression during the subsequent 48 hours, triggering moderate and heavy to extreme rainfall in isolated areas. Following the COVID-19 outbreak, NDRF teams in several States joined the local administration in implementing preventive measures and distributing essentials, including medical supplies. They also stepped in to alleviate the problems faced by thousands of stranded migrant labourers, particularly in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gearing-up-for-floods-during-pandemic/article31458660.ece
29 April 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai hits spike of 25 deaths||Mumbai recorded the highest number of 25 deaths on Tuesday pushing the death toll to 244. With 393 new cases, the tally of COVID-19 cases in the city have gone up to 5,982. The case fatality rate of the city now stands at 4%. The deceased included 13 men and 12 women. An expert committee, set up to stem the rising fatalities in the city, has submitted its preliminary report to the State government, a health official said. The report highlighted the ordeal of victims who were forced to go from one hospital to another after being turned away from treatment. The committee has proposed the setting up of a call centre where people who develop symptoms can call for guidance and can be helped in reaching the right hospital. Meanwhile, Maharashtra is preparing to return 75,000 rapid testing kits received from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Dr. Anup Kumar Yadav, commissioner (health services), said, “Now with the debate over the wide range of variations in the results, we have been asked to send them back.” As a part of the plasma therapy trial, the BMC has received plasma from six patients who have recovered from COVID-19. One critical patient at the Lilavati Hospital has received a plasma transfusion. Doctors are closely monitoring his condition. Dr Jalil Parkar from Lilavati Hospital said the patient has been on a ventilator since April 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mumbai-hits-spike-of-25-deaths/article31458640.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Centre is behaving like a big brother by centralising authority’||Stating that economic restoration post the lockdown will require much higher government allocation, CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury calls for greater freedom and financial aid for the State governments at the frontlines of the battle against COVID-19, and warns that democracy will be a casualty if there is a totalitarian clampdown.  Is the lockdown and its extension justified considering the extent of adverse impact on the economy? A lockdown may have been inevitable sometime or the other. The point is, it should have been imposed with a proper preparation. The lockdown should be used effectively and scientifically to isolate the areas where the disease is spreading and start reopening the remaining areas, like many other countries are doing or have done. But with a four-hour notice, the Prime Minister gave no time either for the State governments to prepare or people to be prepared. This led to unnecessary chaos. Secondly, during the lockdown, there has to be widespread testing to isolate the areas where community transmission is taking place. And slowly start easing the other areas, with normal restrictions, of what I have always maintained, physical distance with social solidarity and not social distancing. We weren’t prepared with the testing facilities or personal protection equipment. We were unprepared for both effectively tackling the pandemic and providing relief to the people. How do you look at the recent consultations between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Chief Ministers via video-conferencing? There was a direction given by the PMO for yesterday’s [Monday’s] meeting listing out the nine CMs who will speak. So why would the others go, if the speakers are already pre-decided? Of these nine, one was Odisha and the other was Puducherry, the others were either BJP-led or supported governments. What is this sort of consultation? At every meeting the PMO decides which CM will speak. Now if you are going to have a CM’s video conference, then allow everyone to air their opinion. This kind of pick-and-choose and then putting out disinformation saying that four out of these nine wanted extension, that really impacts credibility of such meetings. The Union Home Ministry shot off a letter to the Kerala government when it eased restrictions briefly; the Centre sent out teams to Opposition-ruled States such as West Bengal and Rajasthan. How do you see these events? If you really want the States, which are on the battlefront, to be on board, you have to arm the State governments properly. For that, financial resources are absolutely essential. You are not returning them even GST dues. You have collected crores of rupees under this new fund, PM CARES; what is this money for? You transfer this money to the State governments. The Centre is behaving like a big brother, centralising the authority, wanting the States to do the job but the Centre will tell them how to do it. The Centre will not give them resources or allow them to have their own assessment on how to continue with lockdown or ease it. Not only fiscal federalism but political federalism is also being adversely affected. Why are Central teams only to the Opposition-ruled states? BJP-ruled states of Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh are reporting one of the highest number of COVID-19 positive cases. From January 30, when the first case was reported in Kerala, till March 22, the Union government did nothing. This is the period when we should have armed ourselves. On the contrary, they organised Namaste Trump, and now the situation in Gujarat is of major concern with the pandemic on rampage. And then you had toppling of Kamal Nath government and the public swearing-in with huge crowds. Then you had the Tabilighi Jamaat, which was a very irresponsible act by the organisers to have held congregation at that time. But who permitted it? How come the Maharashtra government refused permission for a similar congregation when they were asked but the Delhi police, that comes directly under Home Minister Amit Shah, allowed it? How does democracy survive this pandemic? Unless you bring back some degree of normalcy, which is possible only when you have a scientific approach, of identifying-isolating on the basis of widespread testing in the areas where it is spreading. Start your normal activities slowly with the necessary precautions. That is how even democracy will survive. If you want a totalitarian clampdown, then democracy will be the casualty. Every time such an epidemic or health emergency arose, draconian laws were brought in. In the 1890s during the plague, British herded the patients into congested camps virtually condemning them to death. In protest to that the national movement rose and the famous case of Chapekar brothers shooting down the Pune Plague Commissioner Walter Charles Rand happened. Then came the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897 with its draconian measures. The same thing with some cosmetic amendments in 2005 is what we have now. Then came the sedition act — [Bal] Gangadhar Tilak was arrested for writing an editorial condemning the British approach in mishandling the pandemic. So always the ruling classes have used epidemic conditions for greater authoritarian control. But that cannot be the reason to say that we should not fight this epidemic properly; this has to be fought, people’s lives have to be protected. How will this pandemic impact the Indian economy? And what would be your prescription to pull it back from the brink. This has to be tackled in three stages; in my opinion, there are short-, medium- and long-term measures required. All of these have to start now. In the short term, immediately the government must do a cash transfer of Rs. 7,500 for three months. Immediately, distribute the foodgrains in the FCI [Food Corporation of India] godowns. Hunger and lack of nutrition makes people vulnerable to the virus. Arrange for the migrant workers to return to their homes. Providing relief to the people is actually you are maintaining your workforce. In the medium term, government should now announce a much larger relief package than what was announced of Rs. 1.7 lakh crore, which is less than 1% of our GDP. Many countries in the world have given 20% of their GDP. Why are we being so measly, we don’t know. If you are able to write off loans that the rich took and not paid back to the tune of Rs. 7.78 lakh crore in the past five years, surely there is no dearth of resources in the country. You restore the wealth tax of 4% on the super rich. This will give us enough funds to work out a package worth 10% of our GDP if not more. In the long term, which also has to begin now, the main emphasis should be in public investments on health, education and much-needed infrastructure. This will give employment to lakhs and crores of people. The budgetary allocation under the MGNREGA should significantly increase. Instead of the promised 100-day of guaranteed work, it should be increased to 200 days.  If you want a totalitarian clampdown, then democracy will be the casualty||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-is-behaving-like-a-big-brother-by-centralising-authority/article31458649.ece
29 April 2020||Bhopal,||Jailed father, son in M.P. turn super spreaders; 21 infected||A father-son duo arrested for allegedly attacking a police constable on lockdown enforcement duty have infected at least 21 persons, including 18 other inmates of the Indore Central Jail, with COVID-19. Two jail guards and an IPS officer have also contracted the illness from them. Nasir Khan was arrested on April 7 for the assault along with his son Javed Khan and four others. Nasir Khan was initially kept in the same barracks as the other inmates at the Central Jail, said Akash Tripathi, Indore Divisional Commissioner. The government had invoked the National Security Act (NSA) against Javed and three others, and he was sent to the Jabalpur jail with another accused. Only on April 10, when his son tested positive in Jabalpur, was Nasir tested in Indore. When his result came back positive, the 125 inmates in the barracks were moved into a hostel-turned-quarantine centre, said an official of the Jail Department. Although the six arrested for the attack on the constable come from a COVID-19 hotspot, they were huddled up in the jail without being tested for the illness, said an official of Indore’s COVID-19 combat team, requesting anonymity. Four of the infected inmates were admitted to the MRTB hospital, while the others were lodged at the quarantine centre, guarded by the police, in the Asrawad Khurd area. “Three of them are asymptomatic,” said Mr. Tripathi. Two guards who had handled the father also tested positive. A few days ago, Javed pulled off a dramatic escape from a government-run hospital in Jabalpur while undergoing treatment for the illness. He took a lift on a truck to Narsinghpur district and tried to ride back on a motorcycle to Indore. A police team arrested him at a checkpost. Personnel who had come into contact with him, including a 2017-batch IPS officer, went into quarantine. The officer tested positive later. “Invoking the NSA against them was perhaps right, but immediately putting them in jail, just to show an exemplary action, was negligent,” said the official. He claimed the decision imported the virus into the jail, virtually an isolation centre, which has hundreds of inmates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jailed-father-son-in-mp-turn-super-spreaders-21-infected/article31458636.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||USCIRF downgrades India in 2020 list||The U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) has downgraded India to the lowest ranking, “countries of particular concern” (CPC) in its 2020 report. The report, released in Washington by the federal government commission that functions as an advisory body, placed India alongside countries, including China, North Korea, Saudi Arabia and Pakistan. India was categorised as a “Tier 2 country” in last year’s listing. This is the first time since 2004 that India has been placed in this category. “India took a sharp downward turn in 2019,” the commission noted in its report, which included specific concerns about the Citizenship Amendment Act, the proposed National Register for Citizens, anti-conversion laws and the situation in Jammu and Kashmir. “The national government used its strengthened parliamentary majority to institute national-level policies violating religious freedom across India, especially for Muslims.” The panel said that the CPC designation was also recommended because “national and various State governments also allowed nationwide campaigns of harassment and violence against religious minorities to continue with impunity, and engaged in and tolerated hate speech and incitement to violence against them”. The Centre reacted sharply to the USCIRF report on Tuesday, terming it “biased and tendentious” and rejected its observations. “We reject the observations on India in the USCIRF Annual Report,” official spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. “Its biased and tendentious comments against India are not new. But on this occasion, its misrepresentation has reached new levels. It has not been able to carry its own Commissioners in its endeavour. We regard it as an organisation of particular concern and will treat it accordingly,” Mr. Srivastava added. Three of the 10 USCIRF commissioners, including Gary Bauer, Johnnie Lee, and Tenzin Dorjee, dissented with the panel’s recommendation on India as being ‘too harsh’ and that ended up placing the country alongside what they termed as “rogue nations” like China and North Korea. “I am confident that India will reject any authoritarian temptation and stand with the United States and other free nations in defence of liberty, including religious liberty,” wrote Commissioner Bauer in his dissenting note. The commission also recommended that the U.S. government take stringent action against India under the “International Religious Freedom Act” (IRFA). It called on the administration to “impose targeted sanctions on Indian government agencies and officials responsible for severe violations of religious freedom by freezing those individuals’ assets and/or barring their entry into the United States under human rights-related financial and visa authorities, citing specific religious freedom violations”. In 2005, Prime Minister Narendra Modi who was at the time the Chief Minister of Gujarat was censured by the USCIRF. The commission had recommended sanctions against Mr. Modi for the 2002 riots and the U.S. government had subsequently cancelled his visa. The USCIRF 2020 report makes a specific mention of Home Minister Amit Shah, for not taking what it deemed as sufficient action to stop cases of mob lynching in the country, and for referring to migrants as “termites”. In December 2019, the USCIRF had also asked the U.S. government to consider sanctions against Mr. Shah and “other principal leadership” over the decision to pass the Citizenship Amendment Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uscirf-downgrades-india-in-2020-list/article31458633.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Unfair to call test kits faulty, says China||It is irresponsible to term Chinese products “faulty”, a spokesperson of the Chinese Embassy here said after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) asked the States to stop using the rapid antibody test kits and return them to manufacturers in China. “We are deeply concerned with the evaluation results and the decision made by Indian Council of Medical Research. China attaches great importance to the quality of exported medical products. The Chinese Embassy maintained a close contact with ICMR and the two Chinese companies to find out the real situation,” said Ji Rong, Counsellor and spokesperson of the embassy. The official said China was committed to assisting India in the fight against the pandemic, and reminded the test kits were sent to India after the ICMR and the National Institute of Virology approved them. “It is unfair and irresponsible of certain individuals to label Chinese products “faulty” and look at issues with pre-emptive prejudice,” the spokesperson said.  The Hindu reported on April 28 that despite the decision of ICMR to return the test kits, India remains on track to import more medical goods in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unfair-to-call-test-kits-faulty-says-china/article31458647.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,||No improvement in Ganga water quality during lockdown||The lockdown may have dramatically reduced air pollution across the country but it hasn’t significantly reduced pollution in the Ganga, according to a report by the Central Pollution Control Board. The dissolved oxygen (DO) concentration, a measure of the amount of free oxygen available in river systems, “rose marginally” from March 22-April 15. A high DO value is considered a good indicator of river health. However, two other measures, BOD (Biological Oxygen Demand) and COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) — both indicators of the amount of oxygen necessary to break down organic and inorganic pollution — showed “insignificant reductions”, the CPCB report notes. The lower these numbers are the better they indicate river health. “Reduction in BOD concentration has been less significant owing to continual discharge of untreated or inadequately treated sewage. Marginal reduction can be seen only in the 4th week of the lockdown. Further, there is gradual increase in BOD levels towards downstream stretches of the river, with the maximum values in West Bengal,” according to the CPCB report. “Reduction in COD concentration has also been less significant. Few locations show increase in the COD values, while in remaining stations reduction in COD levels was not significant. This marginal reduction can be attributed due to stoppage of industrial activities.” Domestic wastewater from 97 towns situated near river Ganga, and industrial effluents, are the main sources of water pollution in the river, with an estimated quantity of 3,500 MLD (million litres per day) of sewage, out of which 1,100 MLD is treated and the remaining 2,400 MLD gets discharged untreated. Industrial effluent is estimated to be about 300 MLD. The CPCB assessed pollution a week before lockdown and weeks after at 36 locations in Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. The pollution in the river is highest in Uttar Pradesh. The bulk of the sewage treatment plants commissioned under Ganga are in Uttar Pradesh towns and though projects worth Rs. 23,000 crore have been commissioned (across 11 Ganga basin States), a noticeable increase in the cleanliness of the river isn’t yet apparent. The CPCB, however, said that there was notable improvement in water quality in the Yamuna. “Analysis results indicate there is considerable improvement in the water quality of river Yamuna with respect to DO, BOD and COD when compared with pre-lockdown and lockdown period,” the CPCB notes. However, this was done basis an assessment at only three locations in Delhi and the gains were significantly due to reduced industrial activity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-improvement-in-ganga-water-quality-during-lockdown/article31458666.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Massive evacuation planned from Gulf||The Union government is drawing up a major evacuation plan involving the Navy, the Indian Air Force (IAF) and Air India to bring back Indians stranded in West Asia following the nationwide lockdown and travel restrictions due to COVID-19, multiple defence sources said. “A major evacuation plan is under discussion with the Ministry of External Affairs being the lead ministry. When, where and how many and factors like who is to be evacuated and so on are under deliberation,” a defence source told The Hindu . The tentative window for evacuation has not been decided yet but it is expected to be after the lockdown ends on May 3. Defence sources confirmed that Navy and IAF had been asked to work out the modalities from their end and accordingly preparations were on. “An exercise of aircraft availability was done to have a picture about capability, turn around time, sortie generation possibility and so on,” a second source said, adding there was no tasking yet. The IAF has a fleet of US origin C-130 Hercules medium transporters and C-17 Globemaster heavy transport aircraft, in addition to older Russian IL-76 aircraft, which have been playing a major role in recent Humanitarian and Disaster Relief (HADR) efforts. Naval ships need enough time to sail from their home ports with requisite preparations to handle civilians. “The nation lockdown ends on May 3. So there is reaction time and there is also lot of administrative and logistical issues to be worked out,” another defence source said on this. There are more than eight million Indians who live and work in the Gulf region and with plummeting oil prices there have been concerns of massive job losses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/massive-evacuation-planned-from-gulf/article31458653.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mid-day meals on during vacation||The Centre plans to extend the mid-day meal scheme in government schools over the summer holidays due to the COVID-19 lockdown. An additional Rs. 958 crore will be provided for this purpose, Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank told State Education Ministers on Tuesday. An extra Rs. 790 crore would be provided to buy pulses, vegetable, oil, spices and fuel by hiking the annual allocation for cooking costs. The Centre will also provide 3 lakh tonnes of foodgrains, worth approximately Rs. 990 crore, officials said. However, reports from States suggest that the current implementation of the mid-day meal scheme has been patchy and variable across different regions. While Kerala is providing actual cooked meals delivered to the homes of poor students, a large number of other States, including Karnataka and West Bengal, are providing dry rations to students’ families in lieu of cooked meals during the lockdown. Delhi schools do not seem to be offering either option, with officials simply pointing to the cooked meals being offered at general relief centres across the city. Nationwide, 11.5 crore children studying in Class 1 to 8 in 11.34 lakh schools depend on the scheme for a nutritious lunch. Board exam papers Mr. Nishank also urged States to begin the process of evaluating answer sheets of completed State Board exams during the lockdown itself, and facilitate the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) in its correction of answer sheets as well, according to an official statement. Noting that an alternative academic calendar has already been released by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT), the Union Minister said States could adopt it according to their local situation. He also urged them to prepare safety guidelines in preparation for opening of schools post the lockdown. The Education Ministers of 22 States and secretaries from another 14 States and Union Territories participated in the videoconference with the Union Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mid-day-meals-on-during-vacation/article31458654.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||19 sailors on oil tanker float in misery off Mumbai||With food, water and diesel likely to run out in two days, 19 sailors on board an oil tanker off Mumbai are an anxious lot. Their ship has been under “arrest” for the past three months after the owner failed to clear its debt owed to the erstwhile UTI Capital Private Ltd. and an auction scheduled last month could not conclude due to the lockdown. “The Bombay High Court has asked the agency which has arrested the ship to provide us essentials through our company, Mercator Ltd. But we can’t be certain until the supplies arrive on board,” says Captain Iftikhar Modak, Master of MT Prem Mala . Last week, he sent an SOS to various stakeholders including the Sheriff of Mumbai, the Directorate General of Shipping, the shipping company and Axis Trustee Services Ltd. (ATSL), requesting for supplies yet there is no clarity on who will provide them. Unfinished business On January 31, the Bombay High Court granted a plea by the ATSL, a beneficiary of Axis Bank, for issuing an arrest warrant against MT Prem Mala . The owner of the ship owed UTI through the ATSL Rs. 196 crore. On March 3, the Bombay High Court directed the Sheriff of Mumbai to conduct an auction. The bids were to be submitted on March 24 and an auction purchaser declared by the court two days later. But these were left incomplete after the lockdown was announced. “In April, UTI paid for the essential supply on humanitarian grounds though it is not obliged to do so. On Monday, we approached the court to ask that it must either direct somebody to pay for the essentials or allow for the sale of the ship or guarantee that whoever pays for these supplies will get paid on priority after the sale. The court, however, thought that there was no urgency in this matter and effectively passed no order,” Ashwin Shanker, lawyer for ATSL told The Hindu . The water, food and diesel supply for a month cost Rs. 35 lakh. “We are obeying government regulations which require a minimum of 17 crew members to be mandatorily on ship. But if these supplies don’t reach us on time, we will be forced to abandon the ship. The morale onboard is very low as we have not been paid our salaries since January and our insurance has also expired. We have no idea when we will be able to return home or send money to our families. We have no contact with our owners, who have simply abandoned us. I was assigned duty for two months and my four-month long contract expired last week, but the shipowner says he can’t even send a boat to allow us to leave the ship because there are dues owed to them too,” says Chief Officer Ankit Maurya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/19-sailors-on-oil-tanker-float-in-misery-off-mumbai/article31458662.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Deccan farmers may see dry spells in June & July: Ministry||While the India Meteorological Department has predicted a normal monsoon, spatial forecast models show wide variations in rainfall across the country which can have dire implications for farmers, especially on the northeastern coast and the dryland areas of the Deccan. For instance, there are likely to be long dry spells and low rainfall in June and July, similar to what happened last year, followed by excess rainfall in the later part of the monsoon in August and September, according to Agriculture Ministry officials working on an analysis of the seasonal forecast before holding State-level meetings on the likely implications. There could be a possibility of dwindling rainfall in June and July in the rainfed regions of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Marathwada and Vidharbha regions of Maharashtra, which could impact rainfed crops, official sources said. The forecasts also show that below normal rainfall with 40% probability is expected in the coastal region of Odisha, southern part of West Bengal and the north coastal districts of Andhra Pradesh. Advisories may need to be issued for uplands and midlands in these areas, official sources said. On the other hand, above normal rainfall is expected in some western States such as Gujarat, Rajasthan, western Madhya Pradesh and north western Maharashtra, which is an opportunity for enhancing production of kharif season crops in these areas, especially those that depend on rainfed agriculture. The spatial forecast is provided by the South Asia Seasonal Climate Outlook Forum, which includes a number of national agencies led by the World Meteorological Organisation, Agriculture Ministry sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deccan-farmers-may-see-dry-spells-in-june-july-ministry/article31458664.ece
29 April 2020||PATNA,||82 arrested in Bihar for communal posts||Eighty two persons have been arrested in Bihar for spreading communal disharmony on social media after the COVID-19 outbreak. The police have lodged 153 cases in the past one month. Officials said most of the arrested were those posting inflammatory and communal messages on social media. “Eighty two people have been arrested and 153 cases filed since March 22 after the first COVID-19 case was detected in the State,” Additional Director General of Police (Headquarters) Jitendra Kumar told mediapersons. The number of cases had gone up from 104 to 153 in the past 10 days, he added. BDO’s complaint On April 20, the Biharsharief Block Development Officer (BDO) in Nalanda district, Rajiv Ranjan, lodged an FIR at the Laheri police station against two Bajrang Dal members, Kundan Kumar Mahto and Dhiraj Kumar, and five unidentified persons, for fanning communal tension at the Bharavpur chowk by putting saffron flags at shops owned by Hindus. They were also urging locals to buy only from shops owned by Hindus, said the BDO. “This could lead to a communal tension in the area,” he added. However, even after a week none has been arrested in the case. Similar cases have been lodged in Muzaffarpur, Shahabad, Katihar and Saran districts too. In Katihar, the police arrested an individual who was running a portal for propagating a fake video about a COVID-19 patient moving around unattended in a government facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/82-arrested-in-bihar-for-communal-posts/article31458615.ece
29 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Boat with 33 migrants reaches Odisha coast from Chennai||A fishing boat carrying 33 migrant workers from Chennai reached Odisha’s Ganjam district on Tuesday. This is the third motorboat to bring migrants from Chennai to Ganjam since April 25. To dodge the lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19, these workers opted for a dangerous journey without any navigation equipment. The motorboat set out from Chennai on April 24 and reached the Arjyapalli fishing jetty near the Gopalpur port at 1 a.m. Twenty-nine passengers were from Ganjam and one from Puri, and the other three were from Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh. They were kept in quarantine at Arjyapalli High School. Swabs of persons showing symptoms will be sent for testing, an official said. One of the two engines of their boat developed a snag near the Andhra Pradesh-Odisha border. As the boat ran on a single engine, they arrived late. The migrants, who worked at the Kasimedu fishing jetty in Tamil Nadu, contributed Rs. 2 lakh to buy the boat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/boat-with-33-migrants-reaches-odisha-coast-from-chennai/article31458669.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Anti-graft law covers deemed universities’||In a significant ruling, the Supreme Court has held that bribery and corruption in a deemed university can be tried under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Individuals, authorities or officials connected to a deemed university, whatever be their role or designation, come under the definition of a ‘public servant’. They can be tried and punished under the anti-corruption law, the court said. Deemed universities come within the ambit of the term ‘university’ in Section 2(c)(xi) of the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act, 1988. A deemed institution under the University Grants Commission Act of 1956 has the same common public duty like a university to confer academic degrees, which are recognised in the society. Officials of a deemed varsity, though not seen as public servants in the conventional sense, perform duties in the discharge of which the State, the public and the community at large has an interest, a three-judge Bench led by Justice N.V. Ramana reasoned in a judgment pronounced on April 27.  “The object of the PC Act was not only to prevent the social evil of bribery and corruption, but also to make the same applicable to individuals who might conventionally not be considered public servants. The purpose under the PC Act was to shift focus from those who are traditionally called public officials, to those individuals who perform public duties. Keeping the same in mind, it cannot be stated that a deemed university and the officials therein, perform any less or any different a public duty,” Justice Ramana, who authored the main judgment shared with Justice Mohan M. Shantanagoudar, observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anti-graft-law-covers-deemed-universities/article31458628.ece
29 April 2020||New Delhi,||NITI Aayog slams India’s terror ranking||A report compiled by the NITI Aayog has questioned the methodology adopted by an Australian-based institute to rank India as the seventh worst terrorism affected country ahead of conflict-ridden countries such as the Democratic Republic of Congo, South Sudan, Sudan, Burkina Faso, Palestine and Lebanon. The report also questions the opaque funding of the Institute for Economics and Peace (IEP). Emailed queries by the government think tank, seeking list of its donors, remained unanswered. India has moved to the seventh position from the previous year’s eighth in the annual Global Terrorism Index (GTI) 2019. The countries ahead of it are Afghanistan, Iraq, Nigeria, Syria, Pakistan and Somalia. In March, the Cabinet Secretariat asked NITI Aayog to track 32 such global indices to see how they could help drive reforms and growth. An official said the positioning in the global indices impacted investments and other opportunities. “The purpose was to see which of the indices can be used to drive reforms or which of these would require some amount of engagement with the publishing agency to make the indices more relevant,” a NITI Aayog official said. “Emailed queries sent to the IEP requesting a list of its donors have also remained unanswered. The IEP’s 2019 annual report shows that the organisation has only 12 full-time staff, 12 full-time equivalent staff and 6 volunteers,” the report said.  Positioning in the global indices impacted investments and other opportunities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/niti-aayog-slams-indias-terror-ranking/article31458634.ece
29 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat reports 226 fresh cases, 19 deaths||Gujarat on Tuesday saw 226 new infections and 19 deaths due to COVID-19, with 164 of the cases and all the fatalities reported from Ahmedabad. So far, the State’s cumulative figures are 3,774 cases and 181 deaths, while 434 people have recovered and been discharged, including 40 on Tuesday. The situation in the State’s commercial capital continues to be grim with the number of infections and fatalities increasing. Ahmedabad’s cumulative figures are: 2,543 cases, 129 deaths and 242 recovered. In the past five days, Ahmedabad has recorded 59 deaths and 890 cases. “Ahmedabad continues to be grim and there is no let up,” a State government official said, adding that the city has emerged as the second in terms of cases and deaths after Mumbai. Meanwhile, Ahmedabad’s Municipal Commissioner told mediapersons on Tuesday that the civic body had turned its focus on super spreaders (vegetable and fruit vendors, shop keepers etc.), slums and senior citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-reports-226-fresh-cases-19-deaths/article31458643.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,||51 more deaths as cases near 30,000||“It is also noticed that in many places they are insisting on COVID-19 tests before providing services. The Ministry wants to insist that all health centres should remain open and cater to patients,” the Health Ministry said. The Ministry said that across India there have been some instances of hospitals having closed down as few health care workers working there turned out to be positive for COVID -19. “Also some non-COVID health facilities have reported confirmation of COVID-19, in patients admitted for unrelated/non-respiratory illness, causing undue apprehension among healthcare workers, sometimes leading to impaired functionality of such hospitals,’’ it said. The Ministry has said guidelines have been issued that all health care facilities (HCF) have a staffing plan in place including a contingency plan for infection in staff and patients to maintain continuity of operations. “Staff HCF can be divided into groups to work on rotation basis every 14 days and a group of back up staff which is pooled in case some high risk exposure with suspected COVID-19 infection is detected,” it has suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/51-more-deaths-as-cases-near-30000/article31458620.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Two priests found dead at U.P. temple premises||In the FIR, chowkidar Aminchand stated that he saw Murari running away with a sword and he made noise, prompting villagers to pursue him. Later, Harendra Kumar, Superintendent of Police (Rural), told The Hindu that the murder weapon was a lathi [stick]. “The nature of injuries also suggested the same. We have recovered the murder weapon. The chowkidar made the initial statement on the basis of what the villagers had told him,” he said. Mr. Kumar said locals confirmed that Murari was a drug addict and had a violent streak. “Till afternoon, he was not in his senses to record a statement as he was under the influence of ‘bhang’ [cannabis]. Later, he admitted to the crime and said the priests reprimanded him and berated him.” However, he added, there was no caste angle as the priests also belonged to the same caste group as the accused. Both priests hailed from Aligarh district and turned priests only a decade ago. “Sher Singh suffered from an ailment that limited his movement,” said Mr. Kumar.   Congress general secreatary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted that the killings should not be politicised and the crime should be investigated. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said the incident should not be politicised; instead, the reasons for such a violent and criminal mindset should be investigated and action should be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-priests-found-dead-at-up-temple-premises/article31458618.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Ministry does U-turn on plasma therapy||“The IRCS may like to take up this at the earliest so that the blood collected from the recovered patients could be used for transfusion for the benefit of corona patients,” the Ministry said. Several States across India too have been using and advocating for the therapy with Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday directing officials to encourage use of plasma therapy for the treatment of infected people and to increase testing capacity. Delhi, Gujarat and Maharashtra, among other States, have started clinical trials for the plasma-based treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ministry-does-u-turn-on-plasma-therapy/article31458619.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,||$1.5 billion ADB loan to fund COVID response||It will also be used to provide social protection for 80 crore poor people over the next three months, according to Finance Ministry additional secretary Sameer Kumar Khare, who signed the loan agreement. The loan, approved by the ADB under its COVID-19 Active Response and Expenditure Support (CARES) Programme, is the bank’s largest ever to India. The Centre will also take the ADB's technical support to strengthen its implementation framework and capacities to deliver the Rs. 1.7 lakh crore welfare package announced last month. The bank was also in talks to provide “further possible support for stimulating the economy, support strong growth recovery, and to build resilience to future shocks”, an official statement said. During an April 9 telephone meeting, ADB President Masatsugu Asakawa told Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman that apart from emergency needs, the bank was also willing to support “short- to medium-term measures to restore the dynamic economic growth of the country by exploring all available financing options”, it added. This would include support for the MSMEs by facilitating access to finance through credit guarantee schemes, integration into global and national value chains through enterprise development centers, and a credit enhancement facility for infrastructure projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/15-billion-adb-loan-to-fund-covid-response/article31458624.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Explain MHA order on full wages, SC tells govt.||Nagreeka said it was engaged in manufacture and export of cotton yarns, fabric and textiles. It said stoppage of operations since the lockdown had led to losses to the tune of Rs. 1.50 crore. Separate petitions have also been filed by entities from the micro, small and medium sector against the government’s order to pay full wages to their workers. MSME industries have said they are compelled to slide into insolvency by the government, which has ordered them to continue to pay full salaries to their workers. These petitions have asked the court to order the government to support them by taking responsibility for 70% of their staffers’ pay by drawing funds from the PM Cares Fund or the Employees State Insurance Corporation. The court is yet to list these pleas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/explain-mha-order-on-full-wages-sc-tells-govt/article31458629.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. questions govt.’s Rs. 68,607 cr.-loan ‘write-off’||The Congress on Tuesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “explain” why his government had “written off” bank loans worth Rs. 68,607 crore taken by the top 50 defaulters, including Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya, at a time when the country is fighting the coronavirus [COVID-19] pandemic. The party cited a reply of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to an Right to Information (RTI) query and claimed that until March 2020, the government had written off loans worth Rs. 6.66 lakh crore since 2014. ‘Truth held back’ Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, in a tweet, said though the government had refused to answer him in Parliament, the RBI has now put out the list, which includes names of BJP’s “friends”. “I asked a straight question in Parliament — state the names of the 50 top bank loan defaulters in the country. The Finance Minister refused to answer the question. Now the RBI has given the names of Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and many of BJP’s ‘friends’ in the list of bank frauds. That is why this truth was held back from Parliament,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted in Hindi. Addressing an online press conference, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, “This is a classic case of promoting the ‘dupe, deceive and depart’ policy of the Modi government, which can no longer be accepted and the Prime Minister has to answer.” Mr. Surjewala said while the entire country is fighting the coronavirus, the Centre doesn’t have money to pay to States but still decided write off Rs. 68,307 crore of defaulters. “This reflects the misconceived priorities and dishonest intentions of the Modi government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-questions-govts-rs-68607-cr-loan-write-off/article31458631.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||NITI Aayog employee tests positive in Delhi||A NITI Aayog employee in Delhi has tested positive for COVID-19, and the building has been sealed for 48 hours. “An employee working at NITI Bhavan has been detected positive with COVID-19. It was informed to the authorities at 9 a.m. this morning. NITI Aayog is following all the due protocols necessary as per the Ministry of Health guidelines. The building has been sealed,” the government think tank said in a tweet. Disinfection and sanitisation of building was on and the patient’s contacts had been asked to go into self-quarantine, the think tank stated. Working from home NITI Aayog added that all officials were functional, available and currently working from home. “As per the protocol of the Ministry of Health, NITI Bhavan will resume normal operations after 48 hours,” the think tank tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/niti-aayog-employee-tests-positive-in-delhi/article31458638.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||BRICS should help entrepreneurs: India||Member countries of the BRICS group should assist private entrepreneurs to help them deal with the economic fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said on Monday. He also spoke of the need for reform in the multilateral global platforms during the videoconference of Foreign Ministers of the BRICS group which was convened by Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. “He [Mr. Jaishankar] emphasised that we need to provide support to businesses, especially MSMEs, to tide over the crisis and ensure livelihoods are not lost. The Minister emphasised that the pandemic is not only posing a great risk to the health and well being of humanity but is also severely impacting global economy,” said a government release. China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi, South African Minister of International Relations Grace Naledi Pandor and Brazilian Foreign Minister Ernesto Araujo participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/brics-should-help-entrepreneurs-india/article31458667.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Overcome bias||The human mind gives in to discriminating tendencies that arise spontaneously and it needs great effort to overcome them and remain unbiased in any situation. In a discourse, Swami Paramasukananda drew attention to how Sri Ramakrishna would explain this issue by quoting the case of the Trimurtis who subject themselves to human emotions and gunas during the time of avatar, merely to enable human beings to learn the art of overcoming them. An interesting incident from the life of Adi Sankara illustrates this point. Believed to be an avatar of Siva, there is no limitation to his jnana. Yet as a human being, he is subject to a situation when he reacts with a sense of discrimination. It is perhaps the Lord’s way of enabling the acharya gain the subtle Advaita jnana and thereby also teaching humanity how to deal with such feelings that frequently show up in the life of every being. It is held that once, when Adi Sankara was proceeding towards the Ganga for his ablutions through the narrow lanes in Kasi, he sees a chandala and asks him to move aside. The chandala merely asks, ‘Are you referring to my physical frame or my inner atma?’ Immediately realisation dawns in the acharya and he sees the very Lord in front of him who out of His grace has granted him jnana. This incident is the cause for the birth of Manisha Panchakam, a Stotra full of divine wisdom and jnana that can help people realise the true value of human life. It is also held that once Swami Vivekananda was entreated by a dancer to grace her dance performance. But when he declined, she sang a soulful song of Surdas, wherein the saint pleads with God to accept him with all his faults. It enabled him to shed his prejudices and refine his own feelings about life and people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/overcome-bias/article31458655.ece
29 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Chief Justice in quarantine in Shillong||Biswanath Somadder, who drove 2,000 km from Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh via Kolkata to reach Shillong, went into home quarantine after taking oath as the Chief Justice of the High Court of Meghalaya on Monday. Court officials said Chief Justice Somadder (57) travelled by road following national protocols related to COVID-19 and honoured State protocols to quarantine himself for 14 days at his official residence soon after Governor Tathagata Roy swore him in. Officials said he took turns with his chauffeur to drive from Prayagraj via Kolkata, where he stayed at his residence briefly. The trip took less than a week. Meghalaya’s Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong defended the “sudden appointment” amid the lockdown. The government had faced criticism for not waiting for a few days for it to end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chief-justice-in-quarantine-in-shillong/article31458886.ece
29 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Country stares at a fourth lockdown too’||Bihar BJP chief Dr. Sanjay Jayaswal said the failure of employer States, especially in western India, to keep migrant labour in good conditions may lead to a “fourth lockdown” till at least the festival of “Chhatth” (celebrated in Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh in October-November.) He said there was need for an uniform countrywide policy for the return of migrant labour and students to their States. “However poor a person is, at least in rural India, they don’t starve. Cereals and grains are available even to landless labourers. Employers and State governments depending on migrant labour should take this into account, and should have taken better care. Now we want our people back at least after May 3,” he said. “We are looking at the prospect of a fourth lockdown till ‘Chhatth’ in western India, solely on account of labour that powers their economies having returned home.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/country-stares-at-a-fourth-lockdown-too/article31458622.ece
29 April 2020||Bhopal,||Brother of victim also dies in M.P.||Around mid-April, a 63-year-old man was brought to M.Y. Hospital in Indore. After he was denied an ambulance, his son took him to the hospital in a scooter. But as soon as they reached the hospital, the man died. That day his brother, 60, rode beside them on another scooter. And a week later, he too died. The brothers showed COVID-19 symptoms, but only the younger was tested. “If my uncle’s body had been tested, we could have probably saved my father,” said Rahul Chandne, 34. The government-run COVID-19 facility refused to take in his uncle’s body. As the body was not tested, no contact-tracing was done. Two days after the younger brother’s death at the hospital on April 22, his report confirmed him positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/brother-of-victim-also-dies-in-mp/article31458635.ece
29 April 2020||Kolkata,||‘Private clinics, hospitals can’t refuse patients’||The West Bengal government is set to issue an advisory to private hospitals making clear that they cannot turn back patients and directing private clinics and doctors’ private chambers to remain open during the ongoing lockdown. “Private hospital will have to be more energetic,” Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said. “We have to ensure that they do not refuse patients... We are issuing an advisory,” he added. “Clinics are shut and doctors are saying that they cannot treat patients as they have their chambers in the private clinic’s building,” said a patient’s relative. “Many private hospitals are shut too,” the relative added. Over 28 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/private-clinics-hospitals-cant-refuse-patients/article31458637.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Give PPEs to teams in non-pandemic areas’||Taking serious note of rising infections from asymptomatic patients, the Supreme Court has ordered the government to examine and make necessary arrangements to provide protective medical gear to medical staffers working in “non-COVID treatment areas”. “We direct the Union of India to examine this issue and make necessary suggestions in the ‘Rational Use of Personal Protective Equipment’ guidelines so that PPEs are provided to all health officials, as stated above, who are working in non-COVID treatment areas,” said a three-judge Bench led by Justice N.V. Ramana. The case was heard on Monday but the order was published on April 28. ‘Should be protected’ The court found substance in a plea made by Jerryl Banait, a doctor, that health workers, including doctors, nurses, ward boys and paramedical staff, in non-COVID zones should also be protected. The petition said the issue was of utmost urgency as infections from asymptomatic patients were on the rise in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/give-ppes-to-teams-in-non-pandemic-areas/article31458641.ece
29 April 2020||Mumbai,||Dharavi records 42 new cases||Dharavi reported its highest single-day tally on Tuesday, reporting 42 new cases of COVID-19. The area also reported four deaths. Its tally now stands at 330 cases, including 18 deaths. The new cases are from areas like Matunga labour camp, Kunchikurve Nagar, 90-feet road. Besides, cases were reported from newer parts of Dharavi, including Markandeya Society, Dhobi Ghat, Mochi gully, Agas Wadi and Uday Society. Dharavi reported four deaths on Tuesday, two from cases reported earlier. These two, a 60 year-old man and a 60 year-old woman, died at Sion Hospital. Besides, a 48 year-old man from Kasarwadi and a 55 year-old man from Social Nagar passed away at KEM Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dharavi-records-42-new-cases/article31458646.ece
29 April 2020||Mumbai,||Uddhav calls Yogi on killing of priests||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday called his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath over reports of the alleged murder of two priests in Bulandshahar and requested him to take strict action against the culprits. “I spoke to U.P. CM Yogi Adityanath regarding the incident and expressed deepest concern about the same,” said Mr. Thackeray. The Maharashtra CM added that he informed Mr. Adityanath about the arrests made in an identical incident earlier this month in Palghar. “I am sure that you will do the same. While we support each other in such times, I am sure that no attempt will be made to communalise the incident,” he added. Mr. Thackeray’s correspondence is seen as a ‘return favour’ as the U.P. CM had called him after the Palghar incidentto express his concern.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uddhav-calls-yogi-on-killing-of-priests/article31458614.ece
29 April 2020||Patna,||Lalu at risk of contracting COVID-19, says Tejashwi||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav expressed concern over the health of his imprisoned father Lalu Prasad who is undergoing treatment at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences in Ranchi, after a patient there tested positive for COVID-19. “It’s worrisome to know that the doctors treating my father may have been infected with COVID-19. I join 12 crore Biharis in expressing concern.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lalu-at-risk-of-contracting-covid-19-says-tejashwi/article31458617.ece
29 April 2020||Lucknow,||Most posts flagged by U.P. police relate to communal issues||Since March 16, most of the offensive and inflammatory social media posts around COVID-19 flagged by the Uttar Pradesh police were related to communal issues. Of the 578 FIRs lodged by them against objectionable posts online, the majority, 310, are those that could “impact communal harmony,” the UP DGP headquarters said in a state-ment. While 151 posts related to spreading misinformation or rumours, 117 were linked to other reasons like indecent remarks, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/most-posts-flagged-by-up-police-relate-to-communal-issues/article31458623.ece
29 April 2020||New Delhi,||PUDR demands release of activists Teltumbde, Navlakha||Activists Anand Teltumbde and Gautam Navlakha, who surrendered before the National Investigation Agency in Mumbai and Delhi respectively on April 14 in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case, should be given interim bail in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, People’s Union for Democratic Rights (PUDR) demanded on Tuesday. In a statement, it said other vulnerable prisoners of advanced age and ailments should also be released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pudr-demands-release-of-activists-teltumbde-navlakha/article31458621.ece
29 April 2020||New Delhi,||CRPF SI dies of COVID-19 in Delhi||A 55-year-old Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) Sub-Inspector died of COVID-19 at the Safdarjung Hospital here on Tuesday. This is the first such death reported in the Central Armed Police Force, comprising the CRPF, the Border Security Force, the Central Industrial Security Force, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the Sashastra Seema Bal and the Assam Rifles. A resident of Barpeta in Assam, the deceased was posted at the CRPF unit at Mayur Vihar in East Delhi. A senior CRPF official said the victim was a diabetic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crpf-si-dies-of-covid-19-in-delhi/article31458627.ece
29 April 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Headmistress helps families of poor students||With the lockdown affecting the livelihood of many poor families, the Headmistress of Panchayat Union Primary School at Thuppapuram near T. Pazhur in Ariyalur district has come to the aid of families of poor students studying in her school. In an attempt to understand the plight of parents, many of whom were finding it difficult to meet both ends meet in the wake of the extended lockdown, P. Kannagi, 50, the headmistress of the school, visited houses of many of the 62 students studying in her school. With most of the parents being daily wage labourers and farm labourers, they narrated their financial struggle to her. During the survey, Ms. Kannagi found that a few were struggling even to buy milk as small savings which they had got exhausted. Moved by their plight, she decided to disburse cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 each to all 41 families. She then shared her concern for the families with her colleague Parameswari, who also readily accepted her plan and contributed Rs. 5,000 for the cause. They personally visited all 41 families and handed over Rs. 1000 each on Monday. “All are really struggling to meet the household expenses. We handed over cash assistance only after analysing their situation,” said Ms. Kannagi. She said that the assistance was given mainly to woman member of the family as they would judiciously spend it until the lifting of lockdown. “It is unexpected. We have received the assistance when we are badly in need of support. It will be of immense help to us,” said C. Ilavarasan, a parent, of Vembakudi. He said that the timely help would drive home the importance of empathy among their children too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/headmistress-helps-families-of-poor-students/article31459141.ece
29 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Test data sheds light on wide disparities among districts||The number of COVID-19 tests done per million population (tpm) varied widely among districts, with Chennai leading the pack with 3,096 tpm, and Tiruvallur coming in last with just 142 tpm. According to data released by the Greater Chennai Corporation, the State capital was conducting a significantly higher number of tests than all other districts, with Theni coming in a distant second with 1,176 tpm. Only 9 districts were testing at a rate higher than the State average of 694, while 28 districts were testing at a lower rate, indicating a significant variation in testing figures among districts. Of the 37 districts in all, only six were testing at a rate of over 1,000 tpm. Fifteen of the remaining 31 districts were performing less than 500 tpm. A comparison of the rate of testing with the number of cases showed a skewed correlation between the two in several districts. While certain districts with a fairly high number of cases were testing at a lower rate, the converse was also observed in a small number of districts, which had fewer cases and were testing at a relatively higher rate. Tiruvallur had the poorest testing rate, despite having reported 52 cases as of Friday. Other districts that were in the bottom 15 in terms of testing rate were Tenkasi, Ranipet, Chengalpattu, Nagapattinam and Erode, despite all of them finding a place among the top 20 in terms of the number of cases. On the other end of the spectrum was Perambalur, which had just five positive cases as of Friday, but was performing 1,101 tpm — the fifth-highest in the State. Similar trends were witnessed in Tirupattur and Dharmapuri. An official in the Health and Family Welfare department said Tamil Nadu’s testing rate was definitely better when compared to many other States. “For every person testing positive, we trace and test 35 contacts on an average,” he said. Chennai is all set to expand testing in containment zones. “We are going to screen everyone with fever, cough and symptoms of influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory infection,” the official said.  (All the figures were as of April 24, 2020)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/test-data-sheds-light-on-wide-disparities-among-districts/article31458832.ece
29 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||It’s wholesale only at Koyambedu market||The wholesale vegetable market alone will function at the Koyambedu market complex from Wednesday. This was the decision taken during a second round of meetings between government officials and representatives of various traders associations on Tuesday. D. Karthikeyan, member secretary, Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority, was among the officials who participated. According to wholesale traders, it was decided to stick with wholesale vegetable trade as the number of retailers is larger. In light of the decision, all retail shops will remain shut. About 400-500 wholesale shops will carry on trade till 10 a.m. This is expected to bring down the crowd by 50%. It was also suggested that space would be provided in other areas such as Aminjikarai for retail vegetable trade. Meanwhile, the Chennai Corporation began collecting samples from traders in the Koyambedu wholesale market to test for COVID-19. The civic body sent a mobile unit on Tuesday to the market following reports of COVID-19 cases in the market. Contact tracing has begun in the market, officials said. According to them, at least 12 persons associated with the market have tested positive. On Tuesday, the vegetable market wore a deserted look as many shops were shut. Fruit merchants have decided to stop sourcing produce to the market from Wednesday. S. Srinivasan, president, Chennai Fruits Commission Agents Association, said: “We are planning to stop sourcing fruits from Wednesday till May 1. It will be difficult to shift trade to other areas like Madhavaram. We will sell the stock that arrived on Tuesday.” On an average, the fruit market gets 1,300 tonnes of fruits. It was reduced to 200 tonnes on Tuesday. “We have more fruit retailers in the market and many have already shut shop. Fruit wholesalers depend on retailers for sales,” he said. In a bid to prevent scarcity of essential commodities in the city, the Corporation is planning to set up markets in bus stands and playgrounds. “We have compiled a list of playgrounds and bus stands in the city. If the government decides to shift the Koyambedu wholesale market, we will provide space for markets in playgrounds and bus stands. A final decision will be taken at a meeting to be held by the Chief Secretary later in the evening today,” said a Corporation official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/its-wholesale-only-at-koyambedu-market/article31458803.ece
29 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin demands withdrawal of decision to freeze DA||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to withdraw the government orders freezing the dearness allowance and suspending the encashment of earned leave, saying such measures will severely affect the financial position of government employees. “The government’s decision is condemnable. Instead of targeting its employees, the government should bring pressure to bear on the Centre to secure Tamil Nadu’s share of GST, the funds allocated to it by the Finance Commission and relief for fighting the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said in a statement. He pointed out that government employees had contributed a day’s salary to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund and were involved in the battle against the pandemic. “Police, health workers, medical professionals and employees of the departments of Revenue, Municipal Administration and Food and cooperative societies have dedicated themselves to relief efforts. The government has not realised that its decision will demoralise them,” he said. Mr. Stalin said the AIADMK government was following the BJP-led Centre in “taking away” the benefits of government employees. “Mr. Palaniswami had boasted that his government was adept at financial management. But the measures it has taken have proved that the State’s finances are in a mess,” he said. Mr. Stalin also urged the State government to take steps to facilitate the return of Tamils residing in other countries. The DMK leader, who had an interaction with Tamils residing in the Gulf countries via video-conference, said they were keen to return, but were being held back by the lack of flight and visa services.  Kamal criticises move MNM founder Kamal Haasan tweeted, “Prime Minister Modi said that private companies should not take any decision that affects their employees. But, the Central and State government have cut the DA and earned leave.” AMMK leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran wondered how it would be proper to ‘target’ government employees instead of controlling "unnecessary expenditure".||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-demands-withdrawal-of-decision-to-freeze-da/article31458828.ece
29 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||People haven’t realised how virulent COVID-19 is, says CM||The public are yet to realise the virulence of COVID-19, and have been playful, disregarding physical distancing and other norms, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said during a meeting with 12 coordination teams at the Secretariat on Tuesday. “They don't seem to learn from news reports from the U.S., Italy and Spain, where the death tolls have been high,” he said. “Despite our advice, members of the public are refusing to abide by the rules and are being playful about it. They do not realise the virulence of this disease..,” Mr. Palaniswami said in his opening remarks during a meeting with IAS and IPS officers. The challenge in ensuring physical distancing was primarily seen in vegetable markets in Municipal Corporations like Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Tiruchi, he said. Noting that people were watching on TV and reading newspaper reports of people dying in the U.S., Italy and Spain due to COVID-19, the CM said, "Initially, people there [in the worst-affected countries] did not realise the severity of the disease. But after they started following the guidelines laid down by the government, the number of deaths declined." A senior officer present at the meeting said the CM had indicated that the urban centres were proving to be a challenge, unlike rural areas, where the lockdown rules were being fully complied with. “The spread has declined in Italy and Spain and, according to media reports, the lockdown has been relaxed in those countries,” he pointed out. "But our people are not following [the rules]. We are in the initial stage [of the pandemic]. If the public extend their cooperation to the steps being taken by the government, the spread of the disease could be contained easily. Otherwise, even if all other countries contain the spread, we will not be able to do it. So, people should realise the virulence of the disease and follow the rules. Police and Local Administration departments have been carrying out street campaigns to create awareness," the CM said. He also instructed the authorities to assign less tedious tasks to police personnel who were over 55 years of age. Question time Multiple officers who were present at the meeting pointed out that it was unusual, with the CM specifically putting across questions to the department secretaries. "Usually, the secretaries make presentations, and then there would be some time for questions. But on Tuesday, the CM asked the officers specific questions, and only after getting answers did he allow them to make presentations. He bombarded nearly every officer with questions,” a senior officer said. The CM asked questions on a wide range of topics including the methods being adopted by various departments to ensure physical distancing, whether the cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 and dry rations for unorganised sector workers were reaching the beneficiaries, and specific ways for exiting the lockdown. "Looks like the CM got specific questions prepared by a team of officials, who might have framed questions based on media, police, intelligence and politicians. The questions and answers and presentations went on for about three hours," another officer said. ‘Mood for opening’ A senior officer said there was a "mood for opening" among the top officials, wherever possible, of course only in areas that were not in containment zones and red spots. "There has been no talk so far on extending the complete lockdown in five Corporations and areas around Chennai after April 29. As for what happens after May 3, the expert panel will decide," the official said. The CM is scheduled to chair video-conference meetings with all District Collectors and medical and public health experts at the Secretariat on Wednesday. Deputy CM O. Panneerselvam, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar and Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy and other senior officials were present at the meeting on Tuesday.  They don't seem to learn from news reports from the U.S., Italy and Spain, where the death tolls have been high||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-havent-realised-how-virulent-covid-19-is-says-cm/article31458837.ece
29 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Containment zones up by 45%||The Chennai Corporation has created 202 containment zones where some residents have tested positive for COVID-19 in the city. The number of containment zones has registered an increase of 45% during the last week, pointing to a rise in the number of people testing positive for COVID-19 in the city. The areas which are “continuous building areas” with a dense population have reported the largest number of containment zones in the city. Royapuram zone, which is densely populated, has one-fourth of the number of containment zones. Zones such as Teynampet, Tondiarpet, Anna Nagar and Kodambakkam have reported a number of positive cases. Officials said that contact tracing had been intensified in congested neighbourhoods. Zones such as Ambattur, Sholinganallur and Manali, which have lower population density than others have fewer containment zones. Chennai Corporation has used 10.17 lakh litres of disinfectant solutions along 25,000 streets in various parts of the city. All the 202 containment zones are being disinfected regularly. The streets are being disinfected twice a day using 1,160 equipment and vehicles. Fiat to banks The Corporation has decided to lock and seal banks and ATM kiosks that are not being sanitised regularly. “We have advised banks to disinfect the branches and ATM kiosks to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Most ATM kiosks and bank branches have not been sanitised in the past few days. The banks should nominate an employee to take responsibility for disinfecting the premises and ATM kiosks. The Corporation health department officials will inspect the ATM kiosks and bank branches and seal the branches that are not disinfected,” said an official of the Corporation. Amma canteens The number of visitors to Amma canteens has increased significantly in the past few days. Crowding had been reported in most of the 407 locations. Police personnel have been posted to enforce social distancing in these canteens. The Corporation has permitted serving of chapatis at night as demanded by consumers. However, most Amma canteens were reportedly unable to receive the supply of raw material for chapati owing to inadequate number of vehicles to distribute the materials to each canteen. For details on containment streets, visit https://bit.ly/ChennaiCOVID2804||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/containment-zones-up-by-45/article31458808.ece
29 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TN plans portal for workers abroad intending to return||The State government is planning to develop a portal for Tamil Nadu natives who are employed abroad and intend to return in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. “The portal should be up in the next few days,” a senior government official said. Once the COVID-19 lockdown was lifted and transportation including air traffic opened, the data from this portal could be used in allowing them to return as well as quarantine them, he said. Kerala government has already set up a portal allowing its natives working abroad to register. “We are expecting about a lakh workers to return,” he added. Another official said a lot depended on when and how the Centre would open up air traffic into the country. “The subject of air traffic was discussed during the recent video conference the Prime Minister had with the Chief Ministers. So, naturally, we need to plan on how to manage the inflow of NRI workers,” he said.  Professor S. Irudaya Rajan of the Centre for Development Studies (CDS) in Thiruvananthapuram, a noted expert researching on migrants, feels an estimated 2.5 lakh Tamil workers could return from abroad. “Over 25 lakh workers from Tamil Nadu are employed in various countries and of them, I expect at least 10% of them to return this year,” he said. Planning ahead was necessary as to who should be allowed preference since most of them would be in a rush to return. “Priority would be given naturally to pregnant women, children and elderly persons.” According to Mr. Rajan some 12 lakh workers are employed in the Gulf countries. “Almost all the countries are affected by COVID-19 and because of the repercussions, most of them would want to or be forced to come back home, if they could not continue to work there anymore,” he said and pointed out there may not be any job for them here too at once. Tamil Nadu and Kerala had 25 lakh and 22 lakh of their people working abroad respectively, which constituted almost one-fourth of 200 lakh Indians workers employed abroad, he said. Based on a survey of a random sample of 25,000 households across Tamil Nadu in 2015, his team of researchers have put the figure as 25 lakh. Mr. Rajan emphasised that in many households, the family was dependent on the remittances made by their family member employed abroad and once he/she lost his/her job, the family would have to find another source of income. The State government could think about conducting medical checks for them, finding jobs for them, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-plans-portal-for-workers-abroad-intending-to-return/article31458818.ece
29 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two policemen test positive||The Nungambakkam police station, located in the heart of city, was cordoned off on Tuesday after two police personnel tested positive for COVID-19. Both the personnel have been admitted to the COVID-19 ward of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. According to the police, one was a writer who lives with his family in Triplicane. His family members were being subjected to tests now. A Grade I constable, who is a close friend of the writer, also tested positive. Sources said he was attached to the SB CID unit and was following the case relating to burial of neurosurgeon Dr. Simon Hercules in Kilpauk. Dr. Simon died of COVID-19 and the burial of his body was objected by local residents. The constable frequently visited his writer friend in Nungambakkam station. The Nungambakkam police station building, which houses the office of Assistant Commissioner of Police, was cordoned off and health authorities sprayed disinfectants. Police personnel working there were subjected to tests. Last week, four policemen of Esplanade station, North Beach station, Government Railway Police in Egmore and Central Railway Station tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-policemen-test-positive/article31458806.ece
29 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Runaway COVID-19 patient brought back||A 58-year- old patient who tested positive for COVID-19 went missing from the special ward at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH). The police personnel of the Flower Bazaar station traced him to his house at Pulianthope and brought him back. The resident of Sivarajapuram near Pulianthope was admitted to the special ward on the fifth floor of RGGGH after he tested positive on April 23. ‘He walked home’ On Monday evening, he stepped out of the hospital and reached his house by foot. At 9 p.m, hospital staff found that he was missing from the ward and reported the matter to the police. The police personnel traced him in his house and brought back to the hospital at 9.30 p.m. Hospital sources said the patient had psychiatric illness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/runaway-covid-19-patient-brought-back/article31458804.ece
29 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Come sunset, the sky is a riot of colour||City residents walking on their terraces have been treated to gorgeous sunsets over the past few days. Multiple hues and streaks of light can be spotted in the twilight sky. Many have taken to social media to share photographs of orange and red streaks adorning the evening sky over the weekend. Meteorologists said such hues are typical of a pre-monsoon sky. Officials of the Meteorological Department said that at times crepuscular rays, commonly referred to as Buddha Rays, are visible in the early evening sky over Chennai. These rays form when the sun goes below the horizon during the twilight hours. K. Srikanth, who blogs with Chennaiyil Oru Mazhaikalam, said the phenomenon was due to the moisture left in the air after the thunderstorms in interior parts. “There is a refraction of the sun's rays over the sky. This is like the effect when light is passed through a prism in a science experiment. Here, moisture or water particles acts as prisms. Just like beautiful sunsets during the pre-monsoon season, sunrises can be brilliant during the northeast monsoon as thunderstorms occur over the sea,” he added. Rain likely The Meteorological Department has forecast isolated rainfall, particularly over coastal and interior areas, till April 30. Chennai could experience thundershowers on Wednesday. In the 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday, many places recorded light to moderate rainfall. Sholingur in Vellore district and Cincona in Coimbatore district were among the places that received 4 cm of rainfall. N. Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, Chennai, said dry weather might return after April 30 as a low pressure area was likely to form over South Andaman sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/come-sunset-the-sky-is-a-riot-of-colour/article31458824.ece
29 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No handover of bodies till lab results are out||Government and private hospitals will not hand over the bodies of persons who died due to Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI), including COVID-19 and suspected COVID-19 cases, till the results of laboratory tests are known. A standard safety protocol for burial/cremation of such bodies will be followed, irrespective of the test results, sources in the Health Department said on Tuesday. The decision follows the recommendations made by the State Level Technical Committee for conducting an audit of COVID-19 deaths. It was decided that all deaths linked to SARI/COVID-19/suspected COVID-19 cases should be reported to the Director of Public Health & Preventive Medicine, the Director of Medical & Rural Health Services and the Director of Medical Education within an hour. A case-sheet exclusively for COVID-19 cases, formulated by an expert committee, will be used by doctors to ‘legibly’ enter all details that may be useful for the death audit by institutional and State-level committees. The hospital superintendent and senior doctors, drawn from various specialities, will be part of the hospital committee that will audit the death — analyse the treatment protocol and assess the cause of death — and send its report to the State-level committee on the same day, sources said. “The findings of the death audit report should be recorded and acted upon. A copy of the patient’s case-sheet after hospital audit should be sent to the State- and district-level audit committees and also to the State Death Control Desk at the Directorate of Public Health for future reference,” a senior health official said  , adding that the recommendations of the committee had been accepted for implementation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-handover-of-bodies-till-lab-results-are-out/article31458835.ece
29 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||What’s behind the high numbers?||The sudden near doubling of the number of cases in Tamil Nadu was unsettling for residents, who seemed to be resigned to a flattish path the epidemic seemed to be taking. Of the 121 cases, 103 were from Chennai, so far the city with the highest number of cases in the State, but also with the highest number of tests. While some promoted the idea of the epidemic entering the “doubling” (literally what it means — double the number) phase in Tamil Nadu, the patchy results are a negation of that theory, health officials counter. The number of districts that have thrown up positive cases has come down. The dense, congested pockets of the city, are the ones consistently showing positive cases, the official added. The simple reason must be the high number of tests being done in Chennai, epidemiologists feel. Tamil Nadu has edged up to the second slot in terms of tests conducted in the country, officials claim. “I would insist that the good part is that we are testing extensively in Chennai, a hotspot area. The numbers will go up, but let that not bother us too much,” says P. Kuganantham, former Corporation Health Officer. Recovery rate The State’s recovery percentage, at nearly 55%, is among the best in the country, and well above the national average, and fatality is at about 1%. The health official claims, “On an average at any given point of time, we have 8 people who are symptomatic and maybe two people who need oxygen.” The bulk of the people are still asymptomatic or have very mild symptoms, officials add. While the focus on testing won’t lose steam, the State will examine options, such as home quarantine for mild symptoms as advised by the ICMR, and also look after vulnerable populations, in terms of prevention, testing, and treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/whats-behind-the-high-numbers/article31458838.ece
29 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tropical cyclone gets Tamil name||For the first time since 2004, a tropical cyclone over the north Indian ocean would have a Tamil name, Murasu , meaning an ancient musical instrument, a type of drum. It is one of the names listed for tropical cyclones over the north Indian ocean prepared by the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) panel. With the first list of names suggested for tropical cyclones being used, except for Amphan suggested by Thailand, a fresh list of names has been prepared by the WMO panel for identifying cyclones developing over the north Indian ocean, including in Arabian Sea. The new list has names suggested by five new member countries — Iran, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Yemen and the U.A.E. The list has 169 names, including 13 names each suggested by 13 member countries. In India, the regional meteorological centres suggest names and those provided by the public were included. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of the Meteorology, Chennai, said “We suggested names related to ocean, fish and coastal areas and those pertaining to information. Murasu was suggested as it denoted the percussion instrument used for disseminating information.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tropical-cyclone-gets-tamil-name/article31458811.ece
29 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvallur police install kiosks||With a few policemen contracting COVID–19 in the State, the Tiruvallur police have set up kiosks to collect petitions/complaints. This was to ensure there was no physical contact, said P. Aravindan, Superintendent of Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvallur-police-install-kiosks/article31458810.ece
29 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||ESI Hospital Coimbatore gets wide praise for COVID-19 management||On Monday, A. Nirmala, Dean of Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, received a call from Piyush Goyal, Union Minister for Railways, who conveyed appreciation from Prime Minister Narendra Modi for effective COVID-19 management by the hospital. The hospital, which handles COVID-19 cases from Coimbatore, Tiruppur and the Nilgiris, has so far treated 251 cases, of which 214 have recovered and got discharged from the hospital as on Tuesday. Thirty-seven persons from the three districts are undergoing treatment at the hospital as on Tuesday. Also, no death due to COVID-19 has been reported at the hospital. “Initially we did not expect that many cases of COVID-19 would emerge in the district. The hospital was declared as nodal treatment centre for the disease on March 23, following which the bed strength for these cases was increased to 400,” the Dean said. The hospital treated patients who were in a range of risk categories. While 65 of them had co-morbid conditions, 36 were aged below 10. The youngest COVID-19 patient was 10-days-old while the oldest was an 87 year-old hemiplegic patient. None of the patients admitted to the hospital had Severe Acute Respiratory Infections (SARI) and nobody was put on ventilator support. According to T. Ravikumar, Medical Superintendent of the hospital, the hospital even arranged a crèche for the children of COVID-19 patients. Dr. Nirmala said none of the medical team contracted the disease while handling patients. As many as three doctors worked in three floors of the COVID-19 ward of the hospital for a shift of eight hours. Four staff nurses and four sanitary workers also worked in each floor for a shift. “Ours was the first hospital to offer counselling by a psychiatrist for patients from day one,” said Dr. Ravikumar. While a team led by Assistant Resident Medical Officers Mythili and Parimala took care of the food comprising a healthy menu for the patients, Dr. Tamilselvan coordinated the stay and quarantine of medical teams who completed duty for a week. Dr. Ganesamoorthy, nodal officer for COVID-19, coordinated other activities. “It was a team effort that led to good results in COVID-19 management. In one of the cases, wherein a whole family contracted the disease except a two-year-old child, our staff took care of the boy till his parents and family members recovered,” said Dr. Nirmala. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswamy, Health Minister K. Vijayabaskar and Health Secretary Beela Rajesh too have appreciated the hospital’s COVID-19 management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/esi-hospital-coimbatore-gets-wide-praise-for-covid-19-management/article31458858.ece
29 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Bail for news portal founder||The first judicial magistrate court in Coimbatore on Tuesday granted bail to Andrew Sam Raja Pandian, founder of news portal SimpliCity, who was arrested on April 23 for carrying a news item on alleged shortcomings faced by government healthcare professionals and corruption by some employees of the State-run public distribution system. Magistrate A. Prabu granted bail to Mr. Pandian and directed him to execute a bond for Rs. 10,000 with two sureties on or after June 1, 2020 and before June 15, 2020. He was arrested on a complaint from a Coimbatore Corporation official that the report was “false” and “provocative” against the State Government. Bail opposed The police opposed the bail, stating that the investigation into the charge against Mr. Pandian was in the initial stage. They said the report was carried with a malafide intention to create fear in the public and cause a law and order problem. The police contended that if released on bail, he would carry more such “false” reports. Counsel for the petitioner submitted that he was innocent, did his job as a journalist, and never published a false news or carry out a propaganda against the State. There no malafide intention in carrying the news and he was not connected to any political group, the Counsel argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bail-for-news-portal-founder/article31458813.ece
29 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Touch-free hand washing system developed||The regional centre of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research - Central Institute of Agri Engineering has developed a touch-free hand wash system and portable touch-free hand sanitiser that can be installed at hospitals, markets, malls offices and industries. Sensor According to a press release, the hand wash system has a water tank, photo diffuser sensor, water pump, speed regulator, battery, relay board and touch-free hand sanitiser dispensing unit. When the hand reaches near the sensor, it triggers the pump to turn on. Liquid soap / water goes to the tap. The discharge rate of water and soap can be regulated. This can be run on AC current and there is provision to run it on DC battery. There is also provision to attach solar energy panel. The hand sanitiser dispenser is a stand-alone unit and a sensor is located near the outlet of sanitiser dispensing bottle. Details of the products are available at the regional centre on Veerakeralam road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/touch-free-hand-washing-system-developed/article31458846.ece
29 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Students from Assam want to return home||As many as 39 women students from Assam, pursuing undergraduate and postgraduate courses in different educational institutions in the city, have demanded facilities to return home. They had tweeted their wish to the Assamese officials and this was taken up by a non-profit organisation working in the north eastern States. The organisation sought support from the local authorities here to meet the needs of these students. The students, who are staying across the city, had received financial support from the Assam government. They said their main need was train service to return home. They said they were not feeling comfortable staying here and preferred to go back to their families. District Collector K. Rajamani said officials had met the students and provided them with provisions. The officials had also discussed with the students their needs and assured them support to return home when train services will be resumed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-from-assam-want-to-return-home/article31458844.ece
29 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Special envelopes released||The Department of Posts, Coimbatore division, on Tuesday released special envelopes to create awareness on health and safety at workplaces. The envelopes come with a COVID-19 themed meter die cancellation and has a slogan “To fight against COVID-19 pandemic, wear face mask at workplace.” Sudhir Gopal Jakhere, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Coimbatore Division, said the envelops all have the same from and to address. The from address is: Senior Superintendent of Post Office, Coimbatore - 641001, and are addressed to The Post Master General, Western Region, Tamil Nadu, Coimbatore - 641002. The slogan themed meter die cancellation is used with zero franking. About 300 presentation packs will be available for sale, each priced at Rs. 170. Post offices do franking for bulk mails instead of pasting stamps and there is space available for advertisement. That space is used for the awareness slogan. The pack also has details on the theme - COVID-19, precautions to be taken at workplaces, etc. The aim is also to create awareness on use of masks, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-envelopes-released/article31458845.ece
29 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Seven held for lockdown violations||The city police on Monday registered seven cases and arrested seven persons for violating restrictions imposed as part of the total lockdown. The police seized two vehicles. In Coimbatore rural, the police registered 410 cases and arrested 473 persons for violating the prohibitory orders. The police seized 371 vehicles from them. The rural police collected fine to the tune of Rs. 1.24 lakh from the offenders. Salem The Salem police on Monday registered 124 cases against 180 persons for violating prohibitory orders and seized 72 vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-held-for-lockdown-violations/article31458868.ece
29 April 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Elderly siblings walk 67 km during lockdown||Caught in the lockdown, two decrepit elderly sisters had walked 67 km from one district to another before they were rescued by the authorities on the road. The sisters, 68-year-old Lakshmi and 70-year-old Madhammal, were stuck in Mettur where they had gone to visit a temple all by themselves before the lockdown, over a month ago. They were caught unawares by the lockdown and ended up walking from Mettur in Salem district to Sogathur in Dharmapuri. Walking a distance of 67 km, with their hand-held sticks as crutches, the sisters were spotted by some locals in Sogathur in a feeble state before the authorities were alerted. According to Dharmapuri tahsildar J. Sukumar, the two sisters were rescued on Sunday and admitted to a short stay home, where they were administered food and glucose. The old women were staying with one of their sons and from there, they had left to visit a temple in Mettur. Sent home “Their families were summoned. Lakshmi and Madhammal were consulted and they both insisted they wanted to go back home with their families. Lakshmi was sent to her grandson’s house in Harur and Madhammal was sent to her son’s house on Tuesday.” Asked how the families had not looked around for them all these days, Mr. Sukumar said, the families said they were looking for them but were limited by the lockdown and could not travel far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elderly-siblings-walk-67-km-before-they-were-rescued/article31458814.ece
29 April 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Khadi institutions’ appeal to PM||Khadi institutions have appealed to the Central government to advise the GST Council to exempt all village industries’ products, certified by KVIC and products manufactured by certified Khadi institutions, from GST to ensure survival and livelihood of thousands of weavers and rural artisans in these COVID-19 times. In an appeal addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Gandhigram Trust stated that several village Industries products like soap, shampoo and other items had been facing stiff competitions from multinational companies and corporate houses. At present, Khadi institutions, like Gandhigram Trust, that have taken care of the lives of thousands of spinners and weavers and other artisans, who devoted their entire life for fulfilling Gandhian principles, have been facing an acute problem. “We request you to take up the issue with GST council. Such exemption would boost many small and medium size manufacturing units,” said K. Shiva Kumar, Managing Trustee, Gandhigram Trust. Moreover, many village industries have been struggling with working capital. The Centre could offer a special interest-free loan to all village industries on the basis of stock and sales that would be repaid by them by March 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/khadi-institutions-appeal-to-pm/article31459104.ece
29 April 2020||DINDIGUL/VIRUDHUNAGAR/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Seven discharged in Dindigul, six in Virudhunagar, four in Madurai||Seven COVID-19 patients from Dindigul district were discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital, Karur, on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters, Collector M. Vijayalakshmi said 11 more persons from Dindigul district were under treatment. She said the district reported 80 positive cases. After screening, the patients were shifted to the Karur hospital, from where 67 of them had so far been discharged. A 95-year-old patient died and another person had been detained in Puzhal Central Prison, she said. There were no new cases reported in the last three days. Containment zones were brought under surveillance by officials of different departments and essential commodities were being supplied in there. There were a few issues with ensuring supply of essential commodities to all the people, but they were sorted out, she said. Government Dindigul Medical College and Hospital Dean Vijayakumar said 1,248 of the 1,328 samples collected in the district tested negative. The results of the remaining samples were awaited. Six of the 22 positive persons from Virudhunagar district were discharged from Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on Monday night after complete recovery. The district had witnessed 10 positive cases between April 21 and 24. Now, there are 16 active cases in the district. The district administration has decided to take swab test on at least 200 pregnant women who were expecting delivery by this weekend. “This will help us not only to provide special care for the mothers and children, but also to doctors and paramedical staff,” Collector R. Kannan said, adding another 200 expecting mothers would also be tested next week. The district administration has also launched a survey of people who had entered the district from outside. After four persons who had entered the district from other districts using e-pass turned positive, the district administration has decided to conduct swab test on all those who have entered the district in the last 10 days. Meanwhile, the working of the newly-set up Reverse Transcription- Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) testing equipment at Virudhunagar Medical College Hospital has been validated by Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, Mr. Kannan said. “We are waiting for the government’s nod for starting tests,” he added. Four COVID-19 positive patients – all men from different parts of Madurai district – were discharged from Madurai GRH on Tuesday. This brought the total number of discharged persons to 40. The patients were predominantly asymptomatic and were in the COVID-19 block of the GRH for two weeks, said hospital sources. Now, the district had 37 active cases, said Collector T.G. Vinay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-discharged-in-dindigul-six-in-virudhunagar-four-in-madurai/article31459112.ece
29 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Cabbage farmer struggles to find buyer despite posting it in social media||For Kannaiyan Subramanian, who had taken to social media 10 days ago to sell the cabbage raised on his field, there is a lot more quantity that remains unsold. The 50-year-old farmer from Talavadi block in Erode district grows cabbage on 3.5 acres on a plot located on Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border. He took the land on lease from three farmers at Voddarahalli in Chamrajnagar district in Karnataka and raised cabbage spending nearly Rs. 4 lakh. Unable to find buyers for the produce, he posted a 15-second video on Twitter and tagged Rata Tata of Tata Trust and Anand Mahindra, Chairman of Mahindra Group. The video he posted was viewed by over 3.5 lakh people on Twitter and support for the farmer poured in. “But two-third of the produce is yet to be sold,” he pointed out. Mr. Kannaiyan told The Hindu that a Coimbatore-based company was the first to purchase eight tonne cabbage while Bengaluru MP Tejasvi Surya procured 13 tonnes of cabbage so far for distributing to the poor. “About 100 tonne of cabbage is ready for harvesting, in which about 15 tonnes had gone waste”, he said. He had sold 30 tonnes till Saturday. The State governments of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala should procure from all the farmers in the area directly and distribute vegetables through the Horticulture Department to the public”, he said. “Not all farmers can take up to social media to marketing their produce,” he added. The farmer said that break-even price of cabbage is Rs. 5 per kg, but he is selling it at Rs. 3.5 a kg. There are many small and marginal farmers in the peripheral area who are selling their produce at a meagre price of less than Rs. 2.50 per kg. “They cannot highlight their problems through social media and the governments and political parties should procure directly from farmers,” according to Mr. Kannaiyan. He also wants the government to deploy its buses to be used for transporting produce to the markets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cabbage-farmer-struggles-to-find-buyer-despite-posting-it-in-social-media/article31458851.ece
29 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Rise in number of people dependent on Amma canteens in Erode city||With the lockdown entering 35th day on Tuesday, the number of people dependent on Amma canteens has gone up significantly in the last one week. 11 canteens The Erode Corporation runs 11 canteens in the city that provides breakfast and lunch at a nominal price to about 1,200 poor people every day. After the announcement of lockdown on March 24, all the hotels and eateries were closed. Homeless people, poor people and those involved in providing essential services started relying on Amma canteens for food. Since the demand for food has gone up, the Corporation started providing dinner at all the canteens from the first week of April. The average number of people depending on the canteens started to increase with 7,500 people consuming food every day. From April 23, food was provided free of cost to the people and hence long queues can be seen outside the canteens. With more people turning up, food was served in areca leaves and police personnel were posted to monitor the crowd and to ensure personal distancing. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that on an average 15,000 people consume breakfast in the canteens. “Since the canteen workers are experienced, they are able to serve over 45,000 people a day in the city”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rise-in-number-of-people-dependent-on-amma-canteens-in-erode-city/article31458841.ece
29 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||No active COVID-19 cases in Erode||With four COVID-19 patients recovering and getting discharged from the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital in Perundurai on Tuesday evening, the active number of cases in the district is now zero and the district is expected to be moved from red zone to orange zone. Officials of the Public Health and Preventive Medicine said that a total of 70 cases, including 50 men and 20 women and children, were reported in the district so far comprising Thailand nationals (2 persons), Erode Corporation (53), Sathyamangalam (3), Nambiyur, Gobichettipalayam and Perundurai (2 each), Bhavani (1) and Railway Doctor Family (4) and a Dubai traveller. A total of 3,250 swabs were tested that confirmed 70 positive cases of which one person died while 69 others recovered. A total of 33,330 families comprising 1,66,806 persons in 17 containment zones were under home quarantine during the second week of April that was reduced significantly after no positive cases were reported in the past two weeks, they added. Minister for School Education K.A. Sengottaiyan, Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan, District Collector C. Kathiravan in the presence of Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan and Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan and MLAs presented fruits to the four discharged patients who were sent to their homes in ambulances. Mr. Sengottaiyan told media persons on the hospital premises that initially more cases were reported in the district, next only to Chennai. “Due to coordinated efforts of various departments led by collector, today there are no active cases in the district”, he added. He said that no positive cases were reported in the district in the past 14 days and the district will move from red zone to orange zone. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that early detection and isolation of persons with symptoms at the ward, strict implementation of home quarantine in containment areas, regular medical camps to check for fever in all the areas helped to prevent spread of the virus in the city. “Nutrient-rich food at the hospital helped the patients to recover faster”, he added. Mr. Elangovan said that quick decision-making by the district administration, corporation, police, revenue and the health department helped to fight the virus in the district and lauded the efforts from conservancy workers to front line staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-active-covid-19-cases-in-erode/article31458860.ece
29 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Apply for vehicle pass from 9 a.m. to noon at Collectorate||People in need of vehicle pass for emergency travel should submit applications at the Collectorate from 9 a.m. to noon. Collector C. Kathiravan in a press release said that people who need to travel for emergency situations like medical treatment, marriage or death of close relatives were issued temporary vehicle pass by the district administration through online and at the Collectorate. He said that passes were also being issued at the Revenue Divisional Office at Gobichettipalayam. The application should include details such as the name and number of persons travelling, phone number, purpose and place of their visit, date of journey and return journey, vehicle number and a copy of registration certificate of the vehicle and driver’s licence. Applications should be submitted by noon. Mr. Kathiravan also warned the pass holders to adhere to the rules, failing which action would be taken against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/apply-for-vehicle-pass-from-9-am-to-noon-at-collectorate/article31458843.ece
29 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Department store sealed||A department store at Anthiyur here was sealed by officials after they found out that the customers were not following personal distancing norm. Officials said that the salespersons were not wearing mask at the store located near the bus stand and were involved in the sales. Following violations, revenue officials sealed the shop. Likewise, a tea stall at Sampath Nagar was sealed by the Tahsildar.     A 19-year-old youth from Anumanpalli who stole 900 kg rice meant for relief distribution was arrested by the police. Sleuths of the Food Cell CID received tip-off that rice was being smuggled in an autorickshaw on Poondurai Road.The sleuths intercepted the vehicle and found rice in gunny bags. The driver was identified as P. Manikandan. He told the police that he had taken the rice from a ration shop and was on his way to sell it to migrant labours. Sleuths seized the vehicle and rice and arrested the youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/department-store-sealed/article31458842.ece
29 April 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Private firm sealed for violation||A private firm near Shoolagiri was sealed by the authorities for surreptitiously operating during lockdown. On a tip-off, officials led by Hosur tahsildar Venkatesan and the town police raided the premises of M.T.Pabe, a spare-parts manufacturing unit, located along Hosur-Rayakottai road and found industrial activity under way. The officials found that over 20 workers including five migrant workers from North India were working without masks and physical distancing. In addition, an employee, who had returned from Vellore last week, was also working there, ignoring the quarantine advisories for other district migrants. Following this, the authorities sealed the unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-firm-sealed-for-violation/article31458852.ece
29 April 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Parents wait for return of stranded students||Parents of a group of 17 students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Karaikal, who are stranded in Madhya Pradesh where they had gone as part of curricular activities prior to the announcement of lockdown are in agony as the district administration is not in a position to bring them back in the prevailing situation. The students, including nine girls, who had gone to the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya at Rewa in Madhya Pradesh are in a helpless situation, according to the parents. As the consent of the Madhya Pradesh Government is required to move the students out of the State, the Principal of Jawahar Navodaya School, Rewa, is awaiting the State’s permission. Earlier this month, principals of the two schools interacted through video-conference to figure out the way forward. The parents are distraught as senior officials of the district administration had understandably told them that bringing their children before the completion of the lockdown period was not advisable. As there are no definite indications that the lockdown would be lifted any time soon, the parents had assembled in front of the school at Kottucherry demanding that their wards be brought back without any further delay. In a letter to the Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, the Minister for Education R. Kamalakannan said the parents are agitated over the delay in bringing back the students to Karaikal. He urged the CM to take up the matter with his Madhya Pradesh counterpart and arrange for return of the students at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parents-wait-for-return-of-stranded-students/article31459149.ece
29 April 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Man electrocuted||A 26-year-old man was electrocuted and three others were injured at Mathur in Uthangarai here. The victim, Sadasivam of K.Ettipatty along with Vignesh, Gopala Krishnan and Anbalagan and three others had ventured out to the fields to hunt rabbit. On the way, Sadasivam brushed against an electrified fence of a bittergourd farm and died on the spot. Vignesh, Gopala Krishnan and Anbalagan, who were critically injured, were rushed to the Uthangarai hospital. Police arrested Lakshmanan (52) and his son Sabari for illegally electrifying the fence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-electrocuted/article31458853.ece
29 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Measures stepped up in containment zones||With a surge in the number of cases in Madurai, the district administration has chosen to use the complete lockdown to intensify measures in containment zones. In the last one week alone, Madurai district reported a total of 33 COVID-19 positive cases — the highest number it has seen till date since the first reported case in March. The number of patients rose from seven between April 14 and 20 to 33 between April 21 and April 28. Collector T. G. Vinay said that patients were predominantly under Corporation limits like Sellur, Anaiyur, Palanganatham, Perungudi, Vandiyur, S. Alangulam, Karisalkulam, West Masi Street, South Veli Street and Anna Nagar. He said there were 30 active positive cases from Madurai's urban limits. While most of the positive patients had contacts with those who were already infected, there is still a lack of clarity on some patients whose contacts are yet to be traced. “The 71-year-old COVID-19 positive victim who died on April 24 did not have any contact with a positive patient. Her neighbour visited another country long ago but there was no clarity as from where the victim contracted the virus. It is the same with the residents in Vandiyur and and on South Veli Street,” said a source from the Department of Health Services, adding that there persists a fear of community transmission. The Collector said the four-day lockdown has come to the administration’s aid as they have completely restricted the movement of vehicles and sealed the parameters of various containment zones. With a total of 23 containment zones in the district, he said there had been a sharp rise in testing as well. “We have been testing all patients who have reported influenza like illnesses, severe acute respiratory infection as well as those who are primary and secondary contacts who may not have symptoms,” he said. He said a District Revenue Officer-level officer had been put in-charge of all containment zones within the city to ensure that disinfectants are being sprayed and announcements on staying home are regularly made. In rural areas, only seven out of the 14 blocks in Madurai district, including Madurai East, Kottampatti, Melur, Tirupparankundram, Sedapatti, Tirumangalam and Usilampatti, had reported 33 positive cases. Currently, there are seven active cases from these seven blocks. Patients are being treated at the GRH. A total of 26 have been discharged, according to a report from the Department of Public Health. “We have heavily barricaded areas as restricting movement is an effective way of containing the spread of the virus,” the Collector said. He said that consistently monitoring primary health centres, local clinics and taluk-level hospitals helped. “The aim is to ensure that there will be an intense surveillance even the post-complete lockdown to reduce the number of cases,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/measures-stepped-up-in-containment-zones/article31459106.ece
29 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers struggling for sustenance||For migrant workers engaged in the borewell industry in the city, the national lockdown imposed to tackle the spread of COVID-19 came as a bolt from the blue. They were left stranded in the city and are finding it difficult to sustain with minimum provisions. These migrant labourers, predominantly from places like Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra, along with their Tamil counterparts, manage to buy basic provisions like rice and vegetables from the little money they have and stay in borewell trucks, which they have parked on the way to Alanganallur. Recently a total of 14 migrant workers, all youth, were provided accommodation by the Madurai Legal Awareness Co-ordination Committee, a city-based non-governmental organisation. One among them, Hopna Murmu from Jharkhand had sent a WhatsApp video message to his family members about his plight. Following which help was sought by his family members and the city-based NGO came to his rescue. The Madurai Legal Awareness Co-ordination Committee and People’s Watch, another NGO, informed the Alanganallur police and Hopna Murmu and 13 of his associates were given accommodation at Legal Awareness Co-ordination Committee’s centre run by advocate Sahaya Philomin Raj. “The youth are Scheduled tribes from Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra. Initially we went to rescue the boy who had sent the video message. But seeing the plight of the other 13 boys, we decided to provide shelter to them all” said Mr. Philomin Raj. The youth said that without proper accommodation and money for sustenance, they had sought help. While these 14 youth have managed to find solace in the NGO, another 14 workers are staying in trucks along the stretch. Migrant worker, Ravi Yadav from Chhattisgarh said that they could not abandon their trucks. “Me and my associates are managing with the little money we have. We hope that the situation will get better and when the national lockdown is lifted, we will go back home,” he said. The district administration said that they had earlier enquired a group of workers on their plight and when they had requested for groceries, the same was provided to them. “We are identifying such people and will address their issues,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-workers-struggling-for-sustenance/article31459109.ece
29 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||ICMR has manpower to test for COVID-19, says Madurai MP||Madurai Member of Parliament Su. Venkatesan said that the Indian Council for Medical Research's (ICMR) Centre for Research in Medical Entomology in Madurai has the necessary manpower and Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) machines to test for COVID-19. However, the facility was wasting its infrastructure, he said. He told The Hindu that ICMR Madurai had at least eight scientists and at least 10 technical staff members who could aid in testing for positive cases. “Several world-famous organisations and politicians from the Opposition have been calling for increased testing in the country. When Madurai has such a facility, why not put it to optimal use?" he said. He said the increasing number of cases in Madurai over the past week indicated the need for more random testing. A senior official from ICMR- Madurai said that they were predominantly an entomological unit and a field station with a few staff. “Decisions regarding testing must be taken only at our headquarters in Puducherry,” he said. Collector T. G. Vinay said that the Government Rajaji Hospital’s lab tests around 500 samples every day from Madurai, Dindigul, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga. “We have enough manpower and RT-PCR machines. There has been no delay or backlog in testing. Hence, it may not be necessary at the moment to use the ICMR facility,” he said. However, the MP said the need for using the facility became obsolete when inadequate number of tests were being taken. “We need to ensure that more tests are done and that RT-PCR testing kits are provided to the ICMR facility to ensure its maximum use,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/icmr-has-manpower-to-test-for-covid-19-says-madurai-mp/article31459107.ece
29 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Volunteers needed to distribute Siddha concoction: Corporation||Corporation officials have urged the residents to volunteer to distribute ‘kabasura kudineer,’ a Siddha concoction, to people in the city. According to a release from the civic body, the officials also urged the residents to give large cans and containers to the civic body to help in storing and distributing the concoction. A Corporation official said for the last 25 days the civic body had been distributing the concoction at urban primary health centres, Amma Unavagams and in containment zones, as a measure to boost the immunity of residents. Also, 4,960 litres of the concoction was distributed on Monday to the residents of containment zones in Melamadai, Narimedu, Mahabopalayam, Guru Nagar, S.V.P. Nagar, Kuppu Pillai Thoppu, Mathichiyam, Karisalkulam, West Masi Street, Palanganatham, Sellur and Anaiyur. On Tuesday, 6,390 litres was distributed to the residents. The official said that additional volunteers were required as all domestic breeding checkers of the Corporation were engaged in undertaking health survey in containment zones. “Conservancy workers are already overburdened with disinfection work. If we want to distribute the concoction to all the households within the city, then we need additional volunteers,” said the official. Volunteers can contact 9443739511 or 9442639598.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/volunteers-needed-to-distribute-siddha-concoction-corporation/article31459105.ece
29 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Free storage for farmers||Farmers yet to receive a good price for their produce this season can store them for free at the Agricultural Produce Market Committee's godowns in Madurai, Tirumangalam, Usilampatti and Vadipatti. They can use around 5,268.58 metric tonnes of free space available in the godowns, transaction sheds and shop areas in the four places. “To ensure that farmers get a good price for their produce, we are trying to ensure that the space is available for free,” said a market supervisor from Usilampatti. While Madurai has a total of 500 metric tonne space, Usilampatti, Vadipatti and Tirumangalam has around 2,000 metric tonnes. In Tirumangalam, a cold storage unit with 25 metric tonnes of space is available. To get in touch, contact officers in Madurai- 9677550210, Usilampatti- 9894622582, Tirumangalam 8110054595 and Vadipatti-9600802823.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-storage-for-farmers/article31459091.ece
29 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||24 year-old COVID-19 positive patient delivers baby in Madurai||A 24 year-old woman from Usilampatti's Dhoddappanaiyakanur, who had tested positive for COVID-19, gave birth to a girl child on Sunday night. A sample was collected from the child on Monday — 24 hours after the birth — to test for COVID-19. The results are awaited. J. Sangumani, Dean, Government Rajaji Hospital, said the child weighed 2.8 kg. The mother and the infant are doing well. He said it was discovered the patient may have COVID-19 when she arrived at the Dhoddappanaiyakanur Primary Health Centre for delivery. She was admitted to the GRH on Saturday. Gynaecologists, suited in personal protection equipment, did a surgery for delivery in an operation theatre dedicated for COVID-19 patients. Another COVID-19 patient is undergoing treatment at GRH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-year-old-covid-19-positive-patient-delivers-baby-in-madurai/article31459114.ece
29 April 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Two areas removed from containment zones||Two rural locations in this district have been taken off from the list of 13 containment zones as no confirmed COVID-19 case was reported there in the last four weeks. Poravacheri and Tirukalacheri in Sirkzhi block where restrictions are to be eased figured among the six rural locations categorised as containment zones. The four other rural locations that remain as containment zones constitute Veerakudi, Pudur, Thirukadaiyur and Perunthottam. Nagapattinam Town, Katampadi, Nagore, Thittacheri, Mayiladuthurai, Sirkahi Town, and Porayar are the seven urban containment zones As per the guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the operations could be scaled down if no secondary laboratory confirmed COVID-19 case is reported from the geographic quarantine zone for at least four weeks after the last confirmed test has been isolated and all contacts have been followed up for 28 days. The containment operation shall be deemed to be over 28 days from the discharge of last confirmed case from the designated health facility, the guideline states. From April 29 onwards, there will be no restriction on movement of people in Poravacheri and Thirukalacheri for purchase of essentials and medicines from 6 a.m to 1 p.m., Textiles Minister O.S. Manian told mediapersons on Tuesday. For the last four weeks, essentials were supplied at the doorsteps of 5,399 families accounting for 19,037 residents in the two containment zones by members of non-government organisations and volunteer group. As many as 112 frontline workers monitored the residents under the supervision of a block medical officer. Seventy-five persons were tested randomly and all had tested negative for the virus, he said. He said that 44 persons had tested positive for COVID 19 in the district so far, out of the 1,406 samples. Samples of 1346 persons turned out to be negative. Results of 18 samples were awaited. Of the infected persons, 27 have been cured after treatment and sent home, he said. The minister held a meeting with Collector Praveen P. Nair and other top officials including Superintendent of Police Selvanagarathinam, Additional Collector (Development) M.S. Prasanth, District Revenue Officer M. Indumathi and Deputy Director of Health Services Shanmugasundaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-areas-removed-from-containment-zones/article31459135.ece
29 April 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Ensure disbursal of relief to fishermen, says Special Officer||Officials should ensure disbursal of assistance to fishermen during the fishing ban period and COVID-19 relief to all beneficiaries, M. Karunakaran, Special Officer monitoring anti-virus operations in five southern districts, said here on Tuesday. Chairing a review meeting, Dr. Karunakaran, Secretary, Department of Handlooms and Textiles, said the spread of infection had been contained in a laudable manner in Kanniyakumari, thanks to measures taken by the district administration. Officials should take extreme care in ensuring prompt disbursal of relief to ration cardholders, members of unorganised sector workers welfare boards and fishermen. While they must identify beneficiaries who were yet to receive relief, fisheries officials must ensure immediate disbursal of relief meant for fishermen during the ban period. He asked Collector Prashant M. Wadnere to ensure uninterrupted supply of tablets, nilavembu kudineer and kabasura kudineer to conservancy and health workers to strengthen immunity. Also, officials must ensure smooth supply of essential commodities to residents in containment zones and families in home quarantine. All vehicles entering the district from neighbouring districts and Kerala were being checked and disinfected, he said. Superintendent of Police N. Sreenath, Sub-Collector, Padmanabhapuram, Sharanya, Joint Director (Medicine) J. John Britto, Deputy Director (Health Services) Bosco Raj, Dean, Government Medical College Hospital, Suganthi Rajakumari and other senior officials participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-disbursal-of-relief-to-fishermen-says-special-officer/article31459093.ece
29 April 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Two test positive in Namakkal||Two positive cases were reported in Namakkal on Tuesday, taking the total number of COVID-19 patients from Namakkal to 61. On Tuesday, a 30-year-old man from Kalappanaikenpatti, a contact of a previous case, and a 31-year-old man from Kuppampalayam tested positive for COVID-19. Discharged Till date, 49 patients, who were undergoing treatment at Karur Government Medical College Hospital, have been discharged. As on Tuesday, 29 persons are in government quarantine facilities and 729 in home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-test-positive-in-namakkal/article31458863.ece
29 April 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Helping a woman in distress||A police inspector attached to the traffic wing dropped a pregnant woman in her house in his official vehicle after finding her walking alone in hot sun. A video clip of the inspector’s humane act went viral in the social media. The incident happened at Palakkarai in Perambalur on Monday where a police team led by Reserve Inspector of traffic wing T.S. Gopinath was deployed to enforce prohibitory orders. While carrying out his task, Reserve Inspector Gopinath noticed a woman in advanced stage of pregnancy walking alone slowly wearing a mask and approaching the spot where he and his team was deployed. He said on Tuesday that he offered to help the woman after finding that she was heading home alone under the hot sun. The woman told him that she was returning after a medical check-up in a health centre near the bus stand. Her husband was apparently out of station. He immediately asked constable Aravindhan to drop the woman, identified as Dhanam, safely at her house at Sangupettai in his official vehicle stationed at the spot. A policeman of the social media cell of the Perambalur district police office video recorded the incident. The video clip was uploaded in the Perambalur district police Facebook page as well as in Whatsapp groups which the district police maintain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helping-a-woman-in-distress/article31459129.ece
29 April 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Migrant labourers housed in school||A group of migrant labourers hailing from Maharashtra who were proceeding by foot from Tiruchi to their home state in view of the lockdown were intercepted by officials and accommodated in a government school on Tuesday. The labourers - four women and two men with four children – resorted to the step as they were rendered jobless due to the lockdown. They were noticed by revenue officials at Esanai and provided them with food. But they reportedly wanted to go ahead with their plan to reach their state by foot. They were again intercepted at Udumbiyam on Monday and accommodated in a panchayat union government school after revenue officials explained to them the implications of the arduous journey in the current scenario. Enquiries with the labourers revealed that they were engaged in plucking chilly in Telangana. They were apparently misdirected and reached Tiruchi by foot, said a revenue official adding that they were proceeding to their home state. He said they were provided with grocery items to prepare food. A health department team screened them and they were all found to be normal. Meanwhile, one of the labourers got in touch with their near ones in Maharashtra. The official said the decision on sending them back to their state would be taken after consulting the higher ups. The officials provided new clothes to the children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-labourers-housed-in-school/article31459143.ece
29 April 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors and nurses undergo tests||A group of doctors, nurses and health workers of the Government Medical College Hospital (GMCH) here underwent nasopharyngeal swab examination to check for corona virus infection. The tests were conducted after a youth of Mirattunilai, who was admitted to the isolation ward at the hospital, tested positive for COVID 19.While the youth has since been shifted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, all contacts of the youth during his stay in the Pudukottai GH were subject to the tests now, AL.Meenakshisundaram, Dean, GMCH, said on Tuesday. “As per guidelines, contacts of a positive person are to be tested within 5 to 14 days. So, 14 doctors, 14 nurses and 19 healthcare workers, who were on duty, underwent tests on Tuesday. In addition, nine pregnant mothers, with dates of delivery within the next 10 days, were tested. The 56 samples have been sent to the laboratory and results would be declared within 24 hours. He said face masks would be distributed to patients visiting the hospital. Doctors and nurses involved in COVID 19 duty would be taught yogasanas to increase immunity. Meanwhile, a special health camp was conducted for more than 70 sanitary workers at Government Hospital at Alangudi. M. Periyasamy, Chief Medical Officer of the hospital, along with a team of doctors, screened the workers for temperature, blood pressure, weight, random blood sugar, serum lipids to detect hypertension and diabetes. All are given kabasura kudineer powder packets to build immunity against cough and fever. All workers were advised to wear hand gloves, masks and shoes during sanitary work and undergo medical screening every six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-and-nurses-undergo-tests/article31459148.ece
29 April 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Scuffle between AIADMK factions at Amma Unavagam||A scuffle broke out between two factions of the ruling AIADMK over distribution of food packets prepared at Amma Unavagam here on Monday. Rajapalayam South police issued a CSR based on a complaint given by Amma Unavagam employee Chithra against Amma Peravai Rajapalayam town secretary Murugesan. According to police sources, Murugesan and his supporters went to Amma Unavagam on Jawahar Ground around forenoon. They questioned the staff as to how they could send food packets against the rules. On being told that the food packets were meant for conservancy workers of the town, his supporters said some of them were being distributed by a group led by AIADMK town secretary Baskar. It is learnt that Murugesan asked for 50 food packets.However, the staff said they could not be given without the Municipal Commissioner’s consent. Even as the wordy exchange was going on, Mr. Baskar arrived at the scene and Chithra complained she was pushed down by Murugesan. Municipal officials tried to pacify them. However, a complaint was lodged with Rajapalayam Town police by Chithra and a counter complaint by Murugesan. Meanwhile, Collector R. Kannan, who inspected the town on Tuesday, said food packets should not be prepared at Amma Unavagam. Rajapalayam MLA S. Thangapandian said ruling party functionaries were encroaching Amma Unavagam run by the municipality. “Food meant for poor citizens is being taken away by ruling party men. Even after a scuffle and complaint by a worker, police have not registered a case against them,” the DMK MLA added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scuffle-between-aiadmk-factions-at-amma-unavagam/article31459097.ece
29 April 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic-induced lockdown gives migratory birds and animals a reason to cheer||Unlike in the case of humans, the COVID-19 lockdown seems to have had a positive impact on animals and birds. Limited human interference and reduced pollution levels in the district have helped them reclaim their space in the ecosystem to a certain extent, say environmentalists. Many bird species which migrate from other parts of the country – known as partial migratory birds – have now extended their stay at the Therthangal and Melaselvanoor-Keelaselvanoor bird sanctuaries, says Ramanathapuram Forest Range Officer S. Sathish. “Usually, species like open bill stork, spot-billed pelican, painted stork, grey heron, spoonbill and ibis depart from here by March. However, this year, they have extended their stay, thanks to the lockdown,” he says. “A good northeast monsoon and comfortable storage in waterbodies across the district had led to an increase in the nesting of birds in these two sanctuaries during the last season,” he says. “Forest department officials released fingerlings into waterbodies last year. The tanks and feeder channels were desilted to ensure that there was good water storage,” he adds. “Reduced human movement has resulted in less disturbance to the birds, prompting them to stay here longer,” says N. Raveendran, a Madurai-based birdwatcher. “Also, human-induced pollution has come down during this [lockdown] period,” he adds. In the absence of grand marriages and other functions, noise pollution is minimal. This has also benefited the birds, says M. Manivannan, a birdwatcher from Karaikudi. A.S. Marimuthu, Wildlife Warden, Ramanathapuram, says the lockdown period has helped in reducing injuries to marine animals. “Usually, animals like dugongs, dolphins and sea turtles sustain injuries after getting hit by the propellers of boats. The lockdown has helped in avoiding such accidents,” he adds. According to Mr. Sathish, spotted deer and peacocks were seen in good numbers in Thondi and Thiruvadanai recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-induced-lockdown-gives-migratory-birds-and-animals-a-reason-to-cheer/article31458834.ece
29 April 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown results in steep fall in market prices of cotton||For 53-year-old S. Govindarajan, a cotton farmer from Bogalur here, the coronavirus pandemic could not have come at the worst time. Despite having a good harvest from his two-acre farm, Mr. Govindarjan says that he is forced to sell the produce at lower rates. “Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the demand for cotton has reduced and subsequently the market prices have crashed. I had pawned my wife’s jewellery to raise the crop. My wife and I toiled hard for the last six months to grow the crop. But, currently we have no money left to feed ourselves. So, we have no option left, but to sell them at any price that the traders pay us,” he says. With the closure of textiles mills due to the lockdown, the demand for cotton has reduced, resulting in a steep fall in the market price of cotton. Farmers in the district say that prior to the lockdown, a kilogram of cotton at around Rs. 44. But, currently, the market price ranges between Rs. 30 and Rs. 32 per kg. Joint Director (Agriculture) S.S. Sheik Abdullah says that currently cotton has been harvested on 2,000 hectares in the district. Two farmer producer companies- Ramnad Mundu Chilli Producers Company and Vaigai Farmers Producers Company- have been given a revolving fund of Rs. 3 lakh each, for procuring cotton from farmers, he added. Usually, traders procure cotton from farmers and send it to spinning mills at Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Rajapalayam and Theni districts, says K. Kanthirajan, Director of Ramnad Mundu Chilli Producers Company. “But, currently the produce is either stocked at home by farmers or at godowns by traders, as the mills have been closed” he says. “Farmers also have no option, but to sell the produce for any rate that the traders offer, as they need money to meet their everyday expenses. Also, it is not safe to store cotton in the open as it might get spoilt,” says S. Michael, another farmer. Mr. Kanthirajan suggests that the government must fix a minimum support price for cotton and ensure that the traders adhere to it. “They can also extend loans to traders as they would also find it difficult to sell the produce during the lockdown,” he says. ‘Most importantly, the Cotton Corporation of India must be encouraged to procure cotton from farmers in the district, as this will ensure good returns for the farmers,” he adds. Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao says that the district administration has formed a special team and taken several steps to facilitate the procurement and transportation of agricultural produce. He adds that he would look into the issue and take steps to ensure that the farmers earn good returns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-results-in-steep-fall-in-market-prices-of-cotton/article31459088.ece
29 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Daily wagers in containment area step out demanding relief||Residents of Anna Nagar near Thadagapatti, which is a containment area here, stepped out of their houses and onto the streets in protest on Tuesday demanding better relief. The residents, mostly daily wagers, requested the government to disburse more cash relief and provide them with other relief materials. The residents said that they were mostly weavers, construction workers and others going for jobs for daily earnings. They demanded that the government increase relief measures announced for daily wagers like them. R. Boopathi, a weaver, said: “We are jobless. We have no money also. We are inside in our houses for over a month. Our savings are over. We have cooperated with governments’ announcement to stay at home and did not work. But we are not able to make our ends meet. Without income, we are not able to get essentials or meet other expenses. We may die of hunger even before the disease [kills us].” Another resident said that the Rs. 1,000 and other relief materials provided through ration shops were not sufficient. “A major part of the cash relief went for buying cooking gas cylinders. The mobile vehicles do not visit the containment zone nor do we have the means to get essentials now. The government should provide more relief for daily wagers,” he too demanded. Most of residents have only one meal a day these days and suppress their hunger drinking water, they said. Corporation officials said that vegetable and milk delivery vehicles were regularly delivering essentials. Erode Stating that essential commodities were not given to them, over 50 persons of Porkai Pandian Street, near Marapalam here, gathered on the street on Tuesday and urged the district administration to release their area from containment zone. They said that most of them were workers and were left with no money to purchase essential commodities. Revenue officials and the police assured them to supply the essentials. Also, people in the containment zone on Vaikal Road in Gobichettipalayam Municipality attempted to stage protest demanding to release their area from containment zone. They said they were in home quarantine for 27 days and no one had symptoms so far. Revenue officials and police personnel pacified them. Likewise, people of Krishnampalayam demanded relief materials promised by their MLA K.S. Thennarasu (Erode East). Tahsildar Parimaladevi held talks with them and said that steps would be taken to provide relief materials to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-wagers-in-containment-area-step-out-demanding-relief/article31458862.ece
29 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Grocery shops in Salem might operate on rotation basis||With the total lockdown ending in Salem on Tuesday and the earlier lockdown with some relaxation set to resume, Salem District Collector S.A. Raman said the district administration was planning to allow grocery shops to operate on rotation basis. However, uzhavar sandhais and vegetable shops in containment areas would not function. “We are planning to let grocery stores function in a controlled manner. In a bazaar, shops on left side would be allowed to function on one day and shops on right side on the next day. Public should strictly follow social distancing when they come out and they should compulsorily wear masks and they may be fined otherwise,” he said. About 250 mobile vegetable vehicles were being operated in the district. On Tuesday, Mr.Raman flagged off a mobile grocery store with over 70 products for delivery in containment areas. Mr. Raman said that teams were working at the State and district level actively for identifying from where recently reported primary cases in the district contracted the disease. He said that there was no community spread at present in the district. On Tuesday, Mr. Raman received 1.5 lakh eggs provided by Tamil Nadu Egg Poultry Farmers Marketing Society here. He said 85,000 eggs would be provided to Salem Corporation, 40,000 to municipalities and 25,000 to town panchayats for free distribution to public to improve their immunity. The eggs would be provided to sanitary workers, and to others through Amma canteens and community kitchens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grocery-shops-in-salem-might-operate-on-rotation-basis/article31458865.ece
29 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Vitamin tablets for field workers||Salem Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh, on Tuesday, gave immunity building tablets to 1,272 field workers deployed in the five containment zones here. Mr.Sadheesh gave zinc and multi-vitamin tablets, Kabasura kudineer and Nilavembu kudineer to sanitary workers, those involved in disinfection measures, surveyors, doctors, nurses, police personnel and workers involved in collecting samples here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vitamin-tablets-for-field-workers/article31458849.ece
29 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Agriculture workers quarantined||A group of 27 agriculture workers from Kolli Hills, who managed to return to Namakkal from Karnataka, were quarantined here on Tuesday. According to officials, the workers from Valambur Naadu had gone to Hassan district in Karnataka to collect pepper before the lockdown. On Tuesday, the group managed to get a truck to reach Namakkal and they were found during vehicle checks at Thimanaikenpatti. They were quarantined at the Thimanaikenpatti Government Higher Secondary School. A medical team conducted COVID-19 tests to them. Minister for Electricity P.Thangamani and Minister for Social Welfare V.Saroja also visited the group and provided them with relief materials and cash of Rs. 2,000 each. On Monday, officials quarantined 63 workers from Sendamangalam who went to Erode to collect turmeric before the lockdown. The officials at Jedarpalayam checkpost spotted them them and they were quarantined at the Sendamangalam Government Boys Higher Secondary School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agriculture-workers-quarantined/article31458864.ece
29 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Four COVID-19 patients discharged from Salem GH||Four patients, who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here, were discharged on Tuesday. The patients, a 20-year-old youth from Mettur, a 45-year-old woman and two women aged 25 from different parts of Salem city were discharged after their results turned negative in the last two tests. The doctors said that the patients were contacts of previous cases reported here. R.Balajinathan, Dean of Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, P.V.Dhanapal, Medical Superintendent, Dr.Rani, Resident Medical Offficer, Suresh Kanna, Head, General Medicine, and J.Nirmalson, Deputy Director of Health Services cheered the patients on their recovery. Dr.Balajinathan said that till date, 20 COVID-19 patients had been discharged from the Hospital and there were 11 patients from Salem, four from Namakkal and a patient from Dharmapuri undergoing treatment at the Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-covid-19-patients-discharged-from-salem-gh/article31458866.ece
29 April 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Vigil tightened in containment zones in Sivaganga district||In a bid to curtail movement of unauthorised persons from and to the containment zones in Tirupattur, the Sivaganga district administration installed closed-circuit television cameras on Tuesday. Collector J. Jayakanthan told reporters that eight of the 12 COVID-19 positive cases reported in the district were from Tirupattur. Pudu Street in the town had been particularly hit by the pandemic. The patients were recovering at Government Sivaganga Medical College Hospital. The Collector said that the people had been asked to stay at home and health officials were in regular touch with them. Patients discharged from the hospital were also being monitored. Dean Rathinavel said that social distancing and regular hand washing with an approved sanitiser/liquid soap would protect people from the virus attack. A police officer said that surveillance cameras on Manalur and Poovanthi stretches would help prevent alleged sand smuggling. The cameras were under the direct supervision of the Collector. Health officials said that apart from Tirupattur, Illayankudi, Achukattu and Tirukolakudi had cameras installed. In the last 12 days, the district had not reported any COVID-19 positive case. A senior official said that random sampling would be intensified to ensure that there was no community spread of the virus in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vigil-tightened-in-containment-zones-in-sivaganga-district/article31459099.ece
29 April 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||2 electrocuted||Two persons were electrocuted early on Tuesday when they stepped on a live electric wire erected illegally around a farm. Police said V. Vijayan, 22, S. Selvaganapathi, 25, Mukesh, Mari and Ganesh, all working in a metal scrap shop in Kerala, returned to their native village, A. Marudhappapuram, near Alangulam, following the lockdown. They went to a forest close to their village to hunt hare around 3.30 a.m., when Vijayan and Selvaganapathi came into contact with a live electric fence erected around a corn farm to keep away wild boars. The duo were electrocuted. Their friends alerted the villagers, who cut the power supply. On getting information, Alangulam police rushed to the spot and sent the bodies to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. Alangulam police detained the farm owner, Krishnapandi, of the same area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-electrocuted/article31459102.ece
29 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Farm equipment to fetch income for owners||The move to provide farm equipment for preparing soil for cultivation as a rent-free service to small and marginal farmers by the Department of Agriculture in association with the Jfarm, an agriculture research centre of Tractors and Farm Equipment (TAFE), Chennai, has received an overwhelming response. The service provider has reportedly sought the government’s help in adding more tractors and other equipment of private people to its service platform to fulfil the demand for free service from small farmers. According to official sources, the agriculture research centre has around 4,500 tractors and 10,000 ploughing implements. Since the demand was more, the company has sought the help of the government to convince private owners to join hands with it to help farmers. Block level agriculture officers have been asked to convince the private owners to join the scheme as their participation would not only help farmers but also help them earn some money. The manner in which the remuneration to be offered - either as hire charges or free servicing or replacing worn out parts of tractor and implements - would be decided by promoters of the scheme, they added. A beneficiary of this offer, G.Srinivasan of Ganapathy Agraharam near Iyyampettai in Thanjavur district, termed the scheme as timely assistance from the State government as farmers found it difficult to take up summer cultivation this season in view of the virus scare. Though the Union and State governments have exempted farm operations from the purview of the lockdown, farm workers preferred to stay away from fields as they did not want to risk their health. A progressive farmer, S.Sundaram of Maharajapuram near Thirukattupalli in Thanjavur district, said it was right time to promote mechanization of farm operations. Further, the government should extend all necessary financial assistance to large farmers for procurement of farm implements so that they could take up cultivation at the right time with less farmhands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farm-equipment-to-fetch-income-for-owners/article31459137.ece
29 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Saying it with placards||In order to ensure physical distancing during checks, police have started using placards asking lockdown violators to halt their vehicles and cooperate with the inquiry without coming close to them. Under the system introduced by Superintendent of Police Arun Balagopalan, the police officer will show the first placard that asks violators to stop the vehicle and get down. The second asks them to wear mask. If they not wearing it, the officer will show the third placard, ask them to show vehicle records from a distance of three meters. “The objective is to ensure the safety of police personnel through physical distancing. Without exchanging a word with violators, the officer will get the information required to either register a case against them or permit them to proceed if the reason for leaving their homes is found to be genuine,” said Prakash, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thoothukudi Town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/saying-it-with-placards/article31459090.ece
29 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Give fillip to fabrication units’||BHEL Small Industries Association has sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to give a fillip to the over 450 fabrication units with 40,000 workers in Tiruchi region. In a letter to the PM, its president Rajappa Rajkumar said growth of fabrication units hinges on sanction of a viable package at a time of general recession. Promoters of fabrication units who are facing difficulties in paying employees and meeting day-to-day expenses look to the government for a support system. Banks must be advised to extend interest free loan to the extent of 10 to 20% of working capital to all units, irrespective of their categorisation as Standard, Sub-Standard or NPA. The MSME sector must be allowed to repay the loan over a 10-year period with a holiday slot of one year. A 5 % grant to a maximum of Rs. 30 lakh must be sanctioned. The government must factor in recession for a minimum of one year and devote attention to MSME sector accordingly. As the government has been encouraging new units with lots of incentives, the MSME sector which have to start from the scratch again must be facilitated to make use of the infrastructure and expertise created already. Interest on working capital and term loan must be waived for a minimum of three months to meet out losses incurred during the lockdown period. Repayment of term loans for the three-month duration has to be rescheduled, instead of postponement to June 2020. No penal interest or other charges must be waived, he said. Cancellation of registration of units that have not paid GST must be revoked. Payment of arrears must be allowed in 12 to 24 instalments without levy of penal interest or damages. Payment of arrears of Provident Fund and Employees State Insurance must be permitted in a similar way. The Centre must consider interest subvention. Additional loan taken by units from Non Banking Financial Institutions at a higher rate of interest must be taken over by the nationalised banks. As rehabilitation is carried out during general recession all the units must be treated as Standard Accounts only, he said. The letter wanted amendment of procurement policy of government agencies and public sector undertakings to maintain quality, measures for shifting the base of MNCs from China to India, facilitating orders to MSME from Defence and Railways on a priority basis, and a representation for BHELSIA in high-power committees to be formed for implementing various measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/give-fillip-to-fabrication-units/article31459126.ece
29 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||SHGs make PPEs for government hospital||Two women Self-Help Groups (SHGs) are making and distributing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits. Named ‘Desiya Paravai’ and ‘Lemon,’ the SHGs came together through the Mahalir Thittam to make the kits at a tailoring shop set up at Poomalai Shopping Complex on Bharathidasan Salai. S. Thilagavathi, who leads the group, says she is experienced in stitching napkins and other necessary items for hospitals and was able to acquire the know-how for PPEs quickly. “We understood the need and importance of the kits,” she says. She, and sometimes another member, travel to Erode or Tiruppur to procure the non-woven fabric for the kits regularly. The team has 12 people including two men who do the cutting of the material. “We took time to understand the material. When we started making them around March end, we made about 30 kits a day. Now, we make at least 300 kits a day,” she says. Collector S. Sivarasu gave the SHG orders for making PPE kits for the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH), she said. “If he did not trust us with our work, we would not be able to do our work confidently,” she says. So far, they have provided 1,000 kits to MGMGH, 1000 kits to Perambalur GH and nearly 500 to other private doctors. “The Tiruchi Corporation also needs some kits as they work in containment zones,” she said. The kits consist of a body covering, which comes in two models - suit or gown. The suit, like a jumpsuit covers the wearer from feet to the head and even has a hood to cover the head. A zipper keeps the suit together. The gown is like a robe, and is tied with a sash. Along with it, the kit consists of a face mask, gloves, feet covering and a face shield. The entire kit is being sold for Rs. 300. When asked about the rate, Ms. Thilagavathi laughs and says, “We know some sell it for Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 2,000. I believe that we should not be greedy.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shgs-make-ppes-for-government-hospital/article31459128.ece
29 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||21 discharged from hospital in central region||Twenty-one COVID 19 positive persons were discharged after treatment from government hospitals in the central region on Tuesday. No fresh positive case was reported from the region for the fourth consecutive day on Tuesday. Among the discharged patients, five were discharged from the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH). Of them, three were from Tiruchi and two from Ariyalur district. With this, the number of patients discharged from the MGMGH has gone up to 47. The discharged patients were given a warm send off when they left for their homes. Collector S. Sivarasu said with the discharge of these patients on Tuesday, the number of patients being treated for the COVID-19 in MGMGH had gone down to 14. Of them, six were from Tiruchi district, five from Perambalur district, two from Ariyalur district and one from Pudukottai district. He said all 14 were responding to the treatment protocol well. They were likely to be discharged shortly. Karur The Karur Government Medical College Hospital on Tuesday discharged seven more patients, who were under treatment after being tested positive for COVID-19 virus. While four of them were from Dindigul district, three were from Namakkal district. It has brought down the number of positive patients being treated at the hospital to 20. With the discharge on Tuesday, the number of those discharged so far has gone up to 159, in addition to 70 patients, who were tested negative for COVID-19. Thanjavur Nine persons, including a seven-month-old girl, were discharged from the COVID-19 special ward at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on Tuesday. According to a press release, among the discharged four persons were from Adhiramapattinam, three persons including the girl child from Ammapettai and two from Vallam for treatment to the COVID-19 infection. With the discharge of nine persons from the hospital on April 28, the number of novel corona virus patients undergoing treatment at the TMC hospital dropped to 22 from 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/21-discharged-from-hospital-in-central-region/article31459142.ece
29 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown leaves tutorials, tuition centres groping in the dark||Tutorials and tuition centres have their fingers crossed due to the prevailing uncertainty over how long the duration of the COVID 19 lockdown would turn out to be. Many were expecting that the lockdown will be lifted on May 3.Though one section of parents seems to be open to the idea of sending their wards to the tuitions, those running the centres are not prepared to take any risk, as there is limited possibility for enforcing the social distancing norm. ‘Usually, we engage students during the summer holidays to familiarise them with at least a few portions through teaching, homework and tests, so that their grasp of the subject will be higher when the academic session begins in the school. But, under the current circumstances, the scope appears to be diminished for conduct of tuitions for the entire duration of summer vacation," Xavier of Balaji Nagar, who has been handling Mathematics tuitions for X standard students for decades, said. Students of the current generation, parents feel, tend to get distracted easily, and strongly believe that individual attention is possible to a considerable extent in the private tuition centres. ‘We will have to necessarily wait until the lockdown is lifted completely. There appears to be no other possibility for resuming tuitions,’ Mr. Xavier said. Tutorial centres are equally worried, though some are leveraging technology to keep the students engaged. ‘We have been leveraging the utility of social messaging platforms optimally to reach out to students, and are utilising software to deliver the video lectures. In view of the advisory of the Ministry of Home Affairs on the security front, we have dispensed with using ZOOM as online platform for two-way communication, R.V.S. Muralidhar, Director of Seekers Educational Services Private Limited, said. But, keeping the younger children preoccupied on the technology platform is a tough proposition. Apparently, education sector will be the last to open up in the lockdown situation. As things stand, the situation is extremely worrisome, Mr. Muralidhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-leaves-tutorials-tuition-centres-groping-in-the-dark/article31459134.ece
29 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Railway helpline gets unnecessary calls||Despite suspension of passenger train services, the 182 Security Helpline number of the Railway Protection Force in Tiruchi Division has been receiving calls from public every day. The control room has been working round the clock with men posted in shifts despite lockdown. It received a little over 5,500 calls from March 22 to April 27. The helpline received calls relating to domestic gas bookings and even those seeking queries for cell phone recharge and other non-security related issues. The helpline is equipped with three telephone instruments with RPF personnel working in shifts to attend calls. The control room is equipped with automatic calling device. The helpline facility was created for the benefit of rail travellers to keep the RPF informed about security-related issues including theft of passenger belongings and suspicious looking objects noticed on board trains or on platform besides seeking medical assistance for ailing passengers. The duty RPF personnel upon receiving the non-security calls have been politely informing the callers at the other end that the facility was meant only for conveying security-related issues. This was happening despite periodic awareness campaigns conducted earlier on the kind of information to be conveyed to the RPF Security Helpline for prompt remedial action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-helpline-gets-unnecessary-calls/article31459144.ece
29 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered||A gang of three murdered J. Chandramohan, 38, a resident of Bhagawathi Amman Koil Street in Srirangam, against whom murder and other cases were pending, on the road overbridge at Srirangam on Tuesday. It triggered tension in the locality. The victim had recently come out on bail in an assault case. He was riding a scooter with his two-and-half-year-old daughter in the front towards Srirangam from Tiruvanaikoil when the gang, travelling in a car, came in the opposite direction and dashed against the scooter. Chandramohan and his daughter fell down from the vehicle. The gang came out of their car and hacked him to death. The assailants took the severed head of the victim along with them in the car and surrendered at the police station. The victim’s daughter suffered minor injury. The police conducted enquiries with the surrendered accused -- M. Saravanan, 35, his brother M. Suresh, 30, and their close relative A. Selvam, 25. Sources said Saravanan was being allegedly threatened by Chandramohan when the two attended trial in connection with separate cases prompting the former to eliminate the rowdy. The police also arrested Vijay Anand and Prakash who had tipped the gang about the movement of Chandramohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-murdered/article31459131.ece
29 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli Corporation has its finger on the pulse of conservancy workers||Corporation conservancy workers, who are doing laudable work during the lockdown, undergo regular health screening for symptoms associated with COVID-19. Although short-staffed and cash-starved, the civic body is carrying out anti-pandemic operations in all 55 wards under four zones by deploying adequate men and material. Since the second week of March, 1,077 conservancy workers and 700 anti-dengue workers or DBCs (domestic breeding checkers) have been roped in for solid waste management and other cleaning operations. After ‘source segregation’ of domestic waste has been made compulsory, they visit every house and receive degradable and non-degradable waste and transport them to the garbage yard at Ramaiyanpatti. The conservancy workers have also been pressed into anti-virus operations carried out across the city. More than 60% of the workers, all provided with mandatory protective equipment, are now focused on ensuring cleanliness in affected areas and at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, a designated institution for treatment of positive patients from Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi districts. Moreover, small groups of sanitary workers are taken for cleaning operation and drawing markings at temporary vegetable markets, comprising 479 shops, to ensure personal distancing. Containment zones and areas where residents have home-quarantined themselves are also being disinfected thrice a day with their help. “Their service to the Corporation is important during this time and we are taking care of their health by ensuring medical screening everyday. As they assemble in the morning for the day’s work, they are screened by health workers. Their body temperature is measured first. If any abnormality is found, they are taken for other tests,” says G. Kannan, Corporation Commissioner. Other health parameters are also checked. Meanwhile, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish has ensured regular supply of Siddha concoctions to the workers to strengthen their immunity. She has placed order for 150 kg of nilavembu kudineer and kabasura kudineer herbal powders to be supplied to them and those in home quarantine. The Collector has also ensured uninterrupted supply of essential commodities, including rice, grocery items and vegetables, to all conservancy workers, another official adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tirunelveli-corporation-has-its-finger-on-the-pulse-of-conservancy-workers/article31459101.ece
29 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Video showing police constable extorting money goes viral||A video showing a police constable threatening a truck driver and extorting money from him went viral on social media on Tuesday. The video footage showed a police constable fleecing money from a lorry driver, who was transporting paddy to a rice mill in the night, and issuing threats. Another policeman, who was present, turned a blind eye to the incident. The location was identified as a bus shelter near a women’s college at Gandhi Nagar on Tenkasi highway between Pettai and Manonmaniam Sundaranar University. The truck driver, Muruganantham, recorded the incident that took place on March 24 with a mobile phone inside his pocket and sent it to his friend, who shared it on a social media platform on Monday. On receiving the video on Tuesday, senior police officials here contacted Pettai police station to ascertain the veracity of the footage. Action taken The constable was identified as Selvakumar of Armed Reserve Police, who was in a patrol vehicle on the night of the incident. He had been placed under suspension, the officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/video-showing-police-constable-extorting-money-goes-viral/article31459103.ece
29 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Teacher’s group to offer career guidance classes online||A teacher’s group- ‘Techno Teachers Team’- which has been offering online classes for school teachers during the lockdown period, will also provide career guidance classes from this week. According to N. Kalpana, a teacher at Municipal Higher Secondary School in Kumar Nagar, Tiruppur, who is part of the team, the career guidance classes will focus on IAS, IPS and TNPSC examinations as well as employment opportunities in the public sector. The classes will be conducted via Microsoft Teams mobile application on Thursday. “We expect around 150 college students across the State to participate in the first session,” she said.  The team comprises Ms. Kalpana and two government school teachers from Vellore, who have been conducting online classes for teachers from April. “We focus on how to implement technology in classrooms,” she said. Topics such as e-learning, blog creation, YouTube channel creation and utilisation of online tools available for free of cost are being covered for the teachers. Over 100 teachers participate in the one-hour session every day, according to Ms. Kalpana.  R. Ramesh, Chief Educational Officer of Tiruppur district, said that there have been no directions from the Department of School Education to conduct online classes. “Some teachers and headmasters are doing it out of their own interest,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-group-to-offer-career-guidance-classes-online/article31458847.ece
29 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Shops to be open till 1 p.m. in Tiruppur||Grocery shops and other essential outlets will be kept opened from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m. from Wednesday till May 3. “Whatever restrictions were present before April 26 will continue,” Corporation Commissioner K. Sivakumar said. The temporary vegetable markets that were functioning at seven locations in the city will reopen on Wednesday morning, he said. However, restrictions in the 12 containment zones in the Corporation limits will continue until further notice. Home delivery by mobile vegetable markets and meat shops will continue till May 3, Mr. Sivakumar said. A senior police officer with Tiruppur City Police said that crowds are not expected in any grocery shops or markets as prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC will continue to be enforced. “Many people might have stocked for more than three days,” he said, referring to the panic buying situation on Saturday. The existing police personnel will continue to monitor the city from Wednesday till May 3, the officer said. Tiruppur was one of the five cities in the State where a complete lockdown within the existing nationwide lockdown was announced by the State government. The complete lockdown began at 6 a.m. on Sunday and ended at 9 p.m. on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-to-be-open-till-1-pm-in-tiruppur/article31458855.ece
29 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||1,250 tonnes of Nilgiris tea to be sent to Kerala||A total of 1,250 tonnes of tea from the estates of small tea growers in the Nilgiris will be supplied to lakhs of homes in Kerala during the COVID-19 pandemic. The tea, processed at the 16 INDCOSERVE (Tamilnadu Small Tea Growers Industrial Cooperative Tea Factories Federation Ltd) factories, were packed in 50 lakh units and supplied to the Kerala government, which will distribute the tea packets to the consumers through the Public Distribution System (PDS) outlets in Kerala. To get the tea packets ready on time, the INDCOSERVE factories worked almost continuously for 20 days with thousands of workers being employed while ensuring personal distancing norms. Preventive measures Other preventative measures, such as workers wearing masks, gloves and other protective equipment while working, were also adopted. Supriya Sahu, managing director, INDCOSERVE and monitoring officer of the Tamil Nadu government for the Nilgiris district, told The Hindu that the tea packets were a special order placed by the Kerala government. Ms. Sahu said that 125 lorries were used to transport the 50 lakh tea packets, each weighing 250 grams to Kerala. In a statement, the INDCOSERVE said that factories followed all personal distancing rules and sanitisation procedures of the tea growers and the factory workforce during the production. Meanwhile, special passes were arranged with the help of the Nilgiris Collector and the Superintendent of Police to ensure smooth transportation of the tea to Kerala. “The special order of tea from Kerala has benefited the workers at INDCOSERVE factories by ensuring they had jobs even during the lockdown, while payments have been made to small tea growers in the district from whom the tea was procured, ensuring that they were not adversely affected,” added Ms. Sahu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1250-tonnes-of-nilgiris-tea-sent-to-kerala/article31458816.ece
29 April 2020||VEDARANYAM,TAMIL NADU||Manufacturers upset over huge stock of salt||Restrictions in transport has led to mounting stocks with small-scale salt manufacturers in Vedaranyam. The livelihood of about 800 small scale salt manufacturers who manage 3,000 acres of salt pans and at least 5000 workers hinges on the salt production. Stagnation of stock has stymied the cash flow for payment of wages and meeting overhead expenditure. The annual salt production undertaken from February to October reaches up to three lakh tonnes a year. April to June being the peak production season, the Vedaranyam Small Scale Salt Manufacurers Federation usually transports industrial and common salt in more than 50 lorries every day. Since concerns were raised on the spread of COVID 19 virus through drivers, the federation was told by the district administration to scale down the extent of transport to 10 lorries a day. ‘Accumulation of stock has pushed us into a state of desperation. We have a stock of about 75,000 tonnes all of which have to be sold for payment of wages to the workers,’ V. Senthil, secretary, Vedaranyam Small Scale Salt Manufacurers Federation, said. Nod It was after the intervention of the nodal officer of the Tamil Nadu Salt Corporation that the manufacturers were permitted to operate, by cutting down manpower to less than 2,000, as salt falls under the categorisation of essential commodity. ‘We have been following the social distancing norms and safety protocols for the workers as well as the drivers,’ Mr. Senthil said. The lorries are disinfected before being brought for loading to the pans, he said. ‘We pay wages of Rs. 550 per day for a male worker, and Rs. 350 per day for female worker, he said adding depletion in cash flow due to stagnation of stock would put livelihood of workers at stake. We would be able to manage if the district administration permits us to operate at least 40 lorries a day." Collector Praveen P. Nair said the administration was prepared to permit operation of more lorries after adequate screening of the drivers. ‘We will facilitate clearance of the stock, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manufacturers-upset-over-huge-stock-of-salt/article31459130.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: The tests reveal all||What are the important timelines and symptoms characteristic of COVID-19 infection we need to understand before testing? After exposure to SARS-CoV-2, the incubation period is typically 5 to 6 days. It can range from 2 to 14 days. In the first week, only viral RNA and antigen particles will be present. During the second to third weeks, the initial antibody response in the form of IgM will be seen which may be present for another 2 weeks. IgG antibody response will appear after 2 weeks in the blood and provides long term immunity. Currently we do not know how long the long term immunity lasts as this is a novel virus. From the available literature, the COVID-19 infection will be asymptomatic/mild in 81%, severe in 14% and critical in 5% of cases as shown. But the infection can be transmitted from persons through droplets, even from those with mild symptoms or asymptomatic carriers. What are the two major types of tests? The antigen test is the diagnostic test for  COVID-19 in which the viral RNA is directly identified by real time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (rRT-PCR). This is an extremely sensitive test to identify whether someone is currently infected and active. The antibody test is to identify the immune response  to earlier infection. By identifying the type of antibody positivity (IgM or IgG or both or none) we can determine whether the individual had exposure to infection or not, still has active infection or has developed long-term immunity. What is the best diagnostic test to identify if a person is currently having active COVID-19 infection? The rRT-PCR antigen test is the best diagnostic test to identify if someone is currently infected and active with SARS-CoV-2. In this, a nasopharyngeal (nasal) or oropharyngeal (mouth) swab is taken and sent in a cold storage box to the central laboratory, where the viral RNA is converted to complimentary DNA (cDNA) using reverse transcriptase, and amplified following the addition of a primer and fluorescent dye and DNA building enzymes. A positive test will be indicated by the raise in fluorescence. Depending on the equipment and method used, the time taken may vary between a few hours to a day to get the reports. This test is very sensitive and specific and can detect even if a single viral RNA particle is present in the swab. Some of the reasons why we get a false negative (negative test when the patient is actually COVID-19 positive) may be improper swab sampling, prolonged time to get sample to lab causing degradation of RNA. What is the best test to identify if a person had exposure (with or without symptoms) to COVID-19 and their immunity response? The test for antibodies will give information on whether a person had exposure to SARS-CoV-2 at any point in time and whether immunity has developed. When exposed to SARS-CoV-2 our immune system will form proteins called antibodies to neutralize the virus, initially antibody response will be IgM and long-term durable response will be IgG. Presence of IgG antibody alone will indicate development immunity. Why are the currently available point of care (POC) rapid testing kit (COVID-19 antibody test) results variable? The currently available POC rapid testing kits have been brought into the market without quality assurance by the regulatory authorities of the countries in which they were manufactured and they lack the validation process. Several of the testing kits have been fast-tracked due to increasing demand, hence lacking in quality, with variable sensitivity from 30% to 80%. The main concerns raised by several European countries and India are that these kits are showing a higher percentage of false negative reports (i.e. results of the test is negative while the patient is COVID-19-positive).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-the-tests-reveal-all/article31458821.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Relief||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief/article31459133.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Left high and dry||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/left-high-and-dry/article31458690.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||No extension of ‘total lockdown’||Meanwhile, the three-day 'complete lockdown' in Salem and Tiruppur drew to a close on Tuesday. Consequently, grocery stores and neighbourhood vegetable and fruit shops, closed since Sunday, would be permitted to resume functioning from 6 a.m. to 1 pm in the five cities. According to the G.O., after the 'complete lockdown', the respective District Collectors and the Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation would implement the COVID-19 lockdown till May 3, as ordered earlier with certain conditions. A senior official told The Hindu: “There would be no extension of the complete lockdown after April 29 for Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai. However, the lockdown conditions that prevailed earlier (before the complete lockdown) would continue till May 3.” The G.O., however, directed all Collectors “to intensify their efforts in containment zone management to prevent the spread of disease”. Cash assistance In another development, the State government sanctioned cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 each to more registered members of denotified communities, ulemas and other labour welfare boards. A total of 30,591 more registered members from denotified communities and 10,851 registered ulemas would benefit from the SDRF funds. A G.O. in this regard was issued on Monday. The Revenue and Disaster Management Department has also sanctioned additional funds to the tune of Rs. 20 crore from the State Disaster Response Fund to 528 town panchayats to continue disinfection activities for containing COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-extension-of-total-lockdown/article31458829.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||103 fresh cases in Chennai||There were 18 primary persons - unlinked source of infection - among the fresh cases, for which investigations were on. Twenty-seven patients were discharged, taking the total number to 1,128. The highest number of discharges were in Chennai (195), followed by Coimbatore (120) and Tiruppur (83). The number of samples tested so far has crossed the 1 lakh-mark in the State. A total of 1,01,874 samples, including 7,093 on Tuesday, and 93,189 individuals, including 6,850 individuals on Tuesday, were tested. A total of 1,908 samples were under process. Those under home quarantine numbered 30,692 persons while 47 were in government quarantine facilities. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/103-fresh-cases-in-chennai/article31458830.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID UPDATE||Persons in hospitals: 245 (Male -89, Male child – 3, Female – 149, Female child – 4) Govt. hospitals – 174 Private hospitals – 71 Positive cases– 141 (No new case on Tuesday) Persons who recovered: 126 (Three persons discharged on Tuesday)    House quarantine cases: 900 Samples lifted: 3,092 Declared: 2,910 Positive cases: 112 (No fresh cases on April 28) Negative cases: 2,798 Discharged from ESI Hospital: 83 Results of samples awaited: 182||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-update/article31458854.ece
29 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||CRPF constable released after he gets bail||The Judicial Magistrate First Class I of Chikkodi on Tuesday granted bail to Sachin Sawant, CRPF constable, who was arrested by Sadalaga Police for alleged assault on policemen on COVID19 duty in Examba village on April 23. He was released from the Hindalaga Prison at around 5 p.m. on Tuesday. Senior officers from the CRPF Training Centre in Jamboti near Belagavi had come to the jail along with relevant documents, lawyer B.D. Patil told The Hindu . Pictures of him being chained to the lock-up door were shared widely on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crpf-constable-released-after-he-gets-bail/article31458918.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shops in urban areas and industries in rural limits to open in 14 districts||In continuation of the lockdown relaxations, the State government on Tuesday eased restrictions for industries located in rural areas in a few more districts, taking the total number of such districts to 14. With this, industries located in rural areas (outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities) have been allowed to operate their activities in Chamarajanagar, Koppal, Chikkamagaluru, Raichur, Chitradurga, Ramanagaram, Hassan, Shivamogga, Haveri, Yadgir, Kolar, Davangere, Udupi, and Kodagu districts. COVID-19 cases have either not been reported for the past few days here or have never been reported. Besides rural areas, industries located within the limits of the municipal corporation and municipalities are allowed to operate their activities in Ramangaram district. In these 14 districts, shops, including neighbourhood, standalone and shops in residential complexes, located both within and outside the limits of municipal corporation and municipalities are allowed do their businesses, said an order. On April 24, the government had issued the order to ease restrictions for industries located in rural areas of nine COVID-19 unaffected districts. The order issued by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar on Tuesday said manufacturing and other industrial establishments with access control in special economic zones, export oriented units, industrial estates, and industrial townships can operate in 14 districts.  However, these industrial establishments must make arrangements for stay of workers within their premises as far as possible or in adjacent buildings. Transportation of the workers to workplace should be arranged by the employers in dedicated transport by ensuring social distancing. All shops registered under the Shops and Establishments Act of the State, including shops in residential complexes and market complexes, can open with 50% strength of the workers by wearing of masks and following social distancing norms. However, shops in multi-brand and single brand malls are not allowed both within and outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities. Other districts The district in-charge Ministers are empowered to take decisions on opening of shops and industries in taluks, where there are no active COVID-19 cases, in districts of Ballari, Mandya, Bengaluru Rural, Gadag, Tumakuru, Chickballapur, Uttara Kannada, and Dharwad. The existing lockdown norms would continue till May 3 in hotspot districts of Bengaluru Urban, Belagavi, Mysuru, Dakshina Kannada, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Kalaburagi, and Bidar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shops-in-urban-areas-and-industries-in-rural-limits-to-open-in-14-districts/article31458773.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Haj Bhavan turns de facto jail||With a total of 137 undertrials from Ramanagaram jail, including 116 persons accused in the recent Padarayanapura violence, been shifted to Haj Bhavan quarantine centre, the bhavan has now turned into a de facto jail. Prison authorities, who have deputed their officials to be in charge of the four-storey building with a single entry from the east side, are allowing supply of food and other material into the bhavan for inmates only after scrutiny. Sharing space with them in the building are a group of 37 Tablighi Jamaat attendees (comprising 24 foreigners, 12 from Kerala, and one from Tamil Nadu) who have finished their 28-day quarantine period. They were shifted from the bhavan to hotels, but were eventually shifted back here following protests by locals in those areas. The Kerala and Tamil Nadu residents were refused entry into their home States. The food allowed into the bhavan is also now entirely vegetarian, as per directions of the jail authorities. This is applicable to those who are not undertrials as well. But, the non-undertrial inmates are now more worried on other counts. “We have been put up with undertrials here and are worried that we may contract the infection as they are still in the incubation period of 14 days. While we have no other problems, we are worried that mixing of healthy and those in the incubation period may not be safe,” said Mohammed Ali from Tamil Nadu. Mr. Ali, who attended the jamaat event, runs a perfume business. “It has been a month now and I am waiting to get back home. I appeal to the authorities to send us back as soon as possible,” he said. Another man from Kerala, who did not wish to be named, said they had landed in Bengaluru after attending the congregation in Delhi as the only available ticket was to Bengaluru on March 24 when the lockdown was announced. “We had planned to go by road from Bengaluru to our hometown. But got stuck and are now forced to stay with the undertrials. I am missing my family, especially my one-year-old daughter,” he said. It is not just the fear of getting infected that is worrying them. “We are worried as our movement is restricted. We cannot even come out for a walk. We are stressed psychologically,” said the man from Kerala. This group has been accommodated on the fourth floor where a woman from Padarayanapura, who is also accused of violence, has been put up. Chief superintendent of central prison Sheshumurthy V. denied that the Haj Bhavan had been converted into a jail. “This is a quarantine centre and we have isolated the undertrials here,” he said, refusing to elaborate. Bengaluru Urban District Health Officer (DHO) G. Srinivas said there was no risk of infection as all the residents of the bhavan had tested negative in the first round. However, sources said the first test was done soon after they were separated from the containment area. “Their swab tests will be repeated after 12 days and till then they are in the incubation period and it is risky to keep them along with healthy persons,” sources said. Haj Bhavan nodal officer Syed Aijaz Ahmed said: “As the Haj Bhavan has been converted into a de facto jail, the bhavan authorities’ role is now limited. We are only providing food to those staying here. We have also made arrangements for Sehri and Iftaar through our volunteers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/haj-bhavan-turns-de-facto-jail/article31458785.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||With fewer patients, doctors take pay cut||Several private hospitals in the city that have stopped elective surgeries and are focussing only on emergency cases are struggling to pay salaries to their staff, including doctors. Most are functioning at less than 20% of their patient capacity. While some hospital boards have asked a section of their doctors to take leave with loss of pay, others said both doctors and administrative staff have volunteered to take pay cuts. R. Ravindra, president of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association, which has close to 400 hospitals in the city, said they have instructed their hospitals to ensure that they do not lay off or cut salaries of their nursing and housekeeping staff. “Hospitals are currently seeing patients in the range of 10% to 20% of their total capacity. Many of the specialists are freelancers and get paid based on the patients they treat. They come if there are patients. Since they do not have patients, they have not been coming,” he said. Doctors involved in COVID-19 duties are being paid on time without any pay cut. Vikram Sreeram, managing director of Mallige Hospital, admitted that it was indeed difficult times for hospitals. “We have adopted two strategies for our doctors. While some doctors will have to take a pay cut, we have told senior consultants that their salaries will be deferred,” he said. The salary cut for doctors ranges from 30% to 50%, based on their salary slabs. “Our occupancy is only 15%. We are taking only emergency cases on an outpatient basis.” He also said some senior doctors have been requested not to report to work. Some hospitals have told their staff that the salary cuts would be applicable for the next three months, after which the situation would be reviewed based on the trajectory of the pandemic. In a circular, Vydehi Institute of Medical Sciences has requested the staff to forego an amount equivalent to 12 days’ pay. This is not applicable to staff members drawing less than Rs. 20,000 a month, which includes paramedical, support, and nursing staff. Temporary shutdown Explaining the effect of the lockdown and the pandemic on their financial health, Dr. Ravindra said that some of the smaller hospitals, including ENT and eye hospitals, have shut down temporarily. “We are getting reports of some hospitals having less than five patients,” he said. At the same time, hospitals are incurring costs on procuring PPE kits and sanitisers, and are spending on other precautionary measures. The association has asked the State government if some of their outgoings for utilities, including electricity bill, can be deferred for the next couple of months. For some doctors, the salary cut is going to make life difficult, but is unavoidable. “Our hospital is requesting us to accept a pay cut. I am the sole breadwinner of my family. Though we have the same bills to pay as earlier, I have no option but to accept the decision of the management,” a doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-fewer-patients-doctors-take-pay-cut/article31458757.ece
29 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||HAL staff return to work after 35 days||Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. on Tuesday resumed aircraft manufacturing activities across its centres after a gap of 35 days under the ongoing nationwide lockdown. It becomes one of the early few production entities to be picking up the threads of old routine again. The Ministry of Home Affairs has allowed it to function as an essential defence service and under strict safety guidelines. Employees have been asked to commute to work on their own, according to an official letter. The Bengaluru headquarters includes the helicopter, fixed wing and research units and has 15,000 of its total manpower of 28,000. The defence public enterprise, along with virtually all public and private industrial sectors in the country, had halted work on March 24. In the last five weeks, only a minimum number of staff on essential services worked. The State-owned defence aircraft company has been advised to run two shifts with an hour’s gap between the two to avoid crowding of staff on the premises. HAL manufactures and services military planes and helicopters mainly for the Indian Air Force across multiple locations. It has been cleared ‘on a par with defence’ to resume work as it provides essential services to keep the IAF operationally ready. Employees must follow the standard COVID-19 precautions issued by the Centre and the State: screening of staff and contract workers at the entrance, keeping safe distance among employees, frequent hand sanitisation, personal hygiene, and wearing of masks. Supplies so far Bharat Electronics Ltd. and BEML are two other defence PSUs based in Bengaluru. Sources in BEL and BEML separately said they, too, expected to get resumption clearances shortly. Non-essential production activities have been paused. Under the lockdown so far, a BEL unit in Bengaluru has been producing ventilators that may be required by critically ill COVID-19 patients. During the health crisis, HAL has manufactured and supplied 300 aerosol cabinets to various hospitals and distributed 56,000 masks among migrant labourers. It has earmarked 93 isolation beds in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hal-staff-return-to-work-after-35-days/article31458768.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fresh from farm, direct to home||With the dual aim of helping farmers in distress and getting fresh items at a fair price, many residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and citizens’ groups are now sourcing the produce directly from farms. In most cases, orders are taken via Google Forms and payment is done through e-wallets. Residents are informed of the date and time of delivery. Once farmers or their representatives come of the apartment complex or neighbourhood, people can collect theirorders within a short period of time while following social distancing norms. Pai Layout Residents’ Welfare Association (PLRWA), on Old Madras Road, is facilitating over 60 apartments and individual houses in the vicinity to directly buy vegetables and fruits from a farmer from Chickballapur district. Recently, they received over 620 kg of grapes and 550 kg of vegetables, including capsicum and long green brinjal. N.H. Subramanian of PLRWA said the lockdown forced them to think of out of the box. “We plan to continue to directly buy from farmers even after the lockdown,” he added. Puneeth G., a farmer from Goramadogu village in Chickballapur, who was approached by PLRWA, is relieved that he could make some money during this period without having to pay a middleman. “Since it is group buying, I sold my produce in one go, at one stop without the fear of uncertainty of business,” he said. Another such initiative is the ‘Ibbalur Farmer’s Market’, where a few apartments and independent houses are buying seasonal vegetables and fruits from farmers from different areas. The produce includes mangoes from Kanakapura, watermelons from Nelamangala, muskmelons from Channapatna, and grapes from Devanahalli. K.G. Mohan, a volunteer at the market, said many households were buying extra produce to not only help farmers, but also provide food for those in need. “We donate fruits and vegetables to the Akshaya Patra Foundation even as the farmer benefits directly,” he said. Growing popularity Sarjapur Residents’ Welfare Association (SRWA) started ‘Vegetables on Wheels’ a few days after the lockdown began. As there are many who farm around Sarjapur, SRWA, with the help of the local police, started facilitating sale between local farmers and customers in the area. “The popularity of the initiative is growing by the day and there is an increase in demand also. I am now getting calls from other RWAs about the initiative,” said Joy V.R. of SRWA. A similar initiative is being carried out by the citizens’ group Voice of Sarjapur. Given the freshness of the produce they are receiving, residents are hoping that these farmers’ markets continue even after the lockdown is lifted.  The popularity of the initiative is growing by the day and there is an increase in demand also. I am now getting calls from other RWAs about the initiative Joy V.R., member of Sarjapur Residents’ Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fresh-from-farm-direct-to-home/article31458750.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Only non-polluting units should be allowed to restart operations’||Even as May 3 approaches and States are looking at ways to ease restrictions, activists have urged the government to utilise the positive learnings from this period in the future. Case in point: Vrishabhavathi river. Citizens say that though sewage and garbage continue to choke the river, which has seen decades of neglect, the fact that industrial and chemical effluents are not being let into the river now has yielded some positive results. They now want the government to ask the polluting industries to get their act together before allowing them to start functioning again. In the past, government agencies such as Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board have conceded that industrial and chemical effluents were being let into the river surreptitiously, bypassing the STP mechanism and defeating its purpose. On Tuesday, a group of citizens and NGOs, which included the Namma Vrishabhavathi Foundation, Citizens for Citizens, and Koti Vriksha Sainya, held a discussion on the matter. Approximately 530 MLD of untreated sewage gets into the river, and STPs treat about 274 MLD. Though the upcoming STPs have the capacity to treat another 140 MLD from 2021, they are meant for only biological waste, not industrial effluents, a release from the group said. “Studies prior to the lockdown showed a presence of heavy metals, whose source was mainly industrial effluents. The sewage water had a blackish colour,” the release said. “During the lockdown, the colour of water has turned grey, even colourless, at some places. The odour is milder, with hardly any chemical smell.” “Right now, there is an opportunity to understand that these industries are causing problems. So don’t allow them to start [operations] unless pollution-causing waste is not allowed into the water system,” said Rajkumar Dugar from Citizens for Citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/only-non-polluting-units-should-be-allowed-to-restart-operations/article31458753.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Difficult to resume normal functioning of courts soon after lockdown ends’||It will be difficult to start normal functioning of all courts in the State immediately after the lockdown is lifted as social distancing norms will have to be in force, Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka of the Karnataka High Court said on Tuesday. Pointing out that the Full Court of the High Court has been regularly deliberating on this aspect, the Chief Justice said several precautionary measures will have to be put in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19. He made the remarks while heading a Division Bench, also comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna, during a hearing through videoconferencing of PIL petitions filed by H.C. Shivaramu and other advocates. The petitioners had sought directions to the Karnataka State Bar Council (KSBC) and the Bar Council of India to grant financial relief to needy advocates, who have lost their daily income due to closure of courts, from the Advocates’ Welfare Funds  The Chief Justice also pointed out that the entire building of Madhya Pradesh High Court’s Indore Bench were to be closed after an employee tested positive for COVID-19 a few days ago. It is being contemplated to give appointments for filling of petitions through e-mails in district courts as allowing advocates to file petitions through normal course would result in crowding on the court premises, the Chief Justice said, while indicating to KSBC that it is important to provide relief to needy advocates as it will take a few weeks to start normal functioning of the courts even after lifting of lockdown. Rs. 3,000 each Earlier, Senior Counsel Jayakumar S. Patil, appearing for KSBC, told the Division Bench that KSBC has so far received 11,000 application from advocates for financial relief. Mr. Patil said that as of now KSBC, based on available finance, is shortly proposed to pay approximately Rs. 3,000 each to around 10,000 advocates, who are eligible to get relief from the Advocates’ Welfare Fund, through their bank accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/difficult-to-resume-normal-functioning-of-courts-soon-after-lockdown-ends/article31458788.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||220 Indians stranded in Japan seek help||Around 220 Indians stranded in Japan because of the lockdown in India are worried not just about the pandemic but also of a potential natural disaster after an earthquake alert was issued by the Japan Meteorological Agency recently. They have appealed to the Indian government for help. Keerthan S. a doctor from Bengaluru had gone to Japan on February 29 this year for a clinical observation programme at the University of Tokyo and was slated to return on April 1. His travel insurance has lapsed and he is running out of resources. There are over 10 people from Bengaluru in Japan. “The biggest concern for many of us here is avoiding contracting the virus as the lockdown is not the same as it is in India. Here more people are moving freely outside. Secondly, most of us do not have any medical insurance as it has lapsed,” said Dr. Keerthan. He added that two of the stranded Indians had lost their parents back in India and many had ageing parents. “It is depressing to be a witness to such distressing moments. An elderly couple here ran out of medicines and I tried to help them with prescriptions. However, our prescriptions are not accepted here,” he said. Though the embassy of India in Tokyo has helped them to an extent, they claim that their queries are not being answered. “They have provided us with discounts in OYO rooms here. However, they are extremely expensive and Tokyo in general is expensive. Hence, the assistance they have provided is of very little help,” said another Indian stranded in Tokyo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/220-indians-stranded-in-japan-seek-help/article31458759.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State seeks extension of work from home for IT firms till March 2021||While the Centre on Tuesday gave permission for IT professionals to work from home till July 31, Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan mooted extending work from home (WFH) for IT/BT sector until March-end, 2021. This came up for discussion during a videoconference by the Union Minister for Information Technology and Telecommunications Ravi Shankar Prasad with all State IT Ministers. Responding to Mr. Narayan’s suggestion that WFH be extended till next year, the Union Minister for now has granted it till July 31, 2020 while promising to take a call on further extension after assessing the situation in July. At the meeting, Mr. Narayan explained the problems faced by the IT sector due to lockdown, the solutions found, and steps taken by the State. The Union Minister agreed to a suggestion to hold a videoconference with the top IT industry leaders to understand the problems faced by the sector. He also commended Karnataka’s online health services noting that there has been an improvement in online services after the pandemic breakout. Apthamitra helpline Mr. Narayan explained how the State government has been successful in using technology to provide education and other essential services. More than 500 professionals are working at the Apthamitra helpline, and receive at least 50,000 calls on an average every day. As an alternative to e-commerce, Apthamitra helpline provides all essentials, including groceries and medicines to people's doorsteps in red zones. Strategy committee Mr. Prasad also announced the setting up of a national-level strategy committee to prepare detailed guidelines and solutions in a pandemic situation like COVID-19. “Not just the IT sector, but all States should give importance to developing startups and research. The focus will be to provide effective e-governance and e-passes. Nearly 80% of professionals are working from home. To help this, Internet services would be strengthened through Bharat Net,” Prasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-seeks-extension-of-work-from-home-for-it-firms-till-march-2021/article31458776.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3-member panel to probe death in Victoria Hospital||The Medical Education Department has set up a three-member committee headed by C. Ramachandra, director of Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology, to probe Monday’s incident where a 50-year-old patient jumped to death from the sixth floor of the emergency and trauma care centre on Victoria Hospital campus. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar told The Hindu that the panel would look into why and how the incident happened and also recommend how to avoid such incidents. “We have to submit our report in a week,” said Dr. Ramachandra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-member-panel-to-probe-death-in-victoria-hospital/article31458782.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Increase Centre’s share of honorarium to midday meal workers’||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar on Tuesday requested Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank to increase the Centre’s share in the honorarium paid to midday meal workers. He made the request while on a videoconference meeting with the Union Minister, who conducted the meeting of all Education Ministers of States. “Midday meal workers in Karnataka are paid Rs. 2,600 per month out of which Rs. 600 is the Centre’s share and remaining is State government’s contribution. We have time and again increased out contribution but the Centre has not. Hence, I have requested the Centre to increase its share as well,” he said. He also said that the SSLC examination will be held after the lockdown is lifted with utmost caution and care.  We have time and again increased out contribution but the Centre has not. Hence, I have requested the Centre to increase its share as well.S. Suresh KumarMinister for Primary and Secondary Education||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/increase-centres-share-of-honorarium-to-midday-meal-workers/article31458765.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Toll relief sought for KSRTC buses||Following heavy losses to the State-run transport corporations, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Sadavi, who also holds the Transport portfolio, has urged the Union government not to collect toll from KSRTC and other transport corporation buses on national highways for the next six months. The State-run transport corporations have incurred loss amounting more than Rs. 800 crore owing to lockdown in the State till April 20. In a letter to Union Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari, Mr. Savadi sough toll relief for KSRTC and other road transport corporation buses, said an official statement here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/toll-relief-sought-for-ksrtc-buses/article31458770.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Open liquor outlets in green zones: Ex-CM||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Tuesday suggested to the government to allow sale of liquor in green zones. “I do not recommend sale of alcohol in the entire State. But, wherever there are green districts, outlets can sell liquor with certain restrictions,” the former Chief Minister said.  Wherever there are green districts, outlets can sell liquor with certain restrictions.Siddaramaiah||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/open-liquor-outlets-in-green-zones-ex-cm/article31458769.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Policemen test negative||Over 200 policemen, who had been deployed for enforcement duty soon after the violence at Padarayanapura, tested negative for COVID-19. Bengaluru Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao expressed relief over the results. Meanwhile, 68 staff at Ramanagaram prison, where the accused were sent to, also tested negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/policemen-test-negative/article31458789.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New additional judge for HC||Savanur Vishwajith Shetty on Tuesday took oath as additional judge of the Karnataka High Court. Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka administered the oath of office to him in a simple ceremony, which was attended by only a few senior judges of the High Court, select members of the Bar, and some family members of Justice Shetty, due to social distancing norms in view of COVID-19. Hailing from Savanur village of Puttur taluk in Dakshina Kannada district, Justice Shetty secured his law degree from Vaikunata Baliga College of Law in Udupi and later enrolled as an advocate. He worked as a junior in the law chamber of P. Vishwanath Shetty, Lokayukta of Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-additional-judge-for-hc/article31458781.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||May 31 is new deadline for property tax rebate||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has extended the 5% rebate on payment of full property tax for the 2020-21 fiscal till the end of May. Every year, it offers a 5% rebate on property tax till the end of April. In a circular issued on Tuesday, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said that as citizens have been directed to stay indoors, they would not be able to go to banks for paying property tax. Several councillors had urged the Commissioner to extend the tax rebate period in light of the spread of the pandemic and for filling up the civic body’s coffers. This year, the BBMP has set a target of collecting Rs. 3,500 crore from the nearly 20 lakh properties under its tax net. As on April 28, it had collected Rs. 304.65 crore, of which Rs. 249.96 crore was through online mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/may-31-is-new-deadline-for-property-tax-rebate/article31458751.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC launches helpline||The High Court of Karnataka started a dedicated helpline to assist advocates and litigants on e-filing of petitions and hearing through videoconferencing in its three Benches at Bengaluru, Dharwad and Kalaburagi. Advocates and litigants can contact the Principal Bench at Bengaluru on 14620; Dharwad Bench on 14621, and Kalaburagi Bench on 14622 during office hours, said a public notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-launches-helpline/article31458786.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Donated||Vedanta Iron Ore has contributed Rs. 1 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund for COVID-19. Krishna Reddy, Director, Vedanta Iron Ore Business, Karnataka, and Meghna Ghosh, Chief External Relation Officer, met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and handed over the letter to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/donated/article31458766.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No cut in April salary for government employees||Though major revenue generating departments are not mobilising much income to the State during the 40-day lockdown, the government has decided on giving April salary in full to its nearly six lakh employees. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday chaired a meeting with senior officials of the Finance Department to find ways and means for generating revenue to the State exchequer to pay April salaries. However, the department has decided to freeze the DA at existing levels for the current financial year. The government’s tax revenues have plummeted because of lockdown, while expenses have shot up owing to the support provided to the vulnerable groups. “Salary shall be drawn only for April 2020 – from the amount made available to departments. Treasuries shall ensure that no arrears of salaries shall be drawn without prior concurrence of Finance Department,” said an order issued by Ekroop Caur, Secretary, Finance Department, on Tuesday. It said administrative expenditure, building and transport expenses should be utilised on most essential items required to run the offices. However, the government banned spending money on purchase of vehicles, furniture, major repairs of buildings/construction. Further, the order said administrative departments should within a week communicate a list of schemes, if necessary, to the department, which need to be implemented in public interest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-cut-in-april-salary-for-government-employees/article31458774.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Liquor seized||CCB officials on Tuesday caught a man selling branded liquor. Roshan Bhatija, 31, was nabbed while he was waiting for his clients near the Mount Carmel College underpass. The police recovered 24 liquor bottles worth Rs. 2.5 lakh from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/liquor-seized/article31458754.ece
29 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Over 150 media persons screened||Medical tests for media persons for SARS-CoV-2 infection which began at the hi-tech hospital of the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi on Monday concluded on Tuesday with over 150 media persons getting themselves screened. The two-day screening camp and sample-taking was organised jointly by KIMS, the Department of Information and Public Relations and the Department of Health and Family Welfare considering the risk being faced by media persons on account of the nature of their work. Throat and nose swabs of several media persons were collected on the first day after media persons arrived at the scheduled time allotted to different media houses and publications. According to the authorities, a total of 152 media persons have undergone the tests and the test results are likely to arrive in a couple of days. On Monday, after the camp began, Director of KIMS Ramalingappa Antaratani had said that after a virology laboratory was set up at KIMS, testing for SARS-CoV-2 infection began on April 8 and on an average, samples were being collected from 200 to 300 persons per day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-150-media-persons-screened/article31458925.ece
29 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Six new COVID-19 cases in Kalaburagi district||The detection of new cases of COVID-19 continued in Kalaburagi district which has been one among the worst-hit districts in the State. Late on Monday evening, the district registered six new cases taking the tally to 44 that included five deaths and seven patients discharged upon recovery. The new cases are P-515 (a 55-year-old man from Mominpur in Kalaburagi), P-516 (a 40-year-old woman from Mominpur in Kalaburagi), P-517 (a 43-year-old man from Islamabad Colony in Kalaburagi), P-518 (a 28-year-old woman from Islamabad Colony in Kalaburagi), P-519 (a 45-year-old woman from Mominpur in Kalaburagi) and P-520 (a 22-year-old woman from Mominpur in Kalaburagi). Deputy Commissioner and District Magistrate B. Sharat said that all new cases were contacts of P-395, a 19-year-old male who was a contact of P-205, a 55-year-old male who was admitted for Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and later died of COVID-19 on April 14. The district has registered five deaths thus far: P-6 (a 76-year-old man who died on March 10 and later tested positive for COVID-19 on March 12), P-177 (a 65-year-old man who died on April 8 after getting admitted for SARI), P-205 (a 55-year-old man who died on April 14 after getting admitted for SARI), P-414 (an 80-year-old man who died on April 21 after getting admitted for SARI) and P-422 (a 47-year-old man who died on April 27).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-new-covid-19-cases-in-kalaburagi-district/article31458919.ece
29 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Deputy Commissioner of Kalaburagi transferred||Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat, who was deeply involved in the battle against novel coronavirus in the district which is among one of the worst COVID-19-hit districts in the State, was, on Tuesday, transferred as Executive Director of Karnataka Examination Authority, Bengaluru, replacing Suralkar Vikas Kishore who has been transferred and posted as Deputy Commissioner of Kalaburagi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deputy-commissioner-of-kalaburagi-transferred/article31458921.ece
29 April 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||An exodus of male calves to Pandavapura goshala||The goshala in Pandavapura of Mandya district has been receiving an unusually high number of male calves every day since the beginning of the lockdown. It has received 40 calves, all male, in the last 20 days. On Sunday night, it received 20 in a single day. Usually male calves are sold days after their birth by farmers and the lockdown has brought this trade to a standstill. Farmers are abandoning the calves because they are unable to look after them, said animal rights activist J. Ruma. Usually farmers never keep male calves of non-native breeds, but the lockdown has stopped the sale of male calves, said an officer at the Department of Animal Husbandry and veterinary sciences. On Sunday, the 20 calves brought to the goshala were seized by the police as they were being transported in a van. It was the first such seizure in Mandya district since the lockdown. “Villagers are abandoning their calves as they can neither feed nor sell them,” Ms. Ruma told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/an-exodus-of-male-calves-to-pandavapura-goshala/article31458779.ece
29 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Five SARI cases reported in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada reported five Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cases on Tuesday. However, there was no COVID-19 positive case. According to a health bulletin issued by the district administration, test reports of 536 samples are awaited. In all, nine persons were admitted for observation and the number of those admitted at ESI Hospital in the city rose to 40 with eight new admissions. In addition, 59 persons are under quarantine in the NIT-K building at Surathkal. The district had seven active COVID-19 cases till Tuesday. It said that the health condition of patient number 409 from Kasba in Bantwal continues to be the same. She is on ventilator support in the ICU of the Government Wenlock Hospital. So far, 1,751 persons have been treated at fever clinics in different hospitals. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh has de-notified the containment zones of Sajianadu in Bantwal taluk, Karaya in Belthangady taluk and Ajjavara in Sullia taluk as no new positive COVID-19 cases have been reported from these zones within 28 days of the last positive cases reported from there. In addition, primary and secondary contacts have completed home quarantine in these zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-sari-cases-reported-in-dakshina-kannada/article31458930.ece
29 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||NMPT distributes 6,000 essential supplies kits||New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT) on Tuesday distributed kits containing essential supplies to the needy in its surroundings. About 6,000 such kits were distributed to migrant workers, daily wage workers and others residing in Surathkal, Baikampady, Tannirbhavi, Hosabettu and Kulai, among other areas. MP Nalin Kumar Kateel symbolically handed over the kits to a few beneficiaries at NMPT. NMPT has also contributed Rs. 4.3 crore to PM-CARES Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nmpt-distributes-6000-essential-supplies-kits/article31458928.ece
29 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Pharma company: Officer seeks guidance from govt. over probe||The probe into the source of COVID-19 infection among employees of the pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud, which could not be unravelled by the police and health officials in Mysuru, now appears to be facing another hurdle with the Inquiry Officer writing to the State government seeking guidance from the Health Department. The State government had ordered an investigation in the matter last Friday and asked senior IAS officer Harsh Gupta, who has been designated as the nodal officer for COVID-19 containment in Mysuru district, to submit a report in a week. With days left for the deadline, Mr. Gupta is yet to hear from the government on the “issues” that he had raised with regard to the investigation. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Gupta, however, refused to divulge the nature of “guidance” he had sought and the issues he had raised in his communication with the government. “It is up to the government to make the details public,” he said. The source of infection among the employees of Jubilant pharmaceutical company had become a subject of widespread speculation and the probe had attracted much curiosity. Out of the 89 people testing positive in Mysuru, persons connected to the company accounted for 73 of them. Mr. Gupta’s move to seek guidance comes after an investigation by the Mysuru district police and health officials made little headway. Though no FIR has been lodged, the Police Department had studied the travel history of the positive employees and traced their contacts through various means, including interrogation and call records. Almost all the company’s employees, estimated to be around 1,300, and their contacts had been quarantined. While the police said the officials from the Health Department were better trained to identify the source of infection, a Health Department official, however, was of the opinion that oral interrogation of the positive persons was also key to identifying the source of infection. Sources in the government pointed out that such an investigation was a “technical matter” requiring “expertise”. The inquiry officer should be assisted by a microbiologist or virologist from the Health Department, besides oral interrogation of the employees. Meanwhile, Harshavardhan, BJP MLA representing Nanjangud Assembly constituency, feared that the firmwas planning to resume operations by citing that it manufactures Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients needed to fight COVID-19. He feared that reopening it without identifying the source of infection would imperil the lives of people in Nanjangud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pharma-company-officer-seeks-guidance-from-govt-over-probe/article31458777.ece
29 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Winnifred Fernandes passes away||Winnifred F. Fernandes, a former legislator, passed away after a brief illness at Kundapur in Udupi district on Tuesday. She was 91. She was twice elected MLA from Kundapur Assembly Constituency in 1967 and 1972. She served as an MLC from 2000 to 2006. She had also served as president of the Kundapur Town Municipal Council. She began her career in the Praja Socialist Party and later joined the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/winnifred-fernandes-passes-away/article31458932.ece
29 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||14 in quarantine in hospital||As many as seven persons from a petrol bunk at Thekkatte village and an equal number of persons from the toll plaza at Sasthan village were quarantined by the authorities in Udupi district on Tuesday after a 50-year-old man tested positive for COVID-19 in Sathenahalli of Nagamangala taluk of Mandya district on April 27. This man had travelled in a truck secretly from Vashi in Maharashtra to Chanarayapatna, passing through Udupi district. This man had had his bath and food at the petrol bunk at Thekkatte and then, the truck had passed through the toll plaza at Sasthan on April 21. A team, led by Kundapur Taluk Health Officer Nagabhushana Udupa, had visited the petrol bunk and later, the toll plaza in the early hours of Tuesday and had counselled the 14 persons to stay in quarantine. District Nodal COVID-19 Officer Prashanth Bhat told The Hindu that all these 14 persons were in quarantine in hospital here. The petrol bunk had been shut down and barricaded. A disinfectant solution had been sprayed around the petrol bunk at Thekkate. “The petrol bunk will remain closed for 28 days,” Dr. Bhat said. Additional Superintendent of Police Kumara Chandra said that the police would intensify checking of trucks passing through the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/14-in-quarantine-in-hospital/article31458931.ece
29 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Transmitter found on dead bird causes some anxiety||The discovery of a transmitter on the carcass of a Laggar Falcon at a farm in Yembatnal village of Basavanabagewadi taluk has caused a bit of anxiety among villagers. The carcass was noticed by locals a couple of days ago along with a tag on one of the legs of the bird. The locals later informed the officials of Forest Department about their find. Initially, people thought that the bird was a hawk. However, the officials confirmed that it was a Laggar Falcon. Forest Official Basanagouda Biradar, who visited the spot, said that the bird had died a natural death. The bird was buried after the officials collected some details. However, investigation is under way to find out more about the transmitter it was carrying. “We have collected details mentioned on the radio transmitter and the tag and sent them to the Wildlife Control Bureau in Chennai,” Mr. Biradar said. He added that they are in touch with Chennai for further information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/transmitter-found-on-dead-bird-causes-some-anxiety/article31458923.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Farmer’s FB plea gets CM’s attention||An onion grower, who aired her problems during lockdown on social media, has caught the attention of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. He spoke to her over phone on Tuesday and assured that he would help market her produce. G.R. Vasantha of Katanayakanahalli had grown 140 onion sacks weighing 50 kg each. She and her husband Pratap have 12 acres of land and have grown onions in four acres. They have also grown coconut and vegetables in the remaining land in the village in Hiriyur taluk of Chitradurga district. ‘Save us from loss’ Due to the lockdown, the farmer couple were unable to sell the onions. On Monday, Ms. Vasantha uploaded a video on Facebook appealing to the Chief Minister to buy onions from them at a good price as the rates had fallen and save them from losses. After the video went viral on Facebook and WhatsApp groups, Mr. Yediyurappa spoke to Ms. Vasantha on Tuesday morning and promised her help. As per the direction of the Deputy Commissioner of Chitradurga district, assistant director of agriculture Thotaiah T. along with Revenue Department officers visited the village. Mr. Thotaiah told The Hindu: “Onions will be bought in the next two or three days and the price will be decided based on the quality and size of the produce.” Ms. Vasantha said: “We took a loan of Rs. 60,000 to grow 140 bags of onions out of which 20 bags have got spoilt already.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-fb-plea-gets-cms-attention/article31458780.ece
29 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Curating Kunchan Nambiar for the masses||Veteran Thullal artiste Kalamandalam Prabhakaran reached his daughter’s house at Cherthala last month to spend time with his grandchild. However, his plans of returning home to Ernakulam a few days later were scuppered by the lockdown. Finding life under lockdown difficult, Prabhakaran, 74, found a way to cope with the restriction blues by producing videos that curated the works of Kunchan Nambiar, the poet, performer, and satirist who popularised Ottan Thullal as a performing art in the 18th century. He aimed at showcasing the relevance of the works and share a lighter moment with the audience. Episodes on Facebook Unlike the usual ways of presenting the great poet’s works in a traditional Thullal performance, he has opted to recite select verses in the videos. Prabhakaran has so far produced 10 episodes titled Ozhivu Samaya Kunjan Narma Chinthakal and posted it on his Facebook page, where he thematically presents the works, with some resonating with the present situation. According to Prabhakaran, many of the literary works of Nambiar, though studied academically, are not widely known among the public. “This is a small endeavour to seek the attention of the common audience as well as those interested in Malayalam poems. The episodes highlight a few lines from the poems written by Kunchan Nambiar, which point towards social satire and poetic styles,” says Prabhakaran, a Syndicate member and visiting professor at the Kerala Kalamandalam and Senate member of Malayalam University, Tirur. In an episode, Prabhakaran presents how Nambiar vividly describes a hypothetical situation where the supply of air is absent. The verses, though aimed at creating laughter, rather paint a vivid picture of how the world comes to a standstill with people mortified halfway into their actions. In another episode, the artiste tries to explore Nambiar as a poet who uses deep social observation and scathing social criticism. Another episode shows the revolutionary face of Nambiar, who as a poet ridicules luxury weddings. Facebook videos are just another attempt by Prabhakaran to revive Thullal, which has a restricted audience.  Still relevant “Kunchan Nambiar was a revolutionary poet who satirised the social evils of his time through the art form Thullal. But it has not lost its relevance even in the 21st century due to his foresight. This is the message we try to pass on to the audience through the videos,” says Praveena K., his daughter and Assistant Professor of Economics, NSS College, Cherthala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curating-kunchan-nambiar-for-the-masses/article31459038.ece
29 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Woman electrocuted||A 47-year-old woman was electrocuted after a power line snapped and fell into a river at Kavalam in Kuttanad on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Ajitha. Sources said that the victim along with her daughter and two other women was bathing when the wire snapped after a coconut tree fell on it in strong winds. Three persons were injured in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-electrocuted/article31459055.ece
29 April 2020||Idukki,KERALA||More cases likely in Idukki district||Though three more positive cases were reported from Idukki on Tuesday forenoon, which falls in the Red zone, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, during his briefing on Tuesday evening, said these cases needed reconfirmation before they could be added to the tally of positive cases. However, the patients had been moved to hospital and necessary treatment was being given. Idukki, bordering Tamil Nadu, witnessed a spike in positive cases on April 26 when six patients were detected infected with the virus on a single day, taking the total cases to 10. On Monday, there were four more cases. Electricity Minister M.M. Mani chaired a high-level meeting of officials in the district on Tuesday and said the lockdown protocol would be implemented in a stringent manner in Idukki. 300 samples District Collector H. Dineshan told media that they were expecting more cases in the coming days as results of around 300 samples of close contacts were awaited. “Most of the cases came from Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and some are from abroad,” the Collector said. With cases from Kottayam and Idukki rising in the past two days, the government had included the two districts in the Red zone. With this there are six districts in the Red zone. Hotspots Two panchayats in Idukki have been included on the list of hotspots. “On Sunday we sent at least 240 samples for testing. Most of them are close contacts of affected persons. So we are expecting more cases,” Mr. Dineshan told media after the meeting. All shops, barring those selling fruits, vegetables and provision stores, will remain closed till May 3. The administration has closed 21 roads from Tamil Nadu to prevent people from entering the State illegally. The Collector said hundreds who came to the State through such paths had been caught and quarantined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-cases-likely-in-idukki-district/article31459065.ece
29 April 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Cross-border farmers to be brought back||The Wayanad district administration is gearing up to take steps to address the issues of farmers who have been cultivating ginger on rented land in Karnataka, in the wake of lockdown restrictions. “Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had directed me to chalk out a plan to solve the issues of cross-border farmers who got trapped in their ginger farms in Karnataka owing to lockdown restrictions,” District Collector Adeela Abdulla told The Hindu on Tuesday. “As the farming community is spread across various parts of the State, especially in Wayanad, Malappuram, Kannur and Kozhikode districts, I asked the help of district collectors concerned to draft a plan jointly,” she said. “We are collecting details of farmers and once it is over, we will take steps to bring them back,” she said. They would be quarantined for 14 days once they enter the district, she added. The district administration in association with Health and Police departments intensified sample tests to prevent the spread of COVID-19 following the easing of lockdown curbs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cross-border-farmers-to-be-brought-back/article31459005.ece
29 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||KFD death suspected in Wayanad district||In a suspected case of Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD or monkey fever), a person died at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kozhikode, on Monday. Kelu, 60, of the Kalikkolly tribal settlement at Begur, near Kattikulam, in Wayanad was admitted to the hospital on Sunday. He was admitted to the Taluk Hospital, Sulthan Bathery, on April 23 with symptoms of KFD. He was referred to the MCH on April 26. However, district health officials said they were yet to confirm the cause of the death. “We are awaiting results of the blood samples collected from the deceased,” R. Renuka, District Medical Officer, told The Hindu . Two persons died of the disease in the district this year. “As many as 24 KFD cases have been reported in the district so far and 19 of them have recovered. Two patients were admitted to the MCH and one at the Taluk Hospital a few days ago,” Dr. Renuka said. All the cases had been reported from Begur in Thirunelly grama panchayat in the district, she said. Directives had been given to front-line forest staff and high-risk population on forest fringes to use gloves, gumboots, and repellent lotions before entering forest, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kfd-death-suspected-in-wayanad-district/article31459022.ece
29 April 2020||Kannur,KERALA||3 more cases in Kannur||Three more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Tuesday. District Collector T.V. Subhash said two were Dubai returnees and the another person contracted the virus from a COVID-19 patient. Those arrived from Dubai were a 21-year-old from Mooriyad who arrived on March 17 at the Karipur airport, and a 20-year-old resident of Cheruvancheri who arrived at Nedumbassery on March 21. A 40-year-old resident of Mooriyad became infected through contact. All three underwent a swab test on April 26 at the COVID-19 treatment centre at Anjarakandy. Meanwhile, two more COVID-19 patients were discharged from the hospital on Tuesday. There are now 2,552 persons under observation. Of the 2,960 samples sent for tests, results of 2,626 turned negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-more-cases-in-kannur/article31459011.ece
29 April 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Saleem dashes LDF hopes in Kannur Corporation||In a blow to the Left Democratic Front (LDF), Kannur Corporation councillor K.P.A. Saleem has decided to end his differences with the United Democratic Front (UDF). The LDF had recently successfully moved a no-confidence motion against Deputy Mayor P.K. Ragesh with the support of Mr. Saleem. It also moved another no-confidence motion against Mayor Suma Balakrishnan. However, following the outbreak of COVID-19, a decision in this regard is pending with the District Collector. In the 55-member council, the UDF has 28 councillors including Mr. Ragesh, who is an Independent, while the LDF has 27 members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/saleem-dashes-ldf-hopes-in-kannur-corporation/article31459012.ece
29 April 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Last patient at GH discharged||The last COVID-19 patient at the General Hospital, Kasaragod, was discharged on Tuesday. Of the total 89 patients admitted at the GH, 88 were discharged last week. The GH was converted into a COVID-19 specialty hospital after the number of patients affected by the virus increased in the district. As the hospital is now free of COVID-19 patients, the Health Department is planning to disinfect the hospital premises and equipment for a week. Meanwhile, a 24-year-old man from Ajanur was tested positive on Tuesday. Now the district is left with 14 patients, including six at the Government Medical College Hospital, Ukkinadka, and six at the District Hospital, Kanhangad. So far, the district has reported 176 COVID-19 cases. Of this, 162 people were discharged after treatment from various hospitals. There are 1,958 people under observation in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/last-patient-at-gh-discharged/article31459004.ece
29 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Major markets in Ernakulam come under closer scrutiny||Major markets in the district are under close scrutiny by the district administration, Health Department and stakeholders as these are the points that maintain regular contact with destinations outside the State that are fighting to contain COVID-19. The markets include the main Ernakulam market, the central market at Aluva as well as the pineapple market at Vazhakkulam, which account for nearly a hundred lorry arrivals on a daily basis during normal days. Though the numbers have come down during the lockdown, precautions are being taken to ensure that the drivers and crew do not mingle with wholesalers, retailers and customers who come to the market. C.J. George, egg merchant at the Ernakulam market, said unloading operations had been streamlined and it was being ensured that all operations ended by about 6 a.m. The number of lorries had come down to about 10 per day, he said. Inter-State drivers A communication from the district administration said that inter-State lorry drivers were being managed carefully. They are not allowed to mingle with locals and their needs are taken care of. Loading operations have been curtailed to between 1 a.m. and 6 a.m. Information about the lorries, drivers and crew are collected and shared among the agencies involved in the lockdown maintenance operations. Jose Perumpallykunnel, pineapple merchant at Muvattupuzha, said one of the samples from about a dozen sent for COVID-19 test had turned negative. The blood samples of the people were collected from the Vazhakkulam pineapple market after a driver, who took a load of pineapples to Chennai, tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad. Lorries arriving to load the fruits were sanitized and drivers were not allowed to mingle with local people or merchants and other stakeholders, he said. Minister’s meeting Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar held a meeting with merchants and workers at the Aluva market to discuss steps to be taken to ensure that the fight against COVID-19 is continued without any let-up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/major-markets-in-ernakulam-come-under-closer-scrutiny/article31459001.ece
29 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Film industry not keen on direct OTT release||The Malayalam film industry is likely to wait and watch before directly releasing new movies on OTT (over-the-top) streaming platforms to overcome the lockdown blues. Discussions on direct release on the digital platforms come after reports that actor Suriya’s production house, 2D Entertainment, is planning a similar release of the Jyothika-starrer Pon Magal Vandhal in the first week of May. Cinema hall reopening With no clarity yet on the reopening of cinema halls owing to the pandemic crisis, the entertainment industry remains clueless on how to tide over its biggest crisis ever. “None of the producers of the movies that are ready for release in April and May have approached us seeking permission for a direct OTT release. Theatrical release would be impossible once the producers decide to go for a direct digital release,” says M. Renjith, president, Kerala Film Producers’ Association. Stating that the leading players in the OTT platforms would eye for movies having big stars and wider reach, Mr. Renjith says release only on the digital platforms would not be a feasible revenue model for the producers. “The average pricing for a Malayalam movie in the OTT platform is in the Rs. 2-Rs. 3 crore range only and this would not match the returns from a theatrical release. However, the direct release of small movies can be explored if its the producers consider it as an option to get out of the crisis,” he says. Theatrical release M.C. Bobby, general secretary, Film Exhibitors United Organisation of Kerala, says cinemas would not screen movies that opt for a direct OTT release. “There would be nobody to watch those movies in theatres if they are first released on the digital platforms. We have not come across any such plans from the producers of Malayalam movies,” he says. On the losses incurred by the Malayalam film industry, Mr. Renjith says nearly 40% of the revenue in a year comes during April and May. “Our preliminary estimates suggest that the producers would have suffered losses to the tune of Rs. 300 crore following the lockdown.” The movies Some of the Malayalam movies that are ready for release are Marakkar: Arabikadalinte Simham ; One ; Malik ; Mohan Kumar Fans ; Halal Love Story ; Kilometres and Kilometres ; and Keshu Ee Veedinte Nadhan .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/film-industry-not-keen-on-direct-ott-release/article31459032.ece
29 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Rural police intensify checks along border areas||The Ernakulam Rural police have beefed up security along the district borders. K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural), inspected the border areas on Tuesday. The rural police limits share 13 border points with Idukki and Kottayam districts, spread over Oonnukal, Mulanthuruthy, Vazhakkulam, Piravom, Koothattukulam, Muvattupuzha, Pothanikkad and Kalloorkkad police station limits. Idukki and Kottayam have been declared red zones in view of the recent spike in COVID-19 cases there. The police have introduced stringent inspections at all such points, including deployment of round-the-clock guards to check unauthorised travel. Affidavit Motorists found trying to cross over for non-emergency reasons are being turned back. Those with pressing needs are allowed only on submission of affidavits issued by the district administration concerned. Exemptions are granted only for essential services. Cases are being registered against those venturing out without face masks and violating lockdown rules. The police are extending direct assistance to people in need along the border areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rural-police-intensify-checks-along-border-areas/article31459002.ece
29 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Migrant workers without smartphones left in the lurch||Migrant workers without smartphones and technical and financial literacy are being edged out of the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) by their respective State governments, say experts operating among migrants. The governments of West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, and Assam are crediting amounts ranging between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 2,000 to individual bank accounts of migrants stranded in other States. “Few migrants have received it since they either do not have smartphones to download the app or could not register on the portal concerned. Besides, not all of them have the technical know-how or even bank accounts for that matter,” said George Mathew, coordinator, Progressive Workers Organisation. For instance, a survey conducted by the Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development (CMID) found that while 51.6% migrants in Ernakulam have smartphones, 46% used basic feature phones and 2.3% have no access to mobile phones. Vulnerable sections “The most vulnerable sections among migrants like tribespeople and the aged may either be using feature phone or have no phone at all thus depriving them of the much needed cash assistance,” said Benoy Peter, CMID executive director. P.B. Salim, West Bengal State Nodal Officer for people stranded due to COVID-19, observed that the majority of the migrants were in the relative young age group of 30 to 50 years and has their fair share of financial literacy since they transfer money to their families back home monthly. He, however, admitted that there may be some exceptions addressing which would not be easy in the prevailing situation. Mr. Mathews felt that the Kerala government could forward details of migrants, including their bank accounts, to their respective governments since it was already collecting details of migrants stranded here. However, Mr. Peter observed that it would be easier for the respective State governments to identify the beneficiaries and transfer the benefits in consultations with the local bodies concerned to which the migrants belong.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/migrant-workers-without-smartphones-left-in-the-lurch/article31459021.ece
29 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC directive to start canal cleaning work||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the Kochi Corporation to complete the process of tendering of the contract for desilting and removal of weeds from the Perandoor Canal at the earliest and start work within the next 10 days. Justice Devan Ramachandran, while issuing the direction, observed that the flood preparedness of the civic authorities and the district administration to ward off the lurking danger was critical this year than any other year because, on account of COVID-19, it might become logistically impossible to move citizens to safer places like relief camps, keeping in mind the social distancing requirements. The court made the observation while hearing a case related to the cleaning of the canal and its drains in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-directive-to-start-canal-cleaning-work/article31458998.ece
29 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||PCB directed to preserve CCTV visuals||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has directed the Pollution Control Board not to erase or tamper with visuals recorded till March 20 by various CCTV cameras installed on the banks of the Periyar until further orders. Media reports The order was passed in a suo motu case initiated based on media reports about the high level of pollution of the river even during the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pcb-directed-to-preserve-cctv-visuals/article31458999.ece
29 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||10 more under hospital isolation in Ernakulam||Ten people were shifted to hospital isolation on Tuesday as part of COVID-19 surveillance measures, taking the total number of those in hospital isolation in the district to 22. Eight people have been discharged. As many as 338 persons have been placed under home quarantine, taking the total number of those in home quarantine in the district to 736, after 44 were removed from the list. Only one result of the sample sent for COVID-19 testing was received on Tuesday, which turned out to be negative. Results of 88 swab samples are awaited. With the government beginning random testing to check community spread, 251 samples have been collected and sent for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10-more-under-hospital-isolation-in-ernakulam/article31459003.ece
29 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Aid given to film workers||About 2,700 workers in the Malayalam film industry have received Rs. 5,000 each as part of the welfare fund initiated by the Film Employees Federation of Kerala (FEFKA) following the lockdown. Kalyan Jewellers had supported the assistance programme, according to a release here. Actor Amitabh Bachchan and Sony Pictures also helped in providing coupons worth Rs. 1,500 to one lakh daily wage film workers under an initiative by the All India Film Employees Confederation, said B. Unnikrishnan, its general secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aid-given-to-film-workers/article31459006.ece
29 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||SmartCity disinfects premises||SmartCity Kochi has disinfected its IT building and premises in accordance with a recent Kerala government direction that requires IT companies to clean premises against COVID-19 spread. The 246-acre SmartCity Kochi has a majority of its firms allowing employees to work from home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/smartcity-disinfects-premises/article31459016.ece
29 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Unguarded entry points pose new challenge||While the State has stepped up surveillance to prevent the illegal movement across the border, it is the less- known forest trails and unguarded entry points that pose a challenge to the authorities. Though all official routes connecting Kerala to neighbouring Tamil Nadu have been secured, many trespassers still try to sneak in and out dodging the guards. According to sources, there are shortcuts usually taken by plantation workers from Tamil Nadu and also winding trails opted by illegal traders and drug peddlers. “After incidents were reported from different parts, we set up additional camps to block all possible entry points in the forest and seal the porous border. Of late, the frequency of attempts has come down,” said Thenmala DFO A.P. Sunil Babu. Even after the lockdown, people used to freely enter and exit the border through a handful of forest trails, but the department heightened its vigil after a Kulathupuzha resident tested positive following his visit to Puliyankudi. “The officials know about check-posts and some other routes used by truck drivers to avoid checking, but there are several others cutting through places such as Rajathottam, Anachadi and some estates,” said a resident. Railway tunnel Apart from the four permanent camps to monitor activities, the police and the Forest Department have now deployed their personnel in several points, including those in Rajakooppu and Karimbinthottam. Another closely guarded point is the railway tunnel connecting Aryankavu to Bhagavathipuram in Tamil Nadu, which offers an easy passage to the State. “Now the police and Forest personnel are monitoring the tunnel 24x7 and all those coming there are instructed to return at once. Last time, some people from Puliyara in Tamil Nadu tried to enter Kerala through the tunnel with some buffaloes and they too were sent back. Vana Samrakshana Samithi members also alert us if they spot someone unfamiliar or any unusual activity in the forest,” said Abju K. Arun, Range Officer, Aryankavu. While patrolling has been intensified with the help of various squads, a drone monitoring trial was also held in the forest areas bordering Tamil Nadu on Monday. “The one-day trial was conducted to monitor the area and the movements of wild animals. Shendurney is not an ideal option for trespassers as the other side of the forest is Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve (KMTR). So it is very unlikely for anyone trying to cross the border to take this route, but the area is under surveillance,” said B. Sajeev Kumar, Wildlife Warden, Shendurney Wildlife Sanctuary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unguarded-entry-points-pose-new-challenge/article31459057.ece
29 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Three-tier curbs in Kottayam||With the upgrading of Kottayam as a COVID-19 Red zone, authorities have imposed a three-tier regulation mechanism on public activities by classifying locations in the district as hotspots, containment zones and other areas. The system, which came into effect on Tuesday, mandates that people residing within the containment zones should confine themselves to their houses. Roads leading to these zones have been closed and the police have erected barricades to restrict entry and exit. Volunteers will reach out to people in need of essential food and medicines. No shops or establishments other than ration shops should operate. Primary health centres within these zones will attend to only emergency cases. Instances of drinking water shortage or power outages should be addressed by the respective departments. In areas marked as hotspots, the public are directed to wear mask and maintain social distance. People are permitted to get out of their houses only in case of emergencies. Shops supplying essential food items, medical shops, petrol pumps and cooking gas outlets are permitted to operate from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Community kitchens will function without any disruptions while restaurants, wayside eateries or bakeries will remain closed. The departments engaged in COVID-19 prevention activities such as Health, Police, Revenue, Local Self-Governance, Fire Force, Civil Supplies and so on are permitted to function with minimum staff. Services allowed In areas other than hotspots and containment zones, all institutions and services related to health care, government offices, banks, media, fuel stations, telecom, and grocery stores are permitted to function. Bus stations and railway stations can operate for freight movement only. Private vehicles and taxis will be permitted only in case of medical emergencies or for purchasing essentials. People are directed to wear face masks and comply with social distancing norms. K. Padmakumar, Additional Director General of Police (Coastal Security), visited the hotspots on Tuesday and reviewed the security arrangements. Mr. Padmakumar was assisted by Kaliraj Mahesh Kumar, Deputy Inspector General (Ernakulam Range) and the District Police Chief G. Jaidev.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-tier-curbs-in-kottayam/article31459060.ece
29 April 2020||KOTTTAYAM,KERALA||No fresh cases in district||The district reported no new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday and the number of patients under treatment stood at 18. However, two persons, including a native of Idukki with symptoms of viral infection, were admitted to hospitals here. The number of people in home quarantine was 1,040. The district administration released the route map of five persons and requested the people to report if anyone had come into contact with these persons anywhere. The route maps comprised the travel history of a Sharjah-returned woman in Samkranthi, a headload worker from Vadavathoor, and a lorry driver in Manarcad. Delay in testing Reports have emerged about a possible delay in the testing of samples due to lack of facilities. According to sources, the laboratories at the Inter-University Centre for Biomedical Research, Thalappadi, and at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) together have the capacity to test up to 150 samples daily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-fresh-cases-in-district/article31459061.ece
29 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode Corpn. launches farming project||The Kozhikode Corporation launched Samrudhi 2020, a mission to promote agriculture in the city, on Tuesday. An emergency meeting chaired by Mayor Thottathil Raveendran discussed the possible shortage of food in the wake of the lockdown and concluded that urgent steps were necessary to overcome similar situations in future. An action committee headed by the Mayor has been formed to ensure that the mission is being carried out on a war footing. Under the mission, all cultivable land in the city, especially public land, will be identified and converted into agriculture land. The plan is to have additional ten hectares for paddy cultivation, three hectares for tapioca cultivation and two hectares for vegetables. At least 70% of homesteads in the city should have one or the other kind of cultivation, the meeting decided. A WhatsApp group will be formed to coordinate the activities of the mission and to create awareness about various schemes and government subsidies. Several government programmes, such as Ayyankali Employment Guarantee Scheme, schemes of the Agriculture Department and those of the corporation will be converged for better results. Ward councillors will be in charge of the mission at local level. Residents’ associations can identify land for the purpose. Organic manure produced at the corporation’s Njeliyanparamba waste treatment plant will be supplied to farmers at subsidised rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-corpn-launches-farming-project/article31459018.ece
29 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Only eight patients in Kozhikode now||Only eight persons are right now undergoing treatment for COVID-19 in Kozhikode district, the Health Department has said. In a release on Tuesday, the department said that six of them were from Kozhikode district, one from Kannur and another, a native of Tamil Nadu. The number of people under surveillance came down to 1,021 with 33 more people completing the observation cycle on Tuesday. Fifty-three people are under observation at the Government Medical College Hospital. Body fluid samples of 10 more persons were sent for lab tests to ascertain possible community spread. Meanwhile, the district administration has claimed it is prepared to welcome expatriates who return in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Care centres Officials in local bodies have been asked to find buildings to set up COVID-19 care centres. Those who can’t be put up at their homes would be shifted to these centres, District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao told MLAs in a videoconference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/only-eight-patients-in-kozhikode-now/article31459017.ece
29 April 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Charity a passion for this worker||“When you help someone, your heart smiles and it tells you that you have done the right thing.” These are the words of K.B. Sivadasan, a headload worker hailing from Tamil Nadu and living in Changaramkulam in the district, who has long become a one-man-army of charity through his philanthropic activities. When the government imposed the COVID-19 lockdown, Mr. Sivadasan could not lock himself away. He went out to his neighbourhoods, reaching out to the poor and the sick with the provisions they wanted. While food kits were being supplied across the State under the banner of the government and non-government organisations, Mr. Sivadasan took it on himself to reach out to the poorest of the poor. “My friends and people with kind hearts help me in this venture,” he said. In the first phase of the lockdown, Mr. Sivadasan reached out to more than 100 people with food kits. Then he started supplying vegetable kits. Mr. Sivadasan came in for praise from the police and civic officials when he distributed hundreds of masks to people. Using his goodwill, he gets clothes from people and arranges to get masks stitched. “I must have supplied about 1,500 masks now. More masks are being prepared,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/charity-a-passion-for-this-worker/article31459020.ece
29 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Dengue threat in Pathanamthitta||With an increase in mosquito population following the intermittent summer rain, dengue and other vector-borne diseases are on the rise in the district. District Medical Officer A.L. Sheeja told The Hindu on Tuesday that 84 confirmed cases of dengue fever had been reported from various parts of the district since January. Fourteen cases were reported in the past three weeks alone. The majority of these cases had been reported from Vechoochira, Naranammoozhy and Kuttoor. A team of experts from the Health Department had inspected the worst-hit Vechoochira and surrounding areas. Leptospirosis Forty-five cases of leptospirosis too were reported from the district since January. The majority of the cases was reported from the Pathanamthitta municipal limits, Elanthoor, Vechoochira and Vallana, the DMO said. Negligence on the part of local bodies has left drainages in the district clogged, posing a public health risk, she said adding the Health Department had issued notices to all local bodies to ensure cleanliness and effective sanitation in their jurisdiction to avert the outbreak of epidemics during the monsoon season.  There are also reports of drainages that carry waste from hotels, hospitals, markets, slaughterhouses and so on emptying out into natural streams leading to the the Pampa, Achencoil and Manimala rivers. Waste dumped in public places and clogged drainages offers safe breeding ground for rodents and flies. Dr. Sheeja said the Health Department would soon launch vector-control measures through public awareness-cum-sanitation programmes across the district. The local bodies have to launch source reduction of vectors on a war footing by ensuring proper sanitation and waste disposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dengue-threat-in-pathanamthitta/article31459063.ece
29 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||No new COVID-19 case||No new case of COVID-19 was reported from the district for the 15th day on Tuesday. The total number of home quarantined persons came down to 377. A medical bulletin said that 10 persons remained at the isolation wards of three government hospitals. Of the 3,641 throat swab samples sent for clinical examination so far, 17 tested positive for the viral infection while 3,054 tested negative. The administration awaits the test results of 414 throat swab samples, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-new-covid-19-case/article31459064.ece
29 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Academic calendar plan may go awry||With the University Grants Commission (UGC) reportedly mulling deferment of next academic year to August/September, the State government’s tentative plan of commencing the year by July through fast-tracking the admission process may be thrown into disarray. Though the apex body is likely to frame its guidelines this week, the Centre’s decision on lifting the lockdown would have a bearing on the plan. Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel fears that any possible delays in resuming the academic activities in colleges and universities could affect the student community. All aspects would be taken into account before finalising the academic schedule. “We are still unable to predict how the existing crisis would unfold. If the situation persists, we could be hard-pressed to commence the academic year only by September,” he says. Relaxation Dr. Jaleel says the government would consider writing to the UGC seeking a relaxation of its directives if the lockdown restrictions are lifted in Kerala earlier than other States. The universities have tentatively planned to resume their examinations by the second week of May. The State universities currently have a long way to go before commencing the academic year. Barring the University of Kerala which has completed its final-year examinations, none of the others are close to completing their undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) examinations. The University of Kerala is yet to commence the regular second and sixth semester UG examinations and second and forth semester PG examinations. Engineering colleges affiliated to the APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University are yet to complete their contact classes and commence examinations. Same is the case of the Kerala University of Health Sciences. Kerala State Higher Education Council member secretary Rajan Varughese says the completion of Class 12 examinations and Plus Two higher secondary Save-A-Year (SAY) examinations would also decide the commencement of the admission process for the academic year. Split-vacation Considering the universities were likely to have a crammed academic schedule next year, the possibility of adopting the split-vacation system could be explored. Besides, inordinate delays in the examination system should be prevented by assimilating advanced practices such as bar-coded answer sheets to do away with the time-consuming practice of false numbering, Dr. Varughese said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/academic-calendar-plan-may-go-awry/article31459025.ece
29 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Four more test positive in the State||Four persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the State on Tuesday. Three of these cases were picked up from the community when the Health Department conducted an augmented sampling drive on a single day on Sunday, when 3,101 nasopharyngeal swabs collected from selected groups in the population were tested using RT-PCR (reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction ) in designated labs. 3 in Kannur Two of the positive cases on Tuesday had travel history abroad while the other two were contacts. Three cases were located in Kannur and one in Kasaragod. Though the Idukki district administration announced on Tuesday that they had three fresh cases of COVID-19, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, during his daily briefing, said these three cases needed reconfirmation before they could be added to the tally of positive cases. However, the patients in question had already been moved to hospital and necessary treatment was being given, he added. Of the 485 COVID-19 cases reported in the State so far, only 123 were in hospital undergoing treatment. The number of those on the recovery list was 359. Mr. Vijayan said apart from routine sampling, the Health Department was engaged in a sentinel survey, wherein samples were collected from health workers, guest workers, and those who had increased social interaction with the public. Of the 875 samples tested in the sentinel survey, 801 samples had returned a negative result. Of the 3,101 samples tested as part of the augmented sample survey, 2,682 had returned a negative result. The results of 391 samples were awaited while 25 samples had to be retested. The State had tested 23,980 samples so far, of which 23,277 returned a negative result. Test kits Mr. Vijayan said even though there was a nationwide shortage of viral transport medium (VTM), the State was comfortably placed as the State Public Health Laboratory was making the VTM on its own. For conducting PCR tests in all districts, the State had a stock of 46,000 PCR reagent kits and 15,400 RNA extraction kits. The Kerala Medical Services Corporation was trying to procure as many PCR kits as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-more-test-positive-in-the-state/article31459050.ece
29 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Thunderstorms wreak havoc in southern districts||Thunderstorms lashed Thiruvananthapuram and several southern districts on Tuesday, bringing down trees, damaging buildings and snapping overhead power lines. The India Meteorological Department had issued yellow alerts for six southern districts for Tuesday indicating the possibility of isolated heavy rainfall. Lashing rain and heavy winds wreaked havoc in Thiruvananthapuram. In the city region alone, the Fire and Rescue Services personnel attended between 40 and 50 calls for assistance. Flooding No casualties were reported, according to the Fire and Rescue Services officials. However, the storm brought down trees and heavy branches in several places, including Jagathy, Kannettumukku, Killippalam, Padmavilasom Road, Fort, Vanchiyoor and Plamoodu. Waterlogging was reported in low-lying areas such as Thampanoor. The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has reported heavy losses across southern districts after overhead power lines and numerous electric poles were brought down by the lashing winds and uprooted trees. Repairs are being carried out to restore supply at the earliest, a KSEB spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thunderstorms-wreak-havoc/article31459029.ece
29 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Quarantine must for Gulf returnees||Non-resident Keralites aspiring to return home could expect a mandatory quarantine for 14 days on arrival to prevent new COVID-19 flare-ups in the State, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Tuesday. He said the majority of the persons who had expressed their intent to return hailed from Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur, and Thrissur districts. A higher number of them were blue-collar workers from the Gulf. However, a relatively fewer number of persons from 102 other countries had also applied via NoRKA. Mr. Vijayan said the Centre was yet to commit when it would allow special flights for non-resident Keralites. It was also exploring the sea route. A panel of doctors and paramedics would examine the returnees at airports and seaports. Those who test positive would be hospitalised. Others requiring quarantine would be housed in designated government facilities. Asymptomatic arrivals would be allowed to isolate themselves at their homes. The police would transport them to their residence. Persons quarantined at home would have to send their health status daily to the government via a mobile phone application or their social media account. The government had commandeered the service of private sector doctors and institutions to help it manage persons returning from epidemic hotspots in the Gulf. Mr Vijayan said the same rigour of testing and quarantine would apply to those returning to Kerala from other parts of the country via land borders. He said Deputy Inspectors General (DIGs) would monitor persons in home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quarantine-must-for-gulf-returnees/article31459043.ece
29 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Breakwater repair work begins||The work to repair the 300-metre damaged section of the under-construction breakwater of the upcoming international multi-purpose deepwater seaport at Vizhinjam has begun. Around 120 labourers have been pressed into service for the work that will take at least three weeks to complete. Collector’s nod The District Collector granted the nod to commence the work after Adani Vizhinjam Port Private Ltd (AVPPL), executing the seaport work, pointed out to the government the need to start the work immediately to protect the core area in view of the high waves at the site and the southwest monsoon just weeks away. “Of the 300-metre damaged portion, 200 metres had been scooped away by the waves. The work is now to replenish the granite with small granite stones,” an AVPPL official said. Erosion threat Large granite stones had to be placed above the small stones to prevent the onslaught of high waves. In 10 m and above deeper areas of the sea, accropodes (concerte blocks) each weighing 13.5 tonnes will be placed to protect the core of the 3.1-km-long breakwater. As social distancing norms had to be followed and weather is inclement, the pace of the work is not on the expected level. The aim is to complete the works in three weeks before the onset of the monsoon, the official said. The AVPPL has started receiving the required granite from a quarry owned by it at Kadavila, near Kilimanoor, with the State government allowing the quarry to function during the lockdown period. The shipment of the granite from the quarry at Kummil in Kollam district would commence soon, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/breakwater-repair-work-begins/article31459125.ece
29 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Priority to revitalise economy: Pinarayi||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday prioritised reanimating the State’s immobilised economy. He said the COVID-19-impelled suspension of economic activity had caused several new crises to crop up. The government had asked Secretaries of various departments to come up with detailed plans of action to prevent the tourism, IT, fisheries, farm, handloom, cashew, coir, education, real estate, and construction sectors from falling into further decline. Mr. Vijayan said he expected the secretaries to suggest concrete measures to halt the free fall and quicken the turnaround of the State’s economy. They would have to factor in the steep fall in remittances from the Gulf, return of non-resident Keralites in large numbers, rising public health expenditure, collapse of government revenue, possibility of raising money from the open market by issuing sovereign bonds, and getting the Centre to extend special relief packages tailored to Kerala’s requirements. The Chief Minister said the State Planning Commission was also studying the situation to help the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/priority-to-revitalise-economy-pinarayi/article31459031.ece
29 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Motorists playing on diluted lockdown restrictions in capital||The Thiruvananthapuram City police have begun to act tough against motorists violating the odd-even road-rationing scheme for vehicles implemented in the State during the lockdown. Two hundred motorists were booked under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, and their vehicles confiscated on Tuesday for violating the system. Under the scheme, vehicles with odd registration numbers will be permitted to operate on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, and those with even registration numbers can be taken out on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. Vehicles used by women and those coming under the essential services category have been exempted. According to District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city) Balram Kumar Upadhyay, the odd-even scheme will be enforced throughout the lockdown. Cases registered The City police also registered cases against 267 people for violating lockdown rules. Among them, 68 people were booked for failing to wear masks outdoors. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police also registered 539 cases, arrested 549 people, and seized 328 vehicles. The partial relaxation of restrictions in the city showed signs of spiralling out of control after a heavy rush that formed at the Chala bazaar prompted the police to order the closure of many shops. In a throwback to the pre-COVID-19 lockdown scenario, numerous people thronged the area while goods and other private vehicles congested the narrow roads within the market place as soon as business began. This paved the way for the police to close several shops that sold non-essential items and restrict access for vehicles. Certain interior roads were also sealed. Considering the threat associated with allowing commercial establishments to function in full-swing, police officers hinted at restrictions to be imposed in the market. The district administration placed 152 people under observation on Tuesday, while 102 people were excluded from the quarantine list after they completed the mandated isolation period. As many as 2,075 people were being monitored in the district. Of these, 1,921 people were quarantined in their homes. Ninety-seven people were placed under observation in the corona care centre in the Mar Ivanios College hostel. While 11 symptomatic people were admitted to various hospitals, 16 people have been discharged. Two COVID-19 patients, an 80-year old woman from Manacaud and a 45-year old man from Varkala, were discharged from the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital after recovering from the infection. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan and other senior officials accorded them a farewell.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/motorists-playing-on-diluted-lockdown-restrictions-in-capital/article31459067.ece
29 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM: need to tighten inter-State borders||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday flagged the need to tighten inter-State borders, given the increased number of COVID-19 cases in districts such as Idukki. The Police, Forest and Revenue departments have charted a joint action plan to monitor forest trails and plantation paths that link Idukki with Tamil Nadu. He also asked local authorities to scan drivers of cargo vehicles for flu symptoms. Mr Vijayan frowned upon the large turnout of people in Thiruvananthapuram and Kottayam. He said it was too early to enjoy such liberties. The police would further restrict retail business if they found substantial scale of violation of social distancing norms. Mr Vijayan denied that health authorities in Kottayam had deliberately kept citizens and their families in the dark about the results of individual COVID-19 tests. He slammed a television channel for resorting to “kite-flying”. Meanwhile, the police registered cases against 4,576 persons across the State on Tuesday for travelling in violation of the lockdown norms. As many as 4,440 persons were arrested and 2,905 vehicles seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-need-to-tighten-inter-state-borders/article31459027.ece
29 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plea to Centre to control cement price||Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan has urged the Centre to take immediate steps to hold the price of cement. In a press note issued here on Tuesday, he said the steep rise in cement price would impact on the construction sector already reeling under the lockdown triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic. Noting that companies had jacked up the price of cement by Rs. 50 per bag, he said the unjustified price hike would hinder the resumption of construction activities, affecting economic revival in the wake of the crisis caused by the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-to-centre-to-control-cement-price/article31459030.ece
29 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Some oppose, some hail HC stay on salary cut||The All Kerala School Teachers’ Union has said that despite the High Court stay on the government order to cut salaries, its members will be ready to hand over voluntarily the salary to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund. Union president N. Sreekumar and general secretary O.K. Jayakrishnan, in a statement here on Tuesday, said the stay was unfortunate, and all teachers should be ready to surmount it through their determination. They appealed for a considerate approach to the government decision to help the poor who had no jobs for the past one month. Meanwhile, the Aided Higher Secondary Teachers’ Association has termed the stay a moral victory for teachers and other government employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/some-oppose-some-hail-hc-verdict/article31459028.ece
29 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. seeks Central aid for KSRTC||The State has sought Rs. 1,000 crore from the Centre for the crisis-ridden Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and a reduction in the excise duty for diesel. The government has also sought financial assistance from the Centre for making arrangements at the six inter-State checkposts identified for the entry of Keralites held up in other States since the lockdown. The demands were flagged by Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran during a videoconference on Tuesday with Union Minister for Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari.  Rs. 1,000 crore sought The KSRTC sought Rs. 1,000 crore for purchasing 450 new buses instead of the buses being phased out, improving the facilities in depots for the post-lockdown period. Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran could not flag the immediate needs of the highways in the State as he had to leave for a pre-scheduled meeting. Later, the Minister forwarded the issues of concern to Mr. Gadkari in a letter. The Minister urged Mr. Gadkari to give direction to commence construction works for the four/six-laning of NH 66 in Kasaragod and Kannur districts where land acquisition had almost been completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-seeks-central-aid-for-ksrtc/article31459041.ece
29 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Curbs may continue beyond May 3||Lockdown restrictions necessitated by the COVID-19 might continue even beyond May 3. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday hinted that the State would have to brace itself for a further prolongation of the stifling regulations on social life and economic activity, including curb-side retail business. He said the new flare-ups in Idukki and Kottayam had forced the government to do a rethink. “The government will have to evaluate the lockdown situation against the backdrop of its experience in the two districts and set a new course after May 3,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-may-continue-beyond-may-3/article31459045.ece
29 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man caught with 1.5 kg of hashish||A habitual offender, involved in cases of drug peddling and fake currency circulation, was arrested by the Varkala police on Tuesday with alleged possession of 1.5 kg of hashish, estimated to cost around Rs. 2 crore in the global market. The police identified the accused as Jayakumar of Kurakkanni. He was apprehended on the basis of an information provided by a German tourist who confessed to have bought 2 grams of hashish oil for Rs. 6,000 from the accused on the Thiruvambady beach. Jayakumar, who runs a supermarket and homestay, has been accused of peddling the contraband to tourists in Kovalam and Varkala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-caught-with-15-kg-of-hashish/article31459066.ece
29 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||KSSP urges Centre to present interim budget||With the majority of the people caught between poverty and the COVID-19 pandemic, the Centre should immediately come up with an interim budget to mitigate the crisis, Kerala Sastra Sahitya Parishad (KSSP) has said. “The first financial package, which is just 1% of the national revenue, is not at all sufficient for the existing needs. The second package is yet to come. The country needs to earmark at least 10% of the national income for COVID-19-related measures. The Union government is not only denying States their eligible share of funds, but also pushing the disease burden on their shoulders. The Centre is yet to pay Rs. 3,000-crore GST dues to the State,” said KSSP president A.P. Muraleedharan here on Tuesday. Onus on Centre The Centre had the responsibility to ensure relief measures and income for the people before it declared the lockdown. “We have seen the impact of the lockdown on migrant people who were stranded at various States without jobs or income. The Centre ignored their issues. The Union government should pay the States the amount they have utilised for the migrant workers,’’ he said. “The country is facing a war-like situation. So the States should be allowed to take loans from the Reserve Bank India to fulfil their essential needs. The Centre should collect fund from big industries, both private and public. Their contribution should not be limited to CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) funds. Permission should be given to donate CSR funds to the State distress relief funds,” said general secretary K. Radhan.  The first financial package is not at all sufficient for the existing needs A.P. Muraleedharan KSSP president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kssp-urges-centre-to-present-interim-budget/article31459039.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Making the most of COVID-19||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-the-most-of-covid-19/article31459034.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Wet spell||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wet-spell/article31459053.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Long walk to normalcy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/long-walk-to-normalcy/article31459008.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sparking panic||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sparking-panic/article31459015.ece
29 April 2020||A.D. RangarajanTIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||ISKCON turns hunger saviour as TTD stops food distribution||Even as the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) stopped its free food distribution programme taken up from the start of the lockdown period, the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) chipped in with a similar feeding programme. Though the scheme is taken up on a smaller scale, it reaches out to parts of three contiguous constituencies — Tirupati, Chandragiri and Srikalahasti. The TTD had cooked food in its own kitchen by using employees from SV Annaprasadam Scheme and distributed 1.4 lakh free food packets till a couple of days back. The temple management decided to withdraw the same after the government announced partial relaxation from the lockdown. Food, still a far cry Though the relaxation enabled some to pursue their livelihoods, the situation of several sectors remained pathetic. Morsels of food still remained a far cry for the migrant workers, slum dwellers, and impoverished sections of the society. It was at then that the ISKCON came forward to provide meals to migrant labourers, homeless poor, and stranded pilgrims, in reponse to a request from the Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT) Commissioner P.S. Girisha. A similar appeal came from Joint Collector Chandra Mouli and Revenue Divisional Officer Kanaka Narasa Reddy to extend the horizons of the scheme to nearby areas outside MCT’s ambit. “We are serving food to 7,000 people a day, which includes 1,400 in MCT area and 5,400 beyond, such as Thimminaidupalem, Settipalle and Renigunta,” says ISKCON Tirupati unit president Revati Ramandas. Monitored by the govt. All the beneficiaries get three sumptuous servings a day, such as breakfast, lunch and dinner. The mixed rice cooked in ISKCON’s central kitchen is transferred into huge containers and transported to the respective destinations, where it is served to the beneficiaries by the State-monitored machinery. The meals are provided at a cost-to-cost basis, as the government agreed to meet the basic expenses. The original plan was to run the scheme till the lockdown period. But ISKCON authorities are bracing up with a firm schedule and financial outlay for a longer period, with talk of extending the lockdown making rounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iskcon-turns-hunger-saviour-as-ttd-stops-food-distribution/article31459154.ece
29 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||New worry for Anantapur district health officials||Even as the Anantapur district administration is struggling to contain the situation in Hindupur which has recorded a large number of COVID-19 positive cases, it is faced with a new challenge — the western part of the district which shares border with Karnataka, has emerged as a hotspot of sorts with a migrant worker testing positive on Tuesday. The area has been witnessing steady influx of migrant workers since the imposition of the lockdown. Three more discharged The total number of positive cases in the district has gone up to 54 with a 22-year-old youth from Kothakota in Vidapanakal mandal testing positive. He had gone to Mumbai for work and after returning, he developed symptoms. Meanwhile, three more persons were discharged from the KIMS Saveera COVID19 Hospital as they tested negative twice in the past 48 hours.  MP swings into action Two of them two are from Hindupur town — a 36-year-old man and a 21-year-old woman — while the third person is a 49-year-old man from Poolakunta village in Hindupur mandal. They were presented cheques for Rs. 2,000 each on behalf of the State government and given a sendoff by the District Medical and Health Officer KVNS Anil Kumar and other officials. Meanwhile, Hindupur Member of Parliament Gorantla Madhav coordinated distribution of rice and pulses to the poor in red zones in Hindupurby collecting the data on the needy from the municipality. Mr. Madhav said essential items worth Rs. 1.4 crore were sent on 100 tractors in different wards with the Ward Volunteer and a representative of the 40-odd donors from among the industrialists, educational institutions. “We have ensured that there was social distancing and only about 400 to 500 most needy persons per ward were delivered the goods at their doorstep,” the MP told The Hindu . Since not many people were allowed into containment zones, we just stocked all the materials at the TTD Kalyana Mandapam and displayed the names of all donors on two banners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-worry-for-anantapur-district-health-officials/article31459155.ece
29 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Organic humidifier chamber replaces sprinkler tunnels||With every passing day in the fight against COVID-19, newer methods are coming up for mass disinfection at public places, where footfalls are high and large quantities of disinfectants are needed. To negate any harmful effects of sodium hypochlorite, CitroBioShield - an organic disinfectant - has been used in Anantapur district for the past 15 days. Taking it a step further, an NGO, Sugardana and Sabari Hospitals, installed an ‘organic humidifier chamber’ at the entrance of the Collector’s office and KIMS Saveera COVID-19 Hospital.  How it works This solution and humidifier using nanotechnology ensures a 10 to 12 micron layer is formed and within seven seconds of a person’s stay / passing through it, effective disinfection happens. The centrifugal humidifier uses a motorised air blower that has an in-built storage tank. About the advantage of the humidifier, Sugardana promoter Karthik Narayan told The Hindu that it uses only one-third of the solution needed in a disinfection tunnel. An eight-feet sprinkler tunnel uses seven litres to nine litres of diluted solution per hour, whereas a humidifier uses only two to three litres, he said. The humidifier has been connected to a 20-litre overhead tank that keeps on refilling the built-in storage of the machine. It can cover an area of 2,500 square feet, but the chamber is closed on both ends with flexible blinds, is 8 feet x 4 feet and 8 feet tall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/organic-humidifier-chamber-replaces-sprinkler-tunnels/article31459160.ece
29 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA dons doctor’s hat, treats accident victim||Kadiri MLA P.V. Sidda Reddy, who is a medical doctor, came to the rescue of a man who was injured in an accident in Kadiri on Tuesday afternoon. The MLA treated him at the government hospital when the doctors were not available. Narappa Reddy, a mechanic by profession, sustained head injuries and fractured one of his legs in an accident near the Government Degree College on Tuesday. The local residents rushed Mr. Narappa to the Kadiri Government Hospital, but no doctor was available there at that time. The locals informed the MLA who immediately rushed to the hospital and treated the patient. The victim was adminifistered first-aid. Later, he was sent to Bengaluru for better treatment. Narappa Reddy profusely thanked the MLA for coming to his rescue in the nick of time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mla-dons-doctors-hat-treats-accident-victim/article31459179.ece
29 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bodies of two Anantapur students to arrive tomorrow||The bodies of two students from Anantapur district, who died in an accident in the Philippines on April 5, are likely to arrive in an air ambulance from Manila on April 30. The two, Vamsi Kondigalla Peddinti hailing from the city, and Revanth Kumar Katikela from Kadiri, both aged 21, were studying medicine in the Cebu City. Nehru Yuva Kendra Sanghatan vice-chairman S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said with the cooperation of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Union Minister of State for Home Kishan Reddy, and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, the bodies were being brought after 25 days. The bodies have reached the Manila airport and from there they will be taken to Doha and are expected to reach Anantapur by Wednesday midnight or in the early hours of Thursday. Vamsi was the son of Madiga Reservation Porata Samithi Anantapur district unit leader K.P. Narayana Swamy. His family approached District Collector Gandham Chandrudu and through him got in touch with the officials in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Delhi to get help for bringing the bodies home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bodies-of-two-anantapur-students-to-arrive-tomorrow/article31458672.ece
29 April 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pvt. hospitals refusing to admit patients with general ailments||With many hospitals, including the corporate ones, refusing to attend to general ailments, people suffering from various diseases are at their wits end. Hospitals are refusing to admit patients, including those suffering from cardiac problems, fearing the dreaded coronavirus may infect their doctors and staff. A senior citizen went to see his daughter, who delivered a baby, at a maternity hospital in the city recently. The man complained of uneasiness in his chest. His daughter, who is a doctor, got an ECG done and on seeing it understood the condition was serious. She asked her relatives to rush him to another hospital. The relatives were shocked when the staff declined to perform an angiogram on the plea of COVID-19 protocols. After failing to convince the hospital management for over two hours, the relatives shifted the patient to another hospital, where angioplasty and stenting were performed to clear the blocks. This is not a solitary case, there are many others who are facing similar difficulties. A woman, who had to undergo surgery for hernia was asked to come only after the COVID-19 pandemic subsided. She was, however, given some drugs which provided her temporary relief. Another woman, suffering from presbyopia, was asked by an ophthalmologist to wait for the pandemic to end. Many of the clinics and nursing homes are closed due to the pandemic. “There are apprehensions among doctors and healthcare workers due to asymptomatic cases and the unpredictable pattern of COVID-19. Even If a single positive case is detected, the whole hospital has to be quarantined,” said a government doctor, on condition of anonymity. “While routine surgeries can be postponed, emergencies have to be attended at all times and COVID-19 is no excuse,” he said. “Private hospitals can’t refuse to treat emergencies, in the name of protocol. Elective surgeries are, however, not being done in view of the pandemic. We will soon come out with clear guidelines on treatment of other ailments,” P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College, told The Hindu , when the issue was brought to his notice. “This is the reason why we have convinced the government not to declare the King George Hospital (KGH) as a COVID-19 hospital. Deliveries are being done at KGH and Victoria Government Hospital (VGH) and all emergencies, pertaining to heart, gastroenterology, burns, etc., are being attended at the KGH,” he said.  Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar says clear guidelines will be issued on treatment of other ailments||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pvt-hospitals-refusing-to-admit-patients-with-general-ailments/article31459193.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||How many vehicles used for Nikhil’s wedding: HC||What is the policy of the government on giving passes to vehicles during the lockdown and how many passes were given to allow people to attend the wedding of K. Nikhil, son of former Karnatka Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, the High Court of Karnataka asked the government on Tuesday. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna, posed these questions orally after noticing that the government had not responded to the court’s April 21 direction on whether there was breach of social distancing during the ceremony. The Bench pointed out that the High Court had received several pleas through e-mails from various persons from within and outside Karnataka on the breach of social distancing norms and the grant of vehicle passes for the wedding. Is it the policy of the government to grant passes for a wedding during the lockdown? If yes, then everyone will apply for passes, the Bench observed orally asking the Additional Advocate-General to submit the government’s response by the next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/how-many-vehicles-used-for-nikhils-wedding-hc/article31458673.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Money set aside for wedding will be spent on relief work: HDK||After plans of performing his son K. Nikhil’s wedding with all the voters of Ramanagaram in attendance were dashed due to COVID-19, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has decided to distribute 1.2 lakh dry ration kits in Channapatna and Ramanagaram Assembly constituencies from the money earmarked for the wedding. Mr. Kumaraswamy represents Channapatna in the State Assembly and his wife Anitha Kumaraswamy represents Ramanagaram. The district with a big Vokkaliga population is counted as a stronghold of the JD(S). At a simple ceremony earlier this month, Mr. Nikhil tied the knot with Revathi, grand niece of Congress leader M. Krishnappa at Mr. Kumaraswamy’s farmhouse near Bidadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/money-set-aside-for-wedding-will-be-spent-on-relief-work-hdk/article31458674.ece
29 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man murdered over sharing night shelter||A Tamil Nadu-based painter, who allegedly murdered a sanitary worker following a tiff over sharing a public place as night shelter, was nabbed on the outskirts of Chittoor when he was about to escape into Tamil Nadu, thanks to the CC camera footage, with clear images and movements on the deserted roads due to COVID-19 lockdown. Mohammad Basha (50) was found murdered with his head crushed with a boulder near Gandhi statue here on April 26. The police went through CC camera footage in and around the area and zeroed in on a suspect, who kept repeatedly visiting the place and was loitering there during the last one month. Special teams After releasing the images of the suspect to all police stations and social media, the police formed four special teams to track him. On Tuesday morning, when the accused was about to cross into the bordering Vellore district on foot, he was identified by some locals, who informed the police, who and nabbed him. During interrogation, it was reportedly revealed that the accused, Ratna Swami Babu (48), of Vellore town, used to work as a painter, besides doing odd jobs in Chittoor. Lockdown Following imposition of lockdown, he was stranded in Chittoor. Depending on liberal distribution of free food in the town, Babu used to sleep under the shade of Gandhi statue in the traffic island since March 25. The victim, Mohammad Basha too used the same place for sleep at night. The duo kept quarrelling over sharing the space. On April 25 night, Basha allegedly threatened Babu to permanently vacate the place, failing which he would brand him a COVID-19 patient and send him to hospital. While Basha was asleep, Babu allegedly crushed Basha’s head with a boulder, killing him instantly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-murdered-over-sharing-night-shelter/article31459161.ece
29 April 2020||DEVARAPALLI (WEST GODAVARI DT.):,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mystery shrouds death of watchman||A watchman at a liquor shop, Mallipudi Pedda Venkatesh (50), died under mysterious circumstances. His body was found with burn injuries near the shop. According to Kovvur Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) K. Rajeswar Reddy, the victim, a native of Buddukuru village in the district, was found dead at the shop on Tuesday. Police found that no material was missing from the shop. Case registered Police suspect that he would have suffered burns after the bed caught fire from a leftover cigar. The police registered a case and took up investigation, the DSP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mystery-shrouds-death-of-watchman/article31459171.ece
29 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Why make skilled hands sit idle?’||Out of work and no home to stay, migrant workers continue to while away time at the makeshift relief centres in the district. Over 700 of them, mostly men, have been in the centres in the town for three weeks. Thousands of them have been stranded in the district as the lockdown was suddenly announced on the night of March 24 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The workers are mostly from Odisha and Karnakata while some of them are from North Coastal Andhra. Most of them are skilled workers – painters, construction workers, cooks and carpenters. An NGO Kalyana Mandapam is sheltering 130 of them. These centres are maintained by the Guntur Municipal Corporation while food is being supplied by various charitable organisations. No productive work “I have been working as a tiffin master in a hotel on Amaravathi Road. I was shifted to this centre on April 2 and ever since, been living here. My native place is in Srikakulam district,’’ A. Narayana toldThe Hindu. Narayana spends the day reading some old books which he had kept for himself and in the evening, whiles away time by sitting in the open spaces or watching others play. Stranded Lack of work means most of them are sitting idle at the relief centres, but since there is a lockdown, they cannot travel to their homes either. The Guntur Municipal Corporation has options to make use of their skills. Reports of migrant workers painting a school building in Sikara district of Rajasthan proved to be a welcome initiative and the Guntur Municipal Corporation could take a leaf out of their book and use them in repairing school buildings, or in any other civil work, feel some experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-make-skilled-hands-sit-idle/article31458709.ece
29 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stop mudslinging, Minister tells TDP||While Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is making all-out efforts to tackle the situation arising from the outbreak of COVID-19, the TDP leadership is behaving irresponsibly by writing incoherent letters to tarnish the image of the government, said Minister for Irrigation Anil Kumar Yadav. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, Mr. Yadav said Mr. Naidu was trying to politicise each and every issue, the latest being four staffers at the Raj Bhavan testing positive for the virus. Mr. Naidu wrote a letter to the Governor stating that the government should take effective measures to prevent recurrence of such incidents. Even leaders of the most developed countries were affected by the virus and the staff at the Raj Bhavan were no exception, said the Minister. “The State is passing through a crisis, but Mr. Naidu along with his son went out of the State without extending any support to the government or the public in dealing with the pandemic situation. Without even making a visit to a single hospital in the State, he alleges that personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and masks are unavailable and that the government is hiding the number of the positive cases. The Telugu Desam has no moral right to level such allegations as its contribution in containing the pandemic is a big zero, ” said the Minister here. ‘A.P. ahead of others’ In contrast, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagam Mohan Reddy, despite the funds crunch, was grounding schemes aimed at the welfare of all sections of society, including self-help groups and students. Andhra Pradesh stands first in the country in the number of tests done per million. Like no other State, the AP government has recruited 1,200 doctors, established nine laboratories and special COVID hospitals to control the spread of the virus, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stop-mudslinging-minister-tells-tdp/article31459182.ece
29 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Increased testing yielding good results, says Jagan||The State has recorded 82 new COVID-19 positive cases in the last 24 hours and the increased testing is yielding good results, Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy told the officials at a review meeting at Tadepalli. “With 1,504 tests per million, and 80,334 tests conducted so far, AP is leading in the country on the testing front. We are also doing well in containing the spread of virus by limiting it to 1.57 % of cases when compared with the national percentage of 4.13. Even in the case of death rate, we are faring better with 2.46 % when compared with the national rate of 3.19 %,’’ Mr. Jagan said. The Health Department officials said containment strategies in Srikakulam, Prakasam, Nellore, Vijayanagaram, have been yielding good results. Home quarantine option The recent decision of the Union Home Ministry relating to home quarantine of persons showing mild symptoms was also discussed at the meeting and rules would be framed soon, they said. The Chief Minister said arrangements at quarantine centres should be improved and those staying in them should be able to get a feeling that they had not been abandoned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/increased-testing-yielding-good-results-says-jagan/article31459181.ece
29 April 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Proddatur, Yerraguntla top the list in Kadapa||Proddatur and Yerraguntla, with 29 and 11 cases respectively, continue to top the list of mandals affected by COVID-19, as the number of cases touched 65 in Kadapa district on Tuesday. The top two are followed by Kadapa (9), Pulivendula and Badvel (4), Mydukur (3), Vempalli (2) and Kamalapuram, C.K.Dinne and Chennur registering one case each. Of the 65 cases, 28 were discharged after undergoing treatment. As many as seven cases were recorded from various places on Tuesday. Coinciding with Ramzan month, Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha held a meeting through videoconference with owners of meat outlets, when he fixed the price of a kilogram of mutton at Rs. 700. He expressed concern over Muslims experiencing fatigue due to their day-long fast and hence the need to ease the availability of meat so as to improve their nutrition and immunity. Mr. Basha later handed over essential commodities to 500 temple priests, who were hard pressed as temples remained closed due to the lockdown. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan visited Chennur after it was declared a red zone. He urged the field staff from the department to stay cautious and utilise personal protective equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/proddatur-yerraguntla-top-the-list-in-kadapa/article31459167.ece
29 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Agricultural workers to be allowed into East Godavari||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu on Tuesday assured that migrant workers would be permitted to visit East Godavari district to meet the requirement of workers in the fields of agriculture and allied sectors. Mr. Kannababu and Deputy Chief Minister Pilli Subashchandra Bose on Tuesday conducted a field inspection of the agriculture and allied sectors to ascertain the impact of the lockdown as well as recent rains on the sector. In an interaction with mango farmers , Mr. Kannababu said, “The grievances of mango farmers are being addressed. The export of mangoes will also be encouraged, despite recent rains resulting in a great loss. The State is keen to address the woes of those engaged in processing mango pulp and jelly.” In Ponduru village, Mr. Kannababu and Mr. Bose inaugurated a mango jelly unit. “The government is ensuring all means of support to those engaged in the agriculture and allied sectors which have been badly impacted due to the lockdown,” Mr. Bose said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/agricultural-workers-to-be-allowed-into-east-godavari/article31459162.ece
29 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman tests positive in East Godavari||A 52-year-old woman on Tuesday tested positive for COVID-19 during a general medical checkup at Peddapuram municipality in East Godavari district. Peddapuram Revenue Divisional Officer S. Mallibabu told The Hindu that the woman was asymptomatic. “The woman had traveled to Tirupati in February. She has now tested positive for COVID-19 despite not having any symptoms. It is still unclear as to where she contracted the virus from,” Mr. Mallibabu said. The woman has been admitted to GSL Hospital in Rajamahendravaram for further treatment. Peddapuram DSP A. Srinivasa Rao and other officials have marked the area where the woman lives as a containment zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-tests-positive-in-east-godavari/article31459163.ece
29 April 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala HC stays State govt. order on salary deferment||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday stayed for two months the operationalisation of the State government order to defer the payment of the salary of government employees and the staff of State government-owned undertakings. Justice Bechu Kurian Thomas passed the interim order on a slew of petitions filed by various unions challenging the order to defer payment of six days’ salary every month from April to August. The order is not applicable to employees who draw a gross salary below Rs. 20,000. The court observed that prima facie the law authorising the government to issue such an order was found wanting. There was ambiguity in the order on the manner in which the amount deducted was proposed to be set apart or was to be utilised. The order only referred to the financial difficulties faced by the government due to the COVID-19 situation. Financial difficulty was not a ground for the government to defer payment of salary of its employees. Prima facie , deferment of payment of salary, for whatever purposes, amounted to denial of the right to property, the court added. Counsel for the unions contended that Article 300A of the Constitution (right to property) would include within its ambit ‘salary’ as well. The article mandates that no person shall be deprived of his/her property save by the authority of the law. They further argued that no law empowered the government to defer the salary payment of the employees. Besides, the payment could not be deferred without their consent. Rejecting a contention of the government, the court pointed out that the Disaster Management Act or the Epidemic Diseases Act did not specifically confer any power on the government to defer salary payments during the times of any disaster. Advocate General C.P. Sudhakara Prasad submitted that the government order only postponed the payment of salary and did not deprive the employees of their right.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-hc-stays-state-govt-order-on-salary-deferment/article31458676.ece
29 April 2020||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bodies of Tamil Nadu, Kerala & Goa natives brought from UAE||Bodies of seven Indians who died of diseases other than COVID-19 in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) were brought to the Calicut international airport on Tuesday. The bodies, including those from Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Goa, were repatriated in the flydubai cargo flight FZ 8189 from Dubai at 12. 40 p.m., airport director K. Srinivasa Rao said. He said the freighter aircraft departed for Dubai with over 18,000 kg of fruits, vegetables and medicines later. A senior police officer said the bodies were of Koshy Mathai and Sijo Joy of Pathanamthitta; Punnakkal David Shamy of Kannur; Johannan John of Kollam; Velayudhan Sathyan of Thrissur; Sreenivas Muthukarappan of Sivaganga in Tamil Nadu and Henrique D'Souza of Goa. The bodies were handed over to the relatives. The bodies were repatriated after the Ministry of Home Affairs issued an order permitting to transport the bodies of Indians from abroad subject to guidelines issued by various Ministries and government departments related to the management of COVID-19 and submission of No Objection Certificate from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Now, the Indian Embassies and High Commissions abroad can give clearance for repatriation of mortal remains of Indian citizens died abroad due to reasons other than COVID-19 infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bodies-of-tamil-nadu-kerala-goa-natives-brought-from-uae/article31458671.ece
29 April 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||40 new positive cases reported in Kurnool dist.||Forty new COVID-19 positive cases were reported from Kurnool district on Tuesday. Worried over it, the district administration intensified the containment measures to ensure no further positive cases come from red zones of the district and green zones do not turn that of red. While new cases were coming everyday, the number of persons getting discharged from the quarantines was also rising after they tested negative, said District Collector G. Veerapandian. Currently quarantines were being run at 15 places in the district and the health of 1,007 persons was being monitored there. On Tuesday alone 257 persons were discharged and the total number of people discharged so far increased to 1,015. At a review meeting in the evening, Mr. Veerapandian said the health of doctors and paramedical staff was paramount and they were being housed in three hotels in the city, so that they do not go to their houses which may risk the family members. The police personnel, meanwhile, ensured none of the red zone rules were flouted and the force was stringently enforcing the norms, said Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli. The police personnel seized 281 vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/40-new-positive-cases-reported-in-kurnool-dist/article31459158.ece
29 April 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Good morning! NELBOT at your service...||The doctors and nurses treating COVID-19 cases here can heave a sigh of relief as a robot will now assist them in taking care of patients at the Government General Hospital in the city. Named NELBOT, it will visit the patients in the COVID-19 isolation ward from time to time and act as a bridge between them and medical professionals who, henceforth, need not personally visit the patients. “We will use it to give patients medicines and food on time,” said nodal officer M. Narendra. The robot had been introduced on a pilot basis here. Based on its functioning more robots would be pressed into service, said SPSR Nellore Joint Collector Vinod Kumar. Made by engineer The robot was developed by an electrical engineer Parveesh Hussain, an alumnus of Anna University, Chennai at the behest of Nellore MP Adala Prabhakar Reddy to come to the aid of medical professionals who treat patients risking their lives. It has been programmed to carry food, medicines, medical reports and even newspapers for patients. The robot, costing about Rs. 2.50 lakh, was donated by APR Helping Hands Foundation to the GGH, said its Director Sd. Nizamuddin. Mobile app It has been programmed to enable a doctor from anywhere to remotely examine a patient online through telecommunication application skype after downloading the relevant mobile app. The services of robots will be extended to other State-run hospitals in phases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/good-morning-nelbot-at-your-service/article31459184.ece
29 April 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rains rub salt into lockdown wounds||Fifty-year-old P. Pitchaiah, a salt farmer from Motumala village near Kothapatnam, was hoping to get decent returns during this summer. Now his hopes have been completely dashed in the wake of the lockdown in two spells announced by the Centre to combat coronavirus. Workers have not turned up at his salt pan for more than a month now to scrap salt and move it to safety. ‘’I am also unable to engage truck to move the produced salt in view of the lockdown in force,’’ laments the salt producer doing all that he could to move the scrapped salt to a godown nearby on his own amid the threat of a downpour. The lockdown has come at most inopportune time as it was during April and May that salt production reaches the peak, explains another salt farmer Thambi Srinivasulu taking a short recess to talk to The Hindu . ‘’I am not in a position to break even after spending Rs. 45,000 per acre for salt extraction this year,’’ he says. The wet spell twice during April has also brought misery to them. Another salt producer G. Raghava says ‘’every time rains occur salt production is held up for about 10 days.’’  Plea to govt. Another farmer, K. Brahamanada Reddy, wants the State government to purchase salt from them and give it to people under the public distribution system. MGNREGS should be dovetailed with salt extraction works like for formation of field channels, strengthening of bunds and stamping of land for them to get some relief as severe labour shortage hit salt extraction. “We are also ready to supply salt fortified with iodine to get a better rate for our produce,’’ they say and plead for institutional credit for processing the salt widely used in tanneries and chemical industrial units. The power tariff, which used to be just 40 paise during the regime of the then Chief Minister, Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, had gone up to Rs. 4.75 per unit as the government treated the sector as industry. The government should consider reducing the power tariff to at least Rs. 1.25 per unit charged for aquaculture units, demands Kothapatnam Salt Producers Cooperative Society president K. Nanchariah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rains-rub-salt-into-lockdown-wounds/article31459186.ece
29 April 2020||R. Avadhani,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jobs lost, migrant families battle heat and hunger||Akkamma in her 50s is staying along with her family of five in a small hut and during afternoons when the heat is at its peak, she joins other women to sit under a tree and chat with them. The reason, for all of them being out of their houses is more comfortable than inside as the tarpaulin roofs of their houses generates unbearable heat and they feel suffocated being inside even for a few minutes. “It is impossible to stay inside our houses. To get some respite from the heat we are taking rest under this tree. We will spend out time till evening here,” Akkamma told The Hindu . There are 65 families who migrated from Nanded in Maharashtra and are staying here for the past eight years or so. A large number of children are also there, who are famished, literally. All of them used to make a living by breaking stones or driving tractors or working as adda coolies (labourers waiting at a street corner seeking work for the day). Many of them have a full meal in the afternoon and skip dinner. Though the location of their makeshift dwelling is hardly a kilometre or two from the National Highway, the administration has not reached out to them so far, they claimed. “Some philanthropists came and extended assistance twice. But we have not received any help from the government so far. We are using our limited rations so that we can have something for tomorrow,” Sunil, another migrant said. What do they do the entire day? “Eating, chitchatting and sleeping. Nothing else,” said another young man from the group. There are more than 60 children aged between six months and 14 years and there are also six lactating mothers. All of them are waiting for some help from the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jobs-lost-migrant-families-battle-heat-and-hunger/article31458681.ece
29 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala to register those stranded in other States||The Department of Non-Resident Keralites Affairs (NoRKA) will commence online registration for Keralites stranded in various States since the lockdown to return to their homes. They can log in to the websiteregisternorkaroots.comfrom April 29 evening and provide details. As the same server and website is used for registration of Keralites wishing to return from foreign nations, a separate section will be available reportedly for the hundreds stranded in various States. The government has prioritised the categories of the stranded in other States for their return journey. A meeting chaired by the Chief Minister on Tuesday took stock of the arrangements . Unlike the people reaching the four international airports, the government is looking into a proposal of the Transport Department to restrict the movement through six interstate check-posts. The check-posts are Kumily, Arayankavu, Amaravila, Walayar, Muthanga, and Manjeswaram.  2.76 lakh NoRKs register Meanwhile, 2,76,700 non-resident Keralites from 150 nations registered on the website of NoRKA till Tuesday evening for returning to Kerala. The registration commenced on Sunday evening though the Centre is yet to take a call on the dates and flights for bringing them home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-to-register-those-stranded-in-other-states/article31458677.ece
29 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pinarayi silent about filing appeal||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday refused to reveal whether the State would file an appeal against the High Court’s stay on deducting the salary of government employees. The High Court had put in abeyance, for two months, the controversial decision to defer the payment of six days’ salary every month from April to August to help the government tide over the financial crunch caused by the COVID-19 outbreak. Mr. Vijayan said the State was constitutionally bound to obey the decision of the court. Mr. Vijayan ignored the question whether the Law Department had let down the government by issuing an ambiguous order that had scant legal backing or precedence. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala who had moved the High Court against the controversial order, said the arrogance of the government that it could arm-twist State employees into forsaking their pay had earned the opprobrium of the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pinarayi-silent-about-filing-appeal/article31458678.ece
29 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram/Hyderabad/Bengaluru/Chennai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala community sampling finds new cases||Four persons tested positive for COVID 19 in Kerala on Tuesday. Three of the cases were picked up from the community in the Health department’s augmented sampling drive on Sunday with 3,101 swabs. For the third day, Andhra Pradesh reported more than 80 fresh cases taking the tally to 1,259. Eleven new positive cases were reported in Karnataka on Tuesday, taking the State total to 523. Telangana continued to show a dip with only six cases. and 42 people were discharged. Two of Kerala’s positive cases on Tuesday had a travel history abroad while the other two were “contacts”. Three were in Kannur and one at Kasaragod. Though the Idukki district administration said it had three fresh cases, who had been shifted to the hospital, Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, said that these cases needed reconfirmation. The patients in question had been moved to hospital and were under treatment, he added. Of 485 COVID-19 cases reported in the State so far, 123 were under hospital care and 359 on the recovery list. Mr. Vijayan said that the Health department was doing a sentinel survey for health workers, guest workers and those who had increased social interaction with the public. Of 875 samples tested, 801 were negative. Of the 3,101 samples tested as part of the augmented sample survey, 2,682 were negative. The results of 391 samples were awaited, and 25 samples had to be re-tested. The State had tested 23,980 samples, of which 23,277 were negative. 62 frontline staff In Andhra Pradesh, 62 frontline staff were infected till date. They included 31 health care providers, 12 doctors, 12 nursing staffers, five sanitation workers and two pharmacists who were dealing with COVID-19 patients, said Special Chief Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy. Many personnel of revenue and police departments were also infected. Addressing the media on Tuesday Dr. Reddy said that the Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan and all other staff at Raj Bhavan tested negative. He said they were tested after four staffers of the Raj Bhavan were infected. During the 24 hour-period, 82 samples tested positive of a total 5,783 tests, the bulletin of the Health Department said. So far, 80,334 tests were conducted and the State stood first with 1504 tests per million population. Kurnool reported 40 fresh cases, crossing the 300-mark while Guntur reported 17 fresh cases. Krishna district reported 13 cases, Kadapa seven, Nellore three and Chittoor and Anantapur one case each. In Telangana with 1,009 cases - 610 active - the six new cases were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits. With 103 new cases, Chennai witnessed another surge in COVID-19 on Tuesday, the city accounting for 85% of the 121 persons who tested postive across Tamil Nadu. Among the new patients were two infants — a five-day-old baby in Chengalpattu and a seven-month-old child in Chennai. In fact Tamil Nadu’s overall tally crossed the 2,000-mark on Tuesday. Tamil Nadu reported its first COVID-19 case on March 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-community-sampling-finds-new-cases/article31458688.ece
29 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Psychologists to offer free services||People suffering from psychological disorders such as stress, anxiety, fear and anger triggered by COVID-19 can now get counselling from experienced psychologists free of cost. Superannuated Psychologists Society of India (SPSI), a body of veterans in the field of practising psychology, has come forward to provide tele-counselling services to the people suffering from issues like anxiety, stress, tension, fatigue, loss of interest, frustration, irritation. Society president I.V. Ramana Reddy and general secretary B.G. Reddy have said say the service is available across India in different languages. Thirty plus counsellors are available in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and Maharashtra, who can be contacted individually over telephone for emotional and psycho-social support between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. The service is free during lockdown period. Prof. B.G. Reddy can be contacted over 95733 29039 for further details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/psychologists-to-offer-free-services/article31459168.ece
29 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plans of educational institutions go haywire||The lockdown necessitated by the outbreak of COVID-19 has derailed the academic calendars of schools and universities. Educational institutions across the country have been closed since March 16 when the Centre announced classroom shutdown as a measure to contain the spread of the virus. Later, a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which has now been extended till May 3. “We are going through very uncertain times and the worst part is that we can’t even plan anything in this situation,” says K. Hemachandra Reddy, Chairman, Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE). Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh, at a review meeting with the officials of the Department of Higher Education and Vice-Chancellors of universities recently, asked them to make swift arrangements to move online and conduct virtual classes to complete the syllabus. But sources in the department said there are technology issues and it may not be possible to conduct online classes for all students in the long run since the department does not have the wherewithal to do so. The authorities fear that the academic year may be grossly delayed. Instead of June-July, the new academic year may start in September. “In Andhra Pradesh, a majority of the classes have been completed and only examinations have to be conducted now,” says Prof. Reddy. “If the situation improves even by July-end, we could plan things,” he says, adding that even if classes for B. Tech courses could be conducted by October-November, things could be managed by sacrificing Saturdays and Sundays.  All eyes on UGC With the academic plans going awry, universities have no option but to look to the decision of the University Grants Commission (UGC), expected to be announced within a week. The UGC, it may be noted, had constituted two committees to look into the issue of academic loss and online education in the wake of the lockdown in the country due to the coronavirus pandemic. One of the panels, led by Haryana University Vice-Chancellor R.C. Kuhad, was formed to look into the ways of conducting exams in universities amid lockdown and work on an alternative academic calendar. The second committee, to suggest measures to improve online education, was led by Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) Vice-Chancellor Nageswar Rao. Both the committees submitted their reports recently. “We’ll do our best to overcome this difficult situation,” says Prof. Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plans-of-educational-institutions-go-haywire/article31458714.ece
29 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Vidya Deevena’ scheme to benefit 14 lakh college students in State||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday launched ‘Jagananna Vidya Deevena’, a fee reimbursement scheme that would benefit 14 lakh college students in the State. From the 2020–21 academic year, the fee reimbursement amount would be credited directly into the accounts of the mothers instead of that of the students in four instalments. The government has released over Rs. 4,000 crore for the scheme and Rs. 1,880 crore more towards the pending dues. Interacting with students through video-conference, the Chief Minister assured that the government was prioritising education and health and no family should fall into debt trap for education and health. “Education is the only asset that we can offer to lakhs of students of the downtrodden families. If a student from each family completes the professional education and secures a good job, the lives of the family members will be better,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Four instalments The Chief Minister said the fee reimbursement amount would be credited into the accounts of the mothers in four instalments every year. In case, the parents paid the fees for the 2019-20 academic year, they could approach the college management and claim refunds. Apart from the students who took fresh admissions in the 2019-20 academic year, those who were pursuing various professional courses were also eligible for the scheme, the Chief Minister said. “Parents have the rights to question the college management regarding the facilities, quality of teaching and infrastructure. They should know about the performance of their children by visiting the colleges once every three months. In case the college managements are not providing better facilities, parents can register complaints by dialling the helpline number 1902,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Several students also interacted with the Chief Minister on the occasion. “My family income is hardly Rs. 60,000 per annum. Though I wanted to pursue higher studies, I couldn’t do so owing to lack of financial support. Now, with your (CM’s) support, I am able to continue my higher education. Schemes such as Vasathi Deevena and Vidya Deevena will benefit many students from the poor financial background for sure,” Jeevitha, a student from Srikakulam district, told Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vidya-deevena-scheme-to-benefit-14-lakh-college-students-in-state/article31458679.ece
29 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Transco determined to cut power purchase cost||In view of the corona pandemic and the lockdown, an AP Transco team, under the guidance of the Chairman and Managing Director N. Srikanth, is focused on steps to reduce the power procurement cost. All bulk consumers such as industries, railways, commercial establishments, HT consumers, function halls, malls and theatres are shut down and only critical healthcare, government machinery, domestic and agriculture loads are being serviced by the grid. The peak demand of the State has shifted from 11,000 MW to 8,500MW and the minimum demand is pegged at 6,000MW, instead of 8,000MW during normal times. According to the officials, the continuous availability of coal, fall in international gas and oil prices have ensured adequate supply while the demand is hovering at 65 to 70% of the usual peak loads experienced during summer. By assessing how the power exchanges will respond to these scenarios, the commercial teams are carefully placing bids in the DAM (Day ahead market) or TAM (term ahead market). An efficient team of power system engineers, qualified chartered accountants, statisticians and IT professionals was roped into the Andhra Pradesh Power Coordination Committe (APPCC) to make daily decisions of purchase through exchange and the SLDC takes up the economic load despatch based on these day-ahead demand and supply forecasts. Transco Joint Managing director KVN Chakradhar Babu is entrusted to see that these wings of APPCC operate in close cooperation. All high-cost conventional energy sources are kept under reserve shut down and these thermal stations were asked to stock the coal for meeting the exigencies. As on date, the GENCO stations have the stocks that would be sufficient for 2 to 3 weeks of operation. VTPS has buffer for 18.93 days, RTPP for 27.65 days and Krishnapatnam units have stocked coal for the next 14 days. The gap due to reserve shutdown of the State Genco is being tied up from the exchange, duly leveraging the situation. On an average, 15 to 25 MUs per day were purchased from the power exchanges in April, accounting for a total of 824.88MUs and the prices ranging between Rs. 2.16 and Rs. 2.66 per unit. “With this, the per unit average procurement cost from the exchange is Rs. 1.6 less than the average power procurement cost allowed by the APERC. This resulted in net savings of Rs. 132 crore in April,” explained Mr. Srikant, who is also the Energy Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/transco-determined-to-cut-power-purchase-cost/article31458716.ece
29 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu terms YSRCP leaders ‘super spreaders’ of corona||Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has squarely blamed the YSR Congress Party leaders for the spread of coronavirus in the State. Mr. Naidu, in a series of tweets on Tuesday, alleged that the YSRCP leaders turned out to be the “potential super spreaders”. “Shocked to see the YSRCP leaders turning out to be potential “Super Spreaders” of the #CoronaVirus. Breaking Lockdown regulations, hundreds of YSRCP leaders & cadre led by Vizag MP and a Minister gathered at a function hall today. At the same function hall, @ysjagan govt has arranged a make-shift quarantine centre where several people are awaiting their #Covid-19 test results. Such inter-mingling will increase the risk of exposure to the virus which may lead to an exponential rise in positive cases,” tweeted Mr. Naidu Open letter Later, in an open letter to the public, the former Chief Minister alleged that the virus was spreading due to irresponsibility and negligence of the YSRCP leaders. “The virus is spreading fast as the ruling party members do not follow the rules even in the containment zones. It is the reason for the positive cases reported from the Raj Bhavan and in MP’s family,” he claimed. Initially, Mr. Naidu said, the YRSCP leaders made light of the COVID-19. “They (YSRCP leaders) even advised that paracetamol and bleaching powder were enough to check the spread of coronavirus. Now, they are saying that the virus is a part and parcel of human life,” he said and appealed to the people to follow the lockdown norms, maintain social distance and take proper healthcare measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-terms-ysrcp-leaders-super-spreaders-of-corona/article31459188.ece
29 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SSC exam schedule will be released soon, says Minister||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Tuesday said that the schedule for the tenth class board examinations would be released soon. Mr. Suresh attended a meeting of Union Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pohkriyal with the State Education Ministers through video-conference. Issues pertaining to COVID-19, school fee and midday meal programme were discussed. “The exams will be conducted two weeks after the lockdown is lifted. All precautionary measures such as maintaining social distance between students in examination halls and wearing face masks will be made mandatory. The fresh academic year calendar will also be released soon,” said Mr. Suresh after the video-conference. Referring to midday meal programme, Mr. Suresh informed the HRD Minister that changes had been made to the scheme, which was now called ‘Jagananna Gorumudda’. “Andhra Pradesh is implementing the midday meal scheme for students of ninth and tenth classes too,” he said and sought Central funds for the purpose. Mr. Suresh also sought the approval of the Centre for more number of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalas (KGBV), , and model schools in the State. Mr. Suresh further said of the Rs. 1529 crore sanctioned to the State for the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, Rs. 923 crore had been received till date and appealed for the release of the remaining amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ssc-exam-schedule-will-be-released-soon-says-minister/article31459191.ece
29 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers’ welfare is top priority, says Minister||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu said that the State government has relaxed the lockdown rules in order to help farmers. The second phase of the Rythu Bharosa incentives would be provided on May 15. The Minister said that the government was giving top priority to farmers unlike in the TDP rule. Reacting to the tweets posted by former CM N. Chandrababu Naidu, the Minister said, “The Opposition leader, who has been enjoying the quarantine in Hyderabad, is tweeting about the felling of palm trees and livelihood of toddy tappers in Kakinada.” Deputy Chief Minister Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose told farmers not to panic over the COVID crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-welfare-is-top-priority-says-minister/article31458712.ece
29 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CRAF donates kits||The WD&CW department in association with a child rights resource support centre, Child Rights Advocacy Foundation (CRAF) has donated 4000 self-protection hygiene kits to the frontline staff. WD&CW Krishna district Project Director K. Uma Rani and CRAF State programme director P. Francis Thambi handed over the kits to Collector A.Md. Imtiaz and Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/craf-donates-kits/article31458719.ece
29 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free video consultation for cancer patients||The American Oncology Institute (AOI) has introduced free video consultation facility for cancer patients in Vijayawada and Guntur region. In view of the prevailing nationwide lockdown necessitated by the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the AOI has decided to extend the facility from Monday to Saturday (9 a.m. to 5 p.m.). To seek a doctor’s appointment, one can visit the AOI’s websitehttps://www.american oncology.com. Medical experts would extend their services through video consultation. For further details, those interested in availing the service can call the AOI helpline number on 7674999238.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-video-consultation-for-cancer-patients/article31458717.ece
29 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||District Sand Officers to implement new policy||Panchayat Raj and Mines Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy on Tuesday said that the State government had decided to appoint a Deputy Director or Assistant Director (AD) rank officer as District Sand Officer (DSO) in each district to ensure effective implementation of the new sand policy. Hitherto, these services were rendered by outsourcing staff. “The District Sand Officers will ensure transparency and accountability in the process of sand supply. Better services can also be provided to the consumers, in coordination with the APMDC and the Mining Department,” he said. “Plans are being chalked out to see that there were no irregularities in the supply of sand,” Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sand-officers-to-implement-new-policy/article31458710.ece
29 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu making baseless allegations against govt.’||Government Chief Whip Gadikota Srikanth Reddy has flayed former Chief Minister and TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu for writing letters and publicising them “only to create confusion and panic among people”. Mr. Naidu’s letters were playing a spoilsport at a time when the entire country is putting up a united fight against COVID-19, he said. Speaking to the media here on Tuesday, he said the TDP leader’s letters to the Governor and others showed “his mean attitude”. The former Chief Minister was far removed from reality and was levelling baseless allegations against the government, Mr. Srikanth Reddy said. There was no truth in Mr. Naidu’s allegations that migrant labour across the State were facing severe hardships. In reality, the government had set up several camps in the State besides providing food and accommodation. It had also been distributing free ration, he added. The State conducted the highest COVID-19 tests per million population in the country. A proper action plan was being implemented at isolation and quarantine centres besides ensuring other emergency services. Welfare schemes were also being implemented along side, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-making-baseless-allegations-against-govt/article31459176.ece
29 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 tests for media personnel||Members of the Indian Medical Association and the Andhra Pradesh Union of Working Journalists performed COVID-19 tests for media personnel at IMA Hall on Tuesday. Samples of 166 media personnel were collected. Tests will be done on Wednesday from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. and those interested can give samples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-tests-for-media-personnel/article31459175.ece
29 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One more positive case ‘reported’ in the district||One more COVID-19 positive case has been reported in Visakhapatnam district. A 60-year old woman from Chintalapalem village of Kasimkota mandal has tested positive, according to officials from the Health Department. However the case is yet to be officially confirmed by the health bulletin. According to sources, the woman is a native of Chintalapalem village and works in Vijayawada. It was learnt that around 10 days ago, she had come to Kasimkota in a lorry. After coming to know about her arrival, the Health Department officials have sent her to quarantine facility at Kasimkota. Recently, she had COVID-19 symptoms and her results had tested positive, said a health official. “As per our information, the woman came to Vizag along with two other women in a lorry. Later she was sent to quarantine. There are nearly 25 to 30 persons in the quarantine facility. All the persons, including the two others, with whom the elderly woman had travelled tested negative,” said a health official. Sources said that officials are mulling to extend the quarantine period after the woman tested positive, assuming that a few might have infected and they could show symptoms in the next couple of weeks. Health teams from Kasimkota and Anakapalle region have started survey in the three km radius of Chintalapalem village to check if any person has symptoms. The elderly woman was shifted to Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), where people aged over 50 or those having respiratory issues are treated. Surveillance The rural police have reportedly strengthened enforcement in around seven villages surrounding Chintalapalem, after the doctors confirmed a positive case. Superintendent of Police Attada Babujee said that the area has considered as containment zone. With this two areas — Narsipatnam and Kasimkota — will be containment zones under the rural police limits till day. Containment may be lifted in Narsipatnam after May 3, if the area does not report any cases, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-more-positive-case-reported-in-the-district/article31459201.ece
29 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Limited Height Subway installed at Butchirajupalem gate||A Limited Height Subway (LHS) was installed in eight hours by the Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (E Co R), in lieu of Butchirajupalem gate in between Gopalapatnam-Visakhapatnam stations. A traffic block of 8 hours on both up and down lines was done simultaneously to facilitate insertion of segmental boxes by ‘cut and cover’ method. The work was accomplished using minimum number of workers and using heavy machinery like hydraulic-operated telescopic cranes of one 400 tonne capacity crane and two 350 tonne capacity crane along with two 360 tonne excavators and four 200 tonne excavators, in view of the social distancing norms due to COVID-19. Cut and cover method Simultaneous excavation and placing of segmental boxes and pre-cast wing wall segments was done to save time. With the adoption of ‘cut and cover’ method, the task could be completed in a less time as it would have taken 14 hours under normal method and will save expenditure. The work was successfully completed a few minutes ahead of the block schedule. Visakhapatnam MP MVV Satyanarayana, former MLA Malla Vijaya Prasad visited the site on Tuesday and inspected the work. Visakhapatnam West MLA P.G.V.R. Naidu expressed happiness at the completion of the subway, which was a long-pending demand of the people living in Old Gopalapatnam, on the other side of the track, for whom this subway provides access. Waltair Division has constructed LHSs at 11 places in two weeks. The other works carried out include two additional Road Under Bridges at Vizianagagram towards Nellimarla end, one limited height subway in lieu of Mangalapalem between Kothavalasa-Pendurthi stations, rebuilding of bridges done between Kantakaplli – Kothalvasa stations, one LHS near Electric Loco Shed in Waltair Marshalling Yard, one LHS at Marripalem, one more LHS constructed at 104 area gate to ensure safety of pedestrians and passengers, according to G. Suneel Kumar, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/limited-height-subway-installed-at-butchirajupalem-gate/article31459197.ece
29 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collect fee only after reopening of schools, panel directs managements||The Andhra Pradesh School Education and Monitoring Commission has issued orders on fee to be collected by private school managements for 2020-21 academic year. As per its orders, fee should be collected only after reopening of schools and should be the same as was collected for the the first quarter last year.In his order, Andhra Pradesh School Education and Monitoring CommissionChairman Justice R. Kantha Rao said the fee should be collected in two instalments with a gap of 45 days between the two. ‘No exam till Class IX’ Under no circumstances admission should be denied to students and action would be taken in case of denial, he said. Also students from Class I to IX should be promoted for 2019-20 academic year without conducting any examination. District Educational Officer B. Lingeswara Reddy said in a statement that if schools conducted examination for promotion their recognition would be cancelled permanently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collect-fee-only-after-reopening-of-schools-panel-directs-managements/article31459195.ece
29 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Availability of blood reviewed at KGH||King George Hospital Superintendent G. Arjuna conducted meeting with all head of the departments of about coronavirus control. He discussed availability of blood in the blood bank and regarding blood transfusion to thalassemia and sickle cell anemia patients. He enquired about cancer cases and regarding treatment of chemotherapy and radiotherapy for cancer cases. He asked the blood bank medical officer about the stock position of blood units and found that they are less in number. He instructed all the HoDs that no gathering will be allowed in the wards and ICUs during visiting hours. K. Indira Devi, Deputy Superintendent, T. Padmavathi, HOD of OBG, C. Jaya Raj, HOD of General Surgery. and B.L.N. Prasad were among those who attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/availability-of-blood-reviewed-at-kgh/article31459198.ece
29 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||97 cases booked||Twenty-five teams inspected 293 shops selling essential commodities in the district on Tuesday and booked 97 cases for violation of rules relating to prices and weighing, according to District Collector V. Vinay Chand. A total of 728 cases were booked after inspecting 2,440 shops till now for violations during the lock-down. Officials of the Legal Metrology, Vigilance and Enforcement, Police and Municipal Administration Departments booked the cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/97-cases-booked/article31459203.ece
29 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Distribution of masks begins in city||Giving priority to COVID-19 containment zones in the GVMC limits, distribution of masks to households began on Tuesday. The State government has decided to provide three masks to each citizen in the State free of cost as a protective measure to contain the spread of the coronavirus. A total of 61.36 lakh masks are proposed to be distributed at the rate of three each to the 20.45 lakh residents living in 5.17 lakh dwellings in GVMC. The distribution formally began with political leaders and Swamy Swarupanandendra of Sri Sarada Peetham giving them away earlier, according to Urban Community Development Project Director Y. Srinivasa Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/distribution-of-masks-begins-in-city/article31459204.ece
29 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Simhachalam temple priest suspended||In-charge chief priest of Simhachalam temple Godavari Krishnamacharyulu was suspended by the devasthnam on charges of allowing a private person into the temple on Chandanotsavam day, despite the restrictions imposed due to the lockdown. According to the Executive Officer M. Venkateswara Rao, the priest allowed the private person during the Chandanotsavam on Sunday. It may be recalled that for the first time in the known history of the temple, it remained closed for devotees during the annual festival. The rituals were performed by priests in the presence of the EO and trust board chairperson Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/simhachalam-temple-priest-suspended/article31459172.ece
29 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 suspended for rice diversion||A ration shop dealer and mandal level stock point supervisor were on Tuesday suspended following preliminary investigation into alleged diversion of Public Distribution System (PDS) rice to a private charitable trust at Anakapalle. Joint Collector L. Shiva Sankar said that a complaint was lodged that PDS rice was being unloaded in a godown of a trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-suspended-for-rice-diversion/article31459192.ece
29 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU, PAV organise blood donation camp||A blood donation camp, organised jointly by the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and the Praja Arogya Vedika (PAV), was inaugurated by the CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao in connection with the forthcoming May Day at the Government Victoria Hospital (VGH) here on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citu-pav-organise-blood-donation-camp/article31459194.ece
29 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SHG members donate Rs. 20 lakh||The 24,000 self-help group (SHG) members in the GVMC contributed Rs. 10 each totalling Rs. 20,00412 towards COVID-19 relief activities. District Collector and GVMC Special Officer V. Vinay Chand and Commissioner G. Srijana on Tuesday presented a cheque for the amount to Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shg-members-donate-rs-20-lakh/article31459202.ece
29 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Traders hope for revival of economic activity from May 4||Shops and business establishments in the district are hopeful of seeing the revival of economic activity on May 4, after the lockdown 2.0 ends on May 3. Many strongly feel that the government would provide relaxation to lockdown in areas like Vizianagaram which are under the green zone category. As of now, no COVID-19 positive cases in the district have been reported although cases emerged in neighbouring districts of Visakhapatnam and Srikakulam. Sri Balaji Textile Market president A. Praveen Kumar said that it was imperative to resume business for small and medium range traders as it was getting increasingly difficult to pay rents, electricity bills, salaries, Professional Tax, Goods and Service Tax and others apart from their own livelihood expenses. Financial distress “The Union government should come to the rescue of traders by exempting them from tax burden temporarily, because textile business will not pick up immediately as in these times of crisis, getting essential commodities is the foremost need for everyone,” said Mr. Praveen Kumar, whose market was a source of livelihood to as many as 5,000 people. SVN Group chairman G. Shiva Kumar urged the government to extend the moratorium on loans for six months. “The State government can reduce electricity charges for commercial establishments. At least 50 percent reduction in rents would minimise the financial burden on the traders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/traders-hope-for-revival-of-economic-activity-from-may-4/article31459165.ece
29 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sanchaita’s executive assistant sent to quarantine||MANSAS Trust chairperson Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju’s executive assistant Mohan Kumar has been asked to go for home quarantine after he allegedly came from Chennai. However, Ms. Sanchaita said he had been in Visakhapatnam since March 16 and had not violated any lockdown norms as alleged by the Telugu Desam Party. According to Vizianagaram Circle Inspector Yerrannaidu, Mr. Kumar was sent to medical examination after rumours spread about his arrival from Chennai.  It may be recalled that Ms. Sanchaita, daughter of former MP P. Ananda Gajapathi Raju was recently appointed as chairperson replacing her uncle and former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju. She suspected that TDP leaders had tried to create a controversy over her executive assistant’s movement along with her in Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sanchaitas-executive-assistant-sent-to-quarantine/article31459177.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left high and dry||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-high-and-dry/article31459170.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Correction||In the report ‘AIR tries innovative ways to update listeners on COVID’ that appeared in these columns on April 26, the designation of Guttikonda Kondala Rao should be read as Head, Regional News Unit, All India Radio, Vijayawada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/correction/article31458715.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Calling it a day||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/calling-it-a-day/article31459174.ece
29 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Daily grind at work site stood them in good stead||American stand-up comedian Steven Wright famously said: “Everywhere is within walking distance if you have the time.” Had he seen the exodus of migrant workers from metro cities in the country at this juncture, he would have added ‘stamina’ to time. Yes, it takes a lot of endurance for individuals to walk hundreds of kilometres carrying heavy headloads, like the migrant workers both men and women are doing at present in Telangana to reach their homes far away in central and north India. “It comes from the kind of hard work these labourers are accustomed to and their simple yet healthy diet,” said Balwanth Rao Godhule, a former construction worker turned contractor-cum-builder based in Hyderabad. Mr. Godhule belongs to the Lanji area of Balaghat district in Madhya Pradesh, which has an estimated 8 lakh of its citizens working in the construction sector across the nation. “Every individual works for 8 hours a day, the work involves walking at least 10 km within the construction site,” he added giving his reason for the seemingly endless energy the workers show while on arduous foot journey under hot sun. Long hours standing Arvind Pandey from Rampur Chaubey in Kushinagar district of Uttar Pradesh, who worked as a painter in Secunderabad said he worked for 8 hours plus four hours of overtime. Similarly, carpenter Deepak Rao from Gorakhpur worked overtime for four hours every day at the same site. “We are used to working on our feet for long hours and hence do not find it difficult to walk for long or cycle long distances like our friends have done,” the workers said when The Hindu interacted with them on Adilabad bypass. They had started from Secunderabad three days back and had partially covered their journey hitching a ride in lorries. “All of us are poor and come here to save some money so we work harder than is perhaps required,” asserted Roshan Uike, a mason from Rajnandgaon in Chhattisgarh who worked on a construction site in Hyderabad. “Each worker earns an average of Rs. 20,000 per month and can save between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 8,000 after expenses and provided he or she does not fall sick and incur medical expenses,” the worker-turned labour contractor revealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/daily-grind-at-work-site-stood-them-in-good-stead/article31458976.ece
29 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||MP wants State to file review petition on GO 3||Adilabad Member of Parliament Soyam Bapu Rao on Tuesday demanded that the State government file a review petition in Supreme Court on the quashing of GO Ms No. 3, dated January 10, 2000 issued by erstwhile united Andhra Pradesh. The GO had provisioned for 100 per cent reservation to tribals in Scheduled Areas in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Addressing media, the MP said the GO was issued keeping in mind the unemployment problem in the agency areas and to wean away youth from naxalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mp-wants-state-to-file-review-petition-on-go-3/article31458978.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||48% of COVID deaths in TS among 60-plus||Of the 25 COVID-19 deaths reported in Telangana, a majority had co-morbidities such as hypertension and diabetes. And all except one suffered from one or more medical conditions. Officials have been stressing that the elderly with co-morbities are at greater risk if they contract the infectious disease. Even statistics provided by the Health Minister’s office has shown that 12 out of the 25 people who died were above 60 years old, accounting for 48% of the total fatalities. According to the data, 18 of them either had hypertension, diabetes or sepsis. Three had Severe Acute Respiratory Infection and one suffered from pneumonia — both conditions causes respiratory distress. Among the oldest to die were two 74-year-olds. One of them was a woman, who had either hypertension or diabetes, while the other, a male patient, had either of the two medical conditions and sepsis. The youngest was a 45-days-old baby boy from Narayanpet district who died on April 18. The infant suffered from cerebral palsy. Meanwhile, the death rate for males (17 out of the total 25) was more than double than that of females. Health Minsiter Eatala Rajender said that the death toll also includes two people from Kalaburagi, Karnataka. “However, we accounted the two deaths in our State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/48-of-covid-deaths-in-ts-among-60-plus/article31458950.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR completes upgrading two key scissor junctions||South Central Railway (SCR), apart from moving freight trains carrying essential commodities, has also been utilising the lockdown time to complete at least a couple of key infrastructure works. Long pending ‘Scissor junctions’ at the busy Kazipet station and the even more busier Vijayawada station, which see anywhere between 150-200 passenger trains and 50-100 freight trains pass everyday, got a much needed makeover from standard wooden sleepers to concrete ones. ‘Scissor junctions’ are where trains have to cross four or more lines to get into the main line during movement. Upgradation of these junctions was on the mind of the top officials for decades, but they baulked at taking up the work as it involved cancelling several trains and delaying the running of many express/freight trains as both these stations handle bulk of trains moving towards south, north, east and west, explain senior officials. For instance, several trains from Chennai, Bengaluru and Thiruvananthapuram towards Mumbai and Secunderabad have to pass through Kazipet junction where as trains towards Howrah, Bhubaneswar, Visakhapatnam and Delhi from these cities pass through the Vijayawada junction. Kazipet has comparatively lesser trains passing through it because some of them can bypass through Warangal towards Delhi or even Chennai, they informed. Yet, replacement was imperative as the wooden sleepers ‘were badly perished’ and the engineering wing had to carefully manage allowing the trains on these sections. “With trains running almost round the clock, the junctions improvement could not be taken up during normal times. But, we took advantage of the lockdown, re-routed some freight trains and completed the job in three days flat using less than 30 personnel,” said general manager Gajanan Mallya. Work involved dismantling the existing wornout wooden sleepers, digging, spreading new ballast material for the cushioning and laying the new concrete sleepers as well as new steel rails, he said. This was possible as the railway engineers were able to move the heavy modern machinery to lay tracks and sleepers to the site on the available free lines and complete the work in double quicktime with safety precautions, minimal manpower and social distancing. “Otherwise, it would have easily taken at least a month or more,” added chief PRO Ch. Rakesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-completes-upgrading-two-key-scissor-junctions/article31458965.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||This year, mangoes to arrive only at Koheda market||As part of the State government’s plans to de-congest the Kothapet and Gaddi Annaram fruit markets in the city, the marketing department is getting a new fruit market ready at Koheda that is expected to be inaugurated in three days. Stating that mango stocks had already started arriving at Koheda and about 600 lorry loads of all kinds of fruits were reaching there every day, Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan said that entire mango supplies would be taken there this year, instead of Kothapet and Gaddi Annaram, which would be used more as vegetable markets now. The market was being readied on a war-footing to reduce congestion at the existing markets, particularly in the wake of coronavirus spread. Mr. Niranjan Reddy, Minister for Education P. Sabitha Indra Reddy, legislators D. Sudheer Reddy and M. Kishan Reddy and market committee chairman Ramnarsimha Goud visited the upcoming market on a 175-acre land at Koheda, abutting Outer Ring Road at Rangareddy district and examined the ongoing works, on Tuesday. Mr. Niranjan Reddy stated that the market was ready for use with two huge sheds and ethylene ripening chambers. The Minister said sheds with an area of 1.26 lakh feet with a cost of Rs. 65 lakh were being constructed at Koheda. Construction of two sheds was already completed and one more would come up soon. Twenty tanks with 2,000 litres capacity each were being arranged for drinking water in the market complex. A canteen was also being readied for the benefit of farmers, agents and other workers. The Ministers instructed the officials concerned to provide lighting along the road leading to the fruit market from the ORR. Further, they asked the officials to issue identity cards to market agents and other workers so that there was inconvenience from the police. Closed-circuit cameras for monitoring, first aid centre, fire station, parking facilities were also also being arranged. Asking the farmers, agents and others in the market to maintain social distancing due to coronavirus, they said the market committee would also provide masks to farmers and others free of cost. They stated that except for mango grown in Jagtial area, the entire crop would come to Koheda. The Jagtial produce would go to Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/this-year-mangoes-to-arrive-only-at-koheda-market/article31458959.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No hoardings above 15 feet from ground level: MA&UD||City will be cleared of almost all advertisement hoardings, unipoles and flexis, besides several sign boards, if the recent orders by the government are implemented in true spirit. All advertisement elements that are above 15 feet from the ground level in the GHMC area will have to go, as per the orders issued by the department of Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD). The orders, however, may not be applicable to areas in the city under the purview of HMDA and Industrial Areas Local Authorities. The restriction of 15 feet from ground level is attributed to a few incidents, where hoardings and unipoles collapsed and created havoc, and the damage to aesthetics of the city. The orders will be applicable also to advertisements displayed on the building façades, and they will be removed after completion of the ‘allotted term’. However, the orders have not clarified if the allotted term was with reference to the agreement between advertiser and the building owner or to the annual payment of advertisement fee to GHMC. The orders, however, will not be applicable to the foot-over-bridges being installed across the city. This will have a deadly blow to the advertisement industry in the city, especially during the lockdown period, say industry representatives. “It is an ill-thought decision which will deal a blow to the livelihoods of close to five lakh people in the city who are dependent on the industry directly or indirectly. Already, we are unable to pay salaries to employees due to lack of revenue during the lock down period,” said a representative. The elaborate set of guidelines also said clearance from Traffic Police and the High Court should be obtained for use of flash lights and non static illumination, and with exception for bus shelters and toilets, the minimum distance between two advertisements should be 50 metres. At least 10% of advertisement space and time should be used for free social messages by government and local bodies, the orders said, besides stipulating penalties ranging between Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 1,00,000 per day for violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-hoardings-above-15-feet-from-ground-level-maud/article31458967.ece
29 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Lockdown brings back memories of Hyderabad’s curfew era||For many citizens of Hyderabad, the month-long lockdown is a grim reminder of another era of forced confinement. No stranger to communal and political rioting, Hyderabad has seen long periods of enforced lockup known as curfew with gun-toting soldiers roaming the streets. “Curfew used to be imposed for 24 or 48 hours and then relaxed for a few hours. It used to get extended only if there was more violence. This is different as the first announcement was for more than 15 days,” says Syed Mazher Ali Ahmed, who was confined to home during the 1969 agitation for separate Telangana. “We used to live in Narayanaguda which was the hub of activity of Telangana Praja Samithi. It was a period of great uncertainty and there was a lot of violence. Former education minister P.V. Narasimha Rao’s son Prabhakar Rao was my classmate but even he didn’t know the fate of exams,” says Mr. Mazher, recalling the time. “Sure, as kids we loved that year because we had no school and we were automatically promoted to the next year without exams,” says John Siddham, who now lives in Melbourne. But life certainly wasn’t fun. “I used to go with my dad to Amruth Store in Punjagutta for kerosene, vegetables and pulses. It used to be chaos with people buying whatever there was; a lot of the stuff used to be in a half-perished state,” remembers Mr. Siddham. Hyderabad had bouts of curfew as communal conflagrations were frequent. “Ganesh puja inevitably meant violence and curfew in the ’70s and well into the ’80s. But before that, curfew meant struggle for milk, groceries, vegetables and a fear,” says Anoop Vikram who grew up in Medhipatnam area in a joint family. “Curfew was a serious business with armed soldiers ready to shoot at sight. An hour’s break announced on radio or newspaper would mean an hour’s break. Sometimes we had to rush to Panjagutta to get vegetables and groceries and return within an hour,” recalls Mr. Vikram. “Hyderabad had independent houses, large open spaces and people lived in joint families, so spending time was not such a big problem but there was fear in the air which is not there now,” says Mr. Mazher. “Staring at walls. Talking to yourself or hitting the cricket ball against the wall were some pastimes. People read books or listened to music as the AIR was the only source of entertainment. We got our news on radio,” adds Mr. Vikram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lockdown-brings-back-memories-of-hyderabads-curfew-era/article31458947.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR home-delivers medicines, offers tele-medicine facility||South Central Railway has initiated supply of essential medicines to the staff and retired employees at their doorsteps to begin with, in divisions of Hyderabad, Vijayawada and Guntakal. The facility can be availed by the serving railway employees and retired employees living in and around these three places. It is particularly useful to persons suffering from chronic health problems like diabetes, hypertension, cardiac-related diseases or any other chronic diseases etc. General Manager Gajanan Mallya stated that the initiative will save both the time and risks involved in commuting to Railway hospitals and will also enable serving/retired railway employees to adhere the strict rules of lockdown due to COVID-19. Delivery of medicines of up to two months is being done through the available volunteers / scouts/ civil defence personnel. In addition, a facility of tele-medicine and consultation support through WhatsApp video has also been started for addressing minor ailments. A patient has to only submit his or her name, UMID Card / Medical ID Card photo, previous month doctor’s prescription photo and address with landmark to the WhatsApp number of their respective health units for getting their medicines door-delivered. Central Railway Hospital, Lallaguda: Dr. Ramesh, Chief Staff Surgeon: 970137051, Health Unit, Moula-Ali: Dr. Muthyam Kumar, Sr. Consultant: 9701372501/Padma Rani, pharmacist: 9849085640; Health Unit, Kacheguda: Dr. Raminder Kaur, ACMS: 9701372502/ Shalini, pharmacist: 8686408534; Health Unit, Guntakal: Venkata Rami Reddy, chief pharmacist: 8790651901/ Ramarathnamma, chief pharmacist: 9885497932 Health Unit, Vijayawada: On Monday, Wednesday and Friday: - 7569305668, 7675928721 & 7569305636/On Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday: - 7673927677, 7569305620 & 7013826171||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-home-delivers-medicines-offers-tele-medicine-facility/article31458955.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Central team visits GHMC headquarters||The Inter Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) on COVID-19, on the third day of its visit to the city on Tuesday, visited the control room at the GHMC headquarters, and inquired about the flow of work from there. The team was apprised of the functions of the control room, facilities provided to the migrant workers in shelter homes, distribution of food to the needy and response to the suspected COVID-19 calls by OSD Anuradha. The team headed by Additional Secretary, Ministry of Jal Shakti, Arun Baroka checked the functioning by making an impromptu call to the field staff. They inquired about the supply of food, and tallied it with the data recorded at the control room, before appreciating the functioning of the control room. Ms. Anuradha informed the team that the calls of suspected COVID-19 cases are referred to zonal and circle offices for follow up, and that 32 ambulances are kept ready at zonal offices. The team was also apprised about the online monitoring system at the Command & Control Room by GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar. In the evening, the Central team visited the King Koti Hospital and Victory playground, where a temporary shelter home was set up. Public Health senior specialists Chandra Sekhar Gadem, director of NIN Hemalatha, director, Ministry of Consumer Affairs S.S. Thakur, and associate professor of the National Disaster Management Sekhar Chaturvedi were other members of the team from Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/central-team-visits-ghmc-headquarters/article31458969.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tariff of refuse-based power plants fixed at Rs. 7.84/unit||With a view to encouraging generation of power from solid waste in cities in the State, particularly in Hyderabad, Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) has determined the generic tariff for electricity generated by Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF)-based power projects at Rs. 7.84 per unit. However, the levelised tariff for the RDF-based waste-to-energy (WtE) projects is applicable to plants which would become commercially operational in the 2020-21-2023-24 period. In its recent order, the regulatory commission has fixed the traiff that comprises fixed cost of Rs. 3.42 per unit and variable cost of Rs. 4.42 per unit, for the sale of energy to the two distribution companies in the State for 20 yearsfrom the date of commercial operation. The commission had initiated a suo motu exercise to determine the generic tariff for RDF-based WtE projects and issued a public notice on March 20 inviting objections and comments from stakeholders by April 15. In response, the commission received suggestions from 15 stakeholders in time and four subsequently. On some stakeholders’ view that the capital cost proposed for the Refuse Derived Fuel -based WtE projects at Rs. 9 crore per MW was very low since it was in the range of Rs. 15 crore per MW to Rs. 22 crore per MW for existing projects in different parts of the country, including Rs. 20 crore per MW for the project coming up in Hyderabad, the commission noted that the tariff fixed would help recover the capital cost of more than Rs. 20 crore per MW even at the levelised tariff of Rs. 7.39 per unit. The commission has approved the plant load factor (PLF) of 65% for first year, 75% for second year and 80% from third year onwards, against the stakeholders’ suggestion for PLF from 65% to 75%. Further, it did not subscribe to stakeholders’ submission for providing incentive for achieving PLF higher than approved. In the matter of operation and maintenance expenses, the commission approved them at 5% of capital cost with annual escalation of 5.72% against the stakeholders’ suggestion in the range of 6% to 9% and 5% to 7.5%, respectively. On the rate of return on equity (RoE), the commission approved it at 16% on post-tax basis against the stakeholders’ view of 20% for first 10 years and 24% for the next 10 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tariff-of-refuse-based-power-plants-fixed-at-rs-784unit/article31458979.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Relocated tree sprouts new branches||Although felling of trees on the lands acquired for developmental programmes, including construction of irrigation projects is inevitable, many a time engineers executing such projects feel the pain of getting trees chopped, particularly the old ones. However, the joy of ‘rebirth’ or rejuvenation of a tree after its translocation prompted by such a developmental work, particularly after losing hopes over its rejuvenation is beyond description even in the best of adjectives to the engineers at whose behest such relocation takes place. One such instance of despair giving way to joy has taken place in the case of a nearly 70-year-old peepal (sacred fig) tree relocated from the bed of Medigadda barrage of Kaleshwaram project to its banks. Left untouched Unwilling to chop the solitary grown-up tree in the middle of the barrage bed, even the contractor agency left it untouched while constructing the structure. Knowing well that the tiny ‘island’ like formation, created due to excavation work, with the peepal tree standing on it majestically would collapse (submerged) in the barrage water after it is impounded, Engineer-in-Chief of the project N. Venkateshwarlu got it translocated to a safe place on the banks of the barrage with the help of an agency from Hyderabad having expertise in such work. According to the project engineers, the tree was relocated after it was decided to build up water level in the barrage last year. They gave up hopes since the tree failed to rejuvenate for long. However, their joy knew no bounds when they noticed the rejuvenation of the tree with a couple of small branches shooting up from its trunk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/relocated-tree-sprouts-new-branches/article31458982.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC notices on ‘no religion, no caste’||The Telangana High Court directed the Central and State governments to file counter-affidavits in a PIL petition seeking introduction of ‘no religion, no caste’ columns in all official application forms to secure documents like birth certificate. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A. Abhishek Reddy issued notices to the Registrar General and Census Commissioner along with Central and State governments on the matter. A journalist, David Ajjpagu, and his wife Sandepagu Swaroopa from Hyderabad filed the petition. The couple, stating that they were married outside their religion and caste, told the court that they did not want to give their child, who was born on March 23, 2019, any specific religion or caste. When they tried to apply online for the child’s birth certificate, they found options of Hindu, Islam, Christian and a fourth, one saying ‘other religions’ under Religion column. “There is no option for non-religious practitioners or identity.” the couple said in the petition. The applicants who don’t want to attach any religion to their children are forced to fill the religion column against their wishes, the couple stated. They approached authorities and represented to them that they did not want to attribute any specific religion to their child. Written petitions were also presented to officials concerned, including Municipal Commissioner of Kothakota of Wanaparthy district. The couple requested the authorities to give their child a provision to mention the status of ‘no religion and no caste’ in the forms. The application being online and in the absence of such option, he could not apply online and did not secure birth certificate of his child till now. The Municipal Commissioner suggested that the couple secure a specific Government Order from Municipal Administration department in the Secretariat on the matter. The couple gave representations to top officials concerned but they could not issue any specific direction on their request. They sought a direction to the government to issue their child a birth certificate with ‘ no religion no caste’ status. The matter was posted after four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-notices-on-no-religion-no-caste/article31458983.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘No dearth of funds for canal works under Kaleshwaram’||Finance Minister T Harish Rao has instructed Medak district officials to speed up land acquisition work for the canals under the Kaleshwaram project, asserting that there was no dearth of funds for these works. He addressed a review meeting on Kaleshwaram canal works at Medak District Collectorate along with Collector Dharma Reddy. Emphasising that the pending works should be expedited, he said if there were any issues, they should be brought to his notice. All officers should work in coordination and works pertaining to the Kondapochamma reservoir should be completed by May 15. With completion of the Kaleshwaram project, Telangana would turn into a bountiful State with water reaching every acre and all anicuts under every canal also should be completed, he said. Mr Harish Rao advised auto rickshaw workers to seek work under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme in their districts. The COVID-19 pandemic had changed the situation and one should be prepared to do any work to earn a living as, under the lockdown, autorickshaws were not being allowed. Mr Harish Rao who distributed essential commodities to autorickshaw drivers in Kolcharam mandal said the government started NREGA works in all districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-dearth-of-funds-for-canal-works-under-kaleshwaram/article31458984.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM cautioned against self-certifying COVID-free status||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy expressed shock over Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s decision to declare 21 districts as coronavirus-free without even conducting adequate number of tests. “The State government is not conducting test for secondary contacts of those found positive for COVID-19. There are many complaints that people without any travel history were not being tested although they have clear symptoms of coronavirus. Testing for asymptomatic persons has reportedly been stopped long back. Therefore, without conducting tests for suspects, is it fair on the part of State government to declare a district ‘coronavirus free’,” the TPCC president asked. Mr. Uttam Reddy was addressing a meeting at Tappa Chabutra in Karwan constituency after distributing food and other essential commodities among poor people on Tuesday. The TPCC chief said any negligence in handling coronavirus would prove fatal for the entire population. ‘Give guarantee’ “If the Chief Minister is fully confident that 21 districts in Telangana would be coronavirus-free, then he should also announce lifting of lockdown in those districts. He should give a guarantee that there will be recurrence of coronavirus in these districts. There will be zero cases if you don’t test anyone. But that’s not the right approach,” Mr. Uttam Reddy said. He advised Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao not to act like a medical expert. “The Chief Minister should not go for self-certification on this highly sensitive issue,” he said. “An independent agency, comprising of experts from the field of science and medicine, should certify whether or not an area is free from coronavirus,” he demanded. Speaking about the relief measures, Mr. Uttam Reddy said that except for 12 kg rice per person and Rs. 1,500 per family having white ration card, TS government did not help anyone else. Chairman of AICC Telangana Research department Aamer Javeed was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-cautioned-against-self-certifying-covid-free-status/article31458953.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mangoes to be door delivered from May 1||After arranging supply of vegetables and fruits by encouraging unemployed youth and a couple of Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) during lockdown, the State government is planning to supply mangoes procured by women self help groups from May 1. According to horticulture commissioner L. Venkatarami Reddy, prepaid orders for carton boxes with mangoes weighing 5 kg would be supplied to consumers. One can order any number of such boxes. Each box of 5 kg ‘Benishan or Banganapalli’ mangoes would cost Rs. 350, including delivery charges. Mr. Reddy said these would be delivered with the help of postal department to consumers in Hyderabad and Secunderabad. Consumers can pay through internet banking by transferring money to Account No. 013910100083888, Andhra Bank, Ganganmahal branch with IFSC code ANDB0000139, or order via GooglePay or PhonePe platforms with No. 7997724925 through whatsapp on phone numbers 7997724925 and 7997724944. Booking would commence from May 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mangoes-to-be-door-delivered-from-may-1/article31458957.ece
29 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Move to lock-up COVID patients in their homes backfires||Jogulamba-Gadwal district authorities ‘locked up’ some houses in containment zones from outside to prevent the residents from venturing out. However, the officials backtracked within hours as the experiment drew severe criticism from the public. The officials in the presence of Gadwal Municipal Commissioner Narsimha and a sub-inspector of police put locks on at least half a dozen houses in Nallakunta and Ramnagar areas of the town on Sunday, to ensure ‘strict’ enforcement of lockdown. Gadwal, one of the eight COVID-19 hotspot districts in Telangana, reported 45 positive cases, out of whom 10 patients recovered and were discharged, while one succumbed. Currently, the Gadwal town has seven containment zones, and four in another mandal. When contacted, a senior official in the district administration maintained that they had to resort to such an unconventional measure to demonstrate to the residents how strict the lockdown can be. “We have locked more than six houses in the town preventing people from coming out while installing the barricades in their areas. We wanted to show them how lockdown is implemented in the red zone to contain the spread of deadly coronavirus,” the officer said. They locked the house of a positive patient and his adjoining house in Ramnagar. While another officer said that the decision of locking the houses with the residents inside was taken after getting a nod from senior officials as people were not following their repeated instructions and were moving out freely in the area. “It was needed to curb their movement. People are not listening and we did it for their own safety by keeping top officials in the loop,” he said requesting anonymity. However, authorities soon received flak from the public and backtracked, with the locks remaining on doors for less than 24 hours. Sources said that the officers were worried over the increasing number of cases from Kurnool after several persons from Gadwal visited a lady doctor in Kurnool, who subsequently died of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/move-to-lock-up-covid-patients-in-their-homes-backfires/article31458974.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No decision yet on housing personnel treating COVID cases||The State government is yet to take a decision on keeping doctors and nurses engaged in the treatment of coronavirus patients in private accommodations, including hotels. The government proposed to provide accommodation to these medical personnel at its own expense in case the situation demanded. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar was keen that the frontline personnel treating coronavirus patients needed to be put in a safe environment as a precautionary measure. The idea was mooted as a contingency measure since the government was of the view that healthcare personnel need not go home as there would be a risk to their families in case there was a large number of patients affected by the virus. The government had, therefore, constituted a committee of senior IAS officers comprising Neetu Kumari Prasad, M. Raghunandan Rao and D. S. Lokesh Kumar to work out the details like the number of rooms that would be required and the costs associated with it. The committee was learnt to have shortlisted some places where the doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff could be accommodated and negotiations were still on with owners/managements of these premises. The committee members were, however, tightlipped when asked about the developments in this regard and the possible time by which the negotiations would be completed. “We are still working. The file is under process and we cannot share the details as of now,” was how a committee member responded when contacted by The Hindu . No final decision on the issue was taken as the committee was still deliberating on the finer details of the proposed initiative. The committee, it wa learnt, was calibrating aspects like the intensity with which the virus was spreading to arrive at a decision on the number of rooms that would be required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-decision-yet-on-housing-personnel-treating-covid-cases/article31458945.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Medical bulletin riddled with discrepancies||The medical bulletin on COVID-19 cases, number of people discharged and other details, issued by Health department on April 26 and 27 had several discrepancies. While the bulletin issued on April 26 put the total number of cases in GHMC at 540 and number of discharged at 151, the numbers on April 27 were 556 and 138 respectively. Though the total cases increased by 16, number of positive cases on April 27 were reported as only two. People were surprised to see that the number of people who had been discharged dropped. “How can number of people who were discharged fall? It either has to stay the same or increase,” sources in the government pointed out. However, a clarification was issued by the Health department explaining what led to the error. It stressed that total number of positive cases in the State remains unchanged. Officials said that apart from entire Hyderabad, GHMC comprises some parts of Rangareddy, Medchal and Sangareddy districts. “The positive cases were reorganised based on their nativity and residence,” the clarification states. It stated that a total of 14 cases from the non-GHMC areas of the Medchal, Rangareddy, and Nalgonda were reorganised into the GHMC areas based on their residence and nativity. The format of the bulletin is not uniform on all days. The way basic information displayed in it keeps changing leaving many gaps in information.  The positive cases were reorganised based on their nativity and residence. Clarification issued by Health department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/medical-bulletin-riddled-with-discrepancies/article31458951.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Case against vendor for abusing constable||A constable with SR Nagar police station was allegedly verbally abused after he tried to enforce social distancing at Borabanda on Tuesday. According to police, constable Sankar went to Borabanda on Tuesday morning to patrol the area. As he was instructing people to follow the social distancing norm, a vegetable vendor picked up an argument with him. The vendor said it was affecting his business and after using expletives against the constable, he fled. While rumours were doing the rounds that the constable was assaulted, SR Nagar police rubbished the claims. The vendor had only argued with him, police said. A case under Section 353 of the Indian Penal Code was booked against the vegetable vendor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/case-against-vendor-for-abusing-constable/article31458971.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Home guard suspended for beating up youth||A home guard was suspended and Golconda SHO was issued a charge memo on Tuesday, after the former allegedly assaulted a youth during lockdown. Zaidan, a 19-year-old student and resident of Shaikpet, suffered injuries when he was assaulted by home guard Hanumanthu. According to Mohammed Zaker, the victim’s uncle, the incident took place near Falcon Valley at Shaikpet around 4.30 p.m. Zaidan was on his way to buy essentials when Mr. Hanumanthu stopped him and used unparliamentary language. “He used foul language to which Zaidan objected, and then he was thrashed,” he said. “HG of PS Golconda is placed under suspension for unprofessional conduct. SHO Golconda (K. Chandrasekhar Reddy) is given a charge memo for not properly briefing his subordinates in discharge of duties,” Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar tweeted. In another case, constable of Mir Chowk police station, Ch. Sudhaker, was suspended for allegedly beating up a man identified as Arbaz, who went to buy supplies. Mr. Arbaz sustained head injuries in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/home-guard-suspended-for-beating-up-youth/article31458972.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Even white jaggery used to make gudumba||Not just black jaggery, people manufacturing gudumba — illegally distilled (ID) liquor — are also using white jaggery or sugar. Officials said that these were old practices being used to circumvent restrictions imposed due to lockdown. With the rise in demand, production of this ID liquor has increased in rural areas. “When black jaggery is not available, white jaggery or sugar is being used,” said an official from the Prohibition and Excise department. Several restrictions are being imposed on the sale of black or white jaggery. Excise Minister V. Srinivas Goud directed officials to book cases under PD Act against those resorting to violations related to sale of gudumba. Excise deputy commissioner for Warangal division Suresh Rathod said that they implemented restrictions on sale of jaggery from wholesale stores. “Large quantities of gudumba was seized from rural areas near towns,” he said. Excise deputy commissioner for Mahabubnagar S.Y. Qureshi too said that the high incidence of violation and active raids led to seizure of 710 litres of gudumba from Nagarkurnool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/even-white-jaggery-used-to-make-gudumba/article31458960.ece
29 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TMI launches digital training||TMI Group has launched an integrated tech platform for digital training and learning with Synchronous and Asynchronous learning functionalities for rapid upskilling of corporate employees. It has also developed India’s first digital selling skills course and also re-engineered the offline training courses to digital instructor-led learning. “We have developed learning in six international and 14 Indian languages to run on all types of devices,” said TMI CEO Ravi Ramakrishnan. Details can be had on https://tmigroup.in/downloadcenter/what’s-new.html.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tmi-launches-digital-training/article31458966.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘TS made huge strides in digital content for students’||Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal reviewed the status of exams by interacting with various states through video conference on Tuesday. During the discussion it was informed that Telangana has made huge strides in providing digital content to students. All textbooks from classes 1 to 10 are QR coded and audiovisual classes are telecast for five hours daily on TSAT channel as well as YouTube and DEEKSHA. The TS government has also released Rs. 500 and 12 kg rice to all BPL people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-made-huge-strides-in-digital-content-for-students/article31458961.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘32 recovered patients ready to donate plasma’||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi wrote to Health Minister Eatala Rajender informing him of the willingness of COVID-19 recovered patients to donate plasma for covalescent plasma therapy. In a letter to the Minister, the Hyderabad Parliamentarian wrote, “As you are aware, the donation of convalescent plasma is critical to our collective fight against coronavirus. In furtherance of the same, I am attaching herewith the names of 32 recovered patients who are willing to donate their plasma and contribute in helping patients who are currently affected by COVID-19.” He shared an image of the letter on Twitter and said he has made a list of 32 volunteers with their details. To respect their privacy, their names were not shared online, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/32-recovered-patients-ready-to-donate-plasma/article31458956.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 307 crore sanctioned under NREGA||The State government has released Rs. 307.5 crore under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme. Secretary of Panchayat Raj and Rural Development issued an order giving administrative sanction for spending the amount to the Commissioner, Rural Development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-307-crore-sanctioned-under-nrega/article31458985.ece
29 April 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||Walking on railway track, headed for MP||With the police erecting check-posts and restricting the movement of migrant labourers heading to their native places from Telangana, some 54 migrant labourers have chosen to walk on railway tracks, covering a distance of 700 km to reach their native Binjhalgaon in Balaghat of Madhya Pradesh State from Hyderabad. Hit by the lockdown since March 22, these construction workers were residing in rented houses and working in Kismatpura locality of Hyderabad for the last five months. Though the government had announced distribution of 12 kg rice and Rs. 500 to each migrant labourer, it has not reached most of them . They survived on whatever rations or money they had for some days. Though some philanthropists provided rice and essential commodities they were not enough to meet their requirements. Moreover, they were hesitant to stand in queues and collect the essentials and be at the mercy of authorities. After realising that the government may continue the lockdown for some more time, the migrant labourers including 10 women and three children decided to return to Biljhalgoan. After starting from Hyderabad on Thursday, they reached Ramagundam on Monday. They walk on the railway track during morning, evening and night along with their belongings. The migrants have chosen the railway track apparently to avoid police harassment and being stopped at check-posts on the highways and State borders. “It is not safe to walk on the highway as police could stop us and put up in some unknown location. Hence, we chose to walk along the railway track unnoticed by authorities and it is also easy to identify stations and reach our Balaghat junction and go to our village,” said a migrant labourer Veeresh. He said that they were taking shelter during afternoon in the villages adjoining the railway tracks. After seeing our plight, the villagers are serving us food while some others are providing rice and other essentials to cook and eat and also adequate drinking water, he said. “With no employment due to lockdown and fearing the spread of coronavirus, we are worried and decided to go to our native villages. If the government is concerned about migrant labourers, it should provide transport facility so that we can reach our homes happily,” the migrant labourers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/walking-on-railway-track-headed-for-mp/article31458987.ece
29 April 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Truck drivers steal Rs. 70 lakh from merchant||In a shocking incident, two truck drivers ran away with Rs. 70 lakh from a chilli merchant of Guntur district in the wee hours of Tuesday. According to police, Edukondalu of Guntur sold two truckloads of dry chilli at Sholapur in Maharashtra and earned Rs. 70 lakh. At Muttaram in Patancheru mandal, Edukondalu got down from the vehicle to attend nature’s call. Taking advantage of this, the drivers fled with the trucks. One of the truck was traced at Toopran. Police have roped in five special teams to nab the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/truck-drivers-steal-rs-70-lakh-from-merchant/article31458989.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Max wants to turn its Smart hospital into COVID-19 facility||Doctors at Max Smart Super Speciality Hospital in Saket are concerned at the management’s plan to turn it into a COVID-19 treatment facility at a time when the neighbouring Max Super Speciality Hospital, East Block, is already designated a COVID-19 hospital. “Max Smart has so far managed to remain COVID-19 negative, but this decision of the management can expose doctors, nurses and other hospital employees here to infection,” a doctor, who preferred anonymity, told The Hindu . When contacted by this reporter, Dr. Gurpreet Singh, administrative head of Max hospitals in Saket, stated, “I do not want to comment on this.” Separately, a spokesperson of Max Healthcare said, “There is nothing like this on the cards now.” An estimated 105 COVID-19 patients are currently admitted in Max East Block of whom as many as 45 are Max hospital employees. “It doesn’t make sense to move these persons to Max Smart and contaminate this hospital as well,” the doctor said. May 1 implementation The idea appears to be to shift all COVID-19 positive patients from Max East Block to Max Smart and let non-COVID patients be treated in the East Block. The plan is to be implemented on May 1 if the management has its way. Doctors’ concerns Several other doctors have taken up their concerns with the Max Hospitals’ management, including seeking a town hall meeting, but the management reportedly was not keen on pursuing the idea. A second doctor wrote in an internal message that the decision to designate Max Smart should have been taken at the outset of the COVID-19 breakout. Yet another doctor warned in his message that several hospitals in the country had been shut down due to the spread of the pandemic. On April 9, two persons, admitted to Max East Block Hospital with cardiac problems, and later shifted to Max Smart, after the former was turned into a dedicated COVID-19 treatment facility, tested positive for the virus. On April 13, the Hospital had said that three people, including one doctor working at Max East Block, had tested positive for COVID-19. And, on Monday, the hospital said that 33 healthcare workers of the Max Super Speciality Hospital in Patparganj, East Delhi, including two doctors, had tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/max-wants-to-turn-its-smart-hospital-into-covid-19-facility/article31458907.ece
29 April 2020||New Delhi,||Capital reports no deaths for third consecutive day||No fresh virus-related deaths were reported in the city for the third consecutive day on Tuesday. However, 206 new cases were registered, taking the total to 3,314, according to the Delhi government. Of the total cases, 1,078 people have recovered and there are 2,182 active cases. A total of 54 people have died due to the virus so far. Another area in the city has also been sealed off, taking the total number of containment zones to 100. Meanwhile, four more people working at Delhi government’s Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, including a doctor, have tested positive for COVID-19, taking the total number of workers infected at the hospital to 31, said an official. Department shut Meanwhile, the skin department of Safdarjung Hospital was shut on Tuesday after a doctor tested positive, according to authorities. “A doctor working in the skin department was tested positive and the department has been shut for sanitation,” Dinesh Narayan, Public Relation Officer (PRO) of the hospital said, adding that other workers have been quarantined. “Two doctors of the hospital tested positive yesterday [Monday] and they have been quarantined,” a doctor at the hospital told The Hindu . Neither the PRO nor hospital Medical Superintendent Balvinder Singh commented on the two doctors testing positive.  Earlier in the day, around 25 nurses of GB Pant Hospital protested against violation of treatment guidelines by authorities. “Any patient who comes to the hospital has to be admitted in a separate block and tested negative for COVID-19 before moving to general ward according to rules, but this is not being done,” said L.D. Ramchandani, president of the Nurses’ Association of GB Pant Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-reports-no-deaths-for-third-consecutive-day/article31458905.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police officers report lack of facilities at shelter homes||Deputy Police Commissioner (DCPs) of all 15 police districts have sent a report to District Magistrate (DMs) concerned, flagging unavailability of air coolers, mosquito repellent and other facilities at shelter homes. A senior police officer said that after receiving the report, it has been forwarded to the respective DMs for necessary action. “After the violence incident at a shelter home in Kashmere Gate, all SHOs were instructed to take stock of the situation at shelter homes and prepare a report of any shortcomings or lack of facilities,” said a police officer. Social distancing Another police officer said that people at the shelter home located outside AIIMS were not seen maintaining social distancing inside the camp. When policemen tried to find out the reason, the inmates said that they can’t live inside the camp in summer when the temperature is touching 40 degrees. “The inmates demanded air coolers to be fixed for women and children staying in the camp. People sitting outside the camp were instructed to maintain social distancing,” said the officer. The officer said that many homeless living in shelter home have not changed their clothes for several days. The policemen somehow arranged pant, shirt and sarees for them and also arranged facility so they can take bath daily. A police officer deployed at a shelter home in Shahdara district said that people in the camp have complained of poor quality food and demanded mosquito repellent. Mosquito repellents “After making several requests to local authorities to provide mosquito repellents in the home, as we fear people falling ill because of mosquito bites, no arrangement has been done yet,” said the officer. Another police officer posted in north-east Delhi said that at shelter homes in the district there is no proper hand wash facility and toilets are dirty. The inmates raised the issue with the local policemen deployed for security duty and the complaint was forwarded to the district administration for redressal. However, nothing happened. A senior police officer said that they are following up all the reports with the Delhi government and they have been assured that all complaints will be taken care off and will be rectified at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-officers-report-lack-of-facilities-at-shelter-homes/article31458910.ece
29 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Extend relief benefits to civic workers’||Leaders of the municipal corporations wrote to the Chief Minister on Tuesday appealing for the inclusion of municipal employees in the compensation extended to families of frontline workers by the Delhi government in case of death due to COVID-19. The Delhi government in an order on April 19 announced that Rs. 1 crore compensation would be given to families of anybody who loses their life while serving COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/extend-relief-benefits-to-civic-workers/article31458911.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Woman charged with killing in-laws found dead in jail||A 35-year-old woman who was charged with murder of her parents in-law in Dwarka was found dead inside Tihar jail on Tuesday, the police said. Enquiry revealed that the woman was lodged in the jail on April 25 after she was arrested on charges of murder and conspiracy.  Suicide prevention helpline:Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/woman-charged-with-killing-in-laws-found-dead-in-jail/article31458912.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi told to increase periphery of sealed areas||The Capital needs to increase the periphery of sealed areas to fight COVID-19 better, said Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday while citing reports by experts. He also expressed concern over the fact that 4.11% of health workers (including 13 paramedics, 26 nurses, 24 field workers, 33 doctors) in Delhi were infected. “This is a worrying trend. Currently, there are around 100 hotspots in Delhi, this number should go down,” Dr. Vardhan said during a review meeting on the COVID-19 situation in the Capital held via videoconference. Meanwhile, the medical fraternity under the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) has demanded designated COVID health centres for infected healthcare employees. While appreciating the efforts of the Delhi government in providing facilities to doctors and staff on COVID-19 duty, it expressed concern over the rising number of healthcare staff getting infected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-told-to-increase-periphery-of-sealed-areas/article31458913.ece
29 April 2020||New Delhi,||Portal launched for COVID-19 updates||The Delhi government has launched a single window for all COVID-19 related updates and information: DelhiFightsCorona.in.. The website has the list and geo-locations of containment zones, testing facilities, ration shops, temporary relief centres and hunger relief centres in the city. It also features a daily tracker of the number of COVID-19 cases and testing statistics of Delhi in addition to a single window to apply for ration e-coupons and e-passes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/portal-launched-for-covid-19-updates/article31458901.ece
29 April 2020||New Delhi,||Policeman tests positive for COVID-19||A Delhi Police constable posted with the Crime Branch, who had allegedly visited the religious congregation in Nizamuddin to probe, was tested positive for COVID-19, the police said on Tuesday. The constable had visited the building in connection with the probe, they said. According to police, around 15 team members of Crime Branch who came in contact with the constable have been advised for home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/policeman-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article31458908.ece
29 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Workers leave Surat in buses for Odisha||Five buses with 288 Odia migrant labourers from Surat in Gujarat are on their way to Odisha’s Ganjam district. As they are returning from Surat where COVID-19 infection is on the rise, Ganjam district administration has started taking precautionary measures. These migrant workers were given special permission by Surat district administration to travel by buses, said Pitambar Pradhan, an Odia lawyer based in Surat. All of these workers were working in textile mills of Surat. These buses started from Surat on Monday. According to sources, they may reach Ganjam on Wednesday. Each of these 288 migrant labourers paid around Rs. 3,500 to hire the private buses. Mr. Pradhan was critical of the Surat administration for allowing these workers to leave for Odisha, while the country-wide lockdown continues till May 3. There was no medical check up of these workers before they boarded the buses. Four of these buses carried 57 passengers each, while the fifth bus had 60 workers, said Mr. Pradhan. He added social distancing was completely neglected. According to Ganjam District Colletor Vijay Amruta Kulange, the workers will be immediately put into quarantine when they reach the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/workers-leave-surat-in-buses-for-odisha/article31458888.ece
29 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Raise Tricolour on rooftops on May 1 against Centre: Congress||Accusing the BJP-led government at the Centre of discriminating against non-BJP-ruled States in the matter of extending support in the fight against COVID-19, the Congress has urged the people in Punjab to raise the Tricolor from the rooftops of their homes on May 1 as a mark of protest. The idea was mooted by State Congress president Sunil Jakhar at a videoconference with party MLAs today. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh pointed out that the State was losing Rs. 3,360 crore monthly in revenue and would end up with a loss of almost Rs. 50,000 crore in a year. “The State has received no help so far from the Centre,” he said. Sunil Jakhar said the event, coinciding with May Day (Labour Day), will serve to underscore the right of Punjab to central aid in this unprecedented crisis. “Punjab is an integral part of India and the central government cannot discriminate against us,” he said, asserting that the party would demand Rs. 20,000 crore as an immediate relief. He said the event will also be a mark of solidarity with the farmers, workers and all corona warriors who were battling the crisis from the front. Terming it a case of ‘seeking our right’, Mr. Jakhar said Punjab was not begging but merely asking for its rightful share. He added what Punjab was asking was peanuts compared with what many other States had demanded. 21-day quarantine Meanwhile, Capt. Amarinder announced compulsory 21-day quarantine for all those returning to the State from other places to check further spread of the virus. “All pilgrims returning from Nanded, and students and labourers coming from Rajasthan will be stopped at the border and sent to government quarantine centres to ensure that they do not mix with other people for 21 days,” he said. He said there was consensus among the MLAs to continue with the strictness for another couple of weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/raise-tricolour-on-rooftops-on-may-1-against-centre-congress/article31458895.ece
29 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Villagers oppose cremation of woman fearing virus spread||A group of people in Haryana’s Chandpur village in Ambala opposed and attempted to disrupt the funeral of an elderly woman as they suspected that she had died of COVID-19 and feared that her cremation would spread the virus, the police said. The police said mild force was used to disperse the crowd after they pelted stones at the police personnel and members of the health department and the municipal committee at the cremation site in the village on Monday evening. “A team of the health department, the police and the municipal committee had come to the village to cremate the body of the woman, who died at a civil hospital in Ambala Cantonment, but around 100-150 people, breaking the lockdown, came there and tried to oppose the cremation,” a police officer present at the site told reporters. Stones pelted He said when the police tired to ally their fears over spread of COVID-19 infection, many started pelting stones after which the police had to use mild force to disperse them. “The deceased was later cremated in the presence of the police,” he said. The deceased had been admitted to the civil hospital after complaining of breathing problems and her samples had been sent for tests, the report of which is still awaited. Ambala Superintendent of Police Abhishek Jorwal said that the police had detained nearly a dozen villagers and investigation in the matter was under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/villagers-oppose-cremation-of-woman-fearing-virus-spread/article31458889.ece
29 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Cong. slams Khattar govt. for job freeze||The Haryana government’s decision to put a moratorium on new recruitments in government jobs for a year, aimed at curtailing expenditure in view of the COVID-19 crisis, has invited sharp criticism from the Congress. Former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Tuesday said the move will severely hurt the State’s youth in these challenging times. ‘Unemployment highest’ “Unemployment figure in the State has reached a high rate of 28%, which is the highest in the country, even before the corona outbreak led to a nationwide lockdown... this figure is expected to increase further after the lockdown. If the government freezes recruitment, how will the youth of the State get any employment in such a situation,” said Mr. Hooda. He said data from the Centre for Monitoring India Economy (CMIE) and other sources indicate that there has been an increase in unemployment in both urban and rural areas as many employed persons have lost their jobs. “Youth must be given more jobs to overcome the current situation but the government is instead working in the opposite direction,” said Mr. Hooda. “Today, the State needs more and more doctors, medical staff, sanitation workers and other employees. Instead of freezing the recruitment of personnel, the process should be expedited in view of the corona epidemic. Only creating new employment opportunities can pull our youth out of the darkness and despair of unemployment,” he added. State Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced to put a moratorium on new recruitments in government jobs for a year in the backdrop of financial crises in the State following the lockdown after COVID-19 outbreak. Besides, the government had also announced not to pay leave travel concession to government employees for a year. ‘Insensitive move’ Asking the BJP-JJP government to immediately take back the decision, senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said the decision was an “insensitive” one, which was a severe blow to the dreams and aspirations of the youth in Haryana. “I urge the government to take back the order,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-slams-khattar-govt-for-job-freeze/article31458891.ece
29 April 2020||GURUGRAM/NEW DELHI,||Gurugram police increase vigil at Delhi borders||The Gurugram police on Monday heightened the scrutiny of the vehicles at its border with Delhi allowing only those with valid movement passes or catering to essential services. Meanwhile, the Delhi police has arranged accommodation for a thousand of its personnel staying around the national Capital to prevent commuting in view of increased vigil at the borders.  Border sealed While Sonipat has completely sealed its border with Delhi preventing the movement of government employees, common people and even vegetables from Azadpur Mandi after many COVID-19 cases in the district were traced to Delhi, Jhajjar and Faridabad have also regulated the “unnecessary” movement of people and goods to and fro Delhi. Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Tuesday told the PTI that the State’s borders with Delhi were sealed with essential services allowed, but stricter restrictions imposed on those coming from the national Capital. He was further quoted as saying that Haryana would be in a “comfortable position” as far as COVID-19 cases were concerned if the borders remained sealed for 15-20 days. Sub-Inspector Bal Kishan, in-charge Delhi-Gurugram border check-point on National Highway-48, said more than two dozen vehicles coming from Delhi were made to return after they could not produce valid documents. He, however, added that those with valid movement passes and falling under the essential commodities category as allowed by the Union Home Ministry and cases involving medical emergencies were being allowed. Though the Sub-Inspector claimed that government employees and officials were allowed, the Delhi police personnel manning the check-point on the opposite carriageway claimed that their colleagues staying in Gurugram were facing issues in commuting. Deputy Commissioner of Police, East, Chander Mohan, did not comment on the matter. Meanwhile, Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava said that arrangements were made for 1,000 police personnel to stay back in Delhi at 60 places to avoid commuting. Around 30% Delhi Police staff lives in NCR and commutes to the city. Mr. Shrivastava said more places were being identified to accommodate the remaining staff. A helpline has also been set up for the family of these police personnel to contact them and enquire about their well-being.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gurugram-police-increase-vigil-at-delhi-borders/article31458893.ece
29 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Animal poaching registers a sharp increase during lockdown||The instances of poaching of wild animals and birds, including the endangered chinkara or Indian gazelle, have registered a sharp increase across Rajasthan during the COVID-19 lockdown, with the hunters taking advantage of slack monitoring and sparse public movement in the remote areas. Armed poachers have been moving inside the national parks and wildlife sanctuaries since the lockdown was enforced. Besides killing chinkaras and blackbucks, the poachers have targeted peacocks, grey francolins and other birds covered under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, as endangered species. During the last one week, instances of chinkara poaching were reported in Pali, Jodhpur, Jaisalmer and Nagaur districts. Several of the cases were detected and reported to the forest authorities by the members of the Bishnoi community, which is known for its beliefs associated with nature worship and wildlife conservation. Forest and police teams recovered a chinkara carcass near Bhundel village in Nagaur district late on Sunday night. Range Officer Hemendra Sirodia said the villagers had earlier reached the spot but the poachers fled. In another incident near Gudda Bhagwan village, the local residents nabbed one poacher, while two others escaped. Four motorcycle-borne poachers killed a chinkara near Olwada village adjoining the Ranthambore National Park in Sawai Madhopur district on Saturday. When the villagers tried to catch them, they fired in the air and fled with the carcass of the antelope which was tied to a bike. Caught a poacher Wildlife lovers assisted by a teacher, Pradeep Bishnoi, caught a poacher who killed a blackbuck near Napawas village in Pali district’s Sojat block on Monday. Similarly, chinkara meat being cooked by some poachers was seized in Jaisalmer district’s Ramgarh village on Sunday night, according to Divisional Forest Officer Om Prakash Bishnoi. A muster of 22 peacocks and 15 grey francolins was found dead in Lohiya village of Bikaner district on Monday. Jeev Raksha Sanstha president Mokhram Dharnia said the investigation had revealed that someone had fed poisonous grains to them. Environmental activist Anil Bishnoi, who lives in Hanumangarh district’s Lakhasar village, rescued a chinkara which was found injured in an agricultural field on Monday. Mr. Bishnoi, a recipient of the State-level Amrita Devi Environmental Award in 2009, gave primary aid to the animal and handed it over to the forest officials in Pilibanga. The chinkaras are usually poached in Rajasthan, allegedly by the Bawaria community, whose traditional occupation is hunting. Rashtriya Loktantrik Party MP from Nagaur, Hanuman Beniwal, has expressed concern over the increasing incidents of poaching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/animal-poaching-registers-a-sharp-increase-during-lockdown/article31458899.ece
29 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||Fruit vendor thrashed by locals in U.P.’s Kheri||A fruit vendor in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri was thrashed by locals after they accused him of spitting gargled water on the watermelons. The Kheri police on Tuesday said that after a probe and questioning of locals, the allegations made against the vendor turned out to be ‘false and baseless’. The police, however, also dismissed the allegations made by vendor Chand Ali that policemen present there also thrashed him. Talking to a local TV channel, Mr. Ali showed bruises and swelling on his neck, arm and hamstrings, alleging that he was beaten up by the public and the police. “Public surrounded me and started hitting me. Police didn’t help, they hit me,” he said. The Kheri police said a team from the Kotwali Sadar police station reached the spot on April 25 after the allegation was circulated on Whatsapp groups and that local women had caught hold of him. “Due to the heat he was carrying a bottle of water with him. Then a few local youths came there and stated creating a ruckus,” said the Kheri police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fruit-vendor-thrashed-by-locals-in-ups-kheri/article31458900.ece
29 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Reconsider movement ban’||Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly and BJP MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri urged the Haryana government to reconsider its decision to ban movement of individuals engaged in essential services to the Capital in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. In a letter to Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij, Mr. Bidhuri appreciated the efforts being made by his government to curb the pandemic. However, he reminded him that frontline workers, posted in various departments in Delhi, live in Haryana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/reconsider-movement-ban/article31458887.ece
29 April 2020||Washington,||U.S. may seek damages from China||U.S. President Donald Trump suggested he may seek damages from China over the COVID-19 pandemic, which began in the Chinese city of Wuhan and spread around the world, prompting a furious response from Beijing on Tuesday. Beijing and Washington have clashed repeatedly over the outbreak as tensions have soared between the world’s two biggest economic powers. “We are not happy with China,” Mr. Trump said at a White House briefing on Monday. “We are not happy with that whole situation because we believe it could have been stopped at the source. “It could have been stopped quickly and it wouldn’t have spread all over the world,” he said, saying there were many options to “hold them accountable”. Mr. Trump was asked about a recent German newspaper editorial, which called on China to pay Germany $165 billion in reparations because of economic damage due to the virus. Asked if the U.S. would consider doing the same, Mr. Trump said “we can do something much easier than that.” Tensions and doubt “Germany is looking at things, we are looking at things,” he said. “We haven’t determined the final amount yet,” Mr. Trump said. In Beijing, a Foreign Ministry spokesman on Tuesday accused U.S. politicians of “telling barefaced lies”, without naming Trump specifically, and of ignoring their “own serious problems”. “American politicians have repeatedly ignored the truth and have been telling barefaced lies,” Geng Shuang told reporters at a regular press briefing. “They have only one objective: shirk their responsibility for their own poor epidemic prevention and control measures, and divert public attention.” Mr. Geng said U.S. politicians should “reflect on their own problems and find ways to contain the outbreak as quickly as possible.” There have been nearly a million infections with more than 56,000 coronavirus-related deaths in the U.S. and the pandemic has shut down huge swathes of the economy. In China, the outbreak seems to be under control with no new deaths reported for 13 straight days and the toll standing at 4,633 — although several countries have cast doubt over whether the numbers are accurate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-may-seek-damages-from-china/article31458607.ece
29 April 2020||Islamabad,||South Asia faces health crisis as children miss vaccination||South Asia could face a further public health crisis as children miss routine vaccinations, the UN warned on Tuesday, spurring fears that the fallout from the pandemic might reverse hard-earned gains in the region. The United Nations children’s agency UNICEF said hundreds of thousands were at risk as lockdowns across South Asia halted immunisation drives and parents refrained from taking their children to doctors to be inoculated. “While the COVID-19 virus does not appear to make many children seriously ill, the health of hundreds of thousands of children could be impacted by this disruption of regular immunisation services,” said Jean Gough, director of UNICEF’s South Asia office. “This is a very serious threat. Early action is key.” Bangladesh and Nepal have halted their measles and rubella campaigns while Pakistan and Afghanistan have suspended their polio drives since the COVID-19 pandemic. UNICEF noted that “sporadic” outbreaks of preventable diseases that can be cured with vaccines, including the measles and diphtheria, have emerged in Bangladesh, Pakistan and Nepal. Stocks running low Vaccine stocks were also running low in some countries in the region thanks to lockdowns and travel bans which have disrupted supply chains. “UNICEF strongly recommends that, where immunisation campaigns are suspended, governments begin rigorous planning now to intensify immunisation activities once the COVID -19 pandemic is under control,” the agency said in a statement. It added that as long as health workers take hygiene precautions, there was no reason for vaccinations not to continue. The agency estimated that 4.5 million of South Asia’s children had already missed out on routine immunisations, even before the pandemic struck. Afghanistan and neighbouring Pakistan were struggling to vaccinate children as local populations viewed inoculation teams with suspicion. Opposition grew after the CIA organised a fake vaccination drive to help track down al-Qaeda’s former leader Osama bin Laden in the Pakistani city of Abbottabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/south-asia-faces-health-crisis-as-children-miss-vaccination/article31458605.ece
29 April 2020||Caracas,||Venezuela names official indicted by U.S. as Oil Minister||Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro on Monday named a top official targeted by U.S. sanctions as Oil Minister as the market for the country’s vital export is in tumult. Mr. Maduro tasked Tareck El Aissami — a Vice-President for the economy who has been indicted in the U.S. on drugs trafficking charges — with “restructuring and reorganization” of the OPEC member’s crippled oil industry. Mr. Maduro also named Asdrubal Chavez, cousin of the late President Hugo Chavez, as interim President of the state oil firm PDVSA. The U.S. in 2017 designated El Aissami as having played “a significant role in international narcotics trafficking” and placed him on a most-wanted fugitives list in August last year. “In his previous positions, he oversaw or partially owned narcotics shipments of more than 1,000 kg from Venezuela on multiple occasions, including those with the final destinations of Mexico and the United States,” the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency (ICE) said on its website. Mr. El Aissami declared his innocence and said the move was “a dirty trick.” The U.S. has been seeking for more than a year to oust Mr. Maduro. More than 60 countries recognises opposition leader Juan Guaido as interim President. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo renewed support for Mr. Guaido in a telephone call on Monday. The two discussed a new U.S.-proposed “framework” that calls for both Mr. Guaido and Mr. Maduro to step aside temporarily for a transitional government that would hold fresh elections. The U.S. has tried either to persuade nations, including Russia and India, from buying Venezuelan oil. Although the South American country has the world’s largest oil reserves, the oil sector suffers from corruption and lack of investment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/venezuela-names-official-indicted-by-us-as-oil-minister/article31458611.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump’s bleach statements echo claims by pseudo-scientists||President Donald Trump’s public statements about using disinfectants to potentially treat the coronavirus have put him in the company of pseudoscientists and purveyors of phony elixirs who promote and sell industrial bleach as a “miracle cure” for autism, malaria and a long list of medical conditions. The President’s comments, at a White House briefing last week, have already prompted widespread incredulity, warnings from health experts and a spike in calls to poison control centres around the country. The makers of Clorox and Lysol urged Americans not to inject or ingest their products. But some scientists fear Mr. Trump’s remarks could breathe life into a fringe movement that embraces the medicinal powers of a powerful industrial bleach known as chlorine dioxide. Among its adherents are Alan Keyes, the conservative activist and former presidential candidate who has promoted a chlorine dioxide-based product called Miracle Mineral Solution on his online television show. The impact of Mr. Trump’s words “is going to be huge, especially among people who are desperate,” said Myles Power, a British chemist who works to debunk quack medical remedies. “My fear is [that] it will cause widespread harm to people who think that drinking bleach can prevent or cure COVID-19.” Letters to President Mark Grenon, the self-described archbishop of a Florida church that sells Miracle Mineral Solution as “a wonderful detox that can kill 99% of the pathogens in the body,” took credit for Mr. Trump’s comments in a Facebook post on Friday. In an online radio show earlier this month, he said he and his supporters had sent letters to the President about the product he peddles. The White House did not respond to an email seeking comment after Mr. Grenon’s letter was reported by The Guardian last week. A person familiar with senior administration officials said they were not familiar with him or his letter. It is unclear what inspired Mr. Trump to suggest disinfectants as a cure for COVID-19 — and he did not mention chlorine dioxide or bleach specifically in his comments during the White House briefing. But promoters of such solutions have seized on his remarks with vigour. “Do you realise how freaking cheap and easy it would be to mass produce chlorine dioxide for 100,000’s of people?” Jordan Sather, a follower of the pro-Trump QAnon conspiracy theory, wrote on Twitter. “We could wipe out COVID quick!”  Unproven products In a statement earlier this month, the Food and Drug Administration reiterated its warnings about ingesting chlorine dioxide, which it described as “dangerous and unapproved”. Chlorine dioxide is widely used in paper processing, by water treatment plants and as a disinfectant in hospitals. “We will not stand for this, and the FDA remains fully committed to taking strong enforcement action against any sellers who place unsuspecting American consumers at risk by offering their unproven products to treat serious diseases,” the administration’s commissioner, Stephen M. Hahn, said in the statement. Mr. Grenon and his son, Jonathan did not respond to interview requests. Chlorine dioxide has also been embraced by vaccine opponents who say the toxic substance treats autism. Emma Dalmayne, a mother of five autistic children who maintains a website about the dangers of so-called bleach cures, said the treatments have left some children with skin burns, seizures, damaged digestive tracts and other injuries. “The harm done to these kids has been unconscionable,” she said. Melissa Eaton, a mother of a child with autism in North Carolina who campaigns against phony cures, said she sees overlaps between those who embrace chlorine dioxide as a curative, conspiracy theorists like Alex Jones, and the strident protesters who have clamoured for loosening social distancing measures across the country. “It’s like a Venn diagram,” she said. “What they all have in common is the idea that the government is hiding something from you. These people not interested in what scientists, doctors or the media has to say.” Dr. Alan Levinovitz, a professor at James Madison University who studies the relationship between science and religion, said Mr. Trump’s comments about disinfectants were in keeping with his previous support for conspiracy theorists, agitators against the deep state and his promotion of two antimalarial drugs to fight the coronavirus, despite warnings from medical experts about their possible dangerous side effects. “For a lot of people, Trump represents an alternative to pointy-headed experts in white lab coats who speak a language we can’t understand,” Dr. Levinovitz said.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trumps-bleach-statements-echo-claims-by-pseudo-scientists/article31458599.ece
29 April 2020||RIO DE JANEIRO,||Brazil’s top court authorises investigation into Bolsonaro||Brazil’s Supreme Court on Monday night authorised an investigation into whether President Jair Bolsonaro committed crimes by allegedly attempting to interfere with the country’s federal police. Justice Celso de Mello said in his decision, a copy of which was published by local newspaper Estado de S.Paulo , that the federal police have 60 days to question Sşrgio Moro, Mr. Bolsonaro’s former Justice Minister whose resignation last week pitched the administration into turmoil. The Justice’s authorisation was also reported by several other local media. During Mr. Moro’s announcement of his resignation on April 24, he said Mr. Bolsonaro had told him on multiple occasions that he wanted to replace the head of the federal police with someone who could facilitate access to investigations and intelligence reports. Brazil’s Prosecutor-General, Augusto Aras, last week asked the Supreme Court to open an investigation into the allegations made by Mr. Moro, who made a name for himself as the top judge in the sprawling Car Wash corruption investigation. He was by far Mr. Bolsonaro’s most popular Minister and, throughout a series of crises in the Bolsonaro administration, his place in Cabinet helped secure the administration’s base of support and appearance of respect for the rule of law. The Prosecutor-General in his request said Mr. Moro’s speech implied Mr. Bolsonaro had committed several possible crimes, including obstruction of justice, and asked for the former Minister to be questioned and provide evidence to substantiate his claims.  Justice Minister’s exit Mr. Moro quit after Bolsonaro removed the Federal Police’s director general. Mr. Bolsonaro claimed the former official had resigned of his own accord, which Moro said was untrue and also that he hadn’t signed off on any resignation. Mr. Bolsonaro, in his address the same day as Mr. Moro’s exit, denied wanting to know about investigations underway, but did not address the accusation he wanted a successor who would share information. The Supreme Court’s press office didn’t reply to requests for information late Monday night. And there was no immediate reaction from Mr. Bolsonaro.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/brazils-top-court-authorises-investigation-into-bolsonaro/article31458602.ece
29 April 2020||Islamabad,||Imran cracks the whip on media team||Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan has fired his special aide on Information and Broadcasting (I&B), replacing her with a powerful former military spokesman as he revamped his media team for the second time since coming to power. Former Army spokesman Lt. Gen. (retired) Asim Saleem Bajwa, who is also the chairman of the newly-created China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) Authority, has replaced Dr. Firdous Ashiq Awan as the Special Assistant to the Prime Minister (SAPM) for information and broadcasting. Lt. Gen. Bajwa was credited for making former PM Nawaz Sharif a larger- than-life figure. Mr. Khan also appointed Senator Shibli Faraz as the new Information Minister. The steps seek to allay the perception that the media handling of the government was not good and its works were not being properly highlighted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/imran-cracks-the-whip-on-media-team/article31458604.ece
29 April 2020||Washington,||‘Trump knew of virus threat’||U.S. President Donald Trump was repeatedly warned about the dangers of the novel coronavirus in intelligence briefings in January and February, The Washington Post reported on Monday. The warnings — more than a dozen included in classified briefings known as the President’s Daily Brief — came during a time the President was mostly downplaying the threat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-knew-of-virus-threat/article31458608.ece
29 April 2020||Karachi,||Sindh Governor tests positive||Governor of Pakistan’s southern Sindh province Imran Ismail, a very close aide of Prime Minister Imran Khan, has tested positive for COVID-19, his party said. A stalwart of Pakistan’s ruling party Tehreek-e-Insaaf, Mr. Ismail said he was ready to fight it out. He has gone into self-isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sindh-governor-tests-positive/article31458609.ece
29 April 2020||Oslo,||Oslo, April 28, 2020 (AFP) -||Norwegian police said on Tuesday they had arrested a wealthy businessman over the disappearance of his wife 18 months ago. Tom Hagen, 70, was arrested on suspicion of “murder or accessory to murder,” Commissioner Ida Melbo Oystese told a press conference. Mr. Hagen’s wife Anne-Elisabeth Hagen disappeared without a trace from their home in Lorenskog on October 31, 2018.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/oslo-april-28-2020-afp/article31458603.ece
29 April 2020||Hanoi,||Hanoi, April 28, 2020 (AFP) -||Vietnam sentenced a 24-year-old man to five years in prison on Tuesday for Facebook posts that were considered anti-state, as the hardline communist regime ramps up pressure against dissent on the social media platform. Phan Cong Hai posted in support of activists jailed in protests against the government’s handling of a toxic dump in 2016, as well as other controversial issues.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hanoi-april-28-2020-afp/article31458613.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Vividly imagining the life of migrant workers||The current pandemic has forced us to think about the plight of workers in our country. While the virus has demonstrated the enormous value of health workers, it has also enhanced public awareness of the pivotal role of migrant workers in our economy. We have been compelled to realise that between 100 million to 125 million people leave their villages, families and homes to find work far away wherever they can find it; their invisible hands harvest the crops and feed us, clean streets, run factories, build roads, and construct our houses. The trek back home Living away from home is never easy. A home is not made of brick and mortar, certainly not tin or planks of wood. It is where one finds comfort, nurtures relationships, and raises a family. It gives sanctuary from daily struggles. An extension of one’s identity, it provides us a sense of belonging. A place of tranquillity and serenity, it is where one longs to be when not there. This can only be where one’s family, friends and community reside, not an inhospitable, overcrowded room with strangers. Not surprisingly, hungry migrant workers were determined to trudge hundreds of kilometres to reach “home” in their village. I believe many would have preferred to do so even if they were fed by their employers or the State, which clearly they were not. Surely, they were entirely justified in asking why Indians stranded abroad were flown back in special planes or middle-class students brought back to their hometowns from coaching centres in Kota, Rajasthan, but no such arrangements were made for them? Why this differential treatment? Are they not citizens of the same country? Are they any less Indian? Condition in ‘normal’ times The current plight of migrant workers during the lockdown should become an occasion to reflect on their abysmal condition in “normal” times. Many “contractual labourers” rarely see a written contract. A minimum, regular wage per month is legally required but seldom paid. Many do not receive wages for months, and at the end of the season when they are finally paid it is often less than what was agreed. There is a lack of transparency in accounting — excessive, arbitrary and unexpected deductions from final payments are common. Lack of regular wages means that workers either borrow from employers or from local moneylenders. This renders them even more financially vulnerable because of indebtedness. Quite often they work long hours, between 10 and 13 hours a day, live in tents or makeshift shanties without access to potable water, toilets, and electricity. I doubt if they are ever fully protected from the elements. Many of them do not have a kitchen and are forced to eat from local street vendors who live in similar conditions. Under such dire working and living circumstances, is it a surprise that under an unexpected lockdown they all wish to return to their original homes? The Prime Minister recently spoke of the need for empathy and compassion during pandemics. These are admirable moral virtues, always necessary, not just in emergencies. But ultimately, individual virtues are insufficient to deal with social malaise. For it is not feelings of individuals but enduring collective sentiment crystallised around a stable course of action by public agencies that really matter. Effective public policies are indispensable. Gurudwaras and non-governmental organisations may complement its efforts to feed the hungry, but it remains the prime duty of the state to do so. Work, home and dignity In short, a regime of social policy, pivotal for a minimal welfare state must be installed to address the basic needs of all Indian citizens, not only during pandemics but for all times, to meet any contingency. Socioeconomic rights, including the right to work, have long been part of our Directive Principles of State Policy. By enacting the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act law in 2005, the Indian Parliament had set in motion a process that makes a specific and significant welfare provision constitutive of the very idea of citizenship. To be a citizen of a polity is to be entitled to an opportunity to work. Now, manual work in extremely hot conditions on parched terrain is an energy-draining, back-breaking chore, not quite a source of self-realisation central to the emancipatory vision of Gandhi, Hegel or Marx. And yet, even such paid manual labour is a far cry from receiving charity. Under democratic norms of equality, living on charity is demeaning and lowers self-esteem. There is a sense in which any voluntary work, no matter how arduous, quietly uplifts and enhances dignity and basic self-respect — a point gracefully underscored by a group of painters (migrant labour) in Palsana, Sikar in Rajasthan, when they chose to give a fresh coat of paint to an entire school building in return for the shelter provided to them during lockdown. Work is one among many sources of satisfaction and self-respect. Our Directive Principles focus on others — proper housing, for instance. It is time the state took these seriously. While no state can build a home — which needs personal care and must be our own handiwork — the right to housing can certainly be guaranteed for it is implicit in the article enjoining the state to provide a decent standard of living. Multiple deprivations However, such social policies will not be forthcoming unless we, who make these policies, stopped viewing the poor as sub-human. This is a controversial statement and requires some explanation. I believe the best of us carry the image of the poor as labouring creatures with basic material needs who beget children. They suffer when deprived of these material needs. Our humanity lies in empathetically acknowledging this suffering. This, however, is not an image that we have of ourselves. We have more complex social, cultural, political and even spiritual needs. We need quality time with our children, and leisure for ourselves; companionship and friendship, a flourishing social life; music, literature, art, poetry; time to fulfil our obligations in the public domain. And of course, we need our privacy, hours of solitude, space for self-reflection. Our suffering too is different: we have anxieties and phobias, inner turmoil, loss of a sense of self. Assuming these profound differences between them and us , it does not cross our minds that the poor have multiple deprivations — not only material but social, cultural, familial, spiritual. When did a policymaker ever worry about the quality of family or spiritual life among the poor? Or whether they have time for their children or for leisure? Or how impoverished they might be because of their inability to adequately self-reflect. I do not wish to make the absurd demand that our state policies be designed to care for all these non-material needs. My point is that unless policymakers have the same conception of the poor as they have of themselves — persons with rich, varied and complex needs — they will not realise the grave consequences of the material deprivations endured by the poor or show the urgency to remove them. In short, policymakers need to realise that they deal with complete human beings. Unless they are able to vividly imagine the poor as fully human they will never design proper policies to address even their material needs. Alas, this will not happen unless policymakers feel their pain — literature and cinema can help here — and there is real, continuing contact between the two. Rajeev Bhargava is Professor, Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/vividly-imagining-the-life-of-migrant-workers/article31458586.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Privacy concerns during a pandemic||In his now-legendary dissenting judgment, delivered at the height of Indira Gandhi’s Emergency, Justice H.R. Khanna, invoking Justice Brandeis of the U.S. Supreme Court, wrote that “[the] greatest danger to liberty lies in insidious encroachment by men of zeal, well-meaning but lacking in due deference for the rule of law.” Justice Khanna was not speaking about the crushing of freedom at the point of a bayonet. He was concerned, rather, about situations where the government used the excuse of a catastrophe to ignore the rule of law. Quoting Brandeis, he said, “experience should teach us, “to be most on our guard to protect liberty when the Government’s purposes are beneficent.” Today we live in the midst of a grave public health crisis. There is little doubt that the government is best placed to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. Doing so requires it to take extraordinary actions. This is why the efforts of the Central and State governments to maintain a nationwide lockdown, to enforce norms of physical distancing and to restrict movement, have been met with support. It can be tempting in these circumstances to argue that the executive’s powers are limitless; that, if the government so chooses, fundamental rights can be suspended at will. The pandemic, the argument goes, is an existential threat and the paramount need to save lives takes precedence over all other interests. Appealing though it is, this argument is not only wrong but also dangerous, for precisely the reasons that Justice Khanna outlined: when faced with crises, governments — acting for all the right reasons — are invariably prone to overreach. Any temporary measures they impose have a disturbing habit of entrenching themselves into the landscape and creating a ‘new normal’ well after the crisis has passed. Paying close attention to civil rights, therefore, becomes critical, not to impede the government’s efforts, but to ensure that rights — fragile at the best of times, and particularly vulnerable in a crisis — are not permanently effaced. Data and public health The state’s most significant responses to the pandemic have been predicated on an invasive use of technology, that seeks to utilise people’s personal health data. While the measures deployed intuitively sound reasonable, the mediums used in implementing the programme overlook important concerns relating to the rights to human dignity and privacy. Broadly, technology has been invoked at three levels. First, in creating a list of persons suspected to be infected with COVID-19; second, in deploying geo-fencing and drone imagery to monitor compliance by quarantined individuals; and third, through the use of contact-tracing smartphone applications, such as AarogyaSetu. Each of these measures has induced a miasma of despair. In creating a list of infected persons, State governments have channelled the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897. But this law scarcely accords the state power to publicise this information. What’s more, these lists have also generated substantial second-order harms. As the director of the All India Institute of Medical Science, Dr. Randeep Guleria, pointed out, the stigma attached to the disease has led to an increase in morbidity and mortality rates, since many with COVID-19 or flu-like symptoms have refused to go to hospitals. The use of geo-fencing and drone technologies is similarly unsanctioned. While cell-phone based surveillance might be plausible under the Telegraph Act of 1885, until now the orders authorising surveillance have not been published. Moreover, the modified surveillance drones used are equipped with the ability to conduct thermal imaging, night-time reconnaissance, and also — as some private vendors have claimed — the ability to integrate facial recognition into existing databases such as Aadhaar. Contrary to regulations made under the Aircraft Act of 1934, the drones deployed also do not appear to possess any visible registration or licensing. Indeed, many of the models are simply not permitted for use in India. Most concerning amongst the measures invoked is the use of contact-tracing applications that promise to provide users a deep insight into the movements of a COVID-19 carrier. The purported aim here is to ensure that a person who comes into contact with a carrier can quarantine herself. Although the efficacy of applications such as these have been questioned by early adopters, such as Singapore, the Union government has made AarogyaSetu, its contact-tracing application, its signal response to the pandemic. Thus far, details of the application’s technical architecture and its source code have not been made public. The programme also shares worrying parallels with the Aadhaar project in that its institution is not backed by legislation. Like Aadhaar it increasingly seems that the application will be used as an object of coercion. There have already been reports of employees of both private and public institutions being compelled to download the application. Also, much like Aadhaar, AarogyaSetu is framed as a necessary technological invasion into personal privacy, in a bid to achieve a larger social purpose. But without a statutory framework, and in the absence of a data protection law, the application’s reach is boundless. One shudders to think how the huge tranches of personal data that it will collect will be deployed. The importance of civil rights The Supreme Court’s judgment in K.S. Puttaswamy v. Union of India (2017) is renowned for its incantation, that each of us is guaranteed a fundamental right to privacy. But the Court also recognised that the Constitution is not the sole repository of this right, or indeed of the right to personal liberty. For these are freedoms that inhere in all of us. The Court additionally thought it important, as Justice S.K. Kaul wrote, that the majority opinions of Justice Khanna’s brethren be buried “ten fathom deep, with no chance of resurrection.” To be sure, the right to privacy is not absolute. There exist circumstances in which the right can be legitimately curtailed. However, any such restriction, as the Court held in Puttaswamy , must be tested against the requirements of legality, necessity and the doctrine of proportionality. This will require government to show us, first, that the restriction is sanctioned by legislation; second, that the restriction made is in pursuance of a legitimate state aim; third, that there exists a rational relationship between the purpose and the restriction made; and fourth, that the State has chosen the “least restrictive” measure available to achieve its objective. In this case, not only are the government’s technological solutions unfounded in legislation, there is also little to suggest that they represent the least restrictive measures available. A pandemic cannot be a pretext to abnegate the Constitution. Inter arma silent leges , said Cicero: “For among [times of] arms, the laws fall mute”. But our fight against COVID-19 is no war. Even if it were, our Constitution is intended for all times — for times of peace and for times of crises. Suhrith Parthasarathy is an advocate practising at the Madras High Court; Gautam Bhatia is a Delhi-based lawyer; and Apar Gupta is a lawyer and executive director of the Internet Freedom Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/privacy-concerns-during-a-pandemic/article31458595.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,||The outline of another pandemic combat strategy||With the number of novel coronavirus cases reported so far continuing to rise in most States even during the national lockdown that came into force since March 25, India faces the great challenge of containing its spread just days before the May 3 deadline for lifting the lockout. With the number of cases increasing from 519 on March 24 to nearly 28,000 on April 27, the lockdown has indeed prevented an explosion of cases. As the World Health Organization (WHO) had pointed out on March 25, the unprecedented measures of the shutdown can only buy time and reduce the pressure on the health-care system. But by itself, it cannot “extinguish epidemics”. Contrary to WHO’s advice of using the opportunity to carry out more precise and targeted measures to chase and contain the virus, there have been no concerted efforts to aggressively test and isolate positive cases even in hotspot and containment areas. In light of this, will extending the lockdown become a default option as was done after the first phase of restriction ended on April 14 even as the government believes there is no community transmission yet in India? Or, as many experts have been advocating, will India bite the bullet and opt for lifting the restrictions in a phased manner? Weighing in Dr. Giridhar R. Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru and a member of the COVID-19 task force of Karnataka and Dr. Jayaprakash Muliyil formerly with the Christian Medical College, Vellore, say that without doubt there will be an increase in the number of cases once the lockdown is lifted; particularly so as no effort was made to hunt the virus during the lockdown period. But a careful, graded approach to lift the restrictions can still help prevent a huge spike in cases and create a concomitant strain on the health-care system. Any strategy adopted for lifting restrictions should bear in mind that the actual number of people who have been infected is many times more than the laboratory-confirmed cases. Dr. Babu estimates the total number of infections to be around 2,50,000 while Prof. Muliyil says that for every recorded case, there are 60 people who have not been counted. While extending the lockdown in hotspot areas appears not only prudent but also essential, there should be more focus during the remaining days of the lockdown on silent areas that have not reported any case or just a few cases. Increased surveillance of those exhibiting severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), influenza-like illness (ILI) and any COVID-19 suspect cases in the silent areas will help determine if restrictions should be eased or continued after May 3. Sikkim, which has walled itself up has not reported a single case; some northeast States have reported only a few cases. These States would not need a continued lockdown, once the true infection prevalence is ascertained. Most importantly, the decision on whether to continue the restrictions or not should be taken at the local level; a centralised approach to decision making will be hugely counterproductive. As Dr. Babu strongly advocates, it is important to segregate essential and non-essential activities and encourage more people to work from home till such time as an effective vaccine or anti-viral becomes available. Universal mask wearing, physical distancing and observing hand hygiene will help in curtailing the spread; but these will not be practical in slums and other crowded neighbourhoods. On herd immunity This brings to the fore a more natural way to slow down and bring the epidemic to an end through herd immunity that happens naturally during an epidemic. Herd immunity arises when a sizeable population gets naturally infected over a period of time so that the virus does not easily find a susceptible host to infect, thus bringing the epidemic to a halt — this is what Dr. Muliyil and virologist Dr. T. Jacob John advocate. The herd immunity that these scientists are referring to is not very dissimilar from the one practised by British Prime Minister Boris Johnson who intended using it as a strategy to end the epidemic. But the difference is that while Mr. Johnson put even the elderly and those with comorbidities at risk of infection through his approach, both these scientists have kept the interests of the elderly and those with comorbidities as top priorities. While these two categories of people who may experience serious symptoms and even death can protect themselves by self-isolation — also called as reverse quarantine — the young, who mostly exhibit only mild symptoms, can go out by following containment measures together with universal mask wearing, physical distancing and hand hygiene. Strictly following containment measures, wearing a mask and maintaining physical distancing not only slow down the rate of infection but also the rate at which herd immunity is achieved naturally. But that is a small price to pay in order to avoid overwhelming the health-care system, if many require hospitalisation. In the case of H1N1, in 2009, the swine flu pandemic died out in two years when 40% of the population where the virus was spreading had been naturally infected. But it comes back each year as the susceptible population through new birth grows beyond the threshold. The same was true for all the previous influenza pandemics — the 1918 Spanish flu, 1957 Asian flu, and 1968 Hong Kong influenza. Even during the pre-vaccination days, measles used to strike once in three years and German measles every seven years. Dr. Jacob John expects at least one year for herd immunity to develop naturally for the novel coronavirus, provided shutdowns are eased. Though other strains of coronavirus, which cause the common cold, infect people almost every winter, the same strain does not infect people twice. But the mutations that these viruses undergo make most people susceptible to infection. Fortunately, the novel coronavirus appears more stable (experiences fewer mutations) than other influenza viruses and so an infected person may probably be protected against future disease, Dr. Muliyil hopes. WHO cautions that “there is currently no evidence that people who have recovered from COVID-19 and have antibodies are protected from a second infection”. Infected people may have some level of protection against the virus, but the level and duration of protection is still unknown. In South Korea, at least 222 people who have recovered from the disease have again tested positive. It is still not clear if it is a case of reinfection or reactivation (where infected people have not been able to completely clear the virus). prasad.ravindranath@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-outline-of-another-pandemic-combat-strategy/article31458589.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,||A task for South Asia||South Asia, one of the world’s most populous regions, is also affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Both Karachi and Mumbai, among the world’s most densely populated cities, where we live and work, are being overwhelmed by cases. While the death rate in these places may not be as alarming as in Europe and the U.S., the collateral damage of the lockdown is taking its own toll. While there are many differences amongst the countries of the region, there are also common features which impact the health of its people, some of them a result of our shared cultural and geopolitical history. The collective experience of dealing with COVID-19 may provide important lessons, which transcend national boundaries. Poor healthcare system South Asian countries have invested very little in health. This is reflected in our abysmally low health parameters. It is interesting that Britain, which formulated our health policies before independence, went on to form one of the world’s strongest public health systems, the National Health Service, whereas its South Asian colonies chose to stray from that path. This resulted in a dysfunctional public healthcare system. Governments have also relinquished what ought to have been their primary duty, of health care provision, to the private sector. Having become an industry, the focus of healthcare in the private sector is on profit rather than on people’s needs. Whilst privatisation has brought in advanced technology and expertise, the high costs of treatment in the private sector have resulted in impoverishment as most of the population has no insurance or third-party coverage, and pays out of pocket. The sector has also been poorly regulated. The result is that it is responsible for several excesses in its quest for profit. Hunger, malnutrition, poor sanitation and large-scale migration are features of this region. Existing infectious diseases like TB, HIV and malaria have been worsened by emerging ones like dengue, chikungunya, healthcare-associated infections and antimicrobial resistance. The region is also an epicentre of an epidemic of lifestyle diseases. Constant internal and external conflicts in South Asia not only consume a large portion of national budgets, but also divert the attention of the public and policymakers from healthcare needs. Defence budgets take the largest share of national budgets, and obviously adversely impact social sector spending. Underfunded public health is going to hinder our capacity to fight COVID-19. Religion continues to occupy a central space in the society and politics of the region. Though it offers succour to many, religious dogma can impact health policy and health-seeking behaviour. The refusal of devotees across Pakistan to avoid religious congregations during Ramadan despite the government’s orders has significantly fed the community spread of the virus. On the other hand, the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi was used to whip up sentiments against the entire Muslim population in India. This will only put a further strain on the social fabric. The medical community must emphasise that religious practices cannot be exceptions to epidemic-control practices. A silver lining If there is a silver lining, COVID-19 has forced us to seriously reflect on our healthcare system. This is welcome if it results in policy change. Healthcare professionals and bodies must seize this opportunity to push our respective governments to address it seriously and not just as a pre-election strategy. A long-term commitment to universal health care, with not only a national but also a regional and global focus, is needed. The SAARC heads of state have already offered help to one another. A regional strategy has a better chance of controlling the pandemic than isolated national-level efforts. Pooling of resources and sharing data may not only help flatten the curve but perhaps even develop into longer-term efforts towards effective treatment. It is being speculated that our populations are behaving differently; that the BCG vaccine may be a protective influence. Joint research into such areas can be a unifying point for SAARC. The region’s healthcare community has many tasks. We have the responsibility of upholding science as the guiding principle of policy, of guarding against fake cures, unethical experimentation and quackery. We also have the onerous task of convincing our people that regional conflicts fuelled by geopolitical interests are not in our mutual interest. This could even mean standing up to populist narratives on nationalism and reminding our citizens that the real threat to the security of our nations is our misplaced priorities. It is in our collective interest to look at health security and not just national security. By the accident of their birth, South Asians have endured a lot. They merit better.  Aamir Jafarey is a surgeon based in Karachi and Sanjay Nagral is a surgeon based in Mumbai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-task-for-south-asia/article31458593.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Unlocking justice in the lockdown||The pandemic has compelled the government to suspend work, movement, businesses, services, liberty and more. The Constitution itself, however, cannot be suspended. Any measures enforced under statutory frameworks must conform to the Constitution. Nevertheless, practically, with the near-complete shutdown of India’s justice system, such operation of the Constitution lies in limbo. Several situations today warrant the intervention of the judiciary. For instance, the enforcement of the constitutional rights of life, health and food requires urgent resolution. Any constitutional challenge, however, requires unfettered access to lawyers and courts. The non-inclusion of both in the state’s list of permitted activities effectively denies such access. Peculiarly, the judiciary too has retreated into the background. While the higher courts are hearing ‘urgent’ matters, the lower courts are entertaining only ‘remand’ cases. In doing so, they have ceded important constitutional and legal space to the executive. Video-based online proceedings have been proposed as an alternative. But their success rests on the assumption that everyone has equal access to properly functioning equipment as well as fast Internet. The idea also assumes that all courts are Internet-enabled and all functionaries are tech-savvy. No legal protection Meanwhile, the state is still active in its traditional policing functions. In Guwahati, on April 7, two activists were arrested in connection with a 2018 case, a day after complaining that officials were siphoning off rice meant for public distribution. Last week, the Delhi police booked two students under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, in a case related to communal violence in Delhi over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act of 2019. Article 22 of the Constitution guarantees every individual the right to consult and to be defended by a legal practitioner of their choice upon being arrested or detained in custody by the state. While arrests by the police are rampant, legal protection has almost vanished on account of non-functioning lawyers and courts. Without legal practitioners being classified as essential, one wonders if fundamental rights can substantively be enforced. Moreover, in the enforcement of lockdown, reports of summary punishments by the police without any sanction of the law are pouring in from across the country. Videos of police forcing persons to perform push-ups and squats; vandalising vegetable carts; and harassing migrant labourers and the homeless are evidence of arbitrariness. The ease with which we have given up on the principles of rule of law is deplorable. With justice being inaccessible, the populace has become powerless in both the public and private spheres. The National Commission for Women has reported an increase in incidents of domestic violence. Despite abusers and victims being locked down for over 40 days, the institutional response has been to take away the civil remedy of obtaining ‘protection orders’ against the abuser under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005. The lacunae must be remedied In contrast to India’s response, the U.K. first notified legal practitioners as key workers and then notified how different categories of courts shall function. In the U.S., the Department of Homeland Security categorises ‘workers supporting the operations of the judicial system’ as essential. In India, the judiciary and the executive should have instituted means to serve the cause of justice. A comprehensive response should have outlined the minimum judicial infrastructural requirements; the nature, type and manner of priority cases; enforcement of physical distancing guidelines; and list of key personnel permitted to ply to and from courts, prisons, police stations, residences, etc. These lacunae must be remedied. Justice must not become a casualty to the pandemic. G. S. Bajpai is a Professor and Chairperson of the Centre for Criminology and Victimology at National Law University Delhi; Ankit Kaushik is a Research Associate there. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/unlocking-justice-in-the-lockdown/article31458596.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,||No end in sight||If it took 94 days to reach one million novel coronavirus cases on April 3 after China reported the first cluster of 41 cases to WHO on December 31, the number of days needed to double to two million sharply reduced to 12. It again took just 12 more days to cross three million cases globally on April 27 night. The virus has now spread to 188 countries/regions. The true number of infections will be several-fold higher as most countries have not been testing people who have mild or no symptoms. For instance, in the U.S., the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has said that those with mild symptoms of COVID-19 who do not meet the criteria for priority testing will not be tested. While new cases have declined in Europe, there is an uptick in Africa and South America. The virus is still spreading quickly in the U.S. — with 0.99 million cases, it has the most number of cases globally, a little more than four times that of Spain, which has the second most number of cases. There have been over 2.1 lakh deaths worldwide, with the U.S. again accounting for the most — over 56,600, which is double that of Italy — over 27,000. New York City alone has 17,515 deaths, which is multiple times higher than that of many countries. The mortality figures too may be an underestimation. India has reported over 30,300 cases and 973 deaths, based on data collated from States. The number of cases has multiplied several-fold from over 600 since the national lockdown from March 25. At nearly 8,600 cases, Maharashtra has the maximum in the country; Dharavi alone has 330 cases and 18 deaths. With a population close to 1,00,000 that lives cheek by jowl, physical distancing is an impossible luxury. A central team has indicated that nearly 3,000 people might need institutional quarantine in the absence of effective containment in Dharavi. In this context, India could look at the experience of Singapore. Much appreciated for its efforts in almost containing the spread of the virus early on, the city-state has seen numbers rising since late March. Fresh cases have been reported from dormitories that house over 0.2 million migrant workers from other countries. The crowding in the dormitories, which is akin to what is seen in Dharavi and other slums in India, has provided an ideal setting for easy infection spread. Despite shutting down educational institutions and workplaces on April 3, when the number of cases was 1,114, and moving many workers to alternative accommodation and quarantining others, it has not been able to contain the spread; nearly 15,000 cases have been reported as on April 28. As India nears the end of its extended lockdown, it needs to learn from the successes and failures of other countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/no-end-in-sight/article31458581.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Signalling support||The Reserve Bank of India’s decision to open a special facility to ensure the availability of adequate liquidity for the mutual fund industry is a timely move in signalling to investors that the central bank is alert to the need to preserve financial stability in these challenging times. In assigning Rs. 50,000 crore exclusively for commercial banks to lend to mutual funds, the RBI made clear on Monday that it wants to tamp down on any build-up of liquidity strains at mutual fund houses in the wake of heightened volatility in the capital markets and increased redemption pressures as a fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic. The proximate trigger for the central bank’s move was last week’s announcement by Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund that it was winding up six debt funds — funds that collectively had assets under management (AUM) amounting to about Rs. 26,000 crore. The RBI has rightly recognised the urgent need to ward off any incipient contagion impact from the closure of these six funds. With the overall industry-wide AUM for debt funds at about Rs. 15-lakh crore, it was crucial for the banking regulator to reassure investors that liquidity need not be a concern while deciding on whether to retain or redeem their investments in these mutual funds. The Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) had, separately, last week, sought to assure investors that a majority of debt fund schemes had “invested in superior credit quality securities” and had appropriate liquidity to back their normal operations. While the facility is a straightforward 90-day repo-based lending window from which banks can avail credit to provide loans to mutual funds, there are concerns about the banking industry’s willingness to expose itself to the credit risk involved in making these fresh loans. That the RBI was cognisant of this is evident in the way that the norms have been tailor-made to incentivise the banks to lend. From allowing banks to breach their 25% ceiling on held-to-maturity investments as a consequence of lending to mutual funds, to exempting the support extended from banks’ overall capital market exposure limits, the central bank has sought to ease the flow of credit to the fund houses. Still, if the recent experience of getting lenders to support the non-banking financial companies through a targeted long-term repo operation backed by Rs. 50,000 crore is any pointer, clearly the banking industry — beset by bad loans — appears to have little appetite for adding any credit that it deems risky. Moreover, with the economy still in lockdown and the credit ratings of even relatively well-established companies facing a real and not-too-distant threat of downgrades, how willing banks would be to use this facility to lend to debt mutual funds remains to be seen. The Centre may need to be ready to step in with direct intervention if the RBI’s gambit fails to ease the pressure on mutual funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/signalling-support/article31458580.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Yahya Khan faces criticism (From an editorial)||The Pakistan President, Gen. Yahya Khan’s plans for framing a new constitution have been severely criticised in East Pakistan and last Sunday, a political demonstration was organised to protest against the terms of his Legal Framework Order. The Working Committee of the East Pakistan Awami League, the biggest political party in the east and led by Sheikh Mujibur Rehman, has raised objections to Sections 25 and 27 of the Presidential Order. The first says that, if the President refuses to authenticate the Constitution Bill, the National Assembly will stand dissolved and fresh elections will be held. Section 27 provides that any doubt as to the interpretation of the Order must be resolved by the President, not by the Assembly. The Awami League argues that these provisions render illusory the sovereign character of the constituent assembly and that the two offending sections should be removed. Another leading party of East Pakistan, the National Awami Party, takes objection to the doctrine that Islamic ideology should permeate the constitution. It says that the effect of this provision will be to perpetuate communal division within the people and deprive the religious minorities of their fundamental rights. The N.A.P. also holds that the Order will not permit the concession of full regional autonomy for East Pakistan or for the provinces of West Pakistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/yahya-khan-faces-criticism-from-an-editorial/article31458590.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bharti, Nokia ‘connect’ for strong network||Telecom equipment maker Nokia has secured a nearly $1 billion deal from Bharti Airtel to enhance the capacity of its networks, 4G in particular, for nine circles. In a statement on Tuesday, Bharti Airtel announced a multi-year agreement to deploy Nokia’s SRAN solution across nine circles in India. While the financial details of the deal were not disclosed, an industry source pegged it at close to $1 billion. “The roll-out, which will also lay the foundation for providing 5G connectivity in the future, will see approximately 3,00,000 radio units deployed across several spectrum bands, including 900 Mhz, 1800 Mhz, 2100 Mhz and 2300 Mhz, and is expected to be completed by 2022,” the statement added. These Nokia-supplied networks will give Airtel the best possible platform when 5G networks launch across the country, with their low latency and faster speeds. Gopal Vittal, MD & CEO (India and South Asia) at Bharti Airtel, said: “We are committed to continuously investing in emerging network technologies to provide a best-in-class experience to our customers. This initiative with Nokia is a major step in this direction. We have been working with Nokia for more than a decade now and are delighted to use Nokia’s SRAN products in further improving the capacity and coverage of our network as we prepare for the 5G era.” Rajeev Suri, president and chief executive officer at Nokia, said, “This is an important agreement for the future of connectivity in one of the world’s largest telecom markets and solidifies our position in India. This project will enhance their current networks and deliver best-in-class connectivity to Airtel customers but also lay the foundation for 5G services in the future.” India is the second largest telecom market in the world and is expected to reach 920 million unique mobile customers by 2025, which will also include 88 million 5G connections, according to the GSMA. SRAN solution The statement added that Nokia’s SRAN solution helps operators to manage their 2G, 3G and 4G networks from one platform reducing network complexity, increasing cost efficiencies, and future-proofing investment. “The deal will also include Nokia’s RAN equipment, including its AirScale Radio Access, AirScale BaseBand and NetAct OSS solution, which will help Airtel to monitor and manage its network effectively. Nokia Global Services will also play a crucial role in the installation, planning and deployment of the project, which will be executed via the cloud-based Nokia Delivery Platform,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharti-nokia-connect-for-strong-network/article31458579.ece
29 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Debt funds less exposed to risky issuers after IL&FS fiasco: Morgan Stanley||The recent events at Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund may have increased the risk of redemptions in debt funds, but a gradual reduction in exposure towards riskier issuers in the last year and a half could limit any further downside risks. According to Morgan Stanley, mutual funds have gradually moved towards better assets after the IL&FS crisis came to the fore in September 2018 and hence should be able to tide over the current crisis. “Recent events at credit risk funds have increased risk of redemptions at debt mutual funds. However, we think a big shift in the AUM mix over the past 18 months towards stronger borrowers should mitigate this risk,” stated a note by the global financial major. Morgan Stanley further highlighted the fact that non banking finance companies (NBFCs) and housing finance companies (HFCs) that, till last year, constituted a big part of the assets under management (AUM) of debt schemes now account for a much lesser share. “... driven by decline in AUM as well as risk aversion and regulation, mutual funds have been cutting debt exposure to NBFCs/HFCs (down approximately 45% from the peak in July-Aug 2018) with even sharper cuts (down around 90%) to entities in real estate financing, promoter financing etc, which are down to around 1.5% of mutual fund debt AUM,” said the report released on Monday. Last week, Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund decided to wind up six debt funds with combined AUM of nearly Rs. 26,000 crore on account of illiquid, low-rated instruments in the portfolio. Meanwhile, Morgan Stanley’s analysis showed that about 80% of the NBFC or HFC paper held by mutual funds maturing over the next 12 months have strong parentage while those facing funding constraints constitute only 5% of the overall mutual fund exposure towards the sector. The financial major, however, noted that while the dependence of the NBFC/HFC segment on mutual funds has decreased, such potential outflows would coincide with banks’ turning risk-averse towards NBFCs .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/debt-funds-less-exposed-to-risky-issuers-after-ilfs-fiasco-morgan-stanley/article31458567.ece
29 April 2020||Mumbai,||Axis Bank to buy 29% stake in Max Life Insurance||Private sector lender Axis Bank has signed a definitive agreement with Max Financial Services Limited (MFS) to buy 29% stake in Max Life Insurance Company in an all-cash deal, the bank said in a statement. Axis Bank, which already holds 1% stake in the insurer, will hold 30% after the deal is closed. The two parties had begun discussions on the deal in February. Max Financial Services currently owns a 72.5% stake in Max Life and Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance (MSI) holds 25.5%. The transaction with Axis Bank will follow swapping by MSI of 20.6% stake that it holds in Max Life, with a 21.9% stake in MFS. Max Financial also plans to purchase MSI’s balance stake in Max Life. Post completion of the series of transactions, Max Life will become a 70:30 joint-venture between Max Financial and Axis Bank. According to the agreement, Max Financial will have the right to nominate four directors to the board of Max Life and Axis Bank shall be eligible to name three directors. “One nominee director of the promoter group on the board of MFSL shall be a person identified by Axis,” the bank said. The transaction is expected to be completed in 6 to 9 months. According to the agreement, Axis Bank will sell 30% stake in Max Life at Rs. 294 per share if ‘value is not created’ in 63 months from the time of closing the deal. This is the second attempt by Analjit Singh, founder and chairman, Max Group, to sell take in the insurance firm. In 2017, Max Life had been in talks with HDFC Life to sell stake but the deal fell through after the insurance regulator rejected the proposed structure of the deal and an alternative structure could not be worked out. Incidentally, Mr. Chaudhry was the MD and CEO of HDFC Life when the deal with Max was contemplated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/axis-bank-to-buy-29-stake-in-max-life-insurance/article31458570.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Goldman Sachs to honour all pre-lockdown offers||Goldman Sachs says it will honour its commitments made prior to the countrywide lockdown to all summer interns and full-time hires in India this year. The firm will be on-boarding 1,460 campus hires, comprising 740 summer interns and 720 full-time employees, during calendar 2020. It said it had already on-boarded several candidates remotely during the lockdown period. Gunjan Samtani, head of Goldman Sachs Services in India told The Hindu : “Specific joining dates are being communicated individually based on the academic calendar. The first batch of 98 students will start their internship programme with us in India on May 4, 2020.” “We are proceeding with a virtual internship in India for a shortened duration of four to six weeks, compared with the usual duration of eight to ten weeks,” he added. “However, Goldman Sachs will honour the full financial compensation of the original programme duration for all the interns,” he said. This is applicable to all those who are joining the firm from about 100 business schools, engineering colleges and undergraduate schools across the country. According to Goldman Sachs, the virtual internship will encapsulate all the facets of a physical internship at the firm, ‘facilitated by a strong work-from-home infrastructure’. Some 98% of the firm’s employees in India currently work from their homes. The firm said this was possible due to continued investments over the years in technology and risk management framework. Mr. Samtani added, “Interns joining us this year are aligned to a multitude of functions across several divisions — investment banking, global markets and engineering. They join us in their pre-final year of the academic programme.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/goldman-sachs-to-honour-all-pre-lockdown-offers/article31458566.ece
29 April 2020||Coimbatore,||Manufacturing of PPE coveralls ramped up||The capacity to produce coveralls in the country has been ramped up to more than one lakh units a day, according to an official press release. Bengaluru has emerged as the hub for manufacture of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), accounting for nearly 50% of the production. Other places that have a large number of approved production units are Tiruppur, Chennai, Coimbatore, Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Ludhiana and Bhiwandi. Large-scale garment units in Bengaluru had taken to PPE coverall production in a big way. Some of these companies, that have scale of manufacturing, have invested in additional machinery as well. A large number of non-woven textile manufacturers in Coimbatore-Erode belt in Tamil Nadu supply fabric to the coverall producers. The release added that four laboratories in India have the synthetic blood penetration resistance test facilities and necessary approvals to conduct tests and certify body coveralls required for COVID-19. These are, the South India Textile Research Association in Coimbatore, Defence Research and Development Establishment in Gwalior, and two laboratories under the Ordnance Factory Board — Heavy Vehicles Factory at Avadi and Small Arms Factory at Kanpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/manufacturing-of-ppe-coveralls-ramped-up/article31458564.ece
29 April 2020||Mumbai,||Axis Bank sees Rs. 1,388 cr. loss on higher provisions; CEO sights ‘pain’ ahead||Private sector Axis Bank has reported a Rs. 1,388 crore loss in the Jan-March quarter due to higher provisions as compared to the Rs. 1,505 crore profit a year earlier. For the quarter, the bank has made provisions of Rs. 7,730 crore, including the Rs. 3,000 crore related to COVID-19 pandemic. This has taken the overall additional provisions held by the bank to Rs. 5,983 crore. Provisions during the same period of the previous year was Rs. 2,711 crore. “The overall additional provisions held by the bank towards various contingencies, together with the standard asset provisions, translate to a standard asset coverage of 1.3% as at March 31, 2020,” the bank said. As on March 31, the bank’s provision coverage, as a proportion of gross NPAs stood at 69%. Specific bad loan provisions for Q4 FY20 were Rs. 4,204 crore, compared to Rs. 1,714 crore in Q4 last year, and Rs. 2,962 crore in Q3 FY20. The bank recognised slippages of Rs. 3,920 crore during Q4 FY20, compared to Rs. 6,214 crore in Q3 FY20 and Rs. 3,012 crore in Q4 FY19. Slippages from the loan book were at Rs. 3,418 crore and those from investment exposures stood at Rs. 502 crore. Corporate slippages were at Rs. 1,839 crore. As on March 31, 2020, the bank’s gross NPA and net NPA levels were 4.86% and 1.56% respectively, as against 5% and 2.09% respectively as on December 31, 2019. Amitabh Chaudhry, MD & CEO, Axis Bank, said the business and operating performance of the bank suggested Q4 was not materially impacted by the COVID-19 induced lockdown, though some impact was felt on the fee income. He, however, indicated some pain would be inevitable going ahead. “Given the size and the reach of the bank, our cross border ties in sectors and geographies, it will reflect in numbers too. Among other things, we expect our fee income growth to slow down, and provisions to increase materially. The COVID-19 induced slowdown will delay the normalisation of our corporate stress book and we expect there will be further downgrade in the BB pool in FY21,” Mr. Chaudhry said. He said the lockdown and its impact on the economic slowdown will be widespread and will take time to normalise. The net interest income — interest earned less interest expended — grew 19% year-on-year to Rs. 6,808 crore in Q4. Net interest margin for Q4 FY20 was 3.55%. Non-interest income, comprising fee income, trading profit and miscellaneous income, grew 13% to Rs. 3,985 crore in Q4. Fee income grew 6% on quarter to Rs. 2,931 crore. Loans grew 15% year-on-year to Rs. 5,71,424 crore, while retail loans rose 24% to Rs. 3,05,400 crore, accounting for 53% of net advances. Overall deposit growth was 17% year-on-year.  The slowdown will delay the normalisation of our corporate stress book Amitabh Chaudhry MD & CEO, Axis Bank||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/axis-bank-sees-rs-1388-cr-loss-on-higher-provisions-ceo-sights-pain-ahead/article31458568.ece
29 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Circulate Capital invests in Lucro||Circulate Capital, the Singapore-based investment management company has invested in homegrown, Mumbai-based manufacturing firm Lucro Plastecycle Private Limited (Lucro) through the $106 million Circulate Capital Ocean Fund (CCOF), the world’s first investment fund dedicated to the ocean plastic crisis in South and Southeast Asia. “CCOF has made its inaugural investments in two plastic recycling companies located in India and Indonesia for a total investment of $6 million,” the company said. CCOF is backed by several leading companies, including PepsiCo and Procter & Gamble.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/circulate-capital-invests-in-lucro/article31458572.ece
29 April 2020||MUMBAI,||RIL plans rights issue to be debt-free||The board of Reliance Industries (RIL) will meet on Thursday to consider rights issue, recommend dividend and approve the company’s results. The rights issue, for the first time in the last three decades, is aimed at making RIL a debt-free company by the end of this fiscal. “RIL’s announcement that it’s considering a rights issue was a surprise. While a rights issue, if successful, could be slightly earnings accretive under various scenarios, it would also reduce investor focus on asset divestments,” Morgan Stanley said in a note.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ril-plans-rights-issue-to-be-debt-free/article31458571.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Aarogya Setu for feature phones soon’||The Centre is working on a Aarogya Setu application-like solution that can be used by feature phones users, IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Tuesday. In a videoconference with IT ministers of all States on Tuesday, the Union Minister said that the solution would be launched soon. He also called upon States to promote electronics manufacturing through pro-investment initiatives to tap the ‘great opportunity’ likely to emerge following COVID-19. “Every state highly appreciated the #AarogyaSetu app and shared their thoughts on it. I have assured them that a similar solution for feature phones is being developed and will be launched very soon,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/aarogya-setu-for-feature-phones-soon/article31458576.ece
29 April 2020||Chennai,||TVS Motor to raise Rs. 500 crore via securities||TVS Motor Company Ltd. announced that it would raise up to Rs. 500 crore through issue of securities on a private placement basis. The company’s board, which met on Tuesday, approved the issuance of non-convertible debentures aggregating up to Rs. 500 crore on a private placement basis, the company said in a regulatory filing. The firm did not disclose the reasons for raising the capital. Recently, the company had acquired U.K.-based sporting motorcycle firm Norton in a £16 million all cash deal .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-motor-to-raise-rs-500-crore-via-securities/article31458573.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Deadline for Air India bids extended again||The government on Tuesday extended the deadline for submission of bids for Air India by two months until June 30. The deadline was being extended after “request received from (interested bidders) in view of the prevailing situation arising out of COVID-19,” the Department of Investment and Public Management said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/deadline-for-air-india-bids-extended-again/article31458575.ece
29 April 2020||Tokyo,||Olympics cancellation likely if vaccine not found in time||The postponed Tokyo 2020 Olympics will have to be cancelled if a vaccine isn’t found and the coronavirus pandemic brought under control by next year, the organising committee's president warned, ruling out further delays. The comments, in an interview with Japanese sports daily Nikkan Sports published on Tuesday, come as medical experts doubted whether the pandemic can be sufficiently contained by next year to hold an event drawing participants and spectators from around the world. The pandemic has already forced a year-long delay of the Games, which are now scheduled to open on July 23, 2021. But, Tokyo 2020 president Yoshiro Mori was categorical when asked whether the Games could be delayed until 2022 if the pandemic remains a threat next year, replying: “No. In that case, it's cancelled,” Mori said. Mori noted the Games had been cancelled previously only during wartime, and compared the battle against coronavirus to “fighting an invisible enemy”. If the virus is successfully contained, “we'll hold the Olympics in peace next summer”, he added. “Mankind is betting on it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympics-cancellation-likely-if-vaccine-not-found-in-time/article31458735.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Desperate ideas we must take seriously in desperate times||It might well be the Lockdown Blues. Or the Isolation Syndrome. Maybe administrators around the world are merely taking a leaf out of US President Donald Trump’s book and being “sarcastic.” But desperate times have given rise to desperate ideas, some of which we might have to live with if cricket as we know it is to live on. The Big Three — India, England and Australia — need one another to survive. Cricket Australia has calculated that if India’s tour slated for October is called off, they stand to lose A$300 million. In anticipation, the Chief Executive has already asked his staff to take pay cuts up to 80%. Various options Ideas being discussed involve playing the India series (if the Australian government allows) at a single venue, a “quarantine hub”, and play matches to an empty stadium. Should that fall through, and with television needing live action, there is a proposal to play a series of matches between the national team and the ‘A’ team. The hope is that it will be fiercely competitive, with those outside the main team using the opportunity to prove themselves. It will be “gripping”, says former player Simon Katich. It is an idea England’s cricket board is toying with too. England’s focus for the moment is the new tournament, the Hundred, which the board hopes will bring in much-needed money. Currently the Hundred is to England what the IPL is to India — a cash cow that is in danger of being put out to pasture. It is why neither tournament has been officially called off yet; there are few folks more optimistic than those in danger of losing millions. England believes they could lose “in excess of £300 million” if no cricket is played this year. They are looking at playing in “bio-secure” environments — no audience, players staying at hotels attached to the stadium, and quarantine being the key — but nothing is slated to happen before July 1. The idea is to use the “minimum number of grounds for our desired international schedule,” according to the chief executive. “After international cricket,” former England captain Michael Vaughan has said, “the Hundred is the most important aspect of the game.” Cricket officials around the world have the confidence of knowing that whatever decision they make — good, bad, indifferent — there will always be some prominent player to support it. Relatively safe As reported in this newspaper, India are relatively safe, with the board not needing to make cuts even if no cricket is played the rest of the year. But even here, the ripple effects of lack of international cricket and home series will be felt by the average domestic cricketer. “Even in the worst-case scenario, the BCCI will try and protect the staff and cricketing fraternity, and do its best to minimise the impact on our cricketers and administrative staff,” the BCCI treasurer has said, and that must come as a relief. Cricket boards in Sri Lanka, Pakistan, West Indies, South Africa and Bangladesh are on the brink of bankruptcy; at the moment the International Cricket Council has no plan for them, or for the non-Test playing countries. Hence the importance of the World T20 (to be held in Australia later this year, but likely to be postponed to February next) and other ICC tournaments which bring in money. Accept what is given All of which is why we might have to bite our tongues and accept what comes our way by way of domestic and international cricket once the governments give permission. Playing to an empty stadium might be anathema to the sports fan, maybe sport itself, but we might have to reconcile ourselves to that. Playing four Tests at a single venue might not be a great idea, but it is both acknowledgement that television is what sport is for, and that the sports ecosystem goes beyond the players and coaches. Hundreds of thousand make their living off cricket — officials, employees of various associations, players at the lower end of the scale, umpires, groundsmen, journalists, caterers and other important professionals at the venues of matches, radio and online commentators, airlines operators, taxi drivers at the cities where matches are played, hotel owners, hotel employees and others all gain by the multiplier effect. Business reason In times like these, sport has to be seen as a business that feeds families, that puts money in the pockets of those who depend on it. I wish we didn’t have to play in empty stadiums, I wish we didn’t have four successive Test matches in a series at the same venue, I wish “bio-security” weren’t an issue. But we need to look seriously at all the desperate ideas, which even a year ago we would have laughed off. It is better to have some cricket rather than none at all, and if compromises have to be made, so be it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/desperate-ideas-we-must-take-seriously-in-desperate-times/article31458723.ece
29 April 2020||KOCHI,||A major change needed, says Jeena||Tracking Indian women’s basketball team in the last few majors, one often gets the feeling that it can’t fall any deeper. It finished last in its group in the 2018 Jakarta Asian Games and had similar finishes at the Asian championship in Bengaluru and in the Olympic pre-qualification tournament in Kuala Lumpur last year. Of course, there was the year-ending South Asian Games triumph but that is nothing to crow about. Now, with the coronavirus pandemic closing the show all over, this is a perfect time to think of solutions. “We cannot change things with just a two-month camp before the Asians and with practice games with school and college boys. That’s not how national teams prepare,” Indian captain P.S. Jeena told The Hindu from her home in Wayanad. “In 2013 when we finished fifth (best-ever finish at the Asians), we had a five-month camp and a 10-day trip to China to play matches against teams there.” Jeena, adjudged the ‘Most Valuable Player’ at the senior Nationals in Ludhiana late last year, feels that the country needs some major changes, the first of which would be starting the national league. “There will be a major change only if something like that happens,” said the 26-year-old. Playing for the Ringwood Hawks in an Australian league last year proved to be an eye-opener for the power forward. Smaller leagues “They don’t just have the higher league but many smaller leagues, like the Victoria Junior League. Every week you have matches. Here, even for seniors, you just have the Senior Nationals and the Federation Cup and a few all-India and State-level tournaments. We practise every day but game situations are fewer.” She feels that even States, like Kerala, can gain if they go for their own league. “Kerala has two dominant teams in KSEB and Kerala Police, so matches are often one-sided as the others don’t come anywhere close. If the State association KBA comes forward and puts three pro players from these two sides in each team and conducts an equal six or seven-team week-long league, basketball will touch a new high. And if they add school and college players in these sides, it will be an experience for the youngsters too, make them stronger and bolder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-major-change-needed-says-jeena/article31458991.ece
29 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||ICC should step in, says Azharuddin||Former India captain Mohammad Azharuddin says it is time the ICC confers with all cricket boards and revisits the Future Tours Programme to finalise the international calendar for the next three years in the wake of the prevailing COVID-19 crisis. “Since there is a global problem now because of COVID-19, this is mandatory in the interest of the game,” Azhar, currently the Hyderabad Cricket Association president, said in a chat with The Hindu on Tuesday. Calender affected “It is pretty obvious that even the domestic season, for instance HCA’s leagues, will be off to a delayed start and consequently the whole calendar of BCCI will be affected. “There will definitely be far fewer tournaments on the domestic front,” he said. “With the IPL also hanging in the balance and a lot of uncertainty about the T20 World Cup in Australia in October, I believe the respective boards should be taken into confidence by ICC and it should come out with a plan of action which meets the needs and aspirations of all governing bodies and players. Tough times “These are tough times and hence I feel the ICC should come out with a concrete plan to offset whatever losses the boards suffer financially,” he said. “From HCA’s perspective, we will wait till May 7 when the State Government is expected to take a final call on whether to extend the current lockdown or not,” Azhar said. Drastic change “There will be a drastic change in every citizen’s lifestyle even if the lockdown is lifted as social distancing may well be the regular norm even if there are relaxations in the immediate future. This will have a bearing on the sports bodies too,” he added. “The BCCI is in touch with the State associations and I had a chat with [BCCI president] Sourav Ganguly a couple of days ago on the current situation,” Azhar said. “The BCCI chief is conscious of the players’ interests. His priority, quite rightly, is everybody’s safety, not just the players’, and he clearly hinted that any resumption of cricketing activities will depend on how well the situation at the ground level improves,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/icc-should-step-in-azhar/article31458741.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Arunkumar to coach USA men’s team||Former Karnataka captain and coach J. Arunkumar has been appointed the head coach of the United States of America men’s cricket team, it was announced. A statement from Iain Higgins, Chief Executive Officer of USA Cricket, explained that J. Arunkumar’s role will see him be “permanently based in the United States, as and when his working visa is obtained.” This will be the first international coaching assignment for Arunkumar. After a long and successful playing career as a hard-hitting batsman, Arunkumar turned to coaching. He guided Karnataka to back-to-back treble-winning seasons as coach, and also donned the role of batting coach of IPL franchise Kings XI Punjab. Most recently, he was the head coach of Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arunkumar-to-coach-usa-mens-team/article31458726.ece
29 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Wonderful to help others: Bhat||Former India cricketer Raghuram Bhat distributed food rations to around 150 poor families affected by the COVID-19 lockdown here. The good deed brought him as much joy as wearing the India cap. A friend, who was working for this cause, contacted Bhat and asked if he would like to help in the effort. Bhat jumped at the chance, not only donating money for purchases but also doing the rounds to distribute rations (rice, dal, sugar, salt etc.). “I feel contented and happy. It was wonderful to help others. This has brought me as much joy as wearing the India cap,” Bhat told The Hindu .  Bhat, the Karnataka senior state selection committee chairman, was moved by the experience. “A few women cried when I gave them the ration packets. Seeing them shed tears made me emotional too,” Bhat said. Bhat, who represented Karnataka with distinction in 82 First Class matches, plans to continue the charity exercise. “A big crowd gathered, but unfortunately we couldn’t help everyone as we ran out of stock. “We felt bad about it. It feels wrong to turn away the needy. So I assured them that I’ll be back on Friday with more rations,” the left-arm spinner said. The 62-year-old called on the public to take up similar humanitarian work during these troubling times. “God has given me a lot, I must give to others,” Bhat said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wonderful-to-help-others-bhat/article31458728.ece
29 April 2020||KOLKATA,||ICA seeks help from former cricketers||Indian Cricketers' Association (ICA) chairman Ashok Malhotra has appealed to legends of the game and star players to contribute for the welfare of the less-privileged former Ranji Trophy players who are facing financial crisis due to the lockdown. The ICA has requested all of its 1750 members to contribute at least Rs. 1,000 in order to support around 30 former Ranji Trophy players who are not eligible to get pension from the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI). “These players have finished their careers but are not getting pension from anywhere. They were either working in an academy or running an academy. “ Since they have no other source of income, we aim to provide them Rs. 25,000 per month till the time the lockdown is in force. Some of them need medical assistance as well,” said Malhotra. “We have asked the eligible cricketers to apply for the assistance by May 15.” In order to identify the beneficiaries from five zones, the ICA has formed an eight-member committee. It comprises five ICA members (including Malhotra) and BCCI Apex Council members Aunshuman Gaekwad and Shantha Rangaswamy and Indian Premier League Governing Council member Surender Khanna. “The committee will make the final list of beneficiaries who are in dire need of money.” According to Malhotra, several former cricketers have promptly responded to ICA’s request. “Aman Kumar and Ashwini Kumar from Haryana were the first ones to respond. “Three USA-based cricketers — R.S. Ghai, Ashöok Patel and Balkar Singh — have also contributed. I appeal to the legends and star cricketers to contribute to the cause.” Malhotra said even though this effort would not be for a lifetime, the ICA would continue to work for the well-being of the cricketing fraternity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ica-chairmans-appeal/article31458733.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vijay would have preferred Bhupathi as partner||It was sheer entertainment as Vijay Amritraj and son Prakash had a lively chat with Purav Raja on his Instagram show, Chai with Raja. Recalling the 1987 Davis Cup summit clash in Gothenburg, Vijay said, "The Swedish public and organisation was fantastic. Wish we could have spent a few hours more on court. We managed to win one set in five matches in that Davis Cup final. It was very special, as it was the second time in my career to be in the Davis Cup final after 1974. We learnt a lot from that match.” The 66-year-old, a regular at Wimbledon for the last 50 years, applauded Raja for his choice of questions. Vijay, who reached a career-best rank of 18 in 1980, tried his best to groom Prakash from the junior days, but injuries meant that the latter could not crack the top 150. Prakash said that if anything could be changed, he would have loved to listen to his gut, make his own decisions and have peace of mind about his tennis career. It was hard to live up to the famous surname and handle all the media attention. “Winning the fifth match against Uzbekistan [in 2008],” said Prakash, about his most memorable Davis Cup tie. When queried about taking up Davis Cup captaincy, a candid Vijay said it was “important for others to do it”. He picked Ramesh Krishnan, who reached a career-high rank of 23 in 1985, ahead of his father Ramanathan Krishnan, and called Ramesh ‘the Therapist’. Between Leander Paes and Mahesh Bhupathi, Vijay opted for the latter as his doubles partner, saying that it was because he himself played the deuce court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vijay-would-have-preferred-bhupathi-as-partner/article31458794.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||BFI loses hosting rights of 2021 Worlds||India lost the hosting rights of the 2021 men’s boxing World Championship to Serbia after the International Boxing association (AIBA) alleged non-payment of host fee by the National federation. Boxing Federation of India (BFI) blamed it on “procedural complications” arising out of AIBA’s failure to resolve “issues” with regards to the account to which the money was to be transferred. The payment was due on Dec. 1 last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfi-loses-hosting-rights-of-2021-worlds/article31458737.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Sharath live!||Catch Olympian and India’s highest-ranked table tennis player, A. Sharath Kamal, in a live chat on Sportstar 's Instagram handle ( @sportstarweb ) on April 29 (Wednesday) at 4 p.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharath-live/article31458738.ece
29 April 2020||Manchester,||UEFA sets May 25 deadline||European football leagues have been given a May 25 deadline to inform governing body UEFA of their plans to restart their domestic competitions. Soccer has ground to a halt inEurope. In a letter to the 55 federations in UEFA, president Aleksander Ceferin wrote that any league cancelling its season would need to produce a list of teams that have qualified for European club competitions, also by May 25. Meanwhile, French professional sports leagues including football and rugby cannot restart before September because of coronavirus restrictions, Prime Minister Edouard Philippe said on Tuesday. Philippe made the announcement as part of a gradual plan to lift the lockdown in France. He said no event where more than 5,000 people gather would be allowed until at least September. The news is also likely to affect the Tour de France, due to embark from Nice on August 29 and where huge crowds would be expected to gather at the start and finish lines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uefa-sets-may-25-deadline/article31458795.ece
29 April 2020||Jamaica,||Gayle lambasts Sarwan||Chris Gayle has called his former West Indies teammate Ramnaresh Sarwan “worse than coronavirus”, accusing the Guyanese of plotting his exit from Caribbean Premier League outfit Jamaica Tallawahs. Gayle, who has since moved to St. Lucia Zouks, blamed the Tallawahs’ assistant coach for an alleged fallout with the franchise, which did not retain him for the 2020 season.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gayle-lambasts-sarwan/article31458732.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ding and Nakamura join Carlsen in lead||Ding Liren and Hikaru Nakamura joined Magnus Carlsen in the lead with 11 points after five rounds of the $250,000 Magnus Carlsen Invitational online chess tournament on Monday. Ding defeated Ian Nepomniachtchi 2.5-1.5 and Nakamura took one point off Fabiano Caruana, who went on to post a 3-2 victory.  The results (fifth round): Fabiano Caruana (USA) bt Hikaru Nakamura (USA) 3-2; Ding Liren (Chn) bt Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) 2.5-1.5.   Standings: 1-3. Ding Liren (Chn, 11 points), Hikaru Nakamura (USA, 11), Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 11); 4. Fabiano Caruana (USA, 10), 5-6. Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra, 5), Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus, 5); 7. Anish Giri (Ned, 4); 8. Alireza Firouzja (FIDE, 3).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ding-and-nakamura-join-carlsen-in-lead/article31458724.ece
29 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Vikalp@Prithvi goes online with a 48-hour link||One of the positive sides of the ongoing global lockdown has been the wealth of films, in all formats, that have been coming home to us through the streaming world, some with complimentary treats attached. So this Friday, May 1, you don’t just get the opportunity to watch Mark Achbar and Peter Wintonik’s Manufacturing Consent , but can also put forward your questions to Mr. Achbar and to the towering intellectual, linguist, philosopher and political commentator Noam Chomsky, on whose seminal book of the same name the film is based. The film will kick off a new online initiative of Vikalp@Prithvi. Starting this Friday noon, it will provide a 48-hour YouTube or Vimeo link, valid till Sunday noon (or longer, depending on the discretion of the filmmaker), to a documentary film of acclaim on its Facebook page. Viewers’ queries ‘Vikalp: Films for Freedom’ has been bringing a monthly series of documentaries and short films, followed by a discussion, at Prithvi House, at 7 pm on the last Friday of every month. “We can’t do that anymore during the lockdown… we are going online with our interactive documentary film screenings on a weekly basis till the lockdown ends,” said filmmaker Anand Patwardhan, the driving force behind the initiative. Viewers can send in any questions they have for the filmmaker by leaving a comment on the Facebook post about the film by Saturday 5 pm. The filmmaker will reply to any or all of the questions and the answers will be posted on the same comments thread by Sunday night or latest by Monday. Vikalp: Films for Freedom was born as a parallel film festival in Mumbai in 2004 in the face of the censorship imposed on documentary filmmakers during the Mumbai International Film Festival (MIFF). A collective of a large number of filmmakers was formed and the “rejected” films were screened right across from the MIFF venue. Several filmmakers withdrew their films from MIFF and screened them at Vikalp, drawing packed houses everyday. Since then it has transformed itself from a parallel festival into a movement. Relevant to the times Curation is the all-important factor and Vikalp@Prithvi’s idea is to showcase films, old or new, that are passionate and relevant to the times we live in and address the socio-political and economic issues of the day. In that sense, Chomsky’s analysis of mass media and his critique of the political forces at work behind the daily news couldn’t have come at a better time. Vikalp@Prithvi is also inviting suggestions for films and is asking filmmakers who already have their work on YouTube or Vimeo to submit their preview links to vikalpscreenings@gmail.com if they’d like it to show the film online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/vikalpprithvi-goes-online-with-a-48-hour-link/article31458721.ece
29 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Animal disease detectives’ look towards India||India is on the radar of a consortium of veterinary scientists formed to train a new generation of ‘animal disease detectives’ in the Asia-Pacific region amid the coronavirus crisis. The $4.3 million programme currently involves 11 countries in the region — Cambodia, Fiji, Indonesia, Laos, Myanmar, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Solomon Islands, Timor-Leste, Vanuatu and Vietnam. The three-year programme is funded by the Indo-Pacific Centre for Health Security at the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. “A year after African swine fever wiped out more than a quarter of the global pig population and with more than 200,000 people dead from COVID-19, equipping veterinarians with the tools for disease outbreak investigation and surveillance has never been more important,” said programme leader Navneet Dhand, an Associate Professor in Veterinary Biostatistics and Epidemiology at the University of Sydney. “The coronavirus outbreak has underlined how urgent this work is. The majority of emerging infectious diseases, such as coronaviruses, are zoonotic: they spread from animals to humans,” added Mr. Dhand, who heads the consortium of more than 40 experts from veterinary schools across Australia, New Zealand and the Asia-Pacific. Researchers, however, said that while this coronavirus has its origins in animal transfer, there is no evidence the virus can be contracted from pets or other animals. “We are looking to expand to India and are already collaborating with epidemiologists in India. We are preparing a project proposal for submission to the Australia India Council to develop a strategic plan for establishing a similar training programme in India,” Mr. Dhand told The Hindu via email. Although the Australia India Council call for proposals has been postponed due to COVID-19, the consortium has developed collaborations with the National Institute of Veterinary Epidemiology in Bengaluru and the National Institute of Epidemiology in Chennai. “To protect humans from these diseases, we must look for pathogens and disease ‘upstream’ in domestic animals and wildlife before they spread to the human population,” Mr. Dhand said. “These diseases can spread rapidly across borders and have huge economic and health impacts. We are finding this out right now with coronavirus,” Mr. Dhand said. The ‘detective’ model will see the consortium engaging with government animal health authorities and educators in the Asia-Pacific region for strengthening the capacity to detect, respond, control and prevent animal disease outbreaks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/animal-disease-detectives-look-towards-india/article31458740.ece
29 April 2020||April 29 2020 07:12 IST,||Sudoku - April 29, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-29-2020/article31459399.ece
29 April 2020||New Delhi,||Azadpur Mandi a virus hotspot, city govt. should close it: traders||With 11 confirmed COVID-19 cases, and another suspected case emerging from it on Tuesday, the traders’ union at Azadpur Mandi has demanded that the wholesale fruits and vegetable market be shutdown. They said that the mandi has become a virus hotspot and should be declared a containment zone. Almost a dozen cases have come to light from the area between April 20 and April 26. While a senior government official put the number of COVID-9 cases connected to the mandi at “around a dozen”, Anil Malhotra, member of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (Azadpur), said there were “at least 20” cases that needed to be probed. These cases have surfaced over the last week and one person has died. “There are easily over 20 cases which are also just the tip of the iceberg. Labourers at the mandi have not been tested and no camp has been set up for it despite cases increasing daily,” he said, adding: “The whole area needs to be shut down and converted into a containment zone. The produce can be sold at other open spaces such as Japanese Park in Rohini, Nirankari grounds, and Chhatrasal Stadium. What is the government waiting for?” ‘No social distancing’ Social distancing norms are also not being enforced, especially at night, he further said. Official records show 11 confirmed cases were reported from shops located in A, B, C and D blocks. A total of 34 individuals are in quarantine; half of them are on the premises of the mandi. The government, meanwhile, said it is undertaking screening. “As many as 300 individuals have been screened so far. It is a continuous drive and more will be examined in the days to come,” said a senior Delhi government official. Adil Khan, chairman of the committee, said: “We are following social distancing norms. I am present on the premises of the mandi at night and oversee everything... As far as the number of cases are concerned, the official figure is so far at 11.” On April 20, the Delhi government had announced that the mandi would remain open round-the-clock to ensure uninterrupted supply of essentials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/azadpur-mandi-a-virus-hotspot-city-govt-should-close-it-traders/article31458876.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Over 4 lakh challans issued for speeding since lockdown began||Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava on Tuesday said no one is above law and motorists should not violate traffic rule when travel time is down to a minimum during the lockdown. He added that most of the challans are camera-based as the Traffic Police has been instructed to avoid direct contact with violators. As per the Traffic Police, a total of 4,54,438 challans have been issued for speeding during the lockdown period, from March 25 to April 26. Joint CP (Traffic) Narendra Singh Bundela said there is no exemption for any vehicle and violators have to pay the fine. The challans for speeding or red-light jumping are evidence-based as they get captured in a camera. “It is for the safety of everyone on the road,” he said. According to the police, 17 accidents took place between March 25 and April 26; and 18 people have died since the lockdown began. From January 1, 2020, to April 15, 298 people have been killed in 294 road accidents. In 2019, 569 people were killed in 559 road accidents from January 1 to April 30, a senior officer said. Earlier, data shared by the police showed that heinous crimes had significantly decreased by over 70% in the Capital in comparison to last year. As per the data, 221 cases of heinous crimes were registered in 2019 between April 1 and April 15; in 2020, 66 such cases were registered during the same period. Crime dip In the same period last year, a total of 10,579 cases were lodged; this year only 2,574 cases were registered. Reports of cases of murder and rape have also reduced by over 75%. In 2020, four cases of murder and 21 cases of rape were registered in Delhi; last year, 19 murder cases and 93 rape were registered during the first two weeks of April. The crime rate in Delhi dropped by 42% in the last two weeks of March as compared to the same period last year. A total of 1,990 cases were registered from March 15 to 31 this year as against 3,416 cases during the same period last year.  No one is above law, motorists should not violate traffic rule when travel time is minimum during the lockdown S.N. Shrivastava Commissioner of Delhi Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/over-4-lakh-challans-issued-for-speeding-since-lockdown-began/article31458880.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two months, five accommodations and yet far from home||From their rented accommodation in Shiv Vihar to Chaman Park, Chaman Park to Idgah, Idgah to another rented accommodation and now to the top floor of a madrasa building, the riots which broke out in the Capital in February have left a family living like nomads. Muskaan and her husband Imran Khan have shifted four times since February and haven’t seen their nine-year-old son ever since. They have been living with bare minimum essentials, dependent on money from the NGOs they had met at the Idgah relief camp. Torn clothes Wearing a blue-coloured kameez with a salwar, Muskaan pointed at two pairs, “These were given to me by a woman where I had gone to bath while staying at the Idgah camp. My clothes were torn so she gave me these. The one I am wearing was picked up by my husband from a pile of clothes lying there. The clothes were stinking but we didn’t have an option,” she recalled. Muskaan recalled that she and Imran left their rented accommodation in Shiv Vihar, which was looted by the mob, and shifted to Chaman Park without picking up a single belonging and were further sent to Idgah where they stayed for more than 20 days. Recalling the night they were asked to leave from the Idgah relief camp, Muskaan said, “It was raining heavily. They asked us to leave because of COVID-19 outbreak. They gave us Rs. 3,000 and a packet of ration which they claimed will last three months. It’s over in a month. I remember we didn’t even get a rickshaw and had to walk all the way in the rain,” she said. On street number 19, they rented a room for Rs. 2,500. Just as they started to settle, rent for the second month approached. The landlord asked Imran and Muskaan for rent which they didn’t have. “The landlord said he is also managing his needs with the rent money. But we were barely managing ourselves and paying rent was very tough,” said Imran, adding that he started looking out for other possibilities. Finally, an acquaintance decided to help and offered the couple an unfurnished floor of a multistorey building he owns, where a madrasa is functioning. The couple picked up their minimal belongings for the fourth time and left on April 22. Five days ago, they shifted refrigerator, TV, utensils, and a few clothes from their Shiv Vihar accommodation to this place. “We didn’t shift the belongings as we didn’t have a permanent place,” said Muskaan. The couple got an FIR registered as their house was looted and also submitted documents for compensation but haven’t received the money yet, they claimed. “The Waqf Board also promised Rs. 60,000 to us [tenants] but nothing has come so far. I am out of work for over two months now. The government gave dry ration but it also doesn’t have essentials like oil and spices,” said Imran, who used to work in a printing press in Jhilmil. The couple’s son Arman had gone to his maternal grandmother’s house in Ghaziabad, a day before riots broke out, and has been there since then. “I couldn’t bring him back as the situation here was not good and when it started getting better, COVID-19 and the lockdown started. It’s been two months I haven’t seen him. I only speak to him over the phone,” said a tearful Muskaan. Though Muskaan doesn’t have new clothes to offer namaz this Ramazan, she said, “In this holy month, I pray that this disease goes away and I can meet my son. All those who are unable to meet their loved ones because of this situation should unite again.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-months-five-accommodations-and-yet-far-from-home/article31458870.ece
29 April 2020||New Delhi,||Rights’ body seeks release of activists||The People’s Union for Democratic Rights (PUDR) on Tuesday demanded that activists Anand Teltumbde and Gautam Navlakha, who surrendered before the National Investigation Agency in Mumbai and Delhi respectively on April 14 in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case, be given interim bail in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The human rights’ organisation said other vulnerable prisoners of advanced age and ailments should also be released. “Both Prof. Teltumbde and Mr. Navlakha were interrogated by the NIA and have been sent to judicial custody. It has come to light that one of the officers of the NIA, Mumbai, has tested positive for COVID-19 in this period,” the PUDR said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rights-body-seeks-release-of-activists/article31458877.ece
29 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Arrests in riot cases to be done in accordance with SC guidelines’||The Delhi High Court has directed that arrests in connection with the recent riots in the Capital, shall be done in accordance with the Supreme Court guidelines related to arrest and detention. A Bench of Justice Siddharth Mridul and Justice Talwant Singh which also issued notice to the Centre, Delhi government and police seeking their stand on a petition alleging that arrests in connection with the riots were being made during the lockdown. Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind, in its plea, has contended that while the top court has called for a need to decongest jails in wake of coronavirus pandemic, the police was arresting people “on the pretext of investigation of offences related to the Delhi riots”. The Centre, during the hearing conducted through video conferencing, told the bench that all the arrests made so far and those which would be made in future, shall be strictly in accordance with guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court. “Directed accordingly,” the court said on Monday after noting the Centre’s submission and listed the matter for further hearing on June 24. The court also clarified that all the individuals who according to the petition have been arrested so far, “are at liberty to institute appropriate proceedings in accordance with law, including seeking regular bail..”. Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind claimed that police “unilaterally and arbitrarily” arrested persons from their homes during lockdown without informing their families the reasons for arrest. It alleged arbitrary arrest on the pretext of investigation of offences related to the Delhi riots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/arrests-in-riot-cases-to-be-done-in-accordance-with-sc-guidelines/article31458871.ece
29 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police bid to intimidate Kawalpreet, claims AISA||The All India Students’ Association (AISA) on Tuesday said that as part of a series of arrests and intimidation of student activists, Delhi Police went to its State president Kawalpreet Kaur’s house on April 27 and seized her mobile phone saying that it was required as part of an inquiry into the north-east Delhi riots. “The seizure memo given to her cites an FIR with a slew of charges including the Unlawful Activities [Prevention] Act [UAPA],” the AISA alleged in a statement. It added that the attempt to intimidate Ms. Kaur comes in the wake of similar acts of intimidation and arrests – especially targeting prominent voices in the movement to save India’s Constitution by opposing the CAA, NPR and NRC. The students’ association alleged that while police have claimed that its targeting of AISA and other students’ groups is based on painstaking “investigations” and “evidence”, in reality it was simply acting on a script that had been prepared by the government in power. “Ms. Kaur along with AISA activists joined thousands of students in raising their voices against CAA. AISA activists participated in peaceful protests,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-bid-to-intimidate-kawalpreet-claims-aisa/article31458873.ece
29 April 2020||New Delhi,||Students form union to end eviction by landlords||Students living on rent here have formed a union to “fight harassment by landlords and PG owners”. Despite a recent circular issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, landlords are harassing and threatening students with eviction, said Student Tenant Union Delhi (STUD) on Tuesday. Some residents of an all girls PG in Gurumandi, including those who have returned to their hometowns, have complained that they are being threatened with eviction notices if they failed to pay rent, the group said, adding that some owners have warned the students that their belongings will be thrown away. The group has helped students file a police complaint at the Model Town police station in this regard. The group has demanded unconditional suspension of rent during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/students-form-union-to-end-eviction-by-landlords/article31458879.ece
29 April 2020||New Delhi,||DU teachers on hunger strike to protest non-payment of salaries||Several DU teachers on Tuesday observed a day-long hunger strike to protest the non-payment of salaries, DUTA said. “The government has so far not cared to respond to the repeated pleas by the DUTA for the immediate release of salaries,” the group said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-teachers-on-hunger-strike-to-protest-non-payment-of-salaries/article31458878.ece
