01-10-2021||Business||By 2024, the battle of the skies could well be between Tata Air India and Indigo||The government is denying media reports that it has approved a bid by Tata Sons to  take over Air India. But it seems a virtual certainty that the airline will be sold to the Tatas with Bloomberg reporting that an official announcement is expected in the next coming days. So let’s take a peek to see what India’s aviation market might look like in years to come. Fast-forward to 2024. There’s a fierce battle over Indian skies between IndiGo Airlines and the old-new challenger Tata Air India (let’s call it TAI). Tata was the only real bidder for Air India in 2021 and finally walked away with the not-so-glittering prize that it wasn’t quite sure what to do with. TAI has had a hard time from the day it began flying under the new nomenclature proudly emblazoned on all its aircraft. By 2021, IndiGo had already built up a market share of around 59-60 per cent of the Indian passenger market and was the undisputed choice of a majority of the flying public. Any challenger was bound to be punched on the nose – more than once. By contrast, TAI – created from the merger of Air India, Vistara and Air Asia India – together only added up to about 25 per cent of the Indian flying market that had been badly battered by the global pandemic. On the ground, too, there were battles to be fought. Ask any corporate honcho and they will tell you that bringing about a merger between two companies is always a nightmare with both sides fighting for dominance in the new entity. In fact, after a decade, there are still rivalries between the old Indian Airlines staff and people from the former Air India who think that the people from the domestic airline stole the best jobs. The Tatas had a nightmare three-way logistics and personnel problem on their lap: they had to bring together the vastly different cultures of the Government-run Air India. By contrast, Vistara, jointly owned by the Tatas and Singapore Airlines, had been tightly run with a CEO from Singapore. Air Asia India, though, had never got its management structure right and had never been able to make a dent in the Indian market. Says an aviation industry expert: “Merging three different airlines with three totally different cultures represents a huge challenge.” To add to the complications, Air Asia was a low-cost airline and Vistara a full-service airline. Air India too, had its full-service airline and Air India Express, its low-cost sibling. It’s standard wisdom in the aviation industry that you can’t mix the two airline models. Initially, there were fears that both Singapore Airlines and Air Asia would object to this new merger. But Air Asia has its own difficulties at home and wanted out of the Indian market. It originally had a 49 per cent stake in Air Asia India and in 2020 sold about 33 per cent to the Tatas. That left them with about 15 per cent and it was rumoured they were ready to sell for just under $18 million. By and large, Air Asia has washed its hands of its Indian subsidiary. It’s even changed the email addresses of the Indian subsidiary. Its website is now airasia.co.in from airasia.com. Singapore was less keen, but after being battered by the pandemic was ready to go along and hope that TAI might be able to take on IndiGo. Vistara was well-managed and heading in the right direction but with only a 4 per cent to 5 per cent share of the Indian market, had a long struggle ahead. TAI had to figure how to fit into the new organisation Vistara CEO Vinod Kannan, a Singaporean Indian, who had been sent to India by Singapore Airlines. The biggest question of all was who should head TAI and could a person with the right experience be found in India or should it launch a mammoth headhunting operation in the international aviation industry. One decision-maker would clearly be Bhaskar Bhat, the long-time managing director of Titan, who had been the Vistara chairman since 2016. Bhat has always been highly regarded in every industry he has been in. TAI did have its strengths right from the day it began flying under the new nomenclature. The biggest of these was Air India’s international long-haul routes like Delhi and Mumbai to San Francisco and JFK, in New York. “Air India has good long-haul routes. If they can hold on to that definitely in three-four years it will be a huge opportunity for the Tatas,” says an airline industry executive. However, he points out that one weak point for Air India is that most of its fleet is on the older side. Also, Air India Express, headquartered in Kochi, had managed to get a good bite of the Gulf traffic. By contrast, IndiGo has made only hesitant steps internationally. It started a flight to Istanbul but it had one stop in the Gulf. It had also earlier started flights to destinations like Riyadh and Singapore. IndiGo is very conscious that a key factor in keeping its costs low has been flying one type of single-aisle aircraft that can be used on any route. In 2024, it’s slated to take possession of the Airbus A321XLR, a single-aisle aircraft that can fly to Europe and East Asian markets like Singapore. However, it won’t be able to have a business class on such flights. With two strong airlines, it should be possible for India to reclaim its own international market. In the 2010-2020 decade, it lost most of the international market to foreign carriers. The biggest chunk of the Indian market has been taken by the Gulf carriers like Emirates and Qatar Air. In fact, only about 15 per cent of Indian passengers were flying on Indian carriers. And Indian travellers who stop at Dubai or Doha, form about 30 per cent of passengers for the Gulf carriers. Airline experts believe that in the wake of the pandemic, globally passengers will want to not change flights. Says one expert: “I see hub-and-spoke operations coming down after Covid-19. People will not want to risk two flights rather than one.” On the domestic front, TAI will have a different problem. Around 80 per cent of the Indian market is made up of low-cost flyers. Vistara and Air India mostly offer full-service flights. Says an aviation industry expert: “In economy, you cannot charge more than IndiGo." One solution to this problem might be to run full-service flights on the metro routes – the airline would be able to cash in by carrying business class passengers. Then, on smaller city routes, like say, Ranchi to Delhi, it could have low-cost flights. IndiGo has, for over a decade, had a tried-and-tested model. The question is whether the Tatas will be able to match it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
01-10-2021||Business||Facebook 'actioned' about 31.7 million content pieces in August 2021: Compliance report||Facebook "actioned" about 31.7 million content pieces across 10 violation categories proactively during August in the country, the social media giant said in its compliance report on Friday. Facebook's photo sharing platform, Instagram took action against about 2.2 million pieces across nine categories during the same period proactively. Facebook had "actioned" over 33.3 million content pieces across 10 violation categories proactively during June 16-July 31 in the country. Instagram took action against about 2.8 million pieces across nine categories during the same period proactively. On Friday, Facebook said it had received 904 user reports for Facebook through its Indian grievance mechanism between August 1-31. "Of these incoming reports, Facebook provided tools for users to resolve their issues in 754 cases. These include pre-established channels to report content for specific violations, self-remediation flows where they can download their data, avenues to address account hacked issues etc," it added. Between August 1-31, Instagram received 106 reports through the Indian grievance mechanism. Over the years, we have consistently invested in technology, people and processes to further our agenda of keeping our users safe and secure online and enable them to express themselves freely on our platform. "We use a combination of Artificial Intelligence, reports from our community and review by our teams to identify and review content against our policies," a Facebook spokesperson said. In accordance with the IT Rules, the company has published its third monthly compliance report for the period for 31 days (1 August - 31 August), the spokesperson added. "This report will contain details of the content that we have removed proactively using our automated tools and details of user complaints received and action taken, the spokesperson said. In its report, Facebook said it had actioned about 31.7 million pieces of content across 10 categories during August 2021. This includes content related to spam (25.9 million), violent and graphic content (2.6 million), adult nudity and sexual activity (2 million), and hate speech (242,000). Other categories under which content was actioned include bullying and harassment (90,400), suicide and self-injury (677,300), dangerous organisations and individuals: terrorist propaganda (274,200) and dangerous organisations and Individuals: organised hate (31,600). "Actioned" content refers to the number of pieces of content (such as posts, photos, videos or comments) where action has been taken for violation of standards. Taking action could include removing a piece of content from Facebook or Instagram or covering photos or videos that may be disturbing to some audiences with a warning. The proactive rate, which indicates the percentage of all content or accounts acted on which Facebook found and flagged using technology before users reported them, in most of these cases ranged between 80.6-100 per cent. The proactive rate for removal of content related to bullying and harassment was 50.9 per cent as this content is contextual and highly personal by nature. In many instances, people need to report this behaviour to Facebook before it can identify or remove such content. Under the new IT rules, large digital platforms (with over 5 million users) will have to publish periodic compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon. The report is to also include the number of specific communication links or parts of information that the intermediary has removed or disabled access to in pursuance of any proactive monitoring conducted by using automated tools. For Instagram, about 2.2 million pieces of content were actioned across nine categories during August 2021. This includes content related to suicide and self-injury (577,000), violent and graphic content (885,700), adult nudity and sexual activity (462,400), and bullying and harassment (270,300). Other categories under which content was actioned include hate speech (37,200), dangerous organisations and individuals: terrorist propaganda (6,300), and dangerous organisations and individuals: organised hate (2,300).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
01-10-2021||Business||Sensex slumps 361 points in closing trade||Extending its losses for the fourth straight session, equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 361 points on Friday, weighed by HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and TCS amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 360.78 points or 0.61 per cent lower at 58,765.58. Similarly, the NSE Nifty declined 86.10 points or 0.49 per cent to 17,532.05. Bajaj Finserv was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by Maruti, Bharti Airtel, Asian Paints, Bajaj Finance and HDFC. On the other hand, M&M, Dr Reddy's, UltraTech Cement and PowerGrid were among the gainers. Benchmark indices fell for the fourth consecutive day on weak global cues, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Heavy selling pressure on financials (excluding PSU banks) and IT dragged the index. However, buying was seen in pharma, metals and PSU banks, he noted. He added that better-than-expected sales volume for select automobile companies enabled Nifty Auto index to recover from day's low, while investors preferred to book some amount of profit in the IT space ahead of September quarter earnings beginning from next week. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo and Seoul ended in the red. Shanghai and Hong Kong markets were closed for a holiday. Equities in Europe were also trading with significant losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.47 per cent to USD 77.94 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
01-10-2021||Business||GST collection touches all-time high in September at Rs 1.17 lakh crore||India's GST collection remained above Rs 1 lakh crore for the third month in a row at over Rs 1.17 lakh crore in September, raising expectations that second half of the year will post higher revenues. The tax collections in September on goods sold and services rendered was 23 per cent higher than Rs 95,480 crore collected in September 2020, and 27 per cent higher than Rs 91,916 crore collected in September 2019. The collection in September is the highest in five months since April, when revenue was at record high of Rs 1.41 lakh crore. Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection in August and July was Rs 1.12 lakh crore and Rs 1.16 lakh crore respectively. "The gross GST revenue collected in the month of September 2021 is Rs 1,17,010 crore of which Central GST is Rs 20,578 crore, State GST is Rs 26,767 crore, Integrated GST is Rs 60,911 crore (including Rs 29,555 crore collected on import of goods) and Cess is Rs 8,754 crore (including Rs 623 crore collected on import of goods), the finance ministry said in a statement. During September, revenues from import of goods were 30 per cent higher and the revenues from domestic transactions (including import of services) were 20 per cent higher than the revenues from these sources during the same month last year. The average monthly gross GST collection for the second (July-September) quarter of the current year has been Rs 1.15 lakh crore, which is 5 per cent higher than the average monthly collection of Rs 1.10 lakh crore in the first quarter of the year. "This clearly indicates that the economy is recovering at a fast pace. Coupled with economic growth, anti-evasion activities, especially action against fake billers have also been contributing to the enhanced GST collections. It is expected that the positive trend in the revenues will continue and the second half of the year will post higher revenues," it added. Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co Partner Rajat Bose said the buoyancy in GST collection is a good indicator of economic recovery. "As the festive season starts, GST collections should also see a rise in the near future," Bose added. The Centre has also released GST compensation of Rs 22,000 crore to States to meet their GST revenue gap, the ministry added. ICRA Chief Economist Aditi Nayar said the release of GST compensation cess of Rs 22,000 crore will benefit the states' cash flow situation, allowing accelerated spending in December quarter, complementing the expected boost to central government spending. Deloitte India Senior Director MS Mani said the GST collection figures indicate that growth of the economy is leading to stable collections, which would help in achieving the fiscal deficit target of 6.8 per cent of GDP. "Most of the key manufacturing states reporting a growth of 20 per cent plus compared to last year does indicate that an economic revival is clearly in progress across key states," Mani added. Mani further said the significant increase in GST collections both from import and domestic transactions compared to the same period last year and the marked increase in the collections in key states indicates an acceleration in business activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
01-10-2021||Business||Government junks report of Tata Sons acquiring Air India||India's finance ministry said on Friday reports suggesting the government has picked a winning bid for the debt-laden state-run airline Air India were incorrect. Earlier on Friday, Bloomberg reported that a panel of ministers accepted a proposal from officials recommending salt-to-software conglomerate Tata Sons ahead of an offer from Ajay Singh, promoter of India's airline operator Spicejet Ltd . "Media reports indicating approval of financial bids by Government of India in the AI disinvestment case are incorrect," the ministry said in a tweet. "Media will be informed of the Government decision as and when it is taken." Air India and Tata Sons declined to comment. Earlier this month the finance ministry said it had received bids for the airline, but did not name the bidders. A possible sale would come at a time the airline industry is trying to recover from the slump in travel caused by restrictions aimed at containing the coronavirus pandemic. This would also be seen as a relief to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government, which has been pushing to sell its entire interest in the loss-making airline. The winning bidder would win control of Air India's 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots at domestic airports, as well as 900 slots at airports overseas, including London's Heathrow Airport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
01-10-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged over 500 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Infosys amid sustained foreign fund outflow and a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share Sensex was trading 500.67 points or 0.85 per cent lower at 58,625.69. Similarly, the Nifty declined 150.40 points or 0.85 per cent to 17,467.75. Maruti was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by HDFC Bank, Bajaj Finserv, ICICI Bank, Bharti Airtel and HDFC. On the other hand, PowerGrid, NTPC, Bajaj Auto, M&M and Dr Reddy's were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 286.91 points or 0.48 per cent lower at 59,126.36, and Nifty declined 93.15 points or 0.53 per cent to 17,618.15. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,225.60 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. "The risk-off in equity markets has gathered momentum with sharp cuts in the mother market of the US. The Dow and S&P 500 are now more than 5 per cent off from their record highs. Markets, globally, have turned weak," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. He further noted that there are indications of a correction in India too. The leader of this rally, IT, is showing signs of exhaustion. When the leader turns weak, the resilience of the market will be tested. Sustained FII selling is another negative signal. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo and Seoul were trading in the red in mid-session deals. Shanghai and Hong Kong markets were closed for a holiday. Equities on Wall Street too ended with significant losses in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.19 per cent to USD 78.16 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
01-10-2021||Business||Government hikes domestic natural gas prices  by 62 per cent||The government on Thursday hiked by 62 per cent the prices of domestic natural gas used by fertiliser units, power plants and CNG for automobiles and piped natural gas supplied to households. The price of natural gas produced by state-owned firms such as ONGC from fields given to them on a nomination basis will be $2.90 per million British thermal unit for a six-month period beginning October 1, the oil ministry’s Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) said. The rate for gas produced from difficult deepsea fields would be $6.13 per mBtu against $3.62 per mBtu earlier.  The prices will be applicable on a gross heat value basis. This is the first increase in rates since April 2019 and comes on the back of firming up of benchmark international prices but does not reflect the spurt in spot or current price of liquefied natural gas in the last few  weeks. The BJP-led government had in October 2014 adopted a formula that takes into account the volume-weighted annual average of the prices prevailing in Henry Hub (US), National Balancing Point (UK), Alberta (Canada) and Russia with a lag of one-quarter. Prices are set every six months — on April 1 and October 1 — each year. The increase in gas price is likely to result in a 10-11 per cent rise in CNG and piped cooking gas rates in cities such as Delhi and Mumbai, sources said. It will also lead to a rise in the cost of generating electricity but consumers may not feel any major pinch as the share of power produced from gas is very low. The cost of producing fertiliser will also go up but as the government offers subsidy on the crop nutrient, the rates may not go up for the consumer. Natural gas prices affect earnings of state-run producers such as ONGC and Oil India Ltd. A dollar increase in price results in Rs 5,200 crore revenue for ONGC on an annualised basis, sources said. Sabyasachi Majumdar, senior vice-president & group head — corporate sector ratings, Icra, said: “The increase in gas prices provides limited relief to Indian upstream producers as even at these prices, gas production remains a loss-making proposition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
01-10-2021||Business||Covid: JSW group forced to delay expansion in paints||The JSW group has been forced to delay its expansion in paints because of the pandemic. JSW Paints plans to expand in the north, central and eastern regions and the company has earmarked an investment of Rs 750 crore. A decision on the expansion is likely to be made by the end of the current fiscal. The board of directors of JSW Steel in July has approved investments in JSW Paints in tranches between 2021-22 and 2024-25. At present, the company has an industrial coatings facility in Maharashtra and a decorative unit in Karnataka with a combined capacity of 115,000 kilo litres per annum. The third plant of JSW Paints could come up at Salboni in Bengal where the $13-billion group has a cement factory. JSW Paints will expand mainly in the decorative segment where the company is looking towards improving its market shares to 5 per from 1.5 per cent over a three- year period. “We had commissioned and launched the paints business in 2019. We were expecting a quick and rapid ramp up. But more than a year-and-a half has been affected because of the pandemic and that has slowed our plans to scale up,” said A.S Sundaresan, joint managing director and CEO, JSW Paints. The company on Thursday announced its foray into the Bengal market which will be catered from its existing plants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
01-10-2021||Business||Govt mandate for all auto makers to produce flex-fuel engines||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said that the government will make it mandatory for all vehicle manufacturers to make flex-fuel engines, after it gets permission from the Supreme Court. Flex-fuel, or flexible fuel, is an alternative fuel made of a combination of gasoline and methanol or ethanol. Addressing the annual session of industry body PHDCCI, Gadkari said that the government is working to develop an ethanol economy. “We are going to make it mandatory for all vehicle manufacturers to make flex-fuel engines (that can run on more than one fuel),” the road transport and highways minister said. The minister cited examples of Brazil, Canada and the USA, where most automobile companies manufacture flex-fuel engines vehicles. “We have submitted an affidavit in the Supreme Court. When we get the permission of the Supreme Court, then we will make it mandatory for all vehicle manufacturers to make flex-fuel engines,” Gadkari added. Gadkari suggested that the military should ban the use of diesel engine vehicles and use trucks which run on LNG, CNG and ethanol. The minister pointed out that ethanol is much cheaper than petrol and diesel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
01-10-2021||Business||Ola Electric raises over $200 million in funding||Ola Electric on Thursday said it has raised over $200 million (about Rs 1,484.7 crore) in funding from Falcon Edge, SoftBank and others, valuing the electric vehicle maker at $3 billion (about Rs 22,272 crore). Ola will accelerate the development of other vehicle platforms, including electric motorbike, mass market scooter and its electric car, a statement said. The funding will further strengthen Ola’s ‘Mission Electric’ that urges the industry and consumers to commit to electric and ensure that no petrol two-wheeler is sold in India after 2025, it added. “We’re proud to lead the EV revolution from India to the world. India has the talent and the capability to build technologies of the future for the industries of the future for the entire world. I thank our existing investors and welcome new ones to Ola,” Ola chairman and group CEO Bhavish Aggarwal said. In July, Ola Electric had announced signing a $100 million (about Rs 744.5 crore) 10 year-term debt financing agreement with BoB.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
01-10-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India may raise reverse repo rate next week||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is forecast to raise the reverse repo rate as early as next week — in the first big step towards policy normalisation as it looks to sponge the excess liquidity out of the system amid better prospects for the domestic economy with the US Federal Reserve likely to cut back on its  bond purchases  by the end of this calendar year. Citigroup economists Samiran Chakraborty and Baqar Zaidi said the central bank could raise the reverse repo rate — it is the rate at which the RBI mops up liquidity from the system — by 15 basis points in its October monetary policy. The six-member monetary policy committee (MPC) of the RBI will meet for three days from October 6. Bond markets were expecting the RBI to raise the repo rates only in December. Since the start of the pandemic, the RBI has ensured there was surplus liquidity in the system to keep the cost of funds low and boost economic growth. This had resulted in the reverse repo becoming the operative repo rate. There were some indications of policy normalisation in the August meeting of the rate panel when the central bank increased the size of the variable rate reverse repo auction — which is of a longer duration than the overnight reverse repo — to Rs 4 lakh crore against Rs 2 lakh crore earlier, though RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had denied it was a case of liquidity tightening. The RBI in a surprise move on Wednesday has set a higher cut-off yield for the 7-day variable reverse repo auction at 3.99 per cent which is closer to the repo rate of 4 per cent and not that of the reverse repo which is 3.35 per cent. “Increasing size and cut-off rates of recent VRRR auctions might have indicated the RBI’s willingness to normalise the liquidity management operations earlier than expected. Hence, we shift our 15 basis points reverse repo hike forecast to the October policy from December earlier,’’ the Citi economists said. They said they were expecting MPC to give a modest nudge towards liquidity normalisation next week but the RBI’s manoeuvres in the last fortnight has opened up other possibilities. This includes the 3.99 per cent cut-off in the latest VRRR auction, substantially higher than the 3.4-3.5 per cent range set earlier. “One can infer from this that the RBI is willing to normalise the liquidity management operations by reducing the amount absorbed under the fixed rate reverse repo and also bring the operative rate closer to the repo rate,’’ the note said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
01-10-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel to invest Rs 5,000cr to triple data centre capacity by 2025||Bharti Airtel on Thursday said it will be investing Rs 5,000 crore to triple its data centre capacity by 2025. The telco has unveiled a refreshed brand identity ‘Nxtra by Airtel’ for the data centre business. The company will set up seven hyperscale campuses and increase the share of green power in running data centres to 50 per cent from the present 35 per cent. “We are making a fresh investment of Rs 5,000 crore to expand our data centres. Some of the work has already started. As an organisation we are trying to build an ecosystem which will cover 70 more cities,’’ said Ajay Chitkara, director and CEO, Airtel Business. The company is already operating 10 large data centres and 120 edge data centres (relatively smaller facilities) located close to target markets, covering 70 cities in the country. Coupled with Airtel’s global network, it offers integrated solutions to large Indian enterprises, start-ups, SMEs and governments. The company is setting up new data centres in Chennai, Mumbai, Pune, Hyderabad, Bangalore, Noida and Calcutta. Nxtra expects the Chennai data centre to go live by October, Mumbai in the next 18 months and Calcutta by 2024. Its largest data centre will come up in Pune. On Calcutta, he said that it is one of the growth areas for Airtel and it also become a hub for neighbouring countries. Chitkara pointed out that India is expected to become a hub of data centres in the next three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
01-10-2021||Business||NCLT directs Zee Entertainment to hold board meeting||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Thursday directed Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd to hold a board meeting to consider Invesco’s request to convene an extraordinary general meeting EGM) to discuss matters related to the removal of MD and CEO Puneet Goenka and a major board reshuffle by appointing six new directors. US-based Invesco — which along with OFI Global China Fund hold 17.88 per cent in Zee — had dragged Zee to the NCLT for not announcing the date of the EGM . At the hearing, the NCLT Mumbai bench, comprising Bhaskara Pantula Mohan and Chandra Bhan Singh, directed Zee to hold the board meeting to discuss EGM dates. The tribunal said the law mandates Zee to convene the extraordinary general meeting, and the board does not have any discretionary power on whether to call the meeting or not. It also asked the company to communicate the board decisions appropriately to the shareholders. The tribunal will now hear the matter on October 4. “The board of the company is scheduled to meet according to the statutory time allotted, in relation to the matter. The company will continue to take all the actions needed in the interest of the shareholders under the law,’’ a spokesperson for Zee said. According to Section 100 of the Companies Act, a company has to announce an EGM date within 21 days of the receipt of a letter from any shareholder who holds more than 10 per cent . The meeting should be held within 45 days after receiving the letter, failing which the investor has the right to call the meeting within three months at company expenses. Zee has time till October 2 to announce the date as Invesco had shot off the letter on September 11. The NCLT said the Zee board should comply with Section 100 of the Companies Act and it does not have any power to deny the EGM. Mukul Rohatgi, who represented Invesco, told the tribunal that Zee was not being run as it should be and, therefore, they want to remove Goenka from the company’s board. Rohatgi said the two shareholders can call for an EGM on their own but it would be very difficult for them to reach out to all the 2.5 lakh shareholders of Zee as their details are not available to them. Gopal Subramaniam who appeared on behalf of Zee said a meeting of the independent directors is taking place on Thursday. Following that, the board of ZEEL will meet and a decision will be taken before the deadline. Dhanlaxmi activism Dhanlaxmi Bank on Thursday said its shareholders have rejected the appointment of statutory auditor P.B. Vijayaraghavan & Co. The bank had listed four agendas at its annual general meeting on Wednesday, of which two were passed and two rejected. The shareholders also rejected a proposal for the authorisation to the board of directors to appoint and fix remuneration of branch auditors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
01-10-2021||Business||Tata Steel sells NatSteel Holdings Pte Ltd for $172 million||Tata Steel has exited NatSteel Holdings Pte Ltd by selling the company to a Singapore-based trading outfit for $172 million (Rs 1,275 crore). The move is in line with Tata Steel’s plan to pivot the business on the profit making Indian operations and look for opportunities to trim overseas exposure. Singapore-based NatSteel was the first global gambit taken by the company after nearly a century of domestic orientation. A statement from the company said that transaction has been closed and consideration received. They took place on the same day as the signing of the definitive agreement, setting a benchmark in the merger and acquisition space. The proceeds from the sale will be utilised to retire offshore debt. The buyer of the company is TopTip Holding Pte Ltd, a Singapore-based steel and iron ore company. Tata Steel will, however, retain the wires business of NatSteel in Thailand (Siam Industrial Wires) as part of its downstream wires portfolio. Tata Steel said the valuation is 13 times of the historical EBIDTA of the business. The Indian company had acquired NatSteel in 2004 for Rs 1,313 crore, which was soon followed by the acquisition of Millennium Steel in Thailand in 2005 and Corus Group Plc in 2007. The Tatas had been looking to exit the South East Asian business for some time. In 2019, it had signed a definitive agreement to sell a 70 per cent stake in NatSteel and Tata Steel Thailand (formerly Millennium Steel) to China’s HBIS Group for $327 million. But the deal was aborted after the Chinese company failed to get the requisite approval to go ahead with the transaction. The entire SE Asia operation continued as “assets held for sale” on the books of Tata Steel for two more years thereafter. It was readjusted to “continuing operation” from the fourth quarter of the last fiscal. The company had then cited strong performance of the business as the reason for the reclassification. The 2-million-tonne steel operation had recorded a turnover of Rs 4,326 crore and profit after tax of Rs 42 crore in 2020-21. The SEA operation (including Thailand) also had a strong first quarter, earning cumulative EBIDTA of Rs 407 crore. However, within months of the reclassification, Tata Steel decided to sell out. Chatterjee in panel Koushik Chatterjee, ED & CFO of Tata Steel, joined Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) as its member. Officially launched in June 2021, TNFD aims to provide a framework for organisations to report and act on evolving nature-related risks in order to support a shift in global financial flows away from nature-negative outcomes and toward nature-positive outcomes. The 30-member committee is led by Elizabeth Mrema, United Nation’s assistant secretary general.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
01-10-2021||India||India-China clash: Naravane carries out security review in Ladakh||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday visited forward areas in eastern Ladakh to carry out a security review in a sensitive sector where the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have been locked in a border standoff for almost 17 months and both sides are carrying out negotiations to cool tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), officials familiar with the development said on Friday. Naravane visited forward areas in eastern Ladakh where he was briefed on the prevailing security situation and the army’s operational preparedness, the army said in a statement. The army chief interacted with the troops and complimented them “for their resoluteness and high morale”, it added. The two-day visit came barely two months after the rival armies carried out the second round of disengagement in early August when both sides pulled back their forward deployed troops from Gogra or Patrol Point-17A, which was one of the friction points on the LAC. The breakthrough came after the 12th round of military talks held on August 2. Earlier, India and China wrapped up the disengagement process in Pangong Tso area in mid-February, with their armies pulling back forward-deployed troops, tanks, infantry combat vehicles and artillery guns from strategic heights where rival soldiers last year fired shots for the first time at the LAC after 45 years. (The last recorded incident when bullets were fired at the LAC was in October 1975, when the PLA ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead). Problems at Hot Springs and Depsang are yet to be resolved. To be sure, the problems at Depsang predate the current border standoff. Even after the disengagement from Pangong Tso and Gogra, the two sides still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre. The dates for the 13th round of talks to discuss the other friction points along the LAC are yet to be announce The visit also came a day after the army chief said at an event in Delhi that developments along the LAC in Ladakh added to challenges faced by the Indian military on the “active and disputed borders” in the western and eastern fronts. The “unprecedented” military standoff with China required an immediate response and large-scale mobilisation of resources at a time when the country was grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic, he said while addressing the annual session of the PHD Chamber Of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) on Thursday. Naravane’s Ladakh visit also came barely a month after multiple PLA patrols consisting of around 100 soldiers crossed the LAC in the central sector in Uttarakhand and damaged a foot bridge before they went back to the other side. The army chief also visited the Rezang La War Memorial in eastern Ladakh and paid homage to the bravehearts killed in action during the 1962 India-China war. The historic Battle of Rezang La, fought at heights of more than 18,000 feet, saw 124 Indian soldiers repel attack after attack by a numerically superior and better-equipped enemy in November 1962.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
01-10-2021||India||India recorded over 350 crimes against children each day in 2020: Report||A total of 1,28,531 crimes against children were recorded in India last year, implying that an average of 350 such cases were reported each day during the pandemic, according to an NGO's analysis of the NCRB data.  However, when compared with figures from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) in 2019, there has been a drop of 13.3 per cent in the total number of such cases, Child Rights and You (CRY) said in its analysis.  There were 1,48,185 cases of crime against children recorded in 2019 which meant that each day over 400 such crimes are committed in the country.  Though there is a drop in total number of crimes against children, child marriage has increased 50 per cent and online abuse has increased 400 per cent in one year, the child rights organisation said.  Further analysis of the decadal trend suggests that crimes against children in India has increased steeply by 381 per cent in the last one decade (2010-2020) and over the same time, the number of overall crimes decreased by 2.2 per cent in the country.  A state-wise analysis shows that Madhya Pradesh (13.2 per cent), Uttar Pradesh (11.8 per cent), Maharashtra (11.1 per cent), West Bengal (7.9 per cent) and Bihar (5.1 per cent) account for nearly half of total crimes against children (49.3 per cent) in India, the organisation said.  Compared to NCRB data 2019, in the list of top five states, West Bengal has replaced Delhi while seeing a sharp increase in cases by more than 63 per cent.  Priti Mahara, Director, Policy Research and Advocacy, CRY, said: Experiences during humanitarian crises have revealed that issues of child protection tend to get exacerbated. School closures during Covid, mobility restrictions to contain the spread of the pandemic coupled with the economic slowdown disproportionately impacted livelihoods and household economic and food security of marginalised families.  "Therefore, it was highly likely that it contributed to increasing children's vulnerabilities to child labour, child marriage, child trafficking as well as cases of gender-based violence," she said.  According to CRY's analysis of NCRB data, cases under Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 saw an increase of nearly 50 per cent from 525 in 2019 to 785 in 2020.  However, the number of cases recorded under the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 1986 saw a decline of around 38 per cent from 770 cases in 2019 to 476 cases in 2020.  This is in contrast to the recently released ILO global estimates on child labour 2020 report, which states that there were 16.8 million more children within the age-group of five to 11 years in child labour in 2020 than in 2016, CRY said.  The COVID-19 crisis threatens to further erode global progress against child labour unless urgent mitigation measures are taken and new analysis suggests a further 8.9 million children will be in child labour by the end of 2022 as a result of rising poverty driven by the pandemic, it said.  Therefore, this decline needs to be seen in the light of reporting and recording of cases before drawing conclusions regarding progress related to addressing child labour in India, it said.  Another important aspect related to child protection during COVID-19 has been the lack of avenues for recreation and socialisation, according to the organisation.  Since there were restrictions on socialising in-person, and teaching shifted online, there was a corresponding rise in time spent by children online, making them vulnerable to online abuse and exploitation, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
01-10-2021||India||Congress in pathetic state in Punjab: Amarinder hits back at Harish Rawat||Hours after Congress leader Harish Rawat questioned his secular credentials in no-holds-barred attack, former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said on Friday it was prompted by the "pathetic situation" the party has now found itself.  "Three weeks before stepping down as CM, I had offered my resignation to Sonia Gandhi but she had asked me to continue," said Singh in a statement here, ridiculing Rawat's remarks that he seemed to be under pressure.  The former chief minister said the only pressure he had been under for the past few months was that of his own loyalty to the Congress, because of which he continued to tolerate insult after insult.  Punjab Congress in-charge Rawat had on Friday, in a press conference in Dehradun, countered Singh, who has said he would leave the party as he had been "utterly humiliated", saying that the Punjab leader must reject any attempt by the BJP if they try to make him their mask in the state.  He also said Singh's "proximity" with BJP leaders like Amit Shah puts a question mark on his secular credentials.  Reacting to Rawat's remarks, Singh said even his worst critics and enemies could not doubt his integrity in this regard.  "But I am no longer surprised that a senior and seasoned Congress leader like Rawat is questioning my secular credentials. It is quite evident that I am no longer trusted and respected in the party that I have served loyally all these years," he said, adding that "such remarks are prompted by the pathetic situation the party has now found itself in Punjab after being on a winning spree for four-and-a-half years".  Singh added that the humiliating manner in which he was pushed into resigning just hours before the CLP meeting that was clearly convened to oust him, was a matter of public record.  "The world saw the humiliation and the insult heaped on me, and yet Mr Rawat is making claims to the contrary," he remarked, asking "if this was not humiliation then what was it?"  Rawat, he said, should put himself in his shoes, and then, perhaps, "he would realise how insulting the entire affair was".  Singh, who has scotched speculation of his joining the BJP but said he will quit the Congress, recalled that Rawat himself had publicly stated after meeting him that he was satisfied by his (Amarinder Singh) government's track record on the 2017 poll promises.  In fact, Rawat had categorically stated, as recently as September 1, that the 2022 elections would be fought under his (Singh's) leadership and the high command had no intention of replacing him, he pointed out.  "So, how can he now claim that the party leadership was dissatisfied with me, and if they were, then why did he deliberately keep me in the dark all this time?" Singh asked.  "If the party did not intend to humiliate him then why was Navjot Singh Sidhu allowed to openly criticise and attack on social media and other public platforms for months? Why did the party give the rebels, led by Sidhu, a free hand in undermining my authority?"  He said, "Why was no cognizance given to the uninterrupted spree of electoral wins I handed over to the party through the four-and-a-half years I was in the saddle?"  Singh asked why the Congress was allowing Sidhu even now to hold the party to "ransom and continue to dictate terms".  "What is the pressure he exerts on the party leadership that they are so defenseless against him and are allowing him to have his way even to the cost of the Congress' future in Punjab?" he asked.  Singh also denied allegations that he had refused to meet Charanjit Singh Channi after the latter's swearing-in as Punjab chief minister.  He said Channi had called him up on the day of his swearing-in and was supposed to come over but failed to turn up.  As for not taking Rawat's calls, Singh said it was all humbug.  "We spoke just a day before the CLP meeting was called. Rawat told me then there was nothing in the works and even claimed he had not seen any letter sent by 43 MLAs. I am shocked at the blatant way in which he is now lying about this," the former chief minister added.  Singh said as the chief minister twice and Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief on three occasions, he had worked with stalwarts like Pranab Mukherjee, Moti Lal Vohra, Mohsina Kidwai, Meira Kumar and Shakeel Ahmed as Congress in-charge for Punjab.  "I never had a single problem with any of them. I fail to understand Mr.Rawat's behaviour and actions," he added.  Singh dismissed as total nonsense Rawat's remarks that he was 'circulating the theory of humiliation after meeting Amit Shah', and pointed out that he had clearly said on the day of his resignation (long before his meeting with the Union home minister) that he had been humiliated by thrice by the Congress party, which had sidelined him to convene CLP meetings twice in Delhi and the last time in Chandigarh even though he was the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader then.  As for implementation of poll promises, the former chief minister said contrary to the lies being touted by Rawat, he had fulfilled nearly 90 per cent of the promises made in the 2017 election manifesto, which was a matter of record and could not be negated with frivolous and baseless statements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
01-10-2021||India||Dependents of deceased won't need death certificate, surviving member proof for Covid aid: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said dependents of people who died of Covid-19 no longer need a death certificate and a surviving member certificate to avail financial aid under a state-run scheme. At a high-level review meeting, he expressed strong displeasure over the pendency of cases, and directed officers to disburse financial aid at the earliest. "Laid-back attitude will not be tolerated. This scheme aims to provide financial assistance to families as they mourn the loss of their loved ones. All these people are victims and do not deserve to be troubled because of paperwork," a statement quoted the CM as saying. "There should no longer be a need for submitting death certificates and surviving member certificates for the processing of the applications," he told officers. Officials should verify applications using the MHA list or the official records instead and immediately disburse the money, Kejriwal said, adding that applicants should not be asked to come to the office. "If we have their names on our lists, the officials must go to the homes of these families and hand them over their rightful amount by next week," he said. The chief minister also brought a citizen to the meeting who had reached out to him with grievances related to the scheme. On hearing the grievance of the person, the CM instructed the officials to be more sensitive in dealing with the applicants. He said there should be no delay in disbursal of the amount over frivolous reasons and if the spouse is alive, they be given the entire amount. If multiple children are surviving, members divide the amount among them equally. Don't pile up paperwork, Kejriwal said. In June, the city government had notified the Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojna to provide immediate financial relief to families who have lost their dear ones to the coronavirus. Under the scheme, the Delhi government has promised to provide a one-time financial assistance of Rs 50,000 to each Covid-19 victim's family, and Rs 2,500 monthly assistance to households that lost their sole breadwinner and for orphaned children. Officials said 25,709 applications have been received for the one-time ex-gratia amount of Rs 50,000 under the scheme. Out of this, 24,475 applications have been tallied against the list of the MHA. Verification of around 19,000 applicants has been completed. During this process, 1,250 people opted out of the scheme. The health department has approved 9,043 applications, and the ex gratia payment has been transferred to the accounts of 7,163 beneficiaries so far. As many as 1,425 applications have been rejected due to various reasons. The officials said 6,700 applications have been received for monthly financial assistance under the scheme. Out of this, 3,648 have been approved and 3,131 beneficiaries have started receiving the benefit. So far, Rs 1,56,57,500 have been transferred to their accounts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
01-10-2021||India||Kerala Health Minister launches pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for infants||Kerala Health Minister Veena George on Friday launched the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for infants as part of the state's Universal Immunisation Programme at the Government Women And Children's Hospital at Thycaud near here. During the state-wide launch, the Minister said the vaccine protects children from pneumonia and meningitis caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae bacteria. "The vaccine is effective against pneumococcal diseases in children. That is why this has been included as part of the Universal Immunisation Programme as per the direction of the Union Health ministry. This vaccine will be available in the districts from the next immunisation day," the minister said. She said pneumococcal pneumonia is one of the leading causes of mortality among children and urged people to administer the vaccine to protect the children. George said the vaccine will be given in three doses to infants. "After the first dose at one-and-a-half months, the two next doses will be given at three-and-a-half months and at nine months respectively. The vaccine can be administered till the child attains one years of age," she said. George said the state may require 40,000 doses of vaccine per month and currently, the health department has stocked 55,000 doses. She said necessary training has been given to the health workers for the administration of the vaccine and appreciated the efforts taken by the staff of the health department. As the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine has been introduced under the Universal Immunisation Programme, all children aged below one in the State will receive it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
01-10-2021||India||In India's comeback to UK, British nationals must undergo 10-day quarantine upon arrival in Delhi||British nationals arriving in India, irrespective of their vaccination status, will have to undergo 10 days of mandatory quarantine from October 4 as part of the reciprocal actions initiated by the government following the vaccine certification row between the two countries. India has decided to impose reciprocal actions on British nationals arriving in India, official sources said as the issue relating to the UK not recognising Indian vaccine certificates could not be resolved. They said India's new regulations will come into effect from October 4 and they will be applicable to all British nationals arriving in India from the UK. Under the norms, all British nationals arriving in India from the UK, irrespective of their vaccination status, will also have to undertake the pre-departure Covid-19 RT-PRC test within 72 hours before travel, the sources said. They will also have to undertake a Covid-19 RT-PCR test on arrival. The British nationals, irrespective of their vaccination status, will again have to undertake RT-PCR test on Day 8 of their arrival in India, the sources said. The British nationals will also have to undergo mandatory quarantine at home or in destination address for 10 days after arrival, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
01-10-2021||India||Amarinder's relations with BJP leaders put question mark on his secularism, says Harish Rawat||Punjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat on Friday said Amarinder Singh's "proximity" with BJP leaders like Amit Shah puts a question mark on his secular credentials and warned the Centre not to attempt toppling a majority government in the state. Alleging that the former Punjab chief minister was playing into the hands of people with whom he had no ideological ties, Rawat said Singh should have stood with the Congress leadership to save democracy. "His proximity with (Union home minister) Amit Shah and some other BJP leaders puts his secular credentials in doubt," he said at a press conference here. Rebutting allegations that the party had humiliated Singh, Rawat said it always gave him respect. "Amarinder Singh was Punjab Congress president thrice and chief minister twice. Is it humiliation? He should compare himself with senior party leaders who had got much less than him in terms of opportunities," the former Uttarakhand chief minister said. "At a time when the country faces the challenge of saving democracy, Amarinder Singh should have stood with (Congress chief) Sonia Gandhi and strengthened her fight to save democratic values instead of playing into the hands of people who are using his so-called humiliation for political reasons," Rawat said. Rawat also warned the BJP-led Centre not to attempt to topple a majority government in Punjab. His warning comes just a day after Singh met Shah in New Delhi on Thursday. The Punjab Congress in-charge also said there is positive progress in the negotiations between Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Navjot Singh Sidhu. Channi is from the Dalit community and every political party should support him, Rawat said. "But I warn the BJP government at the Centre not to try to topple a majority government in Punjab," he said and advised Singh not to walk into the BJP's trap.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
01-10-2021||India||Delhi University's JMC & Hansraj, other colleges set 100 per cent cut-offs||Delhi University on Friday announced its first cut-off list for undergraduate admissions with at least six colleges, including SRCC and Hindu, pegging the cut-offs at 100 per cent. Among the colleges that have declared 100 per cent cut-offs are Sri Ram College for Commerce for Economics Honours and B.Com Honors, Hindu College and Ramjas College for Political Science Honours, Hindu College and SGTB Khalsa College for BCom, Hansraj College and Deen Dayal Upadhyay College for Computer Science Honours and Jesus and Mary College for Psychology Honours. College principals had predicted the cut-offs to soar high this year with over 70,000 students scoring above 95 per cent in the CBSE class 12 board exams. In 2020, Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College released a cut-off requirement of 100 per cent for three courses -- BA (Hons) Economics, Political Science and Psychology. It was in 2015 that two colleges -- College of Vocational Studies (CVS) and IP College for Women -- required the perfect score for admission to BSc (Hons) Computer Science. Students will start applying to colleges from October 4. Over 2.87 lakh students have applied for Delhi University's undergraduate courses, down from 3.53 lakh applications last year, with the maximum aspirants from the CBSE. Over 2.29 lakh applicants are from CBSE-affiliated schools, followed by Board of School Education Haryana (9,918), Council for the Indian School Certification Examination (9,659) and Uttar Pradesh Board of High School and Intermediate Education (8,007).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
01-10-2021||India||Bengal bypolls: 57 per cent voting in Bhowanipore||The Bhowanipore Assembly constituency, where Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting, registered over 57 per cent polling during Thursday's by-election, a senior Election Commission official said. A high voting rate at 79.92 per cent and 77.63 per cent was recorded in Murshidabad's Samserganj and Jangipur seats respectively, where polls had to be countermanded during the April-May Assembly elections following the death of two candidates. "In Bhowanipore, there was a turnout of 57.09 per cent. Samserganj registered maximum voting turnout during yesterday's polling," the official told PTI. The voting, which was held from 7 am to 6 pm, was by and large peaceful, he added. A total of 6,97,164 voters were eligible to exercise their franchise in the three constituencies. Mamata, who is also the Trinamul Congress supremo, is pitted against BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal and CPI(M)'s Srijib Biswas in Bhowanipore. The chief minister, who lost from the Nandigram constituency in the assembly elections held earlier this year, has to win this by-poll to retain the post. Votes will be counted on October 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
01-10-2021||India||Greater efforts needed to vaccinate the old, says WHO||On International Day of Older Persons, the World Health Organisation on Friday called for greater efforts in the South-East Asian region to expand COVID-19 vaccination coverage among the older population, saying they remain vulnerable to the virus and at highest risk of severe diseases. "The older population continues to be highly vulnerable in the ongoing pandemic. Protecting them against the deadly COVID-19 virus should be our priority. "By vaccinating the elderly population as part of high-risk groups, countries can effectively reduce deaths and hospitalization," Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region said in a statement. Noting that a few countries are progressing towards a reasonably good coverage of their elderly population, she stressed that concerted and focused efforts to improve coverage of the elderly will be required in all countries of the region to protect these vulnerable populations. As countries further accelerate COVID-19 vaccination, they must closely look into all issues impacting access to these lifesaving vaccines for this highest risk population and address them, she said. The COVID-19 vaccines are safe and effective in preventing severe disease and death. Protecting the most at risk population would not only help in reducing the disease burden, but also limit the impact on the health systems, she added. "Throughout the COVID-19 response, we must continue to protect and enhance the health and well-being of older people, including by ensuring that they have access to essential health services," she said. On the UN International Day of Older Persons, the WHO called on countries and partners to intensify action to foster healthy ageing. "Digital equity for all ages" is the theme of this year's UN International Day of Older Persons, which is especially relevant to policy makers in health and health systems. Key innovations in telemedicine, m-health and e-health initiatives many catalyzed or expanded by the pandemic - must be accessible to all older people. Such innovations should outlast the pandemic, accelerating region-wide efforts to achieve universal health coverage, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
01-10-2021||India||Haryana Police use water cannons on protesting farmers||The Haryana Police on Friday used a water cannon to disperse a group of farmers who tried to force their way in Jhajjar where Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala was to attend a programme. A group of protesters jumped barricades and tried to force their way to the venue, police said. The venue of the event was a government college in Jhajjar. Police said the protesters gathered near the venue with some of them jumping over the barricades to force their way inside. Jhajjar's senior police officials and the deputy commissioner reached the spot to oversee law and order. Later in the day, Chautala is also scheduled to attend another event in Jhajjar. A group of farmers on Thursday jumped over police barricades in a bid to march towards the venue of a BJP meeting in Karnal's Indri, police said earlier. Among those present at the meeting were Indri MLA Ram Kumar Kashyap and senior state BJP leader Pawan Saini. Farmers, who are protesting against the three central farm laws, have been opposing public functions of the BJP-JJP combine in Haryana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
01-10-2021||India||India not taken into confidence on all aspects of Doha deal: Jaishankar||India was not taken into confidence on various aspects of the Doha deal inked between the US and the Taliban last year and the latest developments in Afghanistan will have "very, very significant consequences" for the region and beyond, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has said. He also said that the key concerns for India at this juncture included whether Afghanistan will have an inclusive government and that Afghan soil is not used for terrorism against other states and the rest of the world. Speaking virtually at the annual leadership summit of the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF) on Thursday, Jaishankar also suggested that India was in no hurry to deliberate on giving any recognition to the new dispensation in Kabul. In an interactive session with former American ambassador Frank Wisner, the external affairs minister also said that the Quad or Quadrilateral coalition comprising India, the US, Australia and Japan is not against any country and it should not be seen as some kind of "ganging up" and a negatively driven initiative. India and the US are on the same page on many issues relating to the recent developments in Afghanistan including apprehensions about the possible use of Afghan soil for terrorism. "I think, to some degree, we would all be justified in having levels of concern and to some degree, I think the jury's still out. When I say levels of concern, you know, there were commitments which were made by the Taliban, at Doha, I mean, the US knows that best I mean, we were not taken into confidence on various aspects of that," he said. "So whatever, whether deal which was struck in Doha, I mean, one has a broad sense. But beyond that, you know, are we going to see an inclusive government? Are we going to see respect for the rights of women, children, minorities?" he asked. "Most important are we going to see an Afghanistan whose soil is not used for terrorism against other states and the rest of the world, I think, these are our concerns," Jaishankar added. He said what had happened in Afghanistan, is going to "have very, very significant consequences for all of us, and we are so close to the region." The minister said that the key concerns were captured by a UN Security Council resolution in August and that how those questions are addressed today is still an open question, which is why "I said the jury is still out". "If you ask me is this the time to draw sharp conclusions, I would sort of take my time and study this with a certain degree of deliberation, because as I said, a lot of this, whatever understandings, there have been, many of these are not known to the entire international community," he added. To another question on how India and the US looked at the situation in Afghanistan, Jaishankar said both sides are on a similar page, at a principle level on many of the issues, particularly on the possible usage of Afghan soil for terrorism. He said the issue figured in discussions between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden in Washington last week. "Again, look, there would be issues on which we would agree more, there would be issues on which we would agree less. Our experiences in some respects are different than yours (the US). You know, we have been victims of cross border terrorism ourselves from that region," Jaishankar said. "And let us say that has shaped in many ways, our view of some of the neighbours of Afghanistan. So now, how much, the US shares that view, and where is it that the US sort of makes its tactical compromises I think that is for the Americans to figure out," he said. Asked whether it included a joint signal to Pakistan, he only said: "There are aspects that we share, and there are aspects where maybe our positions are not exactly the same." To a query on Quad and ways to manage the rise of Chinese power, Jaishankar said the four-nation partnership is not against somebody. "I think it's very important not to be sort of railroaded into some kind of negative discourse, which actually is not from our script, it is somebody else's script. And I don't think we should fall for that. I think we need to be positive," he said. On the question of how to deal with the rise of China, Jaishankar said: "I would say, in many ways, those are bilateral choices that all of us have to make, we each have a very substantial relationship with China." "And, in many ways, China being today is such a big player and so salient in the international economy, I think it's natural that these relationships are quite unique. So what are my problems, or my opportunities would not be the same as that for the US, or Australia, or Japan, or Indonesia or France," he added. Jaishankar said it would be different for each country and added that the rise of China has had a very fundamental impact on the international order. "So as participants in the international order, we need to assess that and respond to that, in the light of our own interest. So I think it's sort of essential to look normalise this conversation," he said. "You know, this should not end up as though it's some kind of ganging up and a negatively driven event, I don't think that's the fair description of what is a completely natural evolution of the international order to my mind," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
01-10-2021||India||Australia's medical regulator approves Covishield for incoming travellers||Australia's top medical regulator on Friday approved the Covishield vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India for incoming international travellers, a step that is expected to facilitate the return of thousands of Indian students to that country. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison's office said the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) has advised that Coronavac (Sinovac) and Covishield should be considered as "recognised vaccines" for the purpose of determining incoming international travellers as being appropriately vaccinated. It said Australia is ready to take its next steps to safely reopen to the world, with changes coming to the international border. "Our government is setting out the framework for how international travel will look in coming months," it said. It is not immediately clear whether the TGA's approval for Covishield will facilitate immediate travel to Australia by Indian students waiting to return to that country or whether certain changes will have to be made to the existing protocols for the entry of foreign nationals into the country. The TGA is Australia's medicines and medical devices regulator. "Today, the TGA has published its initial assessment of the data on the protection offered by the Coronavac (Sinovac) and Covishield (AstraZeneca/Serum Institute of India) vaccines and has advised that these vaccines should be considered as 'recognised vaccines' for the purpose of determining incoming international travellers as being appropriately vaccinated," the Australian Prime Minister's Office (PMO)said in a statement. It said declaring certain COVID-19 vaccines as 'recognised vaccines' is separate to a regulatory decision on whether they are approved for use for vaccination in Australia, which has not been made by the TGA. "The recognition of these two additional vaccines is a major milestone towards more Australians vaccinated overseas getting home sooner," the statement said. "In coming weeks, the Minister for Health will consider updates to the Biosecurity Act Emergency determinations to facilitate some of these changes for fully vaccinated Australian travellers as we move forward on the National Plan to get Australia back to normal and reopen our country safely," it said. The Australian PMO said that the government will finalise in the coming weeks the processes for people to be able to show their vaccination status if they have had a TGA recognised vaccine. "People who have received vaccines not recognised by the TGA, or who are unvaccinated, will be required to undertake 14 days of managed quarantine on arrival," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
01-10-2021||India||Deep depression intensifies into cyclone Shaheen, moves away from Indian coast||The deep depression in the Arabian Sea intensified into Cyclone Shaheen on Friday morning and it is further likely to intensify into a 'severe cyclonic storm' by evening, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The system is moving away from the Indian coast, the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD said. "The cyclonic storm Shaheen over northeast Arabian Sea and neighbourhood moved west-northwestwards with a speed of about 20 kmph today over central parts of north Arabian Sea," it said. "It is very likely to further intensify into a severe cyclonic storm during the next 12 hours and move west-northwestwards skirting Makran coast (Pakistan) during next 36 hours. Thereafter it is likely to re-curve west-southwestwards, move towards Oman coast across the Gulf of Oman and weaken gradually," it added. Cyclone Shaheen was formed from the remnants of Cyclone Gulab, which had hit the east coast on September 26. Cyclone Gulab's intensity had reduced further as it traversed central India, pounding parts of Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, and Gujarat. As its remnants entered the Arabian Sea, they intensified further into a cyclonic storm on Friday morning. It is a rare instance that one cyclone that formed over the Bay of Bengal has traversed the breadth of the country to reach the west coast and again intensify into a cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
01-10-2021||India||Narendra Modi launches second phase of the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched the second phase of the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation. In line with the vision of the prime minister, SBM-U 2.0 and AMRUT 2.0 have been designed to realise the aspiration to make all cities garbage free and water secure, according to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). At an event at the Ambedkar International Centre here, the prime minister launched the flagship missions. "These missions signify a step forward in the march towards effectively addressing the challenges of rapidly urbanising India and will also help contribute towards achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals 2030," the PMO said. "SBM-U 2.0 envisions to make all cities 'garbage free' and ensure grey and black water management in all cities other than those covered under AMRUT, make all urban local bodies open defecation free+ and those with a population of less than one lakh as open defecation free++, thereby achieving the vision of safe sanitation in urban areas. "The mission will focus on source segregation of solid waste, utilising the principles of 3Rs (reduce, reuse, recycle), scientific processing of all types of municipal solid waste and remediation of legacy dumpsites for effective solid waste management," the PMO said. The outlay of SBM-U 2.0 is around Rs 1.41 lakh crore, it said. "AMRUT 2.0 aims at providing 100 per cent coverage of water supply to all households in around 4,700 urban local bodies by providing about 2.68 crore tap connections and 100 per cent coverage of sewerage and septage in 500 AMRUT cities by providing around 2.64 crore sewer or septage connections, which will benefit more than 10.5 crore people in urban areas," the PMO said. "AMRUT 2.0 will adopt the principles of a circular economy and promote conservation and rejuvenation of surface and groundwater bodies," it said. "The mission will promote data-led governance in water management and technology sub-mission to leverage the latest global technologies and skills. "The outlay of AMRUT 2.0 is around Rs 2.87 lakh crore," the PMO statement said. "SBM-U and AMRUT have contributed significantly to improve the urban landscape during the last seven years," PMO has said. "The two flagship missions have augmented the capacity to deliver basic services of water supply and sanitation to the citizens," it said. "Swachhta has become a jan andolan today, all urban local bodies have been declared open defecation free and 70 per cent solid waste is being scientifically processed now," the PMO said. "AMRUT has been ensuring water security by adding 1.1 crore household water tap connections and 85 lakh sewer connections, thus benefiting more than four crore people," it said. Union Minister for Housing & Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State for Housing & Urban Affairs Kaushal Kishore as well as ministers of urban development of several states and union territories were also present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
01-10-2021||India||Punjab CM meets Narendra Modi ||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his residence here and urged him to repeal the three farm laws. Channi also said that he has called for early resolution of the farmers' agitation. The prime minister has said he also wanted it to end and is working towards it, the chief minister said. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi's borders against the three farm laws since November last year and have been demanding the legislations be repealed. During his meeting with Modi, Channi called for immediately starting the procurement of paddy in Punjab, which has been delayed this time to October 10. "I have urged the prime minister to end this agitation over the three farm laws. He listened to me intently and said he also wants a solution to this problem and is working in this direction," Channi told reporters after the meeting. He also urged the prime minister to resume talks with the protesting farmers, "because I feel the matter can only be resolved through dialogue". "I have urged him (prime minister) that the three laws should be scrapped," Channi said. "I have told him that Punjab's economy is agriculture driven and Punjab can only progress if our farmers and farm labourers are happy," the chief minister said. Channi said that he has also told the prime minister that Punjab is suffering because of the farmers' agitation and the state has always fought for the country and our people have sacrificed their lives in the freedom struggle and for the unity of the country . Modi also shared pictures of his meeting with Channi on Twitter and said, "The Chief Minister of Punjab, Shri @CHARANJITCHANNI called on PM". This is Channi's first meeting with Modi after becoming chief minister. Asked on Navjot Singh Sidhu's issues with him and whether they have been resolved, Channi evaded the question. "I met the prime minister for the first time after becoming the chief minister. It was also a courtesy call. This was the first meeting and hence, there was no agenda as such. But still I have raised three issues with him" Channi told reporters after the meeting that last over half an hour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
01-10-2021||India||SC raps farmers for strangulating 'entire city', damaging citizens' property||You have strangulated the entire city and now you want to come inside and start protest here again, an irked Supreme Court Friday told a farmers' body protesting against the three new farm laws and seeking directions to authorities to allow it to stage 'satyagrah' at Jantar Mantar here. "What was the point in continuing with the protest once it has moved the court challenging the farm laws," the apex court asked the farmers' body, and said the citizens have equal rights to move freely and without fear and there has to be some balanced approach . A bench of justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar asked the petitioners whether they take permission from the residents of the area if they are happy with their protest. The top court was hearing a petition filed by Kisan Mahapanchayat', a body of farmers and agriculturists, and its president seeking directions to the concerned authorities to provide space to at least 200 farmers or protestors of the body at the Jantar Mantar for organising peaceful and non-violent Satyagrah'. "You have strangulated the entire city and now you want to come within the city and start protest again here," the bench said, adding, "There has to be some balanced approach." At the outset, the counsel appearing for the petitioners told the bench that the plea is seeking direction to the concerned authorities to permit them to stage Satyagrah' at Jantar Mantar here. "Tell us one thing, you want Satyagrah' here, no difficulty. But you have approached the court. Once you have approached the court, have trust in the court and the judicial system that it will decide your case appropriately," the bench said. It said the petitioner has already moved the high court against the farm laws and they can approach the court for expeditious hearing. "What is the point of doing Satyagrah," the bench observed. The counsel argued that the courts will examine the validity of the farm laws. "Your issue is only that repeal those three laws. You have filed a writ petition before the high court. Once you have made up your mind and have approached the court and having done that, thereafter you cannot say that you will continue with the protest. What is the purpose of this," the bench asked. When the bench asked, "Are you protesting against the judicial system," the petitioner's counsel said, no . "Once you have approached the judicial system, have faith in the court. You pursue that matter for urgent hearing instead of protesting again," the bench said. It said the right to protest is there but the citizens also have equal rights to move freely and without fear. "Their properties are being damaged. Do you take permission from the residents around that whether they are happy with your protest," the apex court said, adding, "This coaxing business should stop." Even the security personnel were obstructed during the protest and it has come in media reports that when defence personnel were travelling, they were stopped and heckled, it added. The petitioner's counsel said the farmers are holding peaceful protest. "What is this peaceful protest? You block trains, you block highways and then you say your protest is peaceful and without causing any harm to the public," the bench said. The counsel said the highways have not been blocked by the farmers, but by the police. The bench said the farmers' body has come to the court and they also stage protest and block highways due to which public transport system is affected. When the counsel argued that the petitioner body has not blocked any highways, the bench said, "You are not part of that protest, declare that position on affidavit. We will take notice of that." The petitioner's counsel said he would file an affidavit. It asked the petitioner to serve advance copy of the plea to the central agency and also to the office of the Attorney General. Several farmer organisations are protesting against the passage of three laws -- The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020. Initially, the protests started from Punjab in November last year and later spread mainly to Delhi, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh. The plea, filed through advocate Ajay Choudhary, has arrayed the Centre, the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi, and the Police Commissioner of Delhi as respondents. The petition has said that representation made by the petitioners to the concerned authority to permit them to hold a peaceful protest at Jantar Mantar has been rejected. The action of the respondents is also discriminatory and arbitrary as permission to protest has been granted to another farmer body while denying the petitioner to organise staggered Satyagrah', which is the most non-violent, peaceful, and truthful form of protest perfected and practised by father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi, the plea has alleged. It claimed that the action of concerned authorities in permitting similar protests at the same site is unfair and violative of the Right to Equality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
01-10-2021||India||Covid cases on the rise, India logs 26,727 new infection||India logged 26,727 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,37,66,707, while the active cases declined to 2,75,224, the lowest in 196 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,48,339 with 277 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.82 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.86 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 1,796 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 15,20,899 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 57,04,77,338. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.76 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 32 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.70 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 98 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,30,43,144, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 89 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 277 new fatalities include 122 from Kerala and 56 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,48,339 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,067 from Maharashtra,37,794 from Karnataka, 35,578 from Tamil Nadu, 25,087 each from Delhi and Kerala, 22,892 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,793 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
01-10-2021||India||TN Speaker opposes location for Kudankulam nuclear waste storage||Tamil Nadu Speaker M. Appavu on Thursday set aside convention to publicly oppose the proposed location of the nuclear waste repository for the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project’s units 3 and 4 within the plant premises, saying it would be a hazard to the local population. “Nuclear wastes must be deposited at a place not inhabited by people,” Appavu told reporters at his constituency of Radhapuram, within which the nuclear plant falls, backing a stand taken by several environmentalists. “If nuclear wastes are to be stored in the Kudankulam complex itself, it will pose a great danger to the health and safety of the people.” Appavu urged the Centre to direct the AERB to reconsider its decision. It’s rare for an Assembly Speaker to publicly oppose a policy decision. Some 35,000 people live in the fishing villages within 5km from the Kudankulam plant, and many more just beyond, said anti-nuclear activist S.P. Udhayakumar. Appavu did not say how far he wanted the waste storage facility to be located from human habitation, but cited how India had conducted its nuclear tests in the Rajasthan desert. The Atomic Energy Regulatory Board has decided “to co-locate the ‘Away From Reactor (AFR) Spent Fuel Storage Facility’ within the main plant boundary of KKNPP”, an AERB notification says. The Kudankulam plant, located in Tirunelveli district, has from its beginning lived under the shadow of local concerns about public health. The then under-construction plant had in 2011-12 contend with a court battle and huge protests from local fishermen and environmental groups, before safety assurances from a high-level expert committee settled the issue. The AERB notification said the consent for the nuclear waste repository had been given after receiving confirmation that all AERB and International Atomic Energy Agency norms had been followed. It said the radiological impact from the spent fuel facility on the plant’s workers would not be beyond the AERB-prescribed limits. Appavu told reporters he had taken the matter to chief minister M.K. Stalin, who had recently directed the withdrawal of most of the cases against those who had peacefully agitated against the construction of the plant in 2011. He said the Indian Space Research Organisation had a research and development facility just 25km away at Mahendragiri, and this was another reason the nuclear waste storage facility should not be allowed at Kudankulam. The Supreme Court had said the AERB had to eventually find a “deep geological repository (DGR)” as a permanent and safe solution to the problem of disposing radioactive nuclear waste. The Kudankulam plant authorities had first thought of using the defunct Kolar Gold Mines as a DGR for storing all radioactive waste, but the Karnataka government did not agree. Currently, there is no DGR site anywhere in India, Udhayakumar said. Udhayakumar, who spearheaded the protests against the Kudankukam project under the umbrella organisation, People’s Movement Against Nuclear Energy, too, has urged the AERB to revoke its latest decision. He said the AERB was silent on where exactly it was storing nuclear waste from its Units I and II. He urged the Tamil Nadu government to withhold environmental clearance for the proposed intra-complex waste storage facility for Units III and IV. While Units I and II are already operating at the plant, Units III and IV are under construction and work on Units V and VI has just begun. The units are being set up by the Nuclear Power Corporation of India “in technical cooperation with the Russian Federation”. In Kudankulam, the “exclusion zone” is the area within 1.5km around the plant where no habitation is allowed, followed by a “sterilised zone” up to 5km from the plant, and an “emergency planning zone” up to 16km from the plant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
01-10-2021||India||Fake RT-PCR test report racket busted in Patna, four detained ||Patna authorities on Thursday claimed to have busted a racket that provided fake RT-PCR test reports to airline passengers showing they were Covid-negative for Rs 2,000 each. Four suspects were detained during a raid on Wednesday night on a so-called lab, Plasma Diagnostics, which operated 800 metres from Patna airport. It was sealed on Thursday. Passengers travelling from Patna to cities in several states — including Maharashtra, Bengal, Karnataka, Kerala, Punjab and Rajasthan — need to carry a negative RT-PCR report. Depending on the destination, the reports cannot be older than 48, 72 or 96 hours. Airport sources said the racketeers stationed touts at the terminal who kept an eye out for passengers who came without realising they would need a negative RT-PCR test report, and arranged fake reports in a few minutes. Airlines — which have a QR code-based system of checking the authenticity of RT-PCR reports that is, however, not foolproof — caught several passengers trying to board flights with fake reports and informed airport director Bhupesh Negi. “The airlines stopped these passengers from boarding and reported the cases to me. I informed the district magistrate,” Negi told The Telegraph. Investigations revealed that several of the eventually offloaded passengers had earlier visited Plasma Diagnostics with the touts. District magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh asked civil surgeon Vibha Kumari to form a team of health officials to raid Plasma. “We sent a team led by our additional chief medical officer. Other officials from the district administration and the police assisted it,” Vibha said on Thursday. Vibha said: “Plasma Diagnostics turned out to be a shop selling spectacles. It had no laboratory or machines to conduct Covid tests. Neither had we given it permission to conduct RT-PCR tests or collect samples for such tests. We sealed it today.” City superintendent of police (central) Ambarish Rahul said an FIR would be registered. Negi could not put an approximate figure on the number of passengers detected carrying fake RT-PCR reports. Sources suggested many others with fake reports would have beaten the system. Some states such as Kerala have reported catching air passengers who arrived with fake RT-PCR certificates. Negi could not explain why those detected with fake certificates were allowed to go without any legal action against them. “Taking such action is the responsibility of the airlines,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
01-10-2021||India||Assam atrocity triggers backlash in some Gulf countries||A widely circulated video of a photographer repeatedly stamping on a presumably dead man during an eviction drive in Assam has triggered a backlash in some Gulf countries. The Indian embassy in Qatar has said “there is malicious attempt on social media to spread hatred and disharmony through false propaganda about India”. The Grand Mufti of Oman has urged “all peace-loving countries to intervene to stop this aggression”, some lawmakers in Kuwait condemned atrocities against Muslims in India, and a call has surfaced on social media to boycott Indian products. A photographer hired by Assam’s Darrang district administration to record an eviction drive in a minority-dominated settlement last week — during which two people died in police firing — had stamped on one of the victims as he lay motionless after being hit by a bullet. In Qatar, the Indian embassy posted a tweet on Tuesday, saying: “There is malicious attempt on social media to spread hatred and disharmony through false propaganda about India. We urge everyone to exercise caution and not become victim of fake handle, propaganda, doctored videos. All Indian nationals are advised to maintain unity and harmony.” The same day the Grand Mufti of Oman, Sheikh Ahmed Bin Hamad Al-Khalili, tweeted a post in Arabic from his official handle, seeking international intervention. “What is going on in India? From a blatant aggression against Muslim citizens at the hands of extremist groups — supported by official bodies — it stops everyone with a human conscience,” goes the Google translation provided by Twitter. “Therefore, I appeal — in the name of humanity — to all peace-loving countries to intervene to stop this aggression, and I also appeal to the Islamic Ummah as a whole to stand united in this matter.” The Grand Mufti belongs to the moderate Ibadi movement. Oman is the only country in West Asia to have an indigenous Hindu community, and is home to one of the oldest temples in the region. The subject also came up in Kuwait’s National Assembly where some members issued a joint statement on Thursday condemning the attacks on Muslims in India. According to the Middle East Monitor, “they called on international, humanitarian, human rights and Islamic organisations to immediately work to stop the Indian authorities’ actions and restore security to Indian Muslims”. The website SabrNews quoted Kuwaiti MP Shuaib Al-Muwaizri as saying that boycotting India and its products was a legal duty. There was no official response from India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
01-10-2021||India||Boundary agreement alone will end incidents with China: Army chief||Indian Army chief M.M. Naravane on Thursday said that border incidents with China would continue until a long-term solution in the form of a boundary agreement was reached between the two countries. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May last year. Twenty Indian Army personnel and at least four Chinese soldiers were killed in a clash in the Galwan Valley in June last year. Last week, China had reasserted that the Galwan Valley incident was the result of Indian forces illegally trespassing on the Line of Actual Control to “encroach on Chinese territory”. India rejected Beijing’s contention and blamed China’s “provocative behaviour” and unilateral attempts to alter the status quo on the LAC for the disruption of bilateral ties. Speaking at the annual session of the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the army chief on Thursday said: “We have an outstanding border issue with China. We are well-prepared to meet any misadventure that may occur as we have demonstrated in the past. “Such kind of incidents will continue to occur till such time a long-term solution is reached, and that is to have a boundary agreement. That should be the thrust of our efforts so that we have lasting peace along our northern (China) border.” On Wednesday, China had accused India of continuing to pursue the “forward policy”, seen as the trigger for the 1962 Sino-India War in the still classified Henderson Brooks-Bhagat report, and setting off an “arms race” in the disputed border areas. “The Indian side has long pursued the ‘forward policy’ and illegally crossed the LAC to encroach on China’s territory, which is the root cause of tension in the China-India border situation,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said in response to a question on India deploying sophisticated weaponry in eastern Ladakh along the LAC. “China opposes any arms race in the disputed border areas for the purpose of competition over control. We have always been firm in safeguarding national territorial sovereignty and security, and committed to peace and stability in the China-India border areas,” Hua added. Late on Thursday night, India rejected the Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson’s remarks and described them as baseless. “It was the amassing of large number of troops by the Chinese side, their provocative behaviour and unilateral attempts to alter status quo in contravention of all our bilateral agreements that resulted in serious disturbance of peace and tranquillity along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh. China continues to deploy large number of troops and armaments in the border areas. “It was in response to Chinese actions that our armed forces had to make appropriate counter deployments in these areas to ensure that India’s security interests are fully protected. As emphasised by the external affairs minister in his meeting with Chinese foreign minister earlier this month, it is our expectation that the Chinese side will work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols,” external affairs ministry  spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. On June 19 last year, four days after the Galwan Valley clash had killed 20 Indian soldiers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that no one had entered Indian territory or occupied Indian posts, prompting Beijing to immediately claim ownership of all the areas it held. The Indian and Chinese armies often face off along the non-demarcated and disputed common boundaries. The “Lines of Perception” are the notional boundaries till which the troops of either side patrol. Referring to the ongoing border standoff with the Chinese army in eastern Ladakh, Naravane said: “The unprecedented developments necessitated large-scale resource mobilisation, orchestration of forces and immediate response.” Both sides have amassed men and machinery at altitudes of 14,000ft and above and have deployed 50,000 troops each along the LAC in Ladakh backed by artillery, tanks and missile systems. A recent intelligence report has suggested that the Chinese army has been rapidly building infrastructure, including roads, bridges and habitats, for its soldiers near the multiple friction points in Ladakh. Besides, China appears to have built at least 10 new airbases along the LAC in Ladakh, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh and ramped up infrastructure at its existing airbases close to the Indian frontier, sources said. India too has stepped up its border infrastructure development programme, including the building of roads, bridges and tunnels, to counter further Chinese transgressions into Indian areas. There has been “partial” disengagement from the Galwan Valley, Pangong Lake and Gogra by creating a demilitarised “buffer zone” with the Chinese stepping back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines. Military veterans have questioned the government’s “concessions” in agreeing to create a buffer zone, saying such areas within India-claimed lines meant territory loss for the Indian Army. The border standoffs at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains continue. The Chinese are said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines at the Depsang Plains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
01-10-2021||India||Multi-storey building collapses due to landslide in Shimla||A multi-storey building collapsed due to a landslide triggered by heavy rain in Shimla on Thursday evening. No casualties have been reported so far, state disaster management director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said. The incident took place at Ghoda Chowki near Hali Palace in Shimla at 5.45pm. A video doing the rounds on social media showed the house in a congested area collapsing into a heap of rubble as some people watched from a rooftop nearby.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
01-10-2021||India||Wife of Yogi fan says police misled and intimidated her||The wife of a property dealer and Yogi Adityanath “admirer” who died after being allegedly assaulted by police in a Gorakhpur hotel has said police had tried to mislead and intimidate her, and a video has emerged of senior officers purportedly trying to dissuade her from registering a case. Meenakshi Gupta, the wife of 36-year-old Manish Gupta who died after six drunken cops allegedly beat him up and also hit him on the head with a rifle butt early on Tuesday when he took time to furnish an identity proof during an “inquiry”, told reporters at her Kanpur home on Thursday: “I have evidences to prove that even though I had tweeted to the chief minister on Tuesday about the incident in detail. The district magistrate and superintendent of police of Gorakhpur kept asking me not to register a case against the killers. Some policemen tried to intimidate and mislead me.” Manish and two friends were apparently visiting Gorakhpur, to which Adityanath is closely linked, to witness the “development” of the area. They were allegedly assaulted by policemen who were making enquiries at the hotel over a suspicion that three persons had put up there under a false ID. Later on Thursday, Meenakshi, who has a five-year-old son, got an audience with the Uttar Pradesh chief minister who was visiting Kanpur city to attend government programmes. She said after the meeting: “I am satisfied as the chief minister has agreed to give me the job of an officer on special duty in the Kanpur Development Authority and a compensation of more than Rs 10 lakh for the education of my son. He has also agreed to transfer the case from Gorakhpur to Kanpur. I requested him for a CBI inquiry and he asked me to send him an application. He assured me that he would recommend a CBI probe.” Meenakshi demanded that the six policemen booked for murder be arrested soon. Adityanath said at a public meeting in Kanpur just before meeting Meenakshi: “An incident took place in Gorakhpur two days ago. I immediately asked the police to register a case. The guilty wouldn’t be spared.” The post-mortem report mentions four injuries to Manish’s head, face and body. Meenakshi said she had gone to the hotel room on Wednesday at the same time when some policemen reached there. “The room initially looked clean and there was no trace of violence or blood. But then I spotted a white towel that had been used to wipe blood from the floor. It was kept under the bed. I handed it over to the police. The owner and staff of the hotel are involved in the crime,” she said. Subhash Shukla, the owner of Hotel Krishna Palace, said: “The police took the room key from us early on Tuesday. We don’t know what they did in the room after that.  The cops went through the register and said the SP had sent them to check hotels and make videos as there were security concerns before Diwali. They took hotel manager Adarsh Pandey with them and went to Room No. 512. After 15 minutes, I saw four policemen carrying Manish and putting him in a jeep. He was unconscious.” He said the police took away all 16 CCTV cameras at the hotel, including the three on the fifth floor where Manish’s room was located. A relative of Meenakshi, who refused to be identified, on Thursday shared a video with journalists in Kanpur in which two men resembling Gorakhpur DM Vijay Kiran Anand and police chief Vipin Tada can be seen trying to convince Meenakshi not to register a case. The relative said the video had been recorded on Tuesday evening when the two officers had allegedly called Meenakshi to a room at BRD Medical College where Manish had been declared dead on arrival. “They tried to prevent her from registering an FIR against the killer policemen and told her that since they had suspended the cops and started a case, there was no need for her to do anything,” the relative said. The man resembling DM Anand is seen saying: “Main aur kaptan sahab swayam nigrani karenge…. Mera anurodh tha maan lijiye, aapko ek bade bhai ki haisiyat se.… Mukadma hone ke baad, aapko andaza hai ki nahi, salon tak court mein… (The SP and I will personally monitor the investigation. Please accept my request. I am saying this to you as an elder brother. I don’t know whether you understand that the case would drag on for years in court).” The man resembling SP Tada is heard saying, probably referring to the six accused policemen: “Unka pehle se koi jhagra tha nahin, wo gaye thhe wardi pehen ke. Isi liye aapki baat sun rahe hain. Madam ne kaha nilambit kar dijiye, maine kar diya. Tab tak bahal nahin honge jab tak clean chit nahin milega (They didn’t have any dispute in the past, they had gone there in uniform. That is why I am listening to you. Madam wanted me to suspend them, which I did. They will not be reinstated unless they get a clean chit).” Tada and Anand didn’t reply to questions from the media on the video. “An inquiry is in progress and we should wait for the results,” the DM said. The SP said: “I don’t know anything about this video. We are doing our job.” The complaint on the basis of which the six cops have been booked for murder was filed by Meenakshi on Wednesday. Police sources said it was “routine” for a section of cops in Gorakhpur to raid hotels to extort money from guests. “They are mostly hand-in-glove with the hotels’ management. Hotel staff inform the police whenever someone checks in. The police will suddenly enter your room late at night and ask for identity card and then point out some ‘mistake’ in it,” an officer in Lucknow said on the condition of anonymity. “In case, there is liquor in the room, the police threaten to book the guests for breach of peace. The motive is to extort money. This has been going on openly for many years,” the officer added. Manish’s friends Pradeep Singh and Hardeep Singh Chauhan had said the policemen had barged into their room around 12.30am on Tuesday and demanded to see their IDs. They assaulted Manish when he took time to fish out his ID card, his friends had said on Wednesday. The police had initially said Manish wads drunk and he fell and hurt himself during questioning. Pushp Dant Jain, vice-president of the Uttar Pradesh Vyapari Kalyan Board, has demanded a judicial probe.  In a letter to the chief minister, the traders’ body leader said: “Kindly issue an order that the police wouldn’t harass tourists and travellers in the name of an inquiry. Video recording must be done in case a raid is conducted at a hotel or restaurant.” In her handwritten police complaint, Meenakshi had named the station house officer of Ramgarh Tal in Gorakhpur city, Jagat Narayan Singh, inspector Akshay Mishra, sub-inspectors Vijay Yadav and Rahul Dubey, head constable Kamlesh Yadav and constable Prashant Kumar. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav met Meenakshi at her home on Thursday morning and later told reporters: “I know that the truth will never come out under the current dispensation. The government uses officers for misdeeds….” The former chief minister demanded the suspension of the DM and SP of Gorakhpur. BSP leader and former chief minister Mayawati tweeted: “Not arresting the guilty raises serious questions on the policy and intention of the government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
01-10-2021||India||Farmers' protest: SC concerned over blockade of roads in Delhi||The Supreme Court on Thursday expressed concern over the continuing blockade of roads in and around Delhi due to the farmers’ protests and told the Centre: “Redress can be through a judicial forum, agitation or parliamentary debates but how can highways be blocked perpetually? Where is the end?” A bench of Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M.M. Sundresh made the oral observation while asking solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, to implead the various associations of agitating farmers in a PIL filed by a Noida resident seeking removal of the roadblocks. The petitioner, Monicca Agarwal, has alleged that the daily commute between Noida and Delhi was taking two hours longer on account of the protests on the borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, inconveniencing those requiring travel for office work. The farmers have been picketing Delhi’s borders for over 10 months demanding the repeal of three contentious farm laws that they fear will take away their land and livelihood and facilitate a corporate takeover of agriculture. Justice Kaul, heading the bench, reminded Mehta that the apex court had last year in the Shaheen Bagh protest case passed a detailed judgment prohibiting encroachment of public places to avoid inconveniencing people. The bench pointed out that the court could only pass orders and it was for the government to implement them. “Yes, I fully agree that the executive has to implement the law,” the SG said. The bench replied: “On the lighter side, then you will say that the judiciary is encroaching upon the executive…. If we encroach, then you may say that we have trespassed into your domain. This has ramifications but there are grievances which are to be redressed. But this cannot be a perpetual problem.” “When it (directions) is invited, then it is not encroachment,” Mehta remarked. The SG informed the court that a high-level committee had been constituted by the government and the farm leaders invited for negotiations, but they did not turn up. “We invited them to attend a meeting. However, they did not join the meeting. My request is to join them as parties,” Mehta said, urging the court to permit the Centre to implead the farmers’ associations as respondents in the matter. The court asked the government to file a formal application and posted the matter for further hearing to October 4. On earlier occasions too, the court had directed the Centre and the states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to ensure that there is no inconvenience to the general public travelling between the two states and Delhi on account of the farmers’ sit-in. “You have to find a solution. They (farmers) have a right to protest but there can’t be a hindrance to the inflow and outflow of traffic. The roads can’t be blocked like this,” a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy had told Mehta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
01-10-2021||India||Home ministry asks ITBP to intensify patrolling along LAC||The Union home ministry has asked the top brass of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) to increase deployment and intensify patrolling in sensitive zones along the Line of Actual Control following the latest “incursion” by the Chinese army in the Uttarakhand sector last month. The fresh transgression was reported amid the ongoing border standoff between the two armies in eastern Ladakh since May last year. Neither the Indian Army nor the defence ministry has so far made any official statement on the latest transgression by the Chinese army. Sources, however, said that intrusions occurred because of differing perceptions about the LAC. Both sides often accuse each other of transgressions because of this. “The ITBP top brass has been asked to intensify patrolling in sensitive zones and also increase border posts to maintain close vigil along the LAC in the Uttarakhand sector following the reported transgression. It is also very important to keep a close eye on the Chinese soldiers with surveillance cameras,” said a Union home ministry official. The ITBP reports to the home ministry. The sources said close to 100 soldiers of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) entered 5km into Indian territory in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand on August 30. The PLA troops returned to their side of the LAC after spending a few hours inside the India-claimed territory, which is guarded by the ITBP. The latest transgression has sent security agencies into a tizzy as nearly 100 PLA soldiers had crossed over on horses and retreated only after damaging infrastructure, including a bridge, much before they could be confronted by Indian patrol teams. The ITBP is the first line of defence along the China frontier and guards the 3,488km LAC, most of which is disputed. The army remains behind it. The frontier passes along Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir. Sources in the defence ministry told The Telegraph that security agencies had identified nearly 25 sensitive spots from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh along the LAC that were prone to transgression by the PLA. The latest report from the ground has also suggested that the Chinese PLA have made frontline formations near most of these 25 sensitive spots and were also building infrastructure, including military camps. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a face-off at multiple points in Ladakh since May last year. The border standoff at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains continues despite “partial” disengagements from the Galwan Valley, the Pangong Lake and Gogra, by creating a demilitarised “buffer zone” with the Chinese stepping back a few kilometres while still remaining within Indiaclaimed lines. The Chinese army is said to be entrenched 18km inside Indiaclaimed lines on the strategically crucial Depsang Plains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
01-10-2021||India||NEET: SC nod for general category status to Overseas Citizens of India||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Centre to permit Overseas Citizens of India (OCIs) to participate in the 2021-22 NEET counselling for undergraduate medical courses in the general category instead of the NRI quota as had been notified by the government in March. The apex court passed the interim order while rejecting the argument of additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati appearing for the Centre that bracketing the OCI students with NRIs was justified as the State was within its power to make such classifications of citizens and non-citizens. The bench of Justices Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari said: “We direct the NTA (National Testing Agency) to declare the result of the examination undergone by the petitioners in the NEET-UG 2021 and the eligible petitioners are permitted to appear for counselling in the general category.” However, the bench made it clear that the interim order was being passed only for this academic year. The court was hearing a petition filed by Dr Radhika Thapetta and other OCI candidates challenging Clause 4(ii) of a notification issued by the NTA on March 4 under which OCI and NRI students were categorised as a separate category for the purpose of admission and counselling. Though the ASG sought to argue that the constitutionality of Section 9 of the Citizenship Act, dealing with the NRIs and OCIs, had been upheld by the apex court in a number of earlier judgments, the bench felt that prima facie the impugned notification could not have been issued by the authorities without examining whether it would arbitrary or not. During the hearing, Justice Nazeer said the OCIs were people of Indian origin who were contributing huge foreign exchange reserves to the country in the form of several millions of dollars. Bhati argued that a large number of Indian citizens did not have sufficient access to the resources in their own country, while the OCIs, although not Indian citizens, were granted special privileges. Therefore, she said, the government had the right and power to determine what type of classification could be carved out between the Indian citizens and the OCIs. “Our country is known for inclusiveness. You can bring noncitizens and give them citizenship. These are people (OCIs) who are very much Indians. Maybe, they must have gone abroad. Section 9 must have been upheld a number of times… you conferred upon them these privileges and rights and subsequently to say suddenly you are withdrawing that. There is a prima facie case because such a notification can be declared as arbitrary under Article 14 (right to equality),” the bench said while rejecting the ASG’s arguments. The court posted the matter for further hearing on October 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
01-10-2021||India||Insurance claim can be denied for invalid vehicle registration: SC||An insurance claim can be denied if a vehicle does not have valid registration, the Supreme Court said on Thursday while rejecting a claim on a stolen car that had a temporary registration. A bench headed by Justice U.U. Lalit said the claim of insurance could be dismissed if there was a fundamental breach of the terms and conditions of the policy. “What is important is this court’s opinion of the law, that when an insurable incident that potentially results in liability occurs, there should be no fundamental breach of the conditions contained in the contract of insurance,” said the bench that also had Justice S. Ravindra Bhat and Justice Bela M Trivedi. The observations were made during the hearing of an appeal filed by United India Insurance Co Ltd challenging an order of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, which dismissed the company’s revision petition that challenged the order of the Rajasthan State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Circuit Bench at Bikaner. The case involves Sushil Kumar Godara, a private contractor, who had obtained an insurance policy from the insurer for his Bolero car in Punjab though he was a resident of Sri Ganganagar in Rajasthan. The vehicle, whose insured sum was 6.17 lakh, had a temporary registration, which expired on July 19, 2011. On July 28, 2011, Godara went to Jodhpur on business and stayed in a guesthouse at night where his vehicle was parked outside the premises. In the morning, he found that the car had been stolen. He lodged an FIR at Jodhpur alleging offences under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. However, on November 30, 2011, the police lodged a final report stating that the vehicle was untraceable. The top court noted that on the date of theft, the vehicle had been driven/used without a valid registration, amounting to a clear violation of Sections 39 and 192 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. “This results in a fundamental breach of the terms and conditions of the policy, as held by this court in Narinder Singh (supra), entitling the insurer to repudiate the policy… This court is of the opinion that the NCDRC’s order cannot be sustained,” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
01-10-2021||India||Sidhu agress to coordination committee plan for Punjab||Navjot Singh Sidhu seems to have relented, after his muscle-flexing flopped, by agreeing to the lollypop of a coordination committee that is to ensure there is no communication gap between the Congress and its government in Punjab, sources said. Congress president Sonia Gandhi has for long been relying on such committees to curb dissidence and manage differences, so the offer to Sidhu is doubtless far less than what he had asked for. Some more consolation could be on offer in the next few days but the compromise was purportedly struck only after a huge climbdown by Sidhu, who resigned as Punjab Congress chief after taking an inflexible moral high ground and triggered an ugly political spectacle that badly dented the Congress’s image. He is also learnt to have decided to withdraw his resignation. Sources said Sidhu’s aides had managed to convince him that politics could not be based on emotions and rigid personal terms. The high command remained aloof to his tantrums, not sending even general secretary Harish Rawat to Punjab to resolve the crisis. Only Rajasthan minister Harish Chowdhary was part of the negotiations. Even chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi didn’t show panic and refused to go to Patiala to meet Sidhu, who was sulking at his residence along with his aides. Channi asked Sidhu to talk and waited for his response. The first signs of Sidhu relenting came on Thursday morning when he tweeted his decision to visit the party headquarters in Chandigarh in the afternoon. Channi, along with some ministers, held discussions for over two hours and left without talking to the media probably because issues hadn’t been satisfactorily resolved despite Sidhu’s decision to withdraw the resignation. The party doesn’t want to send out an impression that Sidhu was dictating terms to the chief minister. Sidhu had objected to the appointment of advocate-general and director-general of police and any announcement at the party office to change the decisions would have established the party’s interference in governance. Amarinder Singh, who declared his intent to leave the Congress, stressed the point, arguing that he never saw any party chief interfering in official matters like this. Sources said Sidhu asserted at the meeting that he would not tolerate any tainted officer. Former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar highlighted the point by tweeting on Thursday: “Enough is enough. Put an end to attempts to undermine the authority of the Chief Minister time and again. Aspersions being cast on selection of AG & DGP is actually questioning the integrity/competence of the Chief Minister and Home Minister to deliver results. It’s time to put the foot down and clear the air.” Jakhar’s blunt articulation betrays the deep sense of disquiet in the party over Sidhu’s tactics. Many leaders, including party MPs Manish Tewari and Ravneet Bittu, criticised his attitude. There is a feeling among party leaders and workers that Priyanka Gandhi’s handling of Sidhu was responsible for the embarrassment the party suffered just before the election. There were murmurs that Priyanka again played a role in persuading Sidhu to withdraw his resignation. While the majority of leaders feel Sidhu’s popularity had been dented, there is no doubt that he won’t be able to regain his political swagger and clout after resuming office. Many leaders wondered what if he threw more tantrums during the candidate selection after a few weeks. Channi, on the other hand, has enhanced his stature by demonstrating maturity and poise during this crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
01-10-2021||India||Will quit Congress, but won’t join BJP, says Amarinder Singh ||Amarinder Singh on Thursday said he would quit the Congress but would not join the BJP, hinting in the process that he was exploring the possibility of floating his own political outfit to hit back at his detractors. “I have not resigned from the Congress, but I will resign. I am not a person who makes split-second decisions. But I am not joining the BJP,” Amarinder told NDTV on Thursday. The former Punjab chief minister met Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday evening and national security adviser Ajit Doval on Thursday. The prolonged farmers’ protest spearheaded by Punjab farmers appears to have come in the way of Amarinder joining the BJP. The fear of incurring voter anger seemed to have constrained the veteran leader from directly joining the BJP and led him to explore other options. Amarinder stressed that the way he had been treated by the Congress, there was no way he could continue. He said “another force” could emerge in the poll-bound state. “This election will be very different with the Congress, AAP, Akaki Dal, factions of the Akali Dal, and there may be another force coming up too.… So it will be a very different election,” Amarinder said, refusing to disclose anything more. The 79-year-old leader gave out hints that he could have discussed his future political options with Shah and was still in the process of making up his mind. “Look, I don’t have much to gain. I will be turning 80 next year. But I want my state to be secure. I don’t want Pakistan’s influence due to misgovernance or non governance...,” he said, stressing that his meetings with Shah and Doval were focussed on the security of Punjab and the farmers’ agitation. Amarinder said Pakistan was using drones to push arms and drugs into Punjab and that he discussed the issue with Doval. The BJP has an unofficial retirement policy of 75 years and therefore could be eyeing to use Amarinder indirectly. Traditionally, the BJP in Punjab had appealed to the Hindus while its estranged ally Akali Dal represented the majority Sikhs. The BJP had depended on the Akalis and now with the parting of ways it could look for help from Amarinder. The former chief minister said he discussed the farmers’ agitation with Shah, stressing that it should be resolved, again claiming that the prolonged protest could endanger the security of Punjab and in turn the country. “Some solution has to be found. This (farmers’ protest) cannot continue indefinitely. I am worried that the prolonged protests could lead to internal disturbances in Punjab,” he said. BJP insiders said Amarinder was trying to take the lead in resolving the farmers’ issue so that he can gain the sympathy of the Sikh voters and in turn aid the BJP. Dwelling in detail on his “humiliation” in the Congress, he said: “At 10.30am the Congress president says you resign. I didn’t ask any questions. I said I would do it just now. I went to the governor’s house at 4pm and resigned.” “I have made my stand very clear to the Congress that I will not be treated in this manner.… When there is no trust one cannot continue,” Amarinder added. He slammed Navjot Singh Sidhu, saying he was “incapable”, and also took digs at Rahul Gandhi. “He (Rahul) wants to bring young blood in the party but refuses to listen to the advice of the older party leaders,” Amarinder said, predicting doom for the party in upcoming polls. He claimed a survey done by the Congress between July and September this year had shown that the AAP was going up and the Congress down with a decline of 20 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
01-10-2021||India||‘Helpless’ Chidambaram lends a hand to ‘Group of 23’||Former Union minister P. Chidambaram on Thursday made a grave allegation against the Congress leadership, suggesting that those who ask questions would be heckled and contending that “silence” was the only safe harbour. Chidambaram is the first senior leader outside the “Group of 23” dissidents who on Thursday condemned the attack on the house of Kapil Sibal who had on Wednesday raised questions about the functioning of the party. The G-23 members such as Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Manish Tewari, Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Vivek Tankha criticised the vandalism at Sibal’s house. There was no official reaction from the party. Chidambaram’s statement is significant as it vindicates Sibal’s claim that the G-23 group is much bigger. Chidambaram tweeted: “I feel helpless when we cannot start meaningful conversations within party forums. I also feel hurt and helpless when I see pictures of Congress workers raising slogans outside the residence of a colleague and MP. The safe harbour to which one can withdraw seems to be silence.” This charge will give the BJP a legitimate excuse to question Rahul Gandhi’s pet theme that the Congress did politics with love and believed in democratic values. A veteran such as Chidambaram went so far as to express fear about raising issues. A general secretary countered him on the condition of anonymity, saying: “The problem is that questions are being raised through the media, not at party forums. There is a design to undermine the leadership of Rahul Gandhi.” Asked who attacked Sibal’s house, an office-bearer said: “They were all local sympathisers and workers of the Congress from Chandni Chowk. It must have been an emotional outburst as the media’s message was that Sibal had attacked the Gandhi family.” The anger, however, wasn’t restricted to ordinary workers. Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas on Thursday tweeted: “Those who stab in the back are talking of cultured response.” Taking to Twitter, spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “For us, brave fighters of Congress, who fight in studios, on line and on streets across India, it upsets us to see senior leaders going public with their utterances. We won’t get disheartened.” One G-23 leader laughed at this lament, reminding him that he was attacking the leaders who were fighting for the Congress since Indira Gandhi’s time. The G-23 leaders strongly condemned the hooliganism and asked Sonia Gandhi to discipline the wrongdoers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Another BJP MLA bites the dust, joins Trinamul||The BJP’s Raigunj MLA Krishna Kalyani on Friday quit the party to join the Trinamul, taking the tally of defectors to five in the state  Assembly at  time when a legal battle is on between the two parties in Bengal on implementing the anti-defection law. Kalyani’s tale of changing parties is like that of his other colleagues who have made careers out of jumping political ships in Bengal. Son of a former Congress leader close to the late PCC president Somen Mitra, Kalyani was among the two MLAs elected from North Dinajpur on a BJP ticket. Both have now defected to the Trinamul. Kalyani was served a showcause notice by the BJP state leadership for his repeated verbal attacks on the district leadership and Raigunj MP Debashree Chowdhury. “The party has an internal discipline. He would not follow any rules. Sometimes he would speak against the district leadership, sometimes against the national vice president Dilip Ghosh (who was till recently the state president of the BJP). He was show-caused. Instead of replying to it, he has fled from the party,” said leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikary, welcoming Kalyani’s decision to quit. Adhikary who has filed a petition in the Calcutta high court seeking disqualification of Mukul Roy, however, had a warning for Kalyani. “He must resign as MLA. Mukul Roy’s fate will be decided on October 7. Others like Tanmoy (Ghosh, Bishnupur MLA), Biswajit (Das, Bagda MLA) will meet with the same fate. That is why I am requesting him to resign as MLA or he will be disqualified,” said Adhikary. Like  former BJP MP Babul Supriyo, who joined Trinamul some days ago, Kalyani had on September 5 announced his decision to severe ties with the BJP. He had accused the local MP and former junior Union minister Debashree Chowdhury of sabotage during the polls to prevent himnfrom getting elected. He had also accused  district president Basudeb Sarkar of running the party unilaterally. “The district BJP president is running the party with a handful of followers on his whims. I raised a number of issues which the party should have addressed but nothing was dome. I also apprised the state leaders of these issues but surprisingly they too are silent. That is why from today, I will not maintain any links with the district unit,” Kalyani said on September 5. Sources said he was in touch with Trinamul leaders in Raigunj as well as Calcutta to secure his return to the Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore bypoll: Why we voted ||Here’s what some of them said Husband and wife now, the two were born and have lived all their life on Moira Street. And they have never missed a vote. A businessman, Kkushh had kept his business closed on Thursday. Stepping out of the booth at La Martiniere for Girls, Kkushh said: “As citizens, it is our right as well as duty to vote. It’s only if we vote that the city will be what we want it to be. Besides, this is a very important seat as the chief minister herself is a contestant.” Ejaz was distressed at how the “most senior leaders of the party in power at the Centre were spreading communal hatred in the country”. He was also “disgusted” at how the Prime Minister had catcalled Mamata Banerjee “Being a Muslim, I am concerned about the plight of the minorities in this country. What is shocking is how the highest leaders of the party in power at the Centre are spreading hatred. I feel that even non-Muslims should be worried and they, too, should speak out against such hatred,” he said after stepping out of the booth at St Paul’s School on Diamond Harbour Road around 11am. A software developer for a multinational, he said his work-from-home schedule helped him vote as it allowed him to finish the task assigned to him without fixed log-in hours. Prime Minister Modi’s “Didi O Didi” calls during the Assembly elections in May had “shocked” Ejaz. “It gives anti-woman vibes. The most shocking part is that it came from the Prime Minister. I felt it was borderline teasing,” he said. For her, unemployment was the top concern. “Our city has very few good jobs. Unemployment is a big problem here. I want the government to create more jobs,” she said. Banani has appeared in some exams conducted by the state public service commission. She said the results of these exams were published two or three years after the preliminary test was held. “Ideally, the entire process should be completed within a year,” she said. “Exams conducted by the school service commission are also held after a gap of many years. Many aspirants are not able to take the test because they cross the upper age limit when exams are held after such long gaps.” She had come with her cousin Ankita Sen, 21, a first-time voter. When the Assembly elections took place earlier this year, she had not voted. This time, she did at South Suburban School in Bhowanipore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Durga Pujas: Packed day for artisans||Bengal has rarely seen a high-voltage electoral battle ahead of Durga Puja. This year, however, is different. With only 10 days left before the Puja, Bhowanipore went to the polls on Thursday. While for the rest of the constituency it was yet another election, for the artisans of Kalighat’s patuapara (artisans’ hub), the poll meant much more. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s house is a stone’s throw from the hub. “I went to cast my vote around 11.30,” said 47-year-old Mousumi Pal, an artisan herself. “I’d get busy later in the day, so I went as early as I could to cast my vote.” Pal was widowed a few years ago. She lives with son Rahul, 25, who manages the studio for her. She is one of the thousands of beneficiaries of the state government’s health scheme Swasthyasathi and has recently applied for the widow pension. For Pal and many others like her — patuapara is home to around 150 artisans — Thursday was one of the busiest days of the year. Durga Puja is just 10 days away and most idols have to be delivered by Mahalaya, October 6. Most hands are busy bringing the clay idols to life. “There has been incessant rain in the last few days. We had to use blue lamps to dry the idols,” said Gopal Chitrakar, 65. All artisans at the hub, he said, are under tremendous rush. “Still there was no question of not going to vote. I took my wife and daughter early in the morning to cast our votes,” he said. Mamata used to frequently visit the artisans’ hub before she became chief minister. Now, the social welfare schemes touch almost  every household of the hub in some way or the other.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Rhino and jumbo thrills for tourists in Dooars||A rhinoceros and a herd of elephants turned out to be the points of attraction for tourists and residents in two different places in the Dooars on Thursday. Around 7am, residents of Ajgarpara, a locality under Matialli block of Jalpaiguri district, spotted a rhino. The animal had come out of the Gorumara National Park, one of the two rhino habitats of Bengal, and was drinking water from a stream near an agricultural field when it was spotted. As the news of the rhino spread, hundreds assembled to watch the animal and to click its photographs and record videos. Also, tourists staying in nearby areas like Lataguri, Batabari and Chalsa reached the spot in vehicles to watch the rhino. “It was the experience of a lifetime. I have never seen a wild rhino up so close. It was interesting to see its relaxed attitude. It went on devouring water and grass even though so many people had gathered nearby,” said Sushanta Dutta, a tourist from Calcutta who is touring the Dooars with his family. He added that he was “simply thrilled”. After a while, a team of foresters from the Khunia forest range reached the spot. They burst crackers which made the rhino go back to the forest. According to local residents, this rhino often moves out of the forest area and roams between Gorumara and the Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary. “Earlier, the animal was also sighted on the banks of the Murti river that is on the fringes of Gorumara,” said a resident. Raj Kumar Layak, the range officer, said they had managed to steer the rhino to Gorumara. “We will keep the rhino under watch for the next few days,” he said. A herd of wild elephants was also sighted at Kanthalguri tea estate in Banarhat block of Jalpaiguri on Thursday morning. The herd, a forester said, was heading towards the Reti forest from the Moraghat forest and got stranded in the plantations of the tea estate in the morning. The elephants drew a large crowd from the garden and its adjoining areas. Hundreds of people were seen rushing to Kanthalguri on motorcycles to catch a glimpse of the herd. People clicked pictures of the herd. Local residents informed foresters about the herd and a team from the wildlife squad stationed in Binnaguri went to the spot. “Foresters are keeping watch on the herd and also controlling the crowd. Once the evening falls, they will try to steer the herd to Reti forest,” said a forest officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati seeks IIT aid on marks probe||Visva-Bharati on Thursday requested IIT-Kharagpur for help from its IT experts to probe into a recent blunder in its recent admission merit list, where four candidates scored more than the total, including one who scored 200 out of 100. The appeal to IIT-Kharagpur came following instructions from the Union education ministry to the central varsity. “The ministry, including minister Dharmendra Pradhan, had been very annoyed with the blunder in the merit list and directed a probe by members from outside the university. Officials in the ministry suggested that help in this matter be sought from IIT-Kharagpur, as the entire (admission test) process had been done online,” said a senior varsity official. Ministry officials reportedly said that the error had not only tarnished the image of Visva-Bharati, but also proved its negligence in matters such as admission.  The merit list of two MEd courses on the varsity website on Monday evening showed the first two candidates in the social sciences group with 196 and 151 marks, respectively, and their counterparts in the language group with 200 and 198 marks out of 100. Vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, in Delhi this week, directed varsity officials from there about how to follow the suggestions from the ministry. On Thursday morning, Visva-Bharati’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar posted a press statement on WhatsApp on the decision to form a committee on the merit list gaffe. The statement was signed by coordinator of the admission coordination cell, Nimai Chand Saha. “The university is in the process of setting up an enquiry committee to find out reasons behind the errors that occurred in the merit list for admission to the M.Ed course of Vinaya Bhavana and also to fix responsibility for the same. Appropriate actions are being taken to make the admission process error free,” the statement read. Senior officials said the press statement stated the committee was under process, as IIT-Kharagpur was yet to send names of the experts. However, late on Thursday, a varsity official said IIT-Kharagpur had sent three names. “The ministry also informed IIT-Kharagpur to send officials to look into the probe. The varsity will punish whoever is responsible for making such a gaffe,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Plastic unit gutted in Jalpaiguri||A godown stacked with plastic carry bags, paper cups and plates and styrofoam items was gutted in a blaze in Jalpaguri town early on Thursday. Sources said no casualty or injury had been reported so far. The fire has led to questions whether the godown owner had permission from authorities to store such inflammable items at the unit located in Silpasamitipara, one the densely populated areas of the town. Locals said they spotted the fire around 1:30am and informed Jalpaiguri Fire Station. It took seven hours for four fire engines to douse the flames. “The blaze was so intense that glass window panes of a number of adjoining houses have been damaged. The firemen initially used water available with them but eventually, they had to draw water from the Karala river flowing nearby,” said Ram Singh, a local resident. Dipak Kumar Goyal, the godown owner, reached the spot and claimed that goods worth around Rs 3-4 lakh were stored at the unit. “There is no power connection at the godown. I fail to understand how the fire broke out,” he said. Fire officials have asked Goyal to produce documents like fire license and other permissions required to run such a storage facility. “If he fails to furnish appropriate documents, we will take legal steps against him,” said Pradip Sarkar, the divisional fire officer of Jalpaiguri. Tablets seized Two suspected smugglers were arrested with around 8,000 yaba tablets from Imamjagir area in Malda on Wednesday. Police said Ahidur Rahaman and Mehelu Sheikh were held while trying to smuggle the tablets, which are a combination of methamphetamine and caffeine, to Bangladesh. Charges under NDPS Act have been brought against them, police sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Hundreds walk from Cooch Behar to nearby Assam for a jab||Hundreds from Tufanganj subdivision of Cooch Behar district are walking across the interstate border to enter Assam to get the Covid-19 vaccine at camps set up by the state government of the neighbouring state in areas close to the border. The reason for this is that in Tufanganj, like in most other places of Bengal, queues for vaccination are long. Also, on a number of occasions, residents had to return home disappointed as the stock of vaccines at a specific centre had exhausted. “I have tried thrice to get vaccinated at a camp that is running near my village and in every case, as soon as I was about to enter the camp, I was told that not a single dose of vaccine is left and I need to come again on some other day. With such being the situation, I found an alternative and walked into a camp in nearby Assam. In all, it took me an hour to get the first dose,” said Aiyub Ali, a resident of Madhya Balabhut village of Tufanganj. Ali, who is a migrant worker by occupation, said many others like him want to return to their workplaces as the number of Covid cases has considerably declined now. He  said many like him are going to the vaccination camps set up in Chagalia, a locality under Dhubri district of Assam located just after Baxirhat, the interstate border. According to the health staff posted at the camps in Chagalia, over 1,000 residents of Bengal have been vaccinated at the camps during the past couple of days. “We are just checking the identity proofs of people such as the Aadhaar card and providing the vaccine. It does not matter whether the person is from Bengal or Assam,” said Gangabala Roy, a health worker who has been deputed at a camp in Chagalia. On Wednesday, around 400  residents hailing from areas such as Balakuti, Baxirhat, Bhanukumari and Saldanga, all under Tufanganj subdivision in Cooch Behar, were seen standing in queues at the camps in Assam. “Back in our place, one has to go and stand in the queue for the vaccine at midnight or by dawn to get jabbed. There is an unprecedented rush and for senior citizens like us, it is very inconvenient. Here in Assam, the queues are small and also there are more counters for the vaccine,” said Nirbala Barman, an elderly woman from Jorai More of Baxirhat who was found standing in a queue at Chagalia in Assam. According to the data available with the central government, of the total population of Assam which is around 3.50 crore, around 2.39 crore people have already been vaccinated and among them, around 55 lakhs have received the second dose. On the other hand, in Bengal, where the total population is around 10 crores, around 5.72 crores have been vaccinated, and among them, 1.65 crores have received the second dose. A senior official of the Cooch Behar district health department said the pressure in Assam is much less as its population is one-third of Bengal. “We are trying to vaccinate the maximum possible number of people every day depending on the stock of vaccine we have with us. These days, close to five lakh people are getting jabbed every day in our state. Even so, if some people near the interstate border find it convenient to walk to the neighbouring camp of Assam to get vaccinated, it is their choice,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore bypoll: Priyanka active, but not BJP, on polling day||Priyanka Tibrewal, BJP’s Bhowanipore bypoll candidate, cut a lonely figure on Thursday as the young lawyer was seen running across the length and breadth of the South Calcutta constituency all alone when the voting was underway. The absence of any organisational backup for the BJP nominee proved that the outcome of the bypoll became a forgone conclusion for the party. Although Tibrewal — and scores of state and central BJP leaders — had campaigned in the run up to the byelection claiming that people of Bhowanipore would spring a surprise in the EVMs, the ground reports on the poll day told a different story. Even the BJP’s chief spokesperson changed the narrative at the end of the polling. “We are not talking about winning or losing. What we are saying is that Trinamul had fought this poll with all its might. They made a mere bypoll look like a national election as Mamata Banerjee herself urged that not a single vote should be wasted. Yet, voters didn’t come out to vote,” Samik Bhattacharya said as the poll process was nearing its end. According to BJP sources, Bhattacharya’s reaction summed up that the party had left the field even before the polling was over. The fact that the BJP was not in the fight was evident across Bhowanipore with Tibrewal alone — the absence of party machinery around her was striking — running around accusing the ruling party of using the administration to vitiate the poll process. Although she kept levelling the same allegation through the day during her interactions with the media, what struck even ordinary voters was the absence of even BJP camp offices, which parties set up near polling booths, across Bhowanipore. “Many areas were unmanned today. Where do we get people from to sit in our camps?” a BJP office-bearer asked. This person added that even the CPM — which is often mocked by the saffron camp for being reduced to zero representation in the Bengal Assembly — had set up camps at most places. Another state BJP leader said the party’s poll war room set up in its Hastings office also cut a deserted look. “Today (Thursday), most leaders came late and spent little time…. I understand it is a bypoll, but it is an important one nonetheless. The lack of interest among our leaders was so apparent and that was why Priyanka looked all alone in an unequal fight,” the BJP functionary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore byelection turnout ticks up after stupor||A relative improvement in the weather resulted in the voter turnout picking up in Bhowanipore and soothed the Trinamul Congress’s nerves on Thursday. The turnout had touched 53.32 per cent by 5pm, with the likelihood of it climbing closer to the 61.79 per cent clocked in the April 26 election in the Assembly constituency from where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting now. Mobilisation on the ground by a battery of senior Trinamul leaders contributed significantly to the by-election turnout, especially from the slum and colony areas of the socio-economically diverse constituency. “Victory for Mamata here is a foregone conclusion, but a drastically reduced turnout because of inclement weather was a real fear. That could’ve lowered her victory margin considerably,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member in the evening. Mamata contested from the seat after her cabinet colleague Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay vacated it for her in May. Agriculture minister Chattopadhyay had secured 73,505 votes – 57.71 per cent of the vote share – defeating the BJP’s Rudranil Ghosh, who got 44,786 votes or 35.16 per cent of the vote share. The constituency has over 2.06 lakh voters. “The main challenge here was to ensure her margin was higher than the 28,719 secured by Chattopadhyay, despite this being a by-election in a very urban constituency,” the Trinamul MP said. Since delimitation resurrected the constituency before the Assembly elections of 2011, Trinamul has remained undefeated there. “We are looking to replicate the 2011 by-election performance by Mamata in Bhowanipore, when she won by a margin of 54,213 even when the turnout was just 44.73 per cent,” the MP added. Trinamul had deployed some of Mamata’s most trusted lieutenants -– such as Subrata Bakshi, Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee and Madan Mitra – to steer the mobilisation on polling day. Sources said these leaders ensured healthy turnouts from several densely populated slums in the constituency. Mamata, sworn in as chief minister on May 5, has till November 5 to be elected to the 294-seat House her party swept. She had unsuccessfully contested from the Nandigram seat, losing by 1,956 votes to Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, now in the BJP. Mamata has challenged the result in court. In the Assembly election this summer, the BJP had fared well from only two wards in Bhowanipore -- 70 (Jadu Babu’s Bazaar) and 74 (Alipore). “Today, the turnout was low from those two wards, which can only mean an even more favourable mandate in the chief minister’s favour,” said one of Trinamul’s ward-level coordinators deployed in Ward 70. The BJP and its candidate Priyanka Tibrewal alleged several instances of malpractice. The party lodged some 13 complaints, around twice the number in the summer election. “The rain gods failed us today, and the overall turnout was not as low as we would’ve liked,” said a BJP state unit functionary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul daily mocks Congress and Kanhaiya Kumar||The Trinamul Congress mounted yet another offensive on the Congress when the mouthpiece of Bengal’s ruling party carried an editorial on Thursday, spewing scorn on the Congress and Kanhaiya Kumar over the young Leftist leader’s induction overseen by Rahul Gandhi. “Had they fallen short of poster-boys?” asked the short but stinging editorial in Jago Bangla. “At a time realistic steps are necessary to strengthen the foundations of the alternative force, instead of doing that, the Congress is spoiling the situation by taking immature, myopic, cheap steps craving publicity. At the risk of offending some, we are compelled to state that this is called a circus,” it added. Apparently referring to the criticism of Trinamul over the recent induction of the likes of Sushmita Dev and Luizinho Faleiro, the editorial questioned the holier-than-thou approach the Congress had been taking on such matters, accusing Mamata’s party of weakening the fight against the BJP. “Why then did the Congress take Kanhaiya Kumar from the CPI, or the Left camp? The Left, too, are anti-BJP. Then why did the Congress take him from there?” asked the editorial, mocking the Congress over the induction of Kanhaiya amid “elaborate fanfare” and his defeat in the Lok Sabha polls in 2019 from Begusarai by over 4.22 lakh votes to the BJP. “Such great dreams of the Left around Kanhaiya, such a noble leader! Before leaving, he even took away the party office’s air-conditioner, because it was bought with his own money,” the editorial added, referring to the purported incident at the CPI’s Patna office. “Politics, with such narrow-mindedness?” Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the Congress’s leader in the Lok Sabha, has called Mamata the BJP’s Trojan horse, accusing her of acting as an agent of the saffron camp to weaken the pan-India unity of non-BJP forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Marathon organiser cons Darjeeling residents||A person reportedly from Nepal came to Darjeeling, made hundreds run marathons and before the events ended, he allegedly fled with lakhs of rupees collected from sponsors and participants. Since Thursday morning, the phone of Prakash Adhikari a.k.a. Daniel Saint has been switched off. He is missing. When some people went to his rented place, the landlord gave them the photocopy of a passport of “Prakash Adhikari” of Kathmandu. Some participants filed a general diary with Darjeeling Sadar police station. Information from multiple sources suggests Adhikari came to Darjeeling as Daniel Saint over a month back, rented a place at Bokshi Jhora and started contacting hill runners by claiming to be an event manager from Mumbai with a company, Club Seven Wonders. He proposed three marathons on September 27 and 29 and October 1 in Darjeeling. For promotional items, he used logos of the tourism department of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. “He took Rs 1,000 each from 250 runners as registration fees, and Rs 5,000 each from 22 participants for a beauty pageant on October 3,” said a source. The September 27 and 29 runs were held, but he did not give prizes to winners, which raised doubts, said a participant. GTA officials denied any involvement with the events. “Our only event on September 27 (tourism day) was at Lal Khoti (GTA headquarters) where we launched our website,” said a GTA tourism  official. The official said Adhikari met them. “He asked for permission to host the events but we told them the police department could give it. He wanted the Gorkha Rangamanch Bhawan for free but we told him the information and cultural affairs department looked after it,” the tourism official said. Sources in the GTA I&CA department said Adhikari booked the auditorium. “We asked him to pay Rs 15,000 as rent by September 22. He did not pay, so we cancelled his booking,” an I&CA official said. “Since it was a sports event, we handed him Rs 5,000, but despite repeated reminders he did not give us a receipt. Last evening (Wednesday), I had sternly told him to provide the receipt as early as possible,” said Vikram Rai, founder, Vik-Run Foundation. Participants in the beauty pageant said the proposed grooming and photoshoot didn’t take place. “He kept postponing them,” said a participant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal logs 749 new cases, 744 recoveries and 15 deaths||Bengal on Thursday recorded 749 new Covid-19 infections, 744 recoveries and 15 deaths. The state saw a fall again in its active Covid-19 cases, that dropped by 10 to reach 7,570. “There have been two days of rise and three days of fall in five days. We do not find it too worrisome yet,” said a minister. On Sunday, Bengal broke a 97-day streak of fall in the total of active cases. Calcutta logged 149 new infections and three deaths. North 24-Parganas reported 123 new infections and four deaths, These were only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Six districts reported a single-digit figure of new infections. Sixteen districts reported zero deaths. The state now has 2.8 per cent of India’s active cases, and is seventh among states with the most such cases. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, still ahead of the national rate of 97.83 per cent. Its daily positive confirmation rate, once almost 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.9 per cent on Thursday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.69 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.43 lakh recoveries and 18,793 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
01-10-2021||West Bengal||5 lakh people from flood-prone areas to be evacuated in south Bengal districts||The state government has asked south Bengal districts to evacuate 5 lakh people from lower Damodar areas by Friday morning, fearing floods in the next 24 hours amid downpour in the catchment area of Durgapur Barrage since Wednesday. As much as 350mm rainfall occurred in 12 hours in Durgapur Barrage’s catchment area. “Durgapur Barrage released 2.6 lakh cusecs of water on Thursday evening. This is huge and could inundate a large part of East and West Burdwan, Hooghly and Howrah (lower Damodar areas). In August, when parts of Hooghly and Howrah were inundated, 1.53 lakh cusec water had been released from Durgapur Barrage,” said a government official. “So far, 3.5 lakh people have been evacuated in Howrah, Hooghly, East and West Burdwan,” added an official. The state government also decided to deploy the army in the lower Damodar areas. Bankura district, including the town, was cut off from Durgapur, Jhargram and Ranibandh. Durgapur’s link with Bankura snapped as Bankura-Durgapur state highway went under water with river Shali crossing danger level. Bankura-Jhargram state highway was submerged as river Shilabati flowed over the bridge. Several wards of Bankura town were inundated after water from river Gandheswari flooded those pockets. District magistrate K. Radhika Aiyar issued a red alert for people in the Damodar basin areas like Mejia, Barjora, Sonamukhi and Saltora. Aiyar said around 10,000 people had to be evacuated and sent to 125 relief centres. At least 10 teams of the SDRF have been deployed in Bankura. A severe flood would harm kharif cultivation, said an official. Sowing of paddy has been completed in the state. The districts along the lower Damodar area are farm belts. “If kharif crop is hit in Hooghly and East Burdwan, the state’s rice production would be hit badly. This is worrying in the backdrop of the pandemic as nearly 72 lakh families depend on kharif cultivation,” said a senior official. Heavy rain in Jharkhand may force Massanjore dam to release water by Friday, compounding Bengal’s problems. “As Jharkhand saw heavy rain, water level in Ajay and other rivers like Hinglo and Mayurakshi in Birbhum rose. We have evacuated 12,000 people from riverside areas of five blocks,” said Bidhan Roy, the Birbhum district magistrate. Tree shelter In East Burdwan’s Ausgram, three persons climbed a tree in the middle of Ajay’s riverbed on Thursday afternoon when water level of the river increased suddenly after 1.56 cusec water was released from Shikatia dam in Jharkhand. They could not be rescued till late on Thursday. The administration planned to send a team of NDRF to rescue them when this report was filed. “A boat of the disaster management team returned following a failed rescue bid. We are sending an NDRF team,” said Arindam Mukherjee, block development officer of Ausgram I.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Five children test positive for Covid-19 in Malda||Five children, aged between one and 12 years, tested positive for Covid-19 in different parts of Malda district in the past 48 hours. “All five children are in a stable condition and none has been hospitalised so far. But as they have not received vaccines, we are in touch with their families regularly to ensure that they are being provided with proper treatment,” said Amitava Mondal, the deputy chief medical officer of health – II of Malda, on Thursday. Sources in the health department said although the number of Covid-19 cases had declined in the district, the fresh infections among children made them draw up plans to ensure that such affected kids received required treatment. “We have installed oxygen supply systems at hospitals in all 15 blocks. So, patients need not come to the Malda Medical College and Hospital,” Saibal Banerjee, the chief medical officer of health of Malda, said. “We are developing new wards which will have 12 to 20 beds at some rural and block health centres.” Senior government doctors have said right now, not a single Covid patient is under treatment at the MMCH. “We are, however, continuing our surveillance and carrying out random tests. It has been found that a number of patients who have been tested positive are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. Even then, all of us should be on alert,” said Partha Pratim Mukherjee, the MMCH principal. On Thursday, Suhrita Pal, the vice-chancellor of West Bengal University of Health Sciences, reached the MMCH. She held a meeting with officials and faculty members and visited the health establishment. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state health department, was with her. Roy told newspersons that the state health department had decided to open Paediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) at subdivisional and super-specialty hospitals. “The PICU we have at the MMCH will be developed into a centre of excellence. Also, those who will work at the PICUs will be trained at the MMCH and the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Three persons killed as heavy rain lashes south Bengal||Three persons were killed on Thursday in accidents triggered by heavy rain in West Burdwan. Police said the body of Nasim Ansari, 25, a resident of Railpar in Asansol was found floating inside his single-storey house on Thursday morning. Sources said Nasim was sleeping alone when water entered his home. Police took the youth to Asansol district hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Anil Keora, 50, a resident of a riverside road in Burnpur, and Sukurmani Besra, 65, of Barabani block were killed when a mud wall fell on them while they were asleep early on Thursday. Both were declared dead on arrival at the Asansol district hospital. Homes and property suffered heavy damage as almost entire Asansol and its adjoining areas, as well as Bankura, were inundated with consistent rain since Wednesday. The Met office in Calcutta recorded 434mm rainfall till 6am on Thursday only in Asansol. It is the highest that the town has seen in four years. Water entered almost every household and the town's sole railway hospital. Water also flooded the Delhi-bound NH2, prompting the administration to restrict the movement of vehicles on the busy highway. West Burdwan district administration had to call in the army from Panagarh Military Station to rescue people in some waterlogged areas in Asansol after the local disaster management team failed. “We had to call one company of army jawans from Panagarh to help us rescue people from waterlogged areas. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) also has joined us in rescue operations,” said a district official. Some residents of Railpar and Kalla of Asansol protested against the alleged delay in rescue operations when district magistrate Arun Prasad and police commissioner Sudhir Kumar Nilakantam came to inspect the areas. Many residents also said they could not recall such rain-induced danger in recent memory. “Half of my two-storey house in Railpar area got flooded. I had to stay on the terrace till nearby residents rescued me in the morning,” said Mohammad Iqbal. Officials of Asansol Municipal Corporation said water started ebbing by afternoon after rain stopped. “We have rescued people from waterlogged areas and also given them medicines and food. We have set up relief camps in schools,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
01-10-2021||West Bengal||Murshidabad assembly segments record high voter turnout||Polling in Samserganj and Jangipur Assembly seats in Murshidabad on Thursday turned out to be a peaceful affair and recorded high turnout of voters, mostly migrant labourers who had come home to exercise their franchise. As of 5pm, Samserganj recorded a voter turnout of 78.60 per cent and Jangipur 76.12 per cent. Unofficial estimates put the number of migrant workers in the two constituencies at around 50,000, who were seen queuing up outside polling booths since early morning. The migrants said they had arrived in large numbers “to support their parties” even though the results would not make any impact on the fate of the Trinamul Congress government. “I knew I would be coming home and had planned this trip months in advance. I am happy to pay out of my own pocket if it means progress for my party,” said Raghunandanpur resident Mostaq Ansari, 42, who works for a distribution company in Bihar. A known Trinamul supporter in the area, he had reached his home on Wednesday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
01-10-2021||North East||Brinda Karat urges Himanta Biswa Sarma to halt eviction drives ||CPM politburo member Brinda Karat has urged Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma to immediately halt eviction drives while seeking immediate relief to those displaced in the Darrang district pocket where two persons died during police action on September 23. Brinda suggested that evictions should not be carried out without proper land survey and verification of the affected. She mailed a letter to the BJP’s Sarma after a stock-taking visit on Wednesday to the minority-dominated settlement at greater Dhalpur where violence had broken out. She was accompanied by party leaders from the state including CPM central committee member Suprakash Talukdar and MLA Monoranjan Talukdar. In her letter released to the media on Thursday, Brinda also narrated the plight of the affected locals, terming the drive to oust encroachers in the riverine area a “clear violation” of human rights, an “attack” on the Constitution and on laws pertaining to eviction, resettlement and rehabilitation. Over 1,000 poor peasant families have been affected in the eviction drive carried out on September 20 and 23 to set up a mega community farming project. Though the drive on September 20 was peaceful, it turned violent on September 23, leading to clashes between locals and security personnel in which two persons died and 25 were injured. Seeking a halt to evictions without survey and verification, Brinda said: “Even if the claim of the Government that this is encroached land is taken at face value, the Government has not conducted any survey to verify or reject the claims. Moreover, it is shocking that less than 12 hours’ notice was given for the eviction. This entire process is totally illegal and inhuman. No rehabilitation plan has been made, nor has any land been offered. Since September 23, no government officials have visited the people.… Again without settling the claims the Government is taking illegal measures to grab the land.” She said that the affected, who have been “tilling” the land for 50 years, have all the papers required to show their occupation and in some cases ownership of the plots. “I myself saw many such documents in the public hearing we held,” Brinda wrote. Suprakash Talukdar told The Telegraph: “How can we know who are landless and who are victims of flood and erosion? That is why there should be land survey and verification…. What happened in Dhalpur was arbitrary and politically motivated. Muslims were selectively targeted.” Criticising the role of the administration and the police that “was worse than an occupying force”, Brinda said the “plight” of the displaced was “worse than (those of) prisoners of war”. The only reason for the eviction drive “unfortunately and regretfully”, Brinda said, “lies in a narrow political agenda of stripping minority communities of their rights, even though the Government itself knows that they are citizens of India. In other words, in this area of Assam, citizens of India are deprived of their rights only because they are Muslims”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
01-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani join Congress||Winds of change Sir — Ending months of speculation, the former Communist Party of India member and Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union president, Kanhaiya Kumar, has finally joined the Congress. The independent lawmaker from Gujarat, Jignesh Mevani, did not formally join the party, but assured that he would contest the Gujarat polls on a Congress ticket. Kumar’s move is interesting in the light of the comments of the Trinamul Congress supremo and Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, during the virtual meeting of Opposition parties in July — she had said that one must forget who the leader is as the people of India will lead the fight against the Bharatiya Janata Party. Unfortunately, the TMC itself is still at odds with the Congress, mounting offensives against the party ahead of the Bhowanipore bypolls through speeches and articles. More people are expected to throw in their lot with the Congress once the leadership issue is resolved. Kumar and Mevani are set to urge the youth to join the Congress in numbers. This would be a welcome change. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — Kanhaiya Kumar has joined the Congress at the right time. Having lost the 2019 parliamentary elections, he is aware that there is no substitute for mainstream politics in India. The Congress has been deserted by many on account of differences in opinion. It remains to be seen what role the former student leader plays in the revitalization of the Congress. At present, the lack of a democratic atmosphere within the party is obvious. One expects Kumar to put the house in order. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly Sir — It is good to see young leaders like Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani extending support to the Congress. One expects their induction — Mevani is yet to join formally — into the Grand Old Party to help in its much-needed revival. The inept handling of the party in the last few years has caused immense harm and resulted in the exit of some promising leaders. One hopes the party will utilize the potential of these two young men to fill up the void created by the deserters. One also wishes that the party rises again, keeping in mind the path shown by M.K. Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Vallabhbhai Patel and others. Debasish Chatterjee,Calcutta Unfair test Sir — The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test does not provide a level playing field for the thousands of students who graduate from state boards or come from rural and semi-rural areas and cannot afford the exorbitant coaching fees charged by tutorials (“Poor coaches”, Sep 27). The bill passed by Tamil Nadu to disallow NEET in the state and assess candidates based on their results in board examinations when they apply to medical colleges is thus welcome. Other states like Maharashtra and West Bengal may take similar steps. Many Indian states have spent massive sums of money to establish medical colleges and maintain their infrastructure, but have limited choice in admitting students from their states. There is also a need to reassess the role of competitive exams. Students often feel disillusioned or are tragically driven to suicide when they fail to meet the standards of such exams; this is unfair to them. Further, if the NEET were indeed all about merit as is claimed, how is it that the Union government has approved reservations for some sections? H.N. Ramakrishna,Bangalore Sir — Competitive examinations like the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test are far from fair. It is designed to boost the business of coaching classes and its format is highly flawed. All states must reconsider such tests. Debashruti Sinha,Delhi Sir — Any true test of merit requires fair competition and this can stem only from equity, not mere equality. Grouping students from diverse backgrounds together is a bad idea. Sohini Saha,Calcutta  Sound advice Sir — It is heartening that the forest ministry has written to principal wildlife conservators in 17 states discouraging the use of harsh Hindi words — “aatanki” (terrorist) and “utpati” (oppressor), for instance — while narrating elephant attacks. Such descriptions can indeed inculcate a negative impression of wildlife among people — in India, it is not uncommon for people to kill wild animals out of fear. Conservators as well as the media should keep in mind the impact their words can have. They should try and cultivate a sense of harmony between wildlife and mankind in order to restore and retain the balance of nature. Rimi Dasgupta,West Burdwan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
01-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Easy pickings||Homecomings can be bittersweet. The prime minister, Narendra Modi, brought home 157 stolen artefacts and antiquities, which were handed over to him by the United States of America. Ironically, though, tangible heritage faces a serious threat of obliteration in a New India obsessed with a mythical past. That could be because priceless artworks are, at present, protected by the Antiquities and Art Treasures Act, 1972. As antiquated as the items it seeks to protect, this law has many shortcomings. Excessive bureaucratic hurdles for both owners and traders of antiquities and the lack of a provision for a comprehensive database of such items are just two such gaps. These loopholes have helped create a thriving black market in these riches. The law also betrays ignorance about the vastness and the intricate nature of the international smuggling racket that comprises diverse agents, including ragpickers and impoverished middlemen. Livelihood exerts greater pressure than ethics. There is thus scope for introducing incentives and protection in the law for the accomplices so that they are encouraged to disclose information about those involved in illegal trade to the investigating agencies. The draft antiquities and art treasures regulation, export and import bill, 2017, which was supposed to replace the 1972 Act still lies in a limbo. Worryingly, it proposes to do away with the requirement of a licence for selling antiques within the country and the need to authenticate provenance or declare the source of acquisition of the pieces. This could end up facilitating the existing unlawful trade in invaluable material heritage instead of protecting it. The return of the artefacts from the US should be an occasion to reflect on these failings and examine possible solutions. First among these would be institutional reforms. Museums and the Archaeological Survey of India should employ trained staff. The director-general of the ASI — vested with the power to determine whether an idol is an antiquity — must have extensive expertise in archaeology and conservation. There is also the need to sensitize allied institutions, such as the police and other investigative agencies usually tasked with retrieving stolen artefacts, about the importance of heritage. The challenges that the police face — shortage of funds, manpower and autonomy — make it difficult for India to raise a specialized unit, such as Italy’s Carabinieri, whose officers would be trained not only in investigative techniques but also in art history and international law. The greatest impediment, of course, is India’s casual attitude towards antiques. The pedagogy of history and art objects needs to be made popular.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
01-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: What a mess||Crisis and the Congress have become synonymous in India’s political dictionary. The state of affairs in Punjab is a case in point. The high command’s decision to replace the former chief minister, Amarinder Singh, with Charanjit Singh Channi, with Navjot Singh Sidhu as the state chief, was initially seen as a politically prudent move. Mr Singh’s alleged unpopularity, the Congress hoped, would be compensated by the appointment of a Dalit chief minister in a state that has a sizeable presence of the community. But then a script seldom unfolds in a predictable manner in the Congress. Mr Sidhu, peeved at being elbowed out of the chief ministerial race, quit as party president; Mr Singh — he met the Union home minister, Amit Shah, recently — has announced that he will quit the Congress. This could only mean that the party should be prepared for a blowback from his supporters in the elections. The end result is that the Congress has managed to queer what appeared to be a smooth electoral pitch. That is not all. Pressing questions have been raised by the dissenting group — the G23 — pertaining to the political wisdom and style of functioning of Rahul Gandhi. Mr Sidhu, incidentally, enjoyed the high command’s patronage. The reasons for the crisis are not far to seek. Opportunism, rather than ideology, appears to be the principal incentive for a section of the Congress leadership. This hankering for power is comical given the Congress’s waning political imprint. The party is yet to have a full-time president; desertion is rampant — a prominent Congress leader from Goa has jumped ship; factionalism festers in the handful of states — Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan — where the party is in power. What is intriguing is that even though the party is in a shambles, organizationally as well as politically, the values that the Congress is meant to embody have acquired a renewed urgency. Its ideology continues to draw fresh, young faces: Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani have built bridges with the party simply because they share the Congress’s commitment to constitutional democracy and pluralism. Yet, the shadow deepens between the idea and its practice as far as the Congress is concerned. The future of India’s democracy would depend on the Congress’s ability to rejuvenate the party and renew its pledge to the founding vision of the republic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
01-10-2021||Opinion||Future wish list||The opening lines of a popular song by Tears for Fears go like this: “Shout! Shout! Let it all out!/ These are the things I can do without!” This raucous, elemental voicing of protest in “Shout” helped it reach the Number One spot in the charts in the United Kingdom and in the United States of America. The song was inspired by the concept of ‘primal therapy’ created by the American psychologist, Arthur Janov. Tears for Fears and “Shout” have become part of the nostalgia for the music scene of the 1980s. However, the sentiment of wider social protest is relevant today as we envision what a post-pandemic world should look like. It is, admittedly, difficult to evoke and define a post-pandemic future that is still taking shape behind a “veil of ignorance”, a term conceived by the American political philosopher, John Rawls. But one of the best ways of thinking about such a fluid future would be to think in terms of what it should not be like. Here are some of the things we can do without in a post-Covid world. Supposedly strong men who claim that they can lead their countries out of the pandemic. The variations of Donald Trump are to be found all over the world and they have all bungled up. In the UK, Boris Johnson failed to announce a timely lockdown and, in the initial months, failed to understand the root causes of the spread of the virus. A parliamentary inquiry was started in Brazil to investigate Jair Bolsonaro’s response. In India, Narendra Modi declared victory against the pandemic just before the deadly second wave. Is it a coincidence that the nations with the loudest male leaders are the ones with the highest death toll? Vaccine nationalism, the most recent manifestation of the utter undesirability of nationalism in the 21st century. The pandemic has created moral obligations for governments to ensure vaccines for the vulnerable beyond territorial boundaries. These moral obligations are far greater than the myopic concerns of vaccine diplomacy that merely seeks to instrumentally use the vaccines to bolster a particular country’s sphere of influence. A dose of Stoic philosophy, especially its idea of cosmopolitanism encompassing the whole of humanity rather than being confined to the narrowness of nationhood, may be the need of the hour. It could inoculate the world from nationalism which Albert Einstein had declared in 1929 to be an infantile disorder like the measles. Significantly, Trump, Johnson, Bolsonaro et al are the most vociferous supporters of nationalism. At one point, the Boris Johnson government had wanted to put the Union Jack on the packaging of the AstraZeneca vaccine. We can certainly do with less of free market capitalism as capitalism creates pandemics. Johnson wrongly thinks that free market capitalism resulted in the vaccines being developed rapidly. His critics were quick to point out that 97 per cent of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine was publicly funded. There is a strong case for the Covid vaccines to be turned into a public good to prevent pharmaceutical giants from making a killing: Pfizer is projecting $26 billion in revenue in 2021 from its Covid vaccine. For a post-pandemic future to kick in, we need to shout out loud that the profit motive be replaced with altruism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
01-10-2021||Opinion||Decoding silence||Let me begin with a disclaimer: I oppose the Taliban in Afghanistan and their interpretation of Islam; I oppose a section of the so-called Indian ulema which celebrated the victory of the Taliban; and I oppose Hindutva’s appropriation of the Taliban issue to demonize Indian Muslims. However, I find the imagination of an elitist liberal Islam to counter religious essentialism to be equally problematic. The self-declared liberal Muslims (who claim to assert moderate Islam) as well as the self-assured cultural Muslims (who celebrate their atheism in public life) seem to reproduce an age-old, rigid, inflexible, and elitist discourse of Muslim intellectual backwardness. They blame Muslim communities for their conservative worldview and ask them to embrace modernity and rationalism for a better future. The cultural, social, regional, linguistic and even religious diversity among Muslims is completely ignored in this schema to sustain an enduring conflict between the ulema-led regressive Islam and a modernity led by liberals. Take, for instance, the video by the actor, Naseeruddin Shah, that went viral. He makes three claims in it. First, the “celebrations of the barbarians by some sections of Indian Muslims is no less dangerous”. Second, Muslims should ask themselves “if they want a reformed, modern Islam (jiddat pasandi modernity), or live with the old barbarism (vaishipan) of the past few centuries”. The third claim is very personal. Describing his adherence to a particular form of religiosity, Shah argues, “I am an Indian Muslim and as Mirza Ghalib said years ago, my relationship with God is informal. I don’t need political religion.” No rational mind would disagree with his first argument. The Taliban regime represents a clear threat to the very idea of religious tolerance and mutual co-existence of different faith communities. One must unequivocally resist it. However, the problem arises with his second proposition. Like a visionary, Shah asks Indian Muslims to take a clear position on Islam. Interestingly, this query is posed as a multiple choice question with only two options: reformed Islam (modernity) or religious extremism (barbarianism). The question is wrong. Modernity stands for a specific cultural context that does not necessarily produce progressive religious reforms. The Taliban, for instance, are a modern phenomenon, which evokes an instrumentalist reading of Islam to justify their political existence.  Shah, it seems, is guided by an outdated modernist assumption that Indian Islam needs reforms to face the challenges of the modern world. He is completely unaware of the fact that there is a strong Muslim middle class in India that does not find any contradiction between egalitarian Islamic principles and modern ideas. Even poor and marginalized Muslims are not attracted towards radicalism of any kind. They do not need any ulema or reformer to give them a prefect recipe for an ideal, reformed, modern Islam. My research (based on various studies, including the recent Pew Survey on religion in India) also shows that aggressive Hindutva has failed to provoke Muslims towards religious extremism. It simply means that Muslim communities practise modern Islam in a variety of ways. Hence, asking them to prove their modernity and take a position on religious barbarism is an insult to their collective existence. Shah’s self-obsession with his version of Islam as an ideal form is also questionable. Of course, everyone has his/her own way of relating to Allah. Ghalib, Shah, or Maududi cannot intervene in this intrinsic relationship. At the same time, this formal-informal link between a believer and Allah cannot be seen entirely as an individual pursuit. Shah wants us to believe that the public manifestation of faith, especially in political terms, would always be dangerous, communal, and violent. This claim is based on a deeply one-sided imagination of modern politics. CSDS-Lokniti surveys have shown that Muslim communities participate in democratic politics with great enthusiasm. Their religious faith and its public manifestation do not become a hurdle in asserting their status as voters and citizens. Shah actually follows the rigid conception of 19th-century European secularism that envisages a strict dividing line between the religion of an individual and his/her participation in politics. This form of secularism, the political theorist, Rajeev Bhargava, reminds us goes against the distinctiveness of the Indian version of constitutional secularism. Indian Constitution recognizes the cultural values of the public manifestation of religion to establish the unity in diversity principle. This brings me to another interesting notion — the cultural Muslims. The former parliamentarian, film-story writer and lyrist, Javed Akhtar (who describes himself as an equal opportunity atheist) is a vocal representative of this community. Akhtar employs a theory of comparison. He compares the Taliban with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh /Hindutva; he compares the Taliban’s decision to impose a ban on working women with those who support the practice of triple talaq in India. He also compares Hindu extremism with Muslim fundamentalism in India. These provocative comparisons are certainly important. There is a remarkable similarity between Hindu essentialism and Muslim extremism. However, one cannot universalize these similarities. Media-driven Hindutva politics that demonizes every aspect of collective Muslim existence in India does not need Asaduddin Owaisi, the Muslim Personal Law Board or the Shahi Imam to flourish. It has its own anti-Muslim agenda. Akhtar’s theory of comparison does not allow him to go beyond the dominant media-centric debates and discover the changing world of Indian communities. Pasmanda politics, which has raised the question of caste-based social stratification among Muslims, is a good example to underline the limitations of Akhtar’s comparison-based secularism. The All India Pasmanda Muslim Mahaz, led by the former MP, Ali Anwar Ansari, has recently published a small booklet in Hindi, “Sampradayik Dhruvikaran ka Sahi Ilaj, Jaati Janganana ke Liye ho jaaye Taiyyar (To counter communal polarization, be ready for caste-based census)”. Contextualizing the exclusion of OBC Muslims, this booklet offers us a creative explanation of the complex relationship between Hindutva and the Muslim caste question. It argues that the inclusion of Muslim and Christian Dalits in the scheduled caste list is inevitable for a wider secularization of our policy discourse. This form of affirmative action-based secularism, the Pasmanda Muslim groups seem to claim, can help us have an alternative vision of secularism. Their slogan, “Dalit pichhada ek saman, Hindu ho ya Musalman” is more nuanced than the rigid secularism of cultural Muslims. It would be completely inappropriate to disregard the opinions and views of great artists like Naseeruddin Shah and Javed Akhtar. They need not to do research projects before making public statements. Their freedom of expression must always be respected. At the same time, they are expected to be more informed, flexible and open. The liberal Islam/cultural Muslim framework they propose must accommodate subaltern voices and everyday forms of Islam. Otherwise, it would always remain elitist and exclusionary. We must remember that Muslim communities do not have any platform to express their views and assert their opinion. Hindutva politics, Muslim politicians, the media, the ulema, liberal Muslims, cultural Muslims, researchers and political commentators make observations on their behalf and ask them to behave in certain acceptable ways. Yet, Indian Muslims do not react. They remain calm, participate actively in democratic politics, and struggle for their rights as citizens in a constitutional manner. Their silence must be understood as a positive gesture in favour of democratic polity and social stability. After all, the subaltern cannot speak. Hilal Ahmed is Associate Professor, CSDS, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
01-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Footfall at Tata zoo nosedives because of barricades at entries||Jamshedpur: The footfall at Tata Steel Zoological Park inside the landmark Jubilee Park has nosedived since the two entry points leading to the animal kingdom remain shut. The footfall at the zoo was expected to increase after gates of the Jubilee Park were thrown open for the public after a year-and-a-half on Sunday. But the two entry points (one near the Centre for Excellence and the other which leads to the Jayanti Sarovar) remain closed. Barricades have been put at both these entry points. The footfall at the zoo used to be around 1,500-1,600 every day before the pandemic but now it has come to almost half. (Jayesh Thaker)  Jamshedpur: Inspector general of Railway Protection Force (RPF) D.B. Kashar inspected security arrangements at the Tatanagar station in view of the upcoming Puja, on Friday. During the hour-long inspection, Kashar inspected the entry and exit points at the Tatanagar station besides the luggage-scanner. The senior railway cop also checked the CCTV cameras and functioning of the control room. Having completed the inspection, Kashar held a meeting with the RPF officials where he gave instructions to the subordinates regarding how to maintain a flawless security during the Puja when the passengers' flow does increase manifold. (Kumud Jenamani)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
01-10-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI wins Accenture B-School Challenge's fifth edition ||Global professional services leader Accenture on Friday announced top winners of the fifth edition of the annual Accenture B-School Challenge- 2021. The fifth edition of the annual contest focused on the theme ‘Signals of Change: Discovering new opportunities in a disruptive world.’ Aimed at igniting discussions on key changes catalyzed by the pandemic sweeping across today’s business landscape, the participants explored trends that pave the way for reinvention and growth. More than 8,500 students from 16 premier business schools across the country participated in the month-long competition held on a virtual platform. The grand finale featured eight finalist teams who were mentored by experts from Accenture. The participating teams presented case studies across diverse industries such as banking, telecom, consumer goods and retail, natural resources, energy, automotive and life sciences. The first prize was awarded to the team from XLRI. The Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Bangalore emerged as the first runners- up team followed by the second runner up team from Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, New Delhi. The top eight teams qualifying for the grand finale received a pre-placement interview opportunity with Accenture besides the winners who received other exciting prizes. The virtual challenge was divided into four stages. The first round was a rapid-fire online quiz where over 2,800 teams (each team comprising three members) participated, followed by round two which identified 482 teams based on business simulation where students stepped into the role of a CEO to make their company profitable. In the next round, the shortlisted 160 teams presented virtually to the Accenture leadership team and eventually top eight teams were chosen for the final round. They underwent a storytelling workshop to prepare for the final presentations and an in-depth industry master class to gain deeper business insights. The finalists were evaluated by a jury comprising industry leaders from various Indian businesses as well as senior leaders from Accenture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
01-10-2021||Jharkhand||21-year-old starts India cycle tour from steel city||Adhiraj Barua, a former student of Kerala Public School Kadma, set out on his maiden and longest bicycle journey on an All-India tour from the steel city on Friday. As a focused and high spirited student, the 21-year-old Adhiraj has become a passionate travel-geek. To fulfill his father’s dream, he set-out on the tour on his new favourite bicycle. He will be travelling across all the 28 states and eight union territories with the spirit of adventure that testifies where there is a will, there is a way. "I would be covering a distance of around 22,000km. Several organisations like Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA), Rotary Club of Jamshedpur, Lions Club and Bharat Sevashram Sangha have extended their co-operation in this great venture. I am grateful to those organisations and my alma mater," said Adhiraj. Kerala Public School Kadma will provide the much needed financial support. Adhiraj passed out from KPS Kadma in the year 2016. In this exciting journey he aims to conquer the highest motorable road on his bicycle, the Umlingala Road in Ladhakh. If he does this, he shall become the first Indian to reach a height of 19,300 feet, thus setting a world record on a bicycle. "This is a true testimony of an indomitable spirit and unflinching commitment to the goal. With this journey Adhiraj wants to spread the message of   national integration and environment conservation. He condemns forced child marriages that are still prevalent in certain parts of rural India and takes this opportunity to create awareness amongst the rural population," said Sharmila Mukherjee, principal of Kerala Public School Kadma. A good singer, Adhiraj said he wishes to sing the national anthem on the summit of Umlingala pass as a mark of respect to the nation. Director of Kerala Public School, Sharat Chandran, academic director Lakshmi Sharat and the entire fraternity of teachers, staff and students wished him good luck and a safe journey. The school had also organised an interactive session with him on his venture on Thursday afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
01-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi's first dedicated vegetable market finally ready ||The civic authority in Ranchi is ready with the capital's first dedicated vegetable market where over 300 sellers, who operate out of a road opposite Raj  Bhavan,  are to relocate, ensuring that Kishoreganj Chowk on Ratu Road will finally be opened up to ensure smooth flow of traffic. The market, built by Ranchi Municipal Corporation over  40,000 sq feet at Naga Baba Khatal at a cost of Rs 10 crore, is awaiting formal inauguration, deputy mayor Sanjeev Vijayvargiya said in Friday. “We have sent a proposal to the  chief minister’s office,  seeking a time for its inauguration. From our end, the vegetable market is ready, except for some minor finishing touches which will barely take a day or two to wrap up,” he said. The two-storeyed market has 195 spacious counters. It also has a basement.  “At least 300 fruits and vegetable vendors can easily be accommodated there. It  has passages on all sides for easy entry and exit. There are parking bays too,” he said. Once operational, he said, after vendors take up place there, the problem off traffic jams around Raj Bhavan and at Kishoreganj chowk at Ratu road would be over. Around  400 vegetable and fruit vendors sit along the road near Raj Bhavan every day from morning till night. This apart, autos and rickshaws too remain parked there, leading to perpetual traffic jams. Vijayvargiya said vendors would be allocated space using a lottery system. “Through lotteries, we will auction  space. Even for vendors, the vegetable market complex will be beneficial to do business as besides proper vending zones, there will be proper facilities for drinking water and toilets,” he said. RMC is also installing over 60 high-end CCTV cameras for security. The foundation stone of the Naga Baba vegetable market project was laid in 2017 when the Raghubar Das-led BJP government was in power. It was meant to be ready by 2020 but the project got mired in delays due alterations in design and  the pandemic. It is among a handful of civic projects that has been  completed  after the change of regime in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
01-10-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town bridge caves in  after flash floods||A flash flood in river Barkar caused due to  record rainfall of 309mm in Dhanbad, led to a portion of the  Purbi Tundi -Jamtara Bridge to cave in early on Friday, leading to disruption in traffic. The incident took place due to strong current of water in the river washing away the soil accumulated for the ongoing repair work and resultant increase of load on the existing pillars. The incident caused long queues of vehicles on both sides of the bridge including Baijrabad in Purbi Tundi area of Dhanbad and also towards the Nayanpur area of Jamtara. Local residents said that that several pillars of the bridge constructed 15 years ago were in dilapidated condition for long and repair work of the bridge has also been initiated recently according to which huge amount of silt has been deposited on the both the ends of bridge to provide support. Record rainfall caused due to Cyclone Gulab in both Jamtara and Dhanbad however washed away the silt leading to the increase of load on the existing  pillars which also faced the pressure of strong current of water passing through the river leading to collapse of one of pillars during the wee hours of today. The local residents however expressed anger claiming that no official reached the site of the incident till as late as 9am. Rakesh Singh, Circle Officer of Purbi Tundi, said, “We have informed the NH division  of state road construction department which on the other hand send its team to site and the movement of vehicles on the bridge has been blocked by carrying out trench cutting on both the ends of bridge.” “As water level is still high in the river the repair work can’t be initiated but the traffic has been diverted on the Kardaha route which is an alternative route connecting Purbi Tundi of Dhanbad and Jamtara,” said Singh. Meanwhile, the incessant also led to increase of water level in Maithon dam situated on river Barakar which as per records of the office the Manager Reservoir Operations of  Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) has reached 492 feet around 3 feet below the highest storage level of 495 feet on Friday morning at around 10 am. In Panchet dam situated on river Damodar, the water level has also reached to 427 feet three feet below the danger level of 430 feet. Apurba Saha, Public Relation Officer of DVC at Maithon said, “The situation is not good as we have to release 1.4 lakh cusecs of water cumulatively from Maithon and Panchet on Thursday and due to grim situation of flood in Asansol we are further storing the water in dam.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
01-10-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccination on slo-mo in Jharkhand, day's count 85,009 only||The immunisation campaign against Covid-19 continued at a low pace on Thursday as  Jharkhand  managed to vaccinate less than 1 lakh beneficiaries for the second day in a row, while the active caseload of the disease jumped to 83, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 84,797 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Thursday in the state. While 49,333 residents were administered the first dose of vaccine, at least 35,464 beneficiaries received the booster dose on the day, as per NHM data. Ranchi vaccinated about 12,000 residents , the highest among the 24 districts, while East Singhbhum administered vaccine doses to 10,000-odd beneficiaries. Over 8,000 residents were inoculated against SARS-CoV-2 virus in Dhanbad, while about 9,000 beneficiaries got vaccinated in Bokaro. At least 11 fresh Covid cases against only six Covid recoveries caused a spike in the active caseload of the disease in Jharkhand, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. Ranchi alone accounted for five of the 11 fresh cases, and the active caseload here rose to 49 as only three Covid patients recovered in the district. At least four cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection against only two Covid recoveries took the active caseload in East Singhbhum to eight. On the other hand, Khunti, which had zero active cases until Thursday, reported two fresh cases. At least 21 of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of Covid-19, but the number of districts with zero active Covid cases dropped to 11. As per government data, more than 1.35 crore residents in Jharkhand have received at least one dose of vaccine since the launch of the nationwide immunisation programme against Covid-19 on January 16. About 40 lakh of these beneficiaries have also received the second jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
01-10-2021||Jharkhand||Musical band for central housing scheme laggards||A unique initiative by a civic body in Jharkhand to use a musical band for “public shaming” of beneficiaries of a central housing scheme who have not completed their units even after getting the sanctioned amount has led to a higher completion rate of houses. The Lohardaga Nagar Parishad, one of the 45 urban local bodies in Jharkhand, has started the “public shaming” exercise using a band to perform at the doorstep of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana— Urban beneficiary and also announcing through microphone about non-completion of construction even after getting the sanctioned amount from the government. The exercise, which was started in August, has led to the Lohardaga Nagar Parishad topping the completion rate of houses under the scheme in the state in September, a remarkable feat for a civic body which was ranked among the worst five performers in the state-wide review in July. “We were issued a showcause during the review in August as we were placed in the bottom five civic bodies in terms of completion of houses under the PMAY-U scheme. After a lot of discussion we decided that public shaming of beneficiaries who do not construct houses was the only option left. We started with the performance of musical bands, who otherwise used to perform during wedding procession, along with an announcement through microphone of the name and the date on which the amount had been taken by the beneficiary,” said Lohardaga Nagar Parishad city manager Bijay Kumar. Initially, the beneficiaries were surprised on finding musical bands performing at their doorstep and even neighbours gathered hearing the noise. “It was only in the presence of a large gathering that we announced through the microphone that the beneficiary has got the amount for construction of a house under PMAY-U but has not constructed the unit and is depriving other rightful beneficiaries from the marginalised communities of enjoying the government benefits. We have found beneficiaries pleading with us to stop the announcement and give in writing the dates by which they would start construction of houses,” said Kumar. According to the data, in Lohardaga Nagar Parishad area a total of 4,217 beneficiaries were selected for the PMAY-U scheme and till July only 1,894 houses had been constructed. However, after the public shaming initiative began, the house completion figure as on September 29 has reached 2,197. “We are currently ranked top in Jharkhand in terms of completion of houses under the PMAY-U with a completion rate of 151 per cent,” added Kumar. The Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana— Urban was launched in 2015 with an objective to provide housing to all marginalised people by 2022. The scheme envisages building houses for beneficiaries who have an annual income of less than Rs 3 lakh. The houses have to be built over 320sqfeet carpet area within Rs 3.61 lakh, with Rs 1.5 lakh contribution from the central government while the state government contributes Rs 75,000. The remaining amount for construction of the house would have to be borne by the beneficiary. Usually, beneficiaries collect the government contribution but shy away from constructing houses under the scheme in urban areas, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
01-10-2021||Jharkhand||Asur Radio gets invitation from AMARC to share experience||Asur Radio, a unique community radio initiative devoted to preservation of the endangered language of the Asur tribe and their culture in the Netarhat area of Jharkhand, has received an invitation from the World Association of Community Radio Broadcasters (AMARC) to share its experience. “Suman Basnet, regional director of AMARC Asia-Pacific, spoke to us from Nepal to invite Asur Radio for sharing its experience and efforts for saving the culture and language of the Asurs,” said Vandana Tete, coordinator of the initiative. She said the invite was for a nine-day webinar, which began on Thursday, where representatives from India, Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan are participating. “It was just an introductory session today while the working sessions will begin tomorrow (Friday),” she further said. She said the forum would provide them an opportunity to throw light on the Asurs, a particularly vulnerable primitive tribe residing in Gumla and Latehar districts of Jharkhand whose language and culture is endangered. Asurs are known as ancient “metallurgists” who had the indigenous skill of iron-making centuries ago and a few of them can still do it. “But not many of them  (Asur community) speak their own language,” Tete said, adding that this was the reason that she and others at the Jharkhandi Bhasha Sahitya Sanskriti Akhara, a cultural outfit, got involved to help protect the Asur language. Asur language also figures in the Unesco list of “definitely endangered languages” and is among 119 Indian languages listed as belonging to “vulnerable”, “definitely endangered”, “severely endangered” and “critically endangered” categories. Attracting people towards their own language was the best way to save it, Tete said and hence the outfit started popularising it through Asur Radio in January last year. Radio Asur is, however, not a conventional radio channel that broadcasts content. It is instead a pre-recorded infotainment audio capsule of about half an hour duration that would be played at weekly haats (rural markets) in areas which have significant Asur population. “We couldn’t afford (conventional) radio broadcasting that involves a huge cost and also legal clearances,” Sushma Asur, one of the volunteers, said, adding that this was why they started reaching out to people by playing a pre-recorded infotainment capsule comprising a medley of music, messages and local news. The Akhara helped them get financial assistance for buying voice recorders, microphones and sound box. Volunteers like Sushma and Vivekanand Asur travel to the weekly haats and set up their instruments before playing the signature tune “Dahan dahan turrrrrr......”, a call in Asur language for singing and dancing. This draws the people who usually hang on for the entire duration, they said, adding that things were going on well till the lockdown was clamped across the country last year. They prepared such capsules during the lull period and planned to play them again in village haats after monsoon, they said, sounding hopeful that their efforts would help save a language from extinction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
01-10-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rainfall marks monsoon ‘end’ in Jharkhand||The monsoon “officially” ended in Jharkhand on Thursday with the state receiving heavy to very heavy rainfall at some places. “The monsoon was very active in the state during the past 24 hours till this morning when very heavy rainfall was recorded at many places,” Abhishek Anand, in-charge of the Ranchi Meteorological Centre, said on Thursday afternoon. Putki, on the outskirts of Dhanbad, received the maximum of 309mm rainfall during the 24-hour period while Bokaro got 290mm, Jamtara 244mm and Pakur 219mm, he added. The monsoon, which officially stretches for four months — June to September — ended on Thursday with the state receiving total rainfall of 1,043.4mm during the period which is just 1 per cent less than the average rainfall of 1,054.7mm, Anand further said, adding that “the departure is normal”. “The low pressure area that caused heavy rainfall, reducing the departure to just -1 per cent from the normal is now lying centred over the north Jharkhand-Bihar border,” Anand said. He said that the state was likely to receive more rain during the next three-four days. Palamau, Chatra, Hazaribagh and Koderma districts were likely to receive heavy rainfall during the next 24 hours, he further said, indicating that the negligible deficiency of 1 per cent could also be wiped out. The figures released by the Ranchi Met office on Thursday afternoon showed that the rainfall distribution was not uniform across the state during the four months from June to September. Some districts like Lohardaga (49 per cent), Jamtara (39 per cent) and Dhanbad (23 per cent) received excess rainfall while some others such as Pakur (-36 per cent), Gumla (-31 per cent), Chatra (-26 per cent) and Godda (-25 per cent) got deficient rainfall. The current spell of rainfall caused by cyclonic storm Gulab made up the rain gap and brought down the earlier deficit of 5 per cent to one per cent. If the rain continues till Thursday midnight, the current gap may also not exist, weather officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
