02-10-2021||Business||Piyush Goyal dismisses Air India, claims, says govt has taken no decision||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday said the government has not taken any decision on Air India so far and the final winner will be selected through a well defined process. "I have been in Dubai since...day before and I don't think there is any such decision that has happened at all. Of course bids were invited...and that is assessed by the officers and in due course of time, there is a whole well laid down process through which the final winner will selected," he told reporters here. He was replying to a question about media reports stating Tatas have emerged as the top bidder for the takeover of debt-laden Air India. Tuhin Kanta Pandey, Secretary to Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) -- the government department responsible for privatisation -- had said in a tweet on Friday that the Centre has so far not approved any financial bid for Air India. "Media reports indicating approval of financial bids by Government of India in the AI disinvestment case are incorrect. Media will be informed of the Government's decision as and when it is taken," he tweeted. When asked about the proposed free trade agreement with the UAE, he said there are lot of opportunities for Indian businesses in sectors such as textiles, gems and jewellery, pharma and healthcare. There is tremendous potential in both goods and services, he added. On investments, he said "we have to encourage Indian businesses to engage with the UAE."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
02-10-2021||Business||Fuel prices soar to record high across country||Petrol and diesel prices soared to new record highs across the country on Saturday after rates were hiked again by 25 paise and 30 paise a litre, respectively. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest ever level of Rs 102.14 a litre and to Rs 108.19 in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. Diesel rates too touched a record high of Rs 90.47 in Delhi and Rs 98.16 a litre in Mumbai. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. The price hike follows international oil prices soaring to near three-year high as global output disruptions forced energy companies to draw more crude oil out of their stockpiles. The basket of crude oil India imports has averaged USD 78 per barrel in last few days. The fourth increase in its rates this week has sent petrol prices above Rs 100 in most major cities of the country. Similarly, the seventh increase in prices in nine days has shot up diesel rates above Rs 100 mark in several cities in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. State-owned Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL) resumed daily price revisions on September 24 after international oil prices neared a three-year high. Global benchmark Brent crude is trading above USD 78 per barrel. In seven price increases since September 24, diesel rates have gone up by 1.85 paise per litre. Petrol price has increased by Re 1 per litre in four instalments this week. When international oil rates fell in July and August, retail prices of petrol and diesel in the Delhi market were reduced by Rs 0.65 and Rs 1.25 per litre. Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period. India is dependent on imports to meet nearly 85 per cent of its oil needs and so benchmarks local fuel rates to international oil prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
02-10-2021||Business||Tata Sons emerge as top bidder for Air India||The Tatas look all set to clinch Air India, the state-owned loss-making airline. The capital has been abuzz with talk that a committee of secretaries opted for the Tata bid, preferring it over the one put in by SpiceJet owner Ajay Singh along with a few partners. On Friday as reports swirled that the Tatas had won the bid for Air India, divestment secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tried to douse the talk with a tweet that said the government had not reached a final decision. The bid will now be scrutinised by a group of ministers headed by home minister Amit Shah. This panel includes finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, commerce minister Piyush Goyal, and civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia. “Media reports indicating approval of financial bids by the government in the AI disinvestment case are incorrect. Media will be informed of the government decision as and when it is taken,” Pandey tweeted soon after news channels started reporting the deal. The government is seeking to sell 100 per cent of its stake in the state-owned national airline, including Air India’s 100 per cent shareholding in AI Express Ltd and 50 per cent in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd (AISATS). AISATS, a leading provider of catering and ground handling services, is a joint venture with SATS Ltd of Singapore. The stake sale process, which began in January 2020, faced delays due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In April 2021, the government asked potential bidders to put in financial bids. The core Group of Secretaries headed by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba held several rounds of consultations before picking Tata Sons as the best suitor for the national carrier. Officials indicated that the Tatas had outbid the SpiceJet chairman, adding that Ajay Singh had placed a “competitive bid” for the airline through a consortium. Tata Sons submitted its financial bid through its subsidiary Talace Pvt Ltd. Earlier this week, valuation firm RBSA Advisors and EY, the consultant for the disinvestment, had made a presentation to the committee of secretaries. They had reportedly set the reserve price in the range of Rs 15,000-20,000 crore. The government plans to hand over Air India by the end of December. If they win, Air India will return to the Tata fold after 67 years. The Tata Group founded Air India as Tata Airlines in October 1932. The government nationalised the airline in 1953. A document floated by DIPAM in January 2020 had estimated the airline's debt at Rs 60,074 crore as of March 31, 2019. Under the initial bidding terms, the buyer was required to absorb Rs 23,286.5 crore. The rest would be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL), a special purpose vehicle. The bidding terms were later revised and the bidder was no longer expected to assume a pre-fixed debt of Rs 23,000 crore. Instead, the eligible bidder was required to quote an enterprise value (EV) based on their estimate of the combined value of AI’s equity and debt in their financial bid. The winning bid will be picked on the basis of the highest EV quotation. At least 15 per cent of this value will need to be paid in cash. The rest can be taken on as debt. The state is also likely to offer indemnity to successful bidders from lawsuits filed by foreign mega corporations against AI to recover arbitration awards they have won against India. The airline is contesting these claims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
02-10-2021||Business||Zee board rejects Invesco's request for convening EGM||The board of Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd on Friday rejected Invesco’s demand to hold an extraordinary general meeting, setting the stage for a legal battle between them. The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Thursday had directed Zee to call a board meet to decide on Invesco’s demand for the EGM that sought to oust MD and CEO Punit Goenka and appoint  six new directors. After a meeting on Friday, Zee said that its board “arrived at a conclusion that the requisition is invalid and illegal; and has accordingly conveyed its inability to convene the EGM to Invesco Developing Markets Funds and OFI Global China Fund, LLC”. Invesco has the option to convene the EGM at the company’s expense which has to be held within three months. In a regulatory filing, the company said that its board sought the opinion of independent counsel, legal experts including senior retired Supreme Court judges and evaluated the matter in a fair and transparent manner. “The Board has arrived at this decision by referring to various non-compliances under multiple laws, including the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) guidelines, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB) guidelines and key clauses under the Companies Act & Competition Act, and after taking into account the interests of all the shareholders and stakeholders of the company,” Zee said. In a detailed submission to the stock exchanges, the company dwelt on the multiple legal infirmities with regard to the requisition notice. It cited I&B ministry guidelines to say prior permission from them is mandatory to effect any change in the CEO or the board of directors. Paragraph 5.10 of the ministry’s guidelines for the uplinking of TV channels from India framed on December 5, 2011 say “it will be obligatory on the part of the company to take prior permission from the MIB before effecting any change in the CEO/ Board of Directors’’. Invesco had said in its notice that the resolutions proposed for the appointment of directors contemplate them to be subject to approval from MIB, while the resolution on  Goenka is not contingent upon any prior approval from MIB. Sebi rules The board cited violation of Sebi takeover rules of it accepted the Invesco proposal. The non-compliance is on the count of the fund proposing the appointment of one half of the board without the approval of the nomination and remuneration committee of Zee and the board. Zee claimed that the Invesco proposals also does not follow the process laid down under Companies Act and Sebi’s listing regulations for the appointment of independent directors. According to Zee, Invesco’s proposal would result in  effecting a change in control of the company without making an open offer. It said regulation 17 of the Sebi listing rules mandates that a board shall have an optimum combination of executive and non-executive directors and that not less than 50 per cent of the board of directors shall comprise of non-executive directors. However, if Invesco’s proposals are effected, the company’s board will comprise of all non-executive directors. Therefore, it will be in contravention of the market regulator’s listing regulations. Additionally, Section 203 of the Companies Act obligates the Company to have a managing director, or CEO, or manager and in their absence, a whole-time director.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
02-10-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki sales dip 46 per cent to 86,380 units in September||The shortage of semiconductors has impacted car sales with Maruti Suzuki India reporting a 46.16 per cent decline in sales at 86,380 units in September. The company had sold 1,60,442 units in September last year. Domestic sales slipped 54.9 per cent to 68,815 units last month from 1,52,608 units in September 2020. Hyundai Motor India Ltd (HMIL) reported a 23.6 per cent decline in total sales at 45,791 units in September as continued semiconductor shortage took a toll on production and dispatches. The Korean auto major had sold 59,913 units a year ago. Tata Motors sold 24,652 units of passenger vehicles last month compared with 20,891 units in September 2020, marking an 18 per cent growth. MG Motor India on Friday reported a 28 per cent increase in retail sales at 3,241 units in September 2021 despite facing production challenges due to semiconductor shortage. Skoda sold 3,027 units last month to register 131 per cent year-on-year sales growth. Nissan reported a significant 261 per cent sales growth as it sold 2,816 units in India last month against 780 units in September 2020. Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) reported a 14 per cent growth in its domestic wholesales to 9,284 units in September as compared with same month last year. Bajaj Auto reported a 16 per cent decline in total domestic sales at 1,92,348 units in September this year. Farm machinery and construction equipment major Escorts reported a 25.6 per cent decline in total tractor sales at 8,816 units in September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
02-10-2021||Business||Oyo hops on to IPO bandwagon, files for Rs 8,430 crore offering||Hotel aggregator Oyo has filed preliminary documents for a Rs 8,430 crore initial public offering (IPO) as it joined the rush of technology unicorns looking to capitalise on a world-beating rally on the stock exchanges. The offering will consist of a fresh issue of shares of up to Rs 7,000 crore and an offer for sale of as much as Rs 1,430 crore, according to the draft prospectus filed with Sebi. The hotel-booking startup, whose official name is Oravel Stays Ltd, in the prospectus said it has made losses in each year since incorporation and the pandemic has further “materially and adversely impacted” its business. The firm incurred a loss of Rs 2,364.53 crore in FY19, which widened to Rs 13,122.77 crore in the following year but reduced to Rs 3,943.84 crore in FY21. It had aggregate outstanding borrowings of Rs 4,890.55 crore as of July 31, a part of which will be repaid from proceeds of the issue. While founder Ritesh Agarwal and his holding company had a combined 33.15 per cent stake, SoftBank owned 46.62 per cent of Oyo and AirBnB Inc 1.36 per cent. Agarwal held 8.21 per cent and his Cayman-registered holding company RA Hospitality Holdings 24.94 per cent. SoftBank’s arm SVF India Holdings (Cayman), A1 Holdings Inc, China Lodging Holdings (HK), and Global IVY Ventures LLP are among the entities selling some of their shares in the IPO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
02-10-2021||Business||Grasim Industries gets Rs 8,334 crore income tax demand||Grasim Industries Ltd on Friday said the income tax department has raised a demand of Rs 8,334 crore on the company as capital gains tax with regard to the sale of shares in a group firm. The Aditya Birla Group firm added that it would take “appropriate action” against the tax demand. Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax (DCIT) has raised a demand for the assessment year 2018-19, Grasim Industries said in a regulatory filing. This is related to the scheme of Grasim Industries’ merger with Aditya Birla Nuvo and Aditya Birla Financial Services.  The company said it would “take appropriate action against the said Order which it believes is against the spirit of tax laws.” Earlier, the DCIT had sought dividend distribution tax for the same deal in 2019, which was stayed by the Bombay High Court. DCIT has likewise imposed a capital gain tax on the value of shares, without considering that the shares were issued to the shareholders pursuant to the scheme of arrangement and no consideration was received by the company which could be subjected to tax, Grasim Industries noted. “As a corollary to the earlier order, the DCIT has valued the shares issued by the Resulting Company (Aditya Birla Capital Limited) at Rs 24,037 Crore as the sale consideration for transfer of undertaking and has made the addition of capital gains of Rs 22,772 Crore to the income of the Company as part of scrutiny assessment for the AY 2018-19 and has passed draft assessment order on 30th September 2021. “Based on the draft Order, demand for the AY 2018-19 is estimated at Rs 8,334 Crore, including interest and excluding any penalty proceedings,” the filing said. In September 2017, the Ahmedabad bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) had approved the merger of Aditya Birla Nuvo (ABNL) with Grasim Industries, to be followed by the listing of Aditya Birla Financial Services Ltd (ABFSL). Grasim Industries, flagship company of the Aditya Birla Group, is a diversified player with a presence across sectors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
02-10-2021||Business||Reliance Retail extends deadline to complete Rs 24,713 crore deal with Future Group||Reliance Retail Ventures, the retail arm of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL), has again extended the timeline to complete its Rs 24,713crore deal with the Future group to March 31, 2022. The deal has been contested by Amazon which holds 49 per cent in Future Coupons which in turn is a shareholder of Future Retail Ltd (FRL). In a regulatory filing on Friday, Future Retail said Reliance Retail Ventures (RRVL) has "extended the timeline for Long Stop Date from September 30, 2021 to March 31, 2022 to which has been duly acknowledged by Reliance Retail and Fashion Lifestyle Ltd, wholly owned subsidiary of RRVL". Earlier, RRVL had extended the timeline for the long stop date from March 31, 2021 to September 30, 2021. Long stop is a timeframe in which parties agree to complete a transaction by fulfilling all the necessary conditions for the deal. The development comes after the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) allowed Future Group companies to hold shareholder meetings and seek creditor approval for the proposed sale of its retail business to RRVL. Amazon had filed an application objecting to the NCLT considering the scheme pending completion of its arbitration proceedings against Future Retail. In September, the apex court had directed NCLT, CCI and Sebi not to pass any final order with regard to the dispute for four weeks. The scheme of arrangement between Future and Reliance Retail entails the consolidation of Future Group's retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing assets into one entity — Future Enterprises Ltd — and then transferring it to Reliance Retail. Shares of Future Retail on Friday ended marginally higher at Rs 51.90 on the announcement while Future Enterprises settled higher at Rs 8.99. After Future entered into a deal with Reliance Industries in August last year, the US retail giant had dragged the Kishore Biyani-led group into arbitration at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC). In October 2020, an interim award was passed by the Emergency Arbitrator (EA) in favour of Amazon that barred FRL from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issuing any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. While both the parties had filed petitions in domestic courts, recently the Supreme Court had ruled in favour of Amazon by holding that the EA award was valid and enforceable under Indian laws. Given these litigations, RRVL for the second time extended the timeline for completing the transaction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
02-10-2021||Business||HDFC Bank in a spot over fake loan fee ||A whistleblower has alleged that HDFC Bank has levied processing fees on customers who had submitted forged or suspected documents to get loans — instead of reporting them to the authorities. The whistleblower has reportedly written to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in July that the private sector lender collected a fine which it called “processing fee” after finding that a customer had submitted fake documents to get a loan. It alleged that the penalty was in return for not taking any regulatory or legal action. Responding to the charges, a spokesperson for the bank said that once such applications are identified to be discrepant or suspicious, the bank attempts to provide an opportunity to these people to come and clarify. However, in number of cases, applicants do not respond. The spokesperson added that in all cases, the bank “without exception”, takes steps like declining the loan application and updating the internal data base to prevent any future application from the customer. Further, the lender updates the industry data base to prevent such borrowers from indulging in such practices with any other banks, non banking finance companies (NBFCs) and financial institutions. “The bank does not waive the processing costs from customers who come forward in such discrepant/suspicious cases. The processing fee is charged towards defraying the cost of efforts of the bank for additional due diligence and verification and not for closing the cases,” it said. HDFC Bank however, added that the collection or non-collection of processing fees has no bearing on reporting to the internal and industry data base or attempts to report to the police authorities. “In fact, the bank files police complaints in a number of cases, where processing cost was paid by individuals,” the bank said. Shares of HDFC Bank today ended marginally lower to Rs 1582.55 at the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
02-10-2021||Business||Khaitans try to reclaim control in McLeod Russel||The Khaitans are trying to claw back control in India’s largest tea planter McLeod Russel India Ltd by scooping up shares from the bourses. The family acquired 5.74 per cent shares of the company earlier this week in two separate transactions in McLeod. The stock purchase coincided with the invocation of pledged shares and sale in the market by one of the lenders. The promoters, the Khaitan family, held a meagre 10.07 per cent stake in McLeod as on June 30, 2021, rapidly falling from a high of nearly 44 per cent as lenders invoked and sold pledged shares. In late September, IndusInd Bank informed the bourses that it invoked 9.58 per cent stake of McLeod. Had the family not stepped up to acquire the shares from the market, the Khaitans would have left with less than 1 per cent in McLeod, which narrowly came out of the jaws of insolvency proceedings last month. However, the acquisition of shares has been done this time with companies and individuals who were not directly linked to the mounting debt problem faced by the group and the numerous legal cases associated with it. Kavita Khaitan, wife of McLeod chairman Aditya Khaitan, picked up a 3.83 per cent stake in McLeod on September 28 in her personal capacity. Two days later, Ekta Credit Pvt Ltd, a promoter group company, bought a 1.91 per cent share in McLeod. Isha Khaitan, wife of Amritanshu Khaitan, managing director of dry cell battery maker Eveready Industries India Ltd and director of McLeod, is the director of Ekta Credit, stock market filing showed. “The Khaitans are trying to increase their holding in the manufacturing companies by entities who are not linked to the legacy issue of the group,” a source aware of the churn in the shareholdings, noted. In August, Isha Khaitan and Yashodhara Khaitan, mother of Amritanshu, cumulatively bought 70,000 shares in EIIL, representing 0.12 per cent in the company. Vivaya Enterprises Pvt Ltd, where Isha is a director, additionally bought 0.21 per cent in Eveready in August. Like in McLeod, Khaitan family held a meagre 4.77 per cent stake in Eveready, having ceded holding when lenders invoked pledged shares. Khaitans had borrowed from lenders by pledging their stakes in McLeod and Eveready to support ailing group firm McNally Bharat Engineering Co Ltd. The indebtedness had landed McLeod in insolvency before promoters managed to triggered the company out in the nick of time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
02-10-2021||Business||Row over invalid votes at Birla Corporation||Harsh Vardhan Lodha has retained control over Birla Corporation Ltd by an ‘overwhelming majority’ at Wednesday's annual general meeting. But the warring Birla and Lodha camps traded charges of fraudulent and illegal voting that threatens to erupt into another confrontation in the 17-year-old legal battle for control of the M.P. Birla Group. The five resolutions moved by the Lodha-led management, which included the appointment of CEO and MD Arvind Pathak, received support from 99 per cent of the valid votes. One resolution pertaining to the appointment of retired justice D.G. Karnik was passed with the requisite majority. A resolution seeking to appoint Rameshwar Singh Thakur that was proposed by The Punjab Produce and Trading Company Pvt Ltd, a promoter group company which is not under Lodha’s control, was defeated with 70.03 per cent of the votes cast against it. The poll scrutiniser’s report showed that votes relating to over 1.06 crore shares were termed invalid on technical grounds. These shares belong to three entities: Hindustan Medical Institution, Eastern India Educational Institution and Belle Vue Clinic, which together hold a 13.89 per cent stake. Armed with an opinion obtained from a retired judge of the Calcutta High Court, the scrutiniser also rejected a set of votes cast on behalf of three investment companies, Augusta Agents Ltd, Insilco Agents Ltd and Lanseda Agents Ltd, who cumulatively hold 23.4 per cent. But another set of votes cast on behalf of these companies were approved with the approval of the depositary, NSDL. The Lodha camp said the invalid votes would not materially change the outcome of the poll. However, the Birla camp contested the claim saying Karnik would have lost and Thakur would have been admitted to the board. False voting The Lodha camp sources said people who were not legally authorised to vote on behalf of these trusts and investment companies had done so at the AGM. They claimed that these frauds were detected in time. “These impostors are now liable to face prosecution for cyber trespassing, theft and misappropriation of property. It is clear that these crimes were committed by rogue elements who stoop to new lows every year ahead of Birla Corp’s AGM,” said Debanjan Mandal, partner, Fox & Mandal, and counsel for Lodha. Birla rebuttal E-voting by valid and authorised people on behalf of three companies was wrongfully rejected while votes cast by Lodha nominees in favour of Karnik’s appointment were treated as valid, said N. G. Khaitan, senior partner, Khaitan and Co, and counsel for the Birlas. “If this hadn’t happened, Justice (retired) Karnik’s appointment would be defeated with 72 per cent of the vote going against it while the resolution to appoint Thakur would have been carried with 70 per cent of the votes in favour,” Khaitan said. The Punjab Produce & Trading Co later said it was exploring its legal options and may also file criminal suits if advised to do so.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
02-10-2021||India||13th round of India-China military talks likely to be held in second week of October||The next round of high-level military talks between India and China to take forward the disengagement process in remaining friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh is expected to take place next week, officials said on Saturday.  Officials said both sides have exchanged notes as part of preparations for the 13th round of military talks to push for disengagement in the remaining friction points.  Military sources said disengagement in Hot Springs and some other areas are expected to be discussed at the next round of Corps Commander-level talks.  "A clarity on the date and venue for the talks is expected in the next three-four days," said a source.  The talks are expected to take place in the second week of October, officials said.  Meanwhile, after a comprehensive review of the ground situation in the mountainous region, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, who began his two-day visit to eastern Ladakh on Friday, said Indian soldiers are fully ready in "every possible way" to deal with any eventuality in eastern Ladakh.  "I always try to go to the forward areas so that I can see for myself the situation. I am very happy that our soldiers are fully ready in every possible way," said Gen Naravane said at the end of the visit to eastern Ladakh.  In a separate development, the Army has deployed its K9-Vajra 155mm howitzer in eastern Ladakh as part of series of measures to further boost its combat capabilities.  The army chief visited several forward areas in eastern Ladakh and carried out a comprehensive review of India's operational preparedness during his visit, according to officials.  Delivering a lecture at an industry chamber on Thursday, Gen Naravane had said the "unprecedented" military standoff with China required an immediate response and large-scale mobilisation of resources at a time when the country was faced with the coronavirus pandemic.  "The unprecedented developments necessitated large scale resource mobilisation, orchestration of forces and immediate response, all this in a Covid-infested environment," he said.  The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year in eastern Ladakh following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area.  Both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry.  As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area last month.  In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement.  Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
02-10-2021||India||Sharad Pawar lauds Nitin Gadkari for using power effectively to carry out development||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday lauded Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari for using power effectively to carry out development.  The two leaders from rival parties shared the dais at a function at Ahmednagar in Maharashtra.  "I am attending this function because I was told that Gadkari was going to inaugurate many projects in Ahmednagar which would solve long-pending issues of the city, and he wants me to be present," Pawar said.  Very often nothing happens once the stone-laying ceremony takes place for a project, the NCP leader said, adding, "But when it comes to Gadkari's projects, within a few days of the function one sees the work starting.  "Gadkari is a great example of how a people's representative can work for the development of the country," Pawar added.  "I remember that before Gadkari took over this responsibility (of the ministry of road transport and highways), about 5,000 km of work had been done. But after he took over, the figure has crossed 12,000 km," the NCP chief said.  The former Union agriculture minister advised farmers in the region that the use of sugarcane will not remain limited only to sugar production and they should think of it as the raw material for ethanol too.  In his speech, Gadkari said while executing road projects in Buldhana district of Maharashtra, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) also de-silted local rivers and streams.  "I suggest (Maharashtra Rural Development Minister) Hasan Mushrif to think of focusing on water conservation in Ahmednagar district," he said.  Mushrif, an NCP leader who is also the guardian minister of this parched district, was present at the function.  Increasing the depth of streams and ponds helps increase the groundwater level, Gadkari said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
02-10-2021||India||Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla railway line, a game-changer for J&K||The Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla railway line in Jammu and Kashmir will be a game-changer for the Union Territory and 80 per cent of the work on the project has been completed while the rest will be completed by 2023, Union Minister Darshana Jardosh said on Saturday. The minister of state for railways is on a visit to Kashmir as part of the Centre's public outreach programme. "The Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla rail project is very important for us as well as for Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the railways. It will be a game-changer for entire Jammu and Kashmir. We will complete the work on it soon. Our endeavour is to complete it by 2023," Jardosh told reporters at the Srinagar Railway Station. Jardosh said the Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla rail link project is the most ambitious railway project in India post-Independence and the railways is working at full capacity to meet all deadlines. She said besides providing relief to the people, the railways network is also of strategic importance from the security point of view especially in a place like Kashmir. The engineers of the railways are doing a commendable job in meeting the expectations that the people in general and security forces in particular have from it, Jardosh added. The minister said that Kashmir is a challenging terrain owing to its topography but the railways is fully equipped to meet all challenges with the latest technology and a dedicated workforce. The project is challenging as the route is mountainous. Several bridges and tunnels had to be made to complete the project, she said. The minister said she reviewed the progress of work at the ground and the work has been going at a faster pace. About 80 per cent of the work has been completed and the rest will be completed soon, she added. Jardosh said jobs have been provided to those who have a land loss of 75 per cent and above and most of the compensation cases have already been completed. She appealed to the people to keep the surroundings clean, saying there was too much plastic waste here. Jardosh said the railways is committed to take development to every corner of the country and Kashmir ranks high on the agenda of the central government. She added that the railways has an important role to play when we talk of Atma Nirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India). Earlier, the minister visited the Banihal Railway Station by train and took stock of operations there. She inspected the Tunnel T-80 control room and also Tunnel 144. Jardosh also inspectedthe Navyug Road Tunnel during her visit to Banihal and had a detailed interaction with officers of the National Highways Authority of India. On her return from Banihal, the minister stopped at the Qazigund Railway Station for a brief inspection. She also took part in a Swachchhta Awareness Programme at the Srinagar Railway upon her return from her visit to Banihal and Qazigund.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
02-10-2021||India||Chhattisgarh govt to make Bapu's ‘Gram Swaraj’ dream come true ||After the successfully launching the project of purchasing cow dung at Rs 2 per kg, Chhattisgarh looks all set to produce electricity from ‘dung’ collected. State Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel launched the historic power generation project today, thereby, taking a step forward towards realising Gandhiji's dream of ‘Gram Swaraj’. Speaking on the launch of the ambitious and historic project of power generation from cow dung at the farmers' conference organized at Bemetara district headquarters in Chhattisgarh, Baghel maintained that the project of producing green energy will be realised with the participation of villagers, women and youth in. He said, “The world is worried about global warming. Everyone is talking about green energy, so the government has decided to produce electricity from cow dung.” According to this project in every village of Chhattisgarh, a unit for the green-energy project will be installed in Gothan, the place where cattle are kept. Baghel said, “Cow dung procured from the farmers under the Godhan Nyay Yojana would be used to generate electricity. This will not only benefit the environment but will also benefit the women of self-help groups doing dung procurement work.” What is Godhan Nyay Yoja? Under the Suraji Gaon Yojana, Gauthans have been developed in the form of Rural Industrial Park in about 6 thousand villages of the state of Chhattisgarh and other income-oriented activities are being conducted by the women of the group. Electricity generation from cow dung is also being started from October 2 in Gauthans. For this, in the first phase, units of power generation from cow dung have been installed at Rakhi in Bemetara district, Sikola in Durg and Bancharoda in Raipur district. What technique is being use? Bio gas plants, scrubbers and gensets have been set up in Gauthans to generate electricity from cow dung. Biogas will be prepared by adding cow dung and water in the biogas tank, due to which methane gas will be available in 50 percent quantity, from which electricity will be generated by running the genset. Benefits from the project Industries will be set up in Chhattisgarh. It will directly provide employment to the youth and farmers will also get a fair price for the crop. So far more than 12 lakh quintals of vermicompost, super compost manure has been produced and sold from cow dung to Gauthan. Organic farming is being promoted. According to scientists the cost per unit of electricity generated from cow dung would range between Rs 2.50 to Rs 3. It is worth mentioning here that, the construction of 10112 Gauthans has been approved, for the purpose of conservation and promotion of livestock in the villages. As of now 6112 Gauthan are complete and operational. These Gauthans will produce electricity from cow dung, besides manufacturing organic manure, thereby doubling income of Gauthan Samitis and women self-help groups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
02-10-2021||India||Finding solutions to India’s waste problem||On the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, the government on Saturday launched a web portal to bring together technology providers, government stakeholders and urban local bodies to find solutions to India's waste problems. Principal Scientific Advisor Vijay Raghavan said the 'Waste to Wealth' portal aims to enable collaborations for sustainable development. “On #GandhiJayanti 2021, taking forward Swachh Bharat, Unnat Bharat mission; Office of @PrinSciAdvOff launches a @wasteto_wealth portal to enable collaborations for sustainable development through a circular economy & community participation,” Raghavan tweeted. “The @wasteto_wealth mission of #PMSTIAC aims to enable collaborations to validate decentralized scientific solutions: feasible, pragmatic, and implementable in resource/land constrained settings. Treat waste at source; a zero-waste & zero-landfill approach,” he said. In another tweet, the Ministry of Science and Technology said the portal aims to bring together technology providers, government stakeholders and urban local bodies to seek solutions to India's waste problems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
02-10-2021||India||Chief Justice appeals to govt to clear remaining names of judges' for higher judiciary ||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Saturday pressed for early clearance of the names recommended by the collegium for appointment as judges in the higher judiciary, saying he is seeking the government's cooperation and support to facilitate equal access to justice and strengthen democracy. Justice Ramana, who has been actively recommending names for appointment of judges in the higher judiciary after assuming charge as the CJI on April 24, said the collegium has recommended 106 names for high court judges since May and clearing them would take care of pendency of cases to some extent . Speaking at an event here, the CJI referred to the assurance given by Union law minister Kiren Rijiju and said, "The government has cleared some of them (names for judgeship) and the Hon'ble Law Minister has assured that the rest of the things will come in one or two days. I thank the government for clearing these vacancies and giving quick access to justice to the people." The CJI also noted that the Covid-19 pandemic has "exposed some deep-rooted problems" in the judiciary and underscored the need to ensure equal access to justice, especially to vulnerable sections. "My companion judges and I have attempted to enable litigants to get faster justice. I want to state that, since May onwards, my team so far has recommended the appointment of 106 Judges and nine new Chief Justices to various High Courts. "The government has cleared seven names out of the 106 judges and one out of the nine for chief justices, so far. I expect that the government will clear the rest of the names very soon. These appointments will take care of pendency to some extent. I seek the cooperation and support of the Government to enable access to justice and to strengthen democracy," he said. The CJI, who is also the Patron-in-chief of the National Legal Services Authority, was speaking at the launch of the six-week-long 'The Pan India Legal Awareness and Outreach Campaign' by NALSA at Vigyan Bhavan that was inaugurated by President Ram Nath Kovind on the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi's birth anniversary. "For a healthy democracy, a vibrant judiciary is essential. COVID-19 has created many problems for many institutions including the judiciary. Thousands of cases have accumulated in different fora. "Apart from large vacancies, the non-working of courts and lack of virtual conferencing facilities in rural areas, the pandemic has exposed some deep-rooted problems," the CJI said. "The constitutional guarantee of equal justice will be rendered meaningless if vulnerable sections cannot enforce their rights," the CJI said, adding that sustainable and inclusive growth cannot be achieved without providing inclusive access to justice especially to the poor. "The framers of our Constitution were well aware of socio-economic reality and therefore, they envisaged a welfare state where no one is denied basic needs of life," he said. "In order to protect the aforesaid rights, the framers accorded us all, the equal protection and equality before law. But this guarantee of equal justice will be rendered meaningless if the vulnerable sections cannot enforce their rights," he said. "Equality and access to justice complement each other and in countries with major socio-economic gaps, unequal access to justice leads to widening of these divides," he said. Speaking at the occasion, Justice UU Lalit, the senior-most judge and executive chairman of NALSA, urged senior lawyers to offer legal aid pro-bono in at least three cases per year as it would instil faith in the legal aid seekers. Referring to the concept of internship in medical colleges, he said on that line, law students can be asked to offer legal services to the poor in remote parts of the country. "I am already in touch with the Bar Council of India people and they have assured us that perhaps, I think all law colleges would be extending this kind of support," Justice Lalit said, adding that apart from helping in legal awareness programme, law colleges and students will help NALSA in reaching the goal and realising our expeditions . Justice A M Khanwilkar, who heads the Supreme Court Legal Services Committee, also spoke at the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
02-10-2021||India||Chhattisgarh can never be like Punjab, says CM amid change of leadership buzz||Amid speculation about a possible change of guard in the Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday asserted that his state can never become Punjab, and said the two states bear only one similarity - that of having numbers in their names. The Congress has been in turmoil in Punjab after Amarinder Singh quit as the chief minister and the party's state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu resigned from his post ahead of the crucial assembly elections in the state early next year. "Chhattisgarh will always remain Chhattisgarh. It cannot become Punjab. The two states have only one similarity that both have numbers in their names," Baghel told reporters at the helipad here when asked that the BJP has equated Chhattisgarh and Punjab over turmoil in the ruling Congress. "Punjab is land of punj (five) aab (water). It is made up of five rivers. Similarly Chhattisgarh has derived its name from 'chhattis' (thirty six) 'garh' (fort). No other states have numbers in their names. There is no other similarity between the two states," he added. The political corridor in Chhattisgarh has been rife with speculation of possible leadership change in the Congress government soon as around two dozen party MLAs, considered close to Baghel, flew to Delhi in the last three days. While the purpose of their trip is yet to become clear, some party sources said the MLAs were visiting the national capital to express solidarity with Baghel. The CM had said on Thursday that the visit by Congress MLAs to Delhi should not be seen through the prism of politics. When asked on Saturday about the MLAs' trip to Delhi, Baghel said, there is no ban on the legislators from going somewhere and they are independent. "It is not a political movement. You ask if it is a political movement. They will visit and return," he added. Health Minister T S Singh Deo, who is apparently seeking to replace Baghel, too, played down the visit by MLAs to Delhi as he had said it should not be made an issue. About the possible leadership change, Singh Deo had reiterated that the decision is reserved with the party high command. Brihaspat Singh, who is among the legislators who were in Delhi, had said on Wednesday that 15 to 16 party legislators were in Delhi to meet P L Punia ahead of Rahul Gandhi's proposed tour of the state. Singh is considered to be close to Baghel. The buzz about possible leadership change began after Baghel completed two-and-a-half years as chief minister in June 2021. The Singh Deo camp claimed the top Congress leadership in 2018 had agreed to hand over the CM's post to him after the government completed half its term.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
02-10-2021||India||Chirag-Pashupati chaos compells EC to bar LJP symbol till matter is settled||The Election Commission on Saturday barred the Chirag Paswan and the Pashupati Kumar Paras factions from using the name of Lok Janshakti Party or its symbol 'bungalow' till the dispute between the rival groups is settled by the poll panel. The commission also said that the two factions can use free symbols available to field their candidates for the bypolls to two assembly seats in the coming days. "Both the groups shall be known by such names by as they may choose for their respective groups, including, if they so desire, linkage with their parent party Lok Janshakti Party," the order read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
02-10-2021||India||Post or no post, will stand by Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi: Sidhu||Navjot Singh Sidhu, who had abruptly resigned as the Punjab Congress chief, said on Saturday he would stand with Gandhi siblings Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi whether he holds any post or not. Upset with some appointments after Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi took charge, Sidhu had put in his papers and, though efforts were made to placate him, it remains unclear if his resignation has been accepted. "Will uphold principles of Gandhi Ji & Shastri Ji Post or No Post will stand by @RahulGandhi & @priyankagandhi ! Let all negative forces try to defeat me, but Post or no post, will stand by Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi: Sidhu, Punjabiyat (Universal Brotherhood) win & every Punjabi win !!," Sidhu wrote on his Twitter handle on the birth anniversaries of Mahatma Gandhi and former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri. The cricketer-turned-politician in his tweet also posted photos of Mahatma Gandhi and Shastri. After a bitter fight between the then chief minister Amarinder Singh and Sidhu, the Congress took a call to replace Amarinder with Channi. However, Amarinder Singh vowed to defeat Sidhu if he contests the Assembly elections, dubbed Gandhi siblings as "inexperienced" and later announced that he will leave the party. After Sidhu's resignation plunged the party in a turmoil, Channi met him and it was agreed to set up a coordination panel of the party to take key decisions. Sidhu has been made part of the panel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
02-10-2021||India||Goal should be to graduate from women development to women-led development, says Kovind||As a country our goal should be to graduate from women development to women-led development, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Saturday while stressing on the need to increase the number of women in legal services institutions. Speaking at the launch of six-week-long 'The Pan India Legal Awareness and Outreach Campaign' of the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA), Kovind said the legal services authority should make special efforts to help the marginalised section of society. "As a country our goal should be to graduate from women development to women-led development. Therefore, increasing the number of women in legal services institutions is as important as reaching out to the largest possible number of women beneficiaries," Kovind said. Talking about Mahatma Gandhi, Kovind said that he did a lot of pro bono work to help the poor and indentured labourers looked up to him to help them in courts. He said that senior advocates should earmark a certain part of their time for pro bono services to people from weaker sections. Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said NALSA has been performing an exemplary role in bringing justice delivery to the doorsteps of people. "NALSA and state legal authorities have developed a robust system of legal aid delivery and empowerment right at grassroots level that each individual can be proud of. NALSA has been playing an exemplary role in justice delivery of the system by creating legal awareness," he said. He said the government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has focussed on access to justice and also ease of living which is access to business. Chief Justice N V Ramana said since May this year, the Collegium has recommended more than 106 judges to High courts and 9 chief justices to various High Courts. "The government has cleared some and the Law Minister has informed me that the rest of it is going to come in one or two days' time. I thank the central government for clearing these vacancies and quick access to justice," the CJI said. The CJI said that for a healthy democracy a vibrant judiciary is essential. Speaking about the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, the CJI said COVID-19 has created many problems in many institutions including the judiciary where thousands of cases have accumulated in different forums, apart from large vacancies and non-working of courts and lack of virtual conferencing facilities in rural areas. Supreme Court judges Justices U U Lalit, A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud also spoke on the occasion. Besides them, several apex court judges, Attorney General K K Venugopal was also present among others on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
02-10-2021||India||Under Jal Jeevan Mission, 5 crore houses got water connection, says PM Modi||Since the launch of the Jal Jeevan Mission in 2019, five crore households have got water connection and now tap water is reaching every household in about 1.25 lakh villages, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday, asserting that today's India has done more work in just two years than what was done in seven decades. Speaking after interacting with gram panchayats and pani samitis/village water and sanitation committees (VWSC) on the Jal Jeevan Mission, Modi said the mission is not just about bringing water to people but it is also a decentralisation movement that is village and women-driven. "From the time of Independence till 2019, only three crore households in our country had access to tap water. Since the launch of the Jal Jeevan Mission in 2019, five crore households were provided with water connections," he said. "Today, water is reaching every household in about 1.25 lakh villages in about 80 districts of the country. That is, today's India has done more work in just two years than what was done in the last seven decades," he said. In aspirational districts, piped water connections have risen from 31 lakh to over 1.16 crore, the prime minister said. Modi said it has to be ensured that the situation of bringing water to any part of the country through tankers or trains never arises. In an apparent dig at previous Congress dispensations, he said for a long time those who were responsible for policy-making lived in abundance of water. They had water at their homes and in their swimming pools, Modi said. "They had not seen poverty and it was just an attraction for them. It was just a means for them to show off knowledge. They should have strived for an ideal village but they kept liking the shortcomings in the villages," he said. The prime minister also launched the Jal Jeevan Mission app for improving awareness among stakeholders and for greater transparency and accountability of schemes under the mission. He also launched the Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh, where any individual, institution, corporate or philanthropist, be it in India or abroad, can contribute to help provide tap water connection in every rural household, school, anganwadi centre, ashramshala and other public institutions. 'Pani samitis' play a key role in planning, implementation, management, operation and maintenance of village water supply systems, thereby providing clean tap water to every household on a regular and long-term basis. Out of over six lakh villages, pani samitis/VWSCs have been constituted in around 3.5 lakh villages. More than 7.1 lakh women have been trained to test the quality of water by using field test kits. On August 15, 2019, Modi announced the Jal Jeevan Mission to provide clean tap water to every household. To realise the prime minister's vision of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas, Sabka Prayas', and following the 'bottom up' approach, the Jal Jeevan Mission is implemented in partnership with states with a budget of R 3.60 lakh crore, according to the PMO. Further, Rs 1.42 lakh crore has been allocated to panchayati raj institutions as a tied grant under 15th Finance Commission for water and sanitation in villages for the period 2021-22 to 2025-26, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
02-10-2021||India||Opposition being intellectually dishonest on farm laws, says Modi||Accusing the Opposition of "intellectual dishonesty" and "political deceit" over its criticism of his government's three farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi says tough and big decisions need to be taken to bring benefits to citizens who should have received them decades ago. Stoutly defending the agri laws, Modi said it is one thing if a political party makes a promise and is unable to deliver on it but what is a "particularly undesirable" and "detestable" trait is some of these parties made promises on the lines of the reforms enacted by his government and have now done a U-turn and spread "the most malicious kind of misinformation on the promises they themselves had made". In an interview to Open magazine, he said, "The things that people of India are entitled to, those benefits that they should have received decades ago, have still not reached them. India shouldn't be put in a situation where it has to wait any longer for the things that this country and its citizens are entitled to, we should give it to them. And, for this, big decisions should be taken and if need be, tough decisions should also be taken." He was replying to a question about the labour and farm laws enacted by the government and its refusal to roll-back the three contentious agriculture laws, as demanded by the protesting farmer unions. The ruling BJP has said that several Opposition parties, including the Congress, had promised similar farm reforms that the Modi government has enacted but are now backing protests against the new laws for selfish political reasons. A section of farmers, especially in Punjab and part of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting against the laws, whose implementation have been put on hold. The prime minister noted that his government has been saying right from the beginning that it is ready to sit together with the protesting farm bodies and discuss on those issues on which there is a disagreement. "Many meetings have also been held in this regard but no one till now has come up with a specific point of disagreement that we want this to be changed," he said. Modi said politics in India had seen only one model, which governments were run to build the next government too, while his fundamental thinking is different as he believes in running the government to build the nation. "The tradition has been to run the government to make your party win but my purpose is to run the government in a way to make our country win," he said. Referring to his government's measures like cooking gas cylinder distribution and building toilets for the poor or push to digital payments, he said many sections of India's political class view people through the lens of "Raj Shakti" (government's power) while he sees them as "Jan Shakti" (people's power). The prime minister also asserted that India has done better than many developed countries. In an apparent attack on those who have criticised his government's handling of the Covid pandemic, he said, "However, we have in our midst vested interests whose only aim is to tarnish India's name. Covid was a global scourge with all countries equally affected. In this scenario, India has done better than its peers and many developed countries, notwithstanding such negative campaigns." The biggest lesson from the Covid fight has been that India has an unparalleled ability to unite, find a common purpose, come together, and a tremendous capacity to deliver when a need arises, he said. From being a net importer of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, India has now become one of the biggest manufacturers across the globe, he said. "Imagine if our country had not come up with a vaccine. What would be the situation? We know that a large population of the world doesn't have access to Covid vaccines. Today, our success in vaccination is thanks to India being Atmanirbhar (self-reliant)," he said. On the farm laws, he said his government is committed to empowering the small farmers in every way. Slamming rivals, he said, "If you look at those who are Opposing the pro-farmer reforms today, you will see the real meaning of intellectual dishonesty and 'rajneetik dhokhadhadi' (political deceit). These were the same people who wrote letters to chief ministers asking them to do the exact same thing that our government has done. These were the same people who wrote in their manifesto that they would enact the same reforms that we have brought." "Yet, just because some other political party, blessed by the will of the people, is enacting the same reforms, they have made a complete U-turn and in a brazen display of intellectual dishonesty, completely disregard what will benefit the farmers and only seek what they think will benefit them politically." Modi also said that he attaches a big importance to criticism as it is his conviction that this helps in his own healthy development. "I, with an honest mind, respect critics a lot. But, unfortunately, the number of critics is very few. Mostly, people only level allegations, the people who play games about perception are more in number. And, the reason for this is that, for criticism, one has to do a lot of hardwork, research and, in today's fast-paced world, maybe people don't have time. So sometimes, I miss critics," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
02-10-2021||India||Pakistan in talk with banned Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan for reconciliation, says Imran Khan||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has said his government is in talks with some groups of the banned Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) for "reconciliation" with the help of the Taliban in Afghanistan. The TTP, commonly known as Pakistani Taliban, is a banned militant group based along the Afghan-Pakistan border. It has carried out a number of major terror attacks across Pakistan and reportedly been using Afghan soil to plot terrorist attacks in this country. There were reports that the Afghan Taliban had set free some dreaded TTP militants, including its leading commander Maulvi Faqir Mohammad, after taking over the war-torn country in August. In an interview to Turkish government-owned TRT World news channel, Khan said there are different groups which form the TTP and some of them want to talk to the Pakistan government for peace, the Dawn News reported on Friday. "So, we are in talks with them. It's a reconciliation process," the prime minister said. When asked if the government was asking the militants to lay down arms, Khan said, "Yes, we forgive them and they become normal citizens." To a question on why the TTP was conducting attacks on Pakistan's security forces when they were in talks with the government, he said it was just a "spate of attacks". "We might not reach some sort of conclusion or settlement in the end but we are talking," Khan added. Responding to another query on whether the Afghan Taliban were acting as mediators between the TTP and Pakistan, the premier said: "Since the talks were taking place in Afghanistan, so in that sense, yes." The Taliban swept across Afghanistan in August, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities in the backdrop of withdrawal of the US forces that began on May 1. On August 15, the capital city of Kabul fell to the insurgents. The Taliban claimed victory over opposition forces in the last holdout province of Panjshir on September 6, completing their takeover of Afghanistan three weeks after capturing Kabul. The Taliban have put in place a hardline interim 33-member Cabinet that has no women and includes UN-designated terrorists. The Taliban last ruled Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001. Earlier in September, President Arif Alvi had suggested that the Pakistani government could consider giving an amnesty to those members of the TTP who had not remained involved in "criminal activities" and who laid down their weapons and agreed to adhere to the Pakistani Constitution. Such an amnesty could be one of the ways to "establish peace", the president had said. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
02-10-2021||India||Rahul relates farmers' protest to Satyagrah on Gandhi Jayanti||Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former party chief Rahul Gandhi on Saturday paid tributes to Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi on his 152nd birth anniversary. Sonia Gandhi and Rahul visited Raj Ghat and Vijay Ghat, memorials to Mahatma Gandhi and India's second prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, respectively, to pay floral tributes to them. In a tweet in Hindi, Rahul Gandhi paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and posted the quote, "Vijay ke liye kewal ek satyagrahi hi kaafi hai (Only one 'satyagrahi' is enough for victory)", in a swipe at the government over the farmers' protest. He also used the hashtag farmers protest and posted a video collage with glimpses from the farmers' protest and Mahatma Gandhi's satyagraha for independence. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi with a reference to the farm laws. "The flag of Bapu's ideas of truth, non-violence and justice is still flying high in the farmers' 'satyagraha' against the black farm laws, in the fight for justice for the tribals of Sonbhadra and for the Dalit girl of Hathras, and in the rising voices for the ideology of love against the ideology of hatred," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Priyanka Gandhi also paid tributes to Shastri and recalled his 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan' slogan. "Farmers and soldiers are the pride of India and hailing them reflects the sentiments of crores of Indians. This sentiment of crores of Indians was conveyed in the 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan' slogan of former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri given at a rally in Uttar Pradesh's Prayagraj," she said in a tweet in Hindi. Rahul Gandhi also paid tributes to Shastri in a tweet and said, "Jai Jawaan Jai Kisaan tha, hai aur rahega." "Shastri ji's simplicity and determination are a source of inspiration even today. Salute to this son of Congress!" he tweeted. In a tweet, the Congress, on its official Twitter handle, said, "We pay tribute to the father of the nation, Mahatma Gandhi on his birth anniversary. As a guiding light, his ideals guide us to work for the nation and its people, following the path of peace and non-violence." In its tribute to Shastri, the Congress said he was an active participant in the freedom struggle against the British and contributed to nation-building until his last breath. Several senior Congress leaders, including Congress' chief spokesperson, Randeep Surjewala paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and Shastri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
02-10-2021||India||UIDAI seeks to open 166 centres for Aadhar-related activities||The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) has plans to open 166 standalone Aadhaar enrolment and update centres across the country, an official statement said on Saturday. At present, 55 Aadhaar Seva Kendras (ASKs) out of the 166 planned centres are operational in addition to about 52,000 Aadhaar enrolment centres run by banks, post offices and state governments. "UIDAI plans to open 166 stand-alone Aadhaar Enrolment and Update Centres in 122 cities across the country," the statement said. The ASKs are open on all days of the week and have so far catered to over 70 lakh residents including Divyang persons. The operational centres have a capacity to handle up to 1,000 enrolments and update requests per day for Model-A ASKs, upto 500 enrolments and update requests per day for Model B ASKs and up to 250 enrolments and update requests per day for Model C ASKs. As on date, over 130.9 crore Aadhaar numbers have been generated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
02-10-2021||India||India records 24,354 new Covid-19 cases, 234 deaths||India logged 24,354 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 3,37,91,061, while the active cases declined to 2,73,889, lowest in 197 days, according to the Union health ministry's data updated on Saturday. The death toll climbed to 4,48,573 with 234 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.81 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.86 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. India's total number of active cases at 2,73,889, which is the lowest in 197 days. A decrease of 1,335 Covid cases has been recorded in the total number of active cases in a span of 24 hours. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. A total of 14,29,258 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 57,19,94,990. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.70 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 33 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.68 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 99 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,30,68,599, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 89.74 crore. The 234 new fatalities include 95 from Kerala and 50 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,48,573 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,117 from Maharashtra, 37,807 from Karnataka, 35,603 from Tamil Nadu, 25,182 from Kerala, 25,087 from Delhi, 22,892 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,806 from Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
02-10-2021||India||Narendra Modi pays tribute to Mahatma Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri on birth anniversaries||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his 152nd birth anniversary, saying his life and ideas will inspire every generation to walk the path of their duties. "I bow to respected Bapu on Gandhi Jayanti. His noble principles are globally relevant and give strength to millions," he added. The prime minister visited Raj Ghat and Vijay Ghat, memorials to Gandhi and India's second prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, respectively, to pay floral tributes to them. He paid homage to Shastri on his 117th birth anniversary. His life based on values and principles will always be a source of inspiration for all citizens, Modi tweeted.  An interfaith prayer meeting was held at Raj Ghat, where Mahtma Gandhi's favourite devotional songs were rendered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
02-10-2021||India||How Hindu Hriday Samrat stacks up against Vaishnava Jana To ideals||Tweets will be posted, tributes paid and visits to Raj Ghat made today (October 2) to celebrate the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. One of the favourite bhajans of the Mahatma was Vaishnava Jana To..,. which defines an ideal follower of Mahavishnu. How does the Prime Minister, the so-called Hindu Hriday Samrat of modern times, stack up against the ideals the timeless Gujarati poem lists? A translation of the bhajan and some real-life instances follow Call those people Vaishnav who feel the pain of others Help those who are in misery But never let self-conceit enter their mind They respect the entire world Do not disparage anyone Keep their words, actions and thoughts pure The mother of such a soul is blessed They see all equally, renounce craving Respect other women as their own mother Their tongue never utters false words Their hands never touch the wealth of others They do not succumb to worldly attachments They are firmly detached from the mundane They are enticed by the name of Ram All places of pilgrimage are embodied in them They have forsaken greed and deceit They stay afar from desire and anger Narsi says: I’d be grateful to meet such a soul/ Whose virtue liberates their entire lineage||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
02-10-2021||India||UK flyers to undergo three RT-PCR tests and 10-day quarantine||UK nationals arriving in India will now need to take three RT-PCR tests, two of them on entering the country, and undergo 10 days’ home quarantine in a tit-for-tat measure. The new regulations for incoming UK nationals are almost identical to Britain’s new quarantine and testing requirements for fully vaccinated travellers from India and, sources said, will come into effect from October 4. The sources said this was being done only because the British regulations discriminated against the Indian vaccination certificate. There was no official announcement of the decision till Friday evening, and it was not clear whether it had been communicated through diplomatic channels to London. The absence of an official announcement indicates that efforts are on to resolve the issue before Monday. The British high commission, in a late night statement, seemed to confirm this. “The UK is continuing to work on expanding the policy to countries and territories across the globe in a phased approach. We are continuing to engage with the Government of India on technical cooperation to expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India,” a high commission spokesperson said. “The UK is open to travel and we’re already seeing a lot of people going from India to the UK, be it tourists, business people or students. Over 62,500 student visas have been issued in the year ending June 2021, which is an increase of almost 30 per cent as compared to the previous year. We want to make the process of travelling as easy as possible.” Under the new regulations, all arriving UK nationals will, irrespective of their vaccination status, have to take a pre-departure RT-PCR test within 72 hours before travel, the same test on arrival at the airport, and a third test on the eighth day after arrival. They must also undergo mandatory home quarantine for 10 days. Currently, all passengers arriving from the UK have to undergo one RT-PCR test in Britain and one on arrival in India. The states now have their own home quarantine requirements of varying durations, but mostly up to 14 days. Under the new regulations, the UK nationals must undergo at least 10 days’ quarantine — and longer if the state concerned so requires. On September 22, Britain had updated its travel policy (effective from October 4) to include AstraZeneca Covishield — the most used vaccine in India — among the approved vaccines for entering the country. But the British high commission here said travellers from India would have to home-quarantine and undertake the prescribed tests as vaccine certification in India remained an unresolved issue. The UK is insisting on a Covid test three days before travel, and book-and-pay for Day 2 and Day 8 Covid tests after arrival in England, along with 10 days’ home quarantine. This is regardless of the incoming Indian national’s vaccination status. It is not mandatory to be vaccinated to travel to the UK, and the British authorities have included a “test to release” option under which the home quarantine requirement can be shortened to around five days. Although the UK mission did not spell it out, the main concern about India’s vaccination certificates is the possibility of forgeries, particularly given the volume of traffic into the UK from India. On the face of it, the Indian vaccination certificate issued through the health ministry-run Co-WIN website meets all the requirements spelt out by Britain’s department for transport and department of health and social care. India is yet to open fully for travel from overseas, with all regularly scheduled international flights remaining suspended. Under a bilateral agreement between the UK and Indian governments, a limited number of flights between India and the UK operate. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Friday announced that the Therapeutic Goods Administration — the medicine and therapeutic regulatory agency of the Australian government — had advised that Covishield produced by AstraZeneca/ Serum Institute of India should be considered “recognised vaccine” for incoming international travellers. It’s not clear, however, when this decision will begin to benefit Indian nationals travelling to Australia as the country is still closed for incoming overseas traffic. Australia’s current plans are to open the country for Australian nationals and permanent residents in November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
02-10-2021||India||SC: 10-month-old farmers' protest 'strangulated' Delhi||The Supreme Court on Friday said the 10-month-old farmer protests on Delhi’s borders had “strangulated” the city, a day after another bench had expressed concern at the continuing blockade of highways leading to the capital. Friday’s remark came on a joint petition from the Kisan Mahapanchayat, a farmers’ organisation, and its president Ram Pal Jat challenging Delhi police’s refusal to allow them to agitate peacefully on the designated protest site of Jantar Mantar Road. “On one hand you’ve strangulated the entire city and now you want to come inside and protest?” Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, who headed the two-judge bench that included Justice C.T. Ravi Kumar, asked the petitioners’ counsel Ajay Chaudhary. When Chaudhary said his client was not part of the protests on Delhi’s borders, the bench directed the Kisan Mahapanchayat to state this in an affidavit. The protests on Delhi’s borders, which began on November 26 last year, are being spearheaded by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation of over 40 farmer bodies. Many farmers’ organisations are against any judicial settlement and want the Centre to repeal the three new farm laws, which they say would leave them to be exploited by big companies. On Thursday, the bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M.M. Sundresh had told the Centre: “Redress can be through a judicial forum, agitation or parliamentary debates, but how can highways be blocked perpetually? Where is the end?” The bench made the oral observation on a Noida resident’s plea seeking removal of the roadblocks, and asked the Centre to implead the various associations of the agitating farmers. On Friday, the bench of Justices Khanwilkar and Ravi Kumar wondered why farmers should continue agitating after having approached the apex court challenging the three laws’ constitutionality. “There is no purpose of protest once you approach the court. There is no purpose to approach the court when you want to protest,” the bench said. The bench said: “If you approach the court, you will have to trust the court. Why don’t you approach the (Delhi) high court?” It added: “You have a right to protest, but you cannot destroy property. This business should stop. You are also heckling the security and defence personnel. This business has to stop.” Chaudhary said the highways had been blocked by the police, who had detained farmers. The petitioners have argued that the police’s refusal to let them hold “peaceful, unarmed and non-violent satyagrah” at Jantar Mantar violates “Article 14 (equality), 19 (freedom of speech) and 21 (right to life and personal liberty)”. The court directed Chaudhary to serve copies of the joint petition to the attorney-general and the Centre, and posted the next hearing to Monday. Earlier, a bench of Justices Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy had directed the Centre and the Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments to ensure the farmers’ highway sit-ins did not inconvenience ordinary travellers. In January, a bench headed by then Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde had stayed the three controversial farm laws and set up a four-member committee, ostensibly to broker peace between the Centre and the agitating farmers. That order came on a clutch of petitions filed by farmers, other individuals and NGOs challenging the three laws’ constitutionality. But the farmers refused to interact with the committee, saying some of its members were part of the pro-legislation lobby. The panel members were Ashok Gulati, agricultural economist; Pramod Kumar Joshi, former South Asia director of the International Food Policy Research Institute; Anil Ghanwat, president of the Shetkari Sanghatana; and Bhupinder Singh Mann, chairperson of the All India Kisan Coordination Committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
02-10-2021||India||The language back-lash: Kannada ridicule on PM's 'Tika Utsav'||When Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced in April the launch of the “Tika Utsav”, chances are that the wicked in Karnataka must have chortled, the prim-and-proper souls cringed, and some others looked away poker-faced to hide their embarrassment. For Modi and Hindi-speaking citizens, “tika” has come to mean vaccination, especially the Covid doses. In Kannada, the word means “posterior”. The BJP government in Karnataka sat on its haunches all these months, grinning and bearing the titters and worse. But last month, the resolve dissolved and the Covid vaccination drive was named Lasika Utsava. “Lasika” in Kannada means inoculation. No reason was ascribed to the name change. But sources have now confirmed that the state government had received ample feedback that “Tika Utsav” was fast becoming the butt of ridicule in Karnataka. For many, the episode is no laughing matter but a telling pointer to the insensitivity with which the Centre has been pursuing its language policy. There is nothing wrong in using “tika” in Hindi-speaking regions and in Hindi correspondence but the word is replicated in the English message to the nation that still features on the official website, PMIndia. Neither does the language disconnect end with the Covid vaccination campaign. Tithi Bhojan, the name of a sub-scheme of the school midday meal programme, now renamed PM Poshan, has enraged writers and activists in Karnataka who see it as a mark of insensitivity and another attempt to impose Hindi. “Tithi” in Kannada mostly signifies the oblations offered to the dead, with its literal meaning being “date”. “Tithi Bhojan” would signify a shradh meal in Kannada. “Just think how schoolchildren in Karnataka would henceforth be having tithi oota (‘oota’ meaning ‘meal’ in Kannada) at school. Nothing can be more insensitive than coining these names without crosschecking with states,” Kannada writer and filmmaker T.K. Dayanand told The Telegraph on Friday. The central scheme Tithi Bhojan, which encourages community participation in providing meals to children on any specific day, seems to have relied on the Hindi connotation of “tithi”, which often signifies a happy or auspicious occasion such as an anniversary or the celebration of success. Dayanand feels that the names are part of the NDA government’s “drive to impose Hindi” and to give “undue credit” to the Prime Minister for every social scheme in the country. “In their overzealousness to brazenly impose Hindi, the Union government is not even bothered to double-check what these words mean in the different states,” said Dayanand, who had in 2016 rejected the Karnataka Sahitya Academy award to protest the rising intolerance in the country. Author and Dalit activist Mahesh Chandra Guru slammed the Centre for “insulting the sentiments of Kannadigas”. “By imposing these Hindi words on projects rolled out across the country, the NDA government has insulted the sentiments of Kannadigas. Visualise the scene when a parent asks a child whether she or he had ‘tithi oota’ in school knowing full well what it means,” he told this newspaper. “India is a pluralistic country which demands communication campaigns in all state languages. But this government is working against the spirit of federalism and pluralism and thus violating the constitutional provisions.” Dinesh Kumar of the Karnataka Rakshana Vedike, an organisation that has been fighting against the imposition of Hindi, said this was an example of how the NDA government treated non-Hindi-speaking states. “This is the ‘Hindi-only’ agenda of Nagpur (the RSS headquarters). While the Congress also did this to a certain extent, the BJP has been aggressively pursuing the imposition of Hindi without a thought for the linguistic and cultural interests of the states,” Kumar said. “This deserves condemnation from all right-thinking people since the BJP is using taxpayers’ money to further homogenisation at the cost of diversity and pluralism.” Some social media users have commented on the issue. “Thanks to Hindi imposition… Karnataka students will have tithi oota from now on… First it was Tika Utsav and now it’s tithi oota,” tweeted Abhishek C. Raveendra. “From Tika Utsav to Tithi Bhojan. How the eagerness to label or relabel programmes can have hilarious consequences in local terms! In Kannada language Tithi Bhojan is (the) same as shradh meal,” Ananda Gundurao weighed in. “I don’t understand the intention of renaming existing schemes. I’m sure the people of Karnataka will be embarrassed if their children are welcomed with tithi bhojan on festival days,” Subbu Iyer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
02-10-2021||India||Durga Puja night curb in Odisha||The Odisha government has decided to enforce night curfew in the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack from 8pm to 5am from October 11 to 20 during Durga Puja in a bid to check the spread of Covid-19. In other areas, it will remain in force from 10pm to 5am. Durga Puja is one of the biggest festivals in Cuttack and around 145 pandals are built every year. The state government had earlier communicated to the organisers to celebrate Durga Puja in a low-key manner and restricted the height of idols to a maximum of four feet. Durga Puja begins on October 11 and will end on October 15. It will be followed by Lakshmi Puja. “Though the number of Covid cases has come down, we have to be cautious in our approach. Our prime objective is to ensure the safety of the public and it can be achieved through preventing large gatherings during festivals. We have also prohibited the sale and use of fire crackers during the festival this month with an aim to curb the spread of the pandemic,” said special relief commissioner P.K. Jena. According to the special relief commissioner’s order, all social, religious, political and cultural gatherings are prohibited. Till the midnight of September 29, 1,99,68,786 samples were tested in the state and the number of positive Covid-19 cases stands at 10,27,476. A total of 10,12,583 patients have recovered and have been discharged. The number of active cases stands at 5,642 while the number of deaths so far is 8,198.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
02-10-2021||India||SC issues notice to Centre on vaccine denial over Aadhaar||The Supreme Court on Friday issued a notice to the Centre and the UIDAI (Unique Identification Authority of India) on a plea alleging that Covid-19 vaccination is being denied to several citizens for non-production of Aadhaar cards. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and B.V. Nagarathna initially refused to entertain the petition saying that the official vaccination portal CoWIN does carry more than half a dozen alternative identity proofs like driving licence and passport, among others. However, petitioner Siddharthshankar Sharma through advocate Mayan Kshirsagar brought to the court’s notice his own experience of being denied vaccine at the Shashwat Hospital in Kothrud, Pune, in May this year for non-production of an Aadhaar card. The counsel for the petitioner argued that although on paper the CoWIN application says that besides Aadhaar several other ID proofs would be valid for vaccination, when it comes to actual vaccination beneficiaries are being forced to produce only Aadhaar cards. “Such actions are a blatant violation of right to life under Article 21 read with right to equality under Article 14 of the Constitution,” the petitioner said. According to the petition, the CoWIN portal also says that the following identity proofs — Aadhaar card, passport, PAN card, driving licence, voter ID, NPR smart card and pension document with photograph — will be valid for verification and registration. It says that even according to government rules  only the photo ID, which was used for the registration, is required to be produced at the time of vaccination. Once registered and upon booking the slot on the app, a receipt/document is generated capturing all the details of the individual and the vaccination centre with the unique code being sent to the phone number of the individual through SMS as well as the said application which can be downloaded too, the petition said. According to the petitioner, he had submitted his passport details on the CoWIN portal, but when he went for vaccination, he was denied the jab on the ground of non-production of Aadhaar card. “Without the Aadhaar details, the vaccination centre authorities were rendered incapacitated by the CoWIN portal to verify the registered individuals for administering vaccine upon him. In view of the same the petitioner was denied his scheduled 1st dose of vaccination. “The police authorities were approached for appropriate action, however, to no avail. In fact one of the lady police officers further informed that even her mother-in-law was denied the vaccination for non-production of her Aadhaar details,” the petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
02-10-2021||India|| CAs will now be able to pursue PhD and apply for teaching jobs||All those who have done courses in chartered accountancy, company secretaryship and cost and works accountancy will now be able to pursue PhD degrees and apply for teaching jobs in colleges. The University Grants Commission (UGC), the higher education regulator, has approved a proposal in this regard, fulfilling a demand from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) that functions under the ministry of corporate affairs. The UGC took the decision in February and ratified it in July. The minutes of a commission meeting on July 26 says CAs, CSs and ICWAs can appear in the National Eligibility Test (NET) or the State Level Eligibility Test (SLET) through which assistant professors, the entry-level post, are recruited in colleges. However, such students will need to have an undergraduate degree too. Now, many students get admitted to the four-year CA, CS and ICWA courses directly after clearing Class XII while many others come after completing under-graduation. ICAI president Nihar Jambusaria said the decision would help the thousands of students who undertake CA, CS or ICWA courses every year to pursue higher studies. “Earlier, those with CA, CS or ICWA qualifications were not able to register for PhD (in most cases) since they did not have a master’s degree. Now these qualifications will be treated as equivalent to a postgraduate degree. They will be able to pursue PhD and also take up teaching jobs in colleges,” Jambusaria said. He, however, pointed out that the requirement of 55 per cent marks in post-graduation to appear for NET or SLET would still be a hurdle for CAs, CSs and ICWAs as these were low-scoring courses. “The pass mark in these courses is 50 per cent. Insisting on 55 per cent marks in PG courses for appearing in NET or SLET will be a hurdle. We will propose to the UGC to allow all those clearing CA, CS or ICWA courses to take NET and SLET,” he said. Former ICAI president Atul Gupta said nearly 30,000 students complete these three courses every year and many of them face problems while trying to pursue higher education abroad. “When they try to pursue any course abroad, they face difficulties in convincing the institutions about their CA, CS or ICWA qualifications. It was not clear whether those who undertake these courses would be considered degree or diploma holders. Now there is clarity,” he said. Students with Class XII certificates are eligible to pursue these courses. Academics pointed out that it was only fair that the four-year duration of these courses would make them the equivalent of postgraduate courses. The Association of Indian Universities (AIU), which grants equivalence to certificates obtained from foreign institutions to their corresponding Indian degrees, has in the past granted equivalence to the CA course with MCom in individual cases. Also, 106 universities recognise CA, CS and ICWA qualifications as the equivalent of MCom, thus allowing certificate holders of these three courses to pursue PhD and then apply for teaching jobs in colleges. Now, all 1,000 universities of the country will recognise and accept these certificate holders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
02-10-2021||India||LAC: Army chief reviews security & operational readiness in Ladakh ||Army chief General M.M. Naravane arrived in Ladakh on Friday on a two-day visit to review security and operational readiness along the Line of Actual Control amid the border standoff with China since May last year. An army statement said Gen. Naravane would review operational preparedness and interact with the troops deployed in harsh terrain along the China frontier. “The army chief will be given a detailed briefing about the ground situation at the multiple friction points in Ladakh,” a defence ministry official told The Telegraph. General Naravane had on Thursday said the incidents with China along the unmarked border would continue until the two countries found a long-term solution in the form of a boundary agreement. China’s army is estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory since May last year. So far, there has been “partial” disengagement from the Galwan Valley, Pangong Lake and Gogra through the creation of a demilitarised “buffer zone”. This means the Chinese have stepped back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines, and the Indian troops have retreated by an equal distance — a move some veterans have criticised as “ceding more territory” to the Chinese. But the border standoffs at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains continue. The Chinese are said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines at the Depsang Plains. An army official said a Chinese pullback from the LAC would be the first step towards restoring peace, but added that Beijing was showing no inclination to do that. Since last winter, the Indian Army has established habitat facilities for its nearly 50,000 additional troops deployed along the LAC. Never before have such huge numbers of additional soldiers been posted in the forward areas of the LAC, at altitudes of 12,000-14,000ft where temperatures can dip to minus 40°C when the winter peaks. The Indian deployment — backed by battle tanks, missile systems and frequent sorties by the air force’s combat aircrafts — is an effort to match the massive Chinese build-up along the LAC. Asked about the situation along the LAC in Ladakh, a defence ministry official said: “It’s the same as last year. There is no change in the status quo.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
02-10-2021||India||Delhi University cut-off at 100%||Principals of colleges here have kept the cut-offs at 100 per cent on Friday said the perfect score was a precautionary measure to avoid over-admissions. Delhi University on Friday announced its first cut-off list for undergraduate admissions with prominent colleges pegging the cut-offs at 100 per cent for various courses. Apart from Shri Ram College for Commerce, which had pegged the cut-off for BCom (Hons) at 100 per cent in 2011, probably no college  had ever kept a perfect score for admissions. Ramjas College principal Manoj Khanna said one had to take precautions to avoid over-admissions. “There are 10,000 applicants who have 100 per cent scores. Assuming that 2,000 of them apply to our college, we have sought 100 per cent for admission to political science (Hons),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
02-10-2021||India||Strife-torn Congress anxiously waits for significant desertions ||The strife-torn Congress is anxiously waiting for significant desertions in the coming months, as the loyalists don’t accept that the dissidents have the potential to split the party. While there are few in the party among the younger lot who advocate reconciliation and compromise, even the veterans who wanted unity appear to have given up. “We have always seen factionalism in the Congress but this permanent grouping called G-23 is a bad omen. Looks like we have reached a point of no return,” a former AICC general secretary told The Telegraph. The dissidents, known as the group of 23 or G-23, admit there has been no effort at reconciliation and allege absence of democracy in the party. “Does Modi tolerate questions? Those who are in control don’t like being questioned, no matter how valid the questions are,” one of them said, appearing to equate their party leadership with Narendra Modi. The majority opinion in the Congress is that the central leadership should deal firmly with the dissidents. This is driven primarily by two reasons, the belief that those who raise questions publicly are directly or indirectly helping the BJP and that the exit of the entrenched forces will create space for new leaders to rise. The silence of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi is an indication that the G-23 muscle-flexing is not being appreciated. Some key functionaries, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, demolished the G-23 allegation of lack of democracy in the Congress. One of them said: “Amarinder Singh calls Rahul Gandhi immature and accuses Sonia Gandhi of humiliating him because he was not allowed to be the chief minister forever. Let him now question Narendra Modi and Amit Shah and comment on the RSS ideological positions, which he had attacked all his life. Then he will understand the meaning of democracy. These leaders have attacked the leadership for one year now. How many days can a G-23 or G-25 can survive in any other party of the country?” Party general secretary Tariq Anwar told this newspaper: “When did they realise the party should have only elected bodies? Some of them have been in key positions in the Congress much before Sonia Gandhi entered politics. Why were Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Kapil Sibal silent when they were nominated or appointed? And if the party is weak today, is Rahul Gandhi responsible? Who was running the show for the last 40 years?” Anwar put out two harsh tweets too, saying: “When the party is in power, they will hail you in the morning, hail you in the night. Pure Jee Huzuri (sycophancy). And when the party is in Opposition, start questioning the leadership. What kind of politics is this?” This was in response to Sibal’s barb that we are “G-23, not G-Huzur 23”. In another tweet, Anwar said: “Some people’s character is surprising. Can a man change so dramatically because of vested interest? Those who enjoyed power most because of the blessings of the leadership are today challenging the leaders. It seems they are accustomed to being in power, they can’t enjoy struggle.” One more important functionary remarked: “Time to purge, not debate.” Another general secretary Harish Rawat, who is in-charge of Punjab, countered Amarinder’s charge that he was humiliated, arguing that he was given the highest respect and authority for decades. Rawat alleged that Amarinder was under some pressure, a charge denied by the former chief minister whose meeting with Shah and national security adviser Ajit Doval has triggered much speculation. Ordinary Congress workers, who are far away from the power orbit, also want dissidents to be crushed with an iron hand. Naresh Kumar, an AICC member from Delhi, said: “Everybody accepts the party needs a full-fledged president. But right now it is about saving the country and the party. Not about individuals. We see the sad spectacle of Amarinder Singh hobnobbing with the BJP and our senior leaders are attacking the party. Are they pouring oil into the fire? We know these seasoned leaders understand politics and that’s why they carefully chose the timing.” Another leader said: “No worker anywhere in the country is supportive of the G-23 even as they have raised some valid questions. Because they are all motivated by personal ambitions. Somebody wanted another Rajya Sabha term, somebody wanted greater role… and they are hurting the party at this critical juncture. You can imagine their concern for the Congress — their partner Jitin Prasada is a BJP minister under Yogi Adityanath!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
02-10-2021||India||J&K: PCI sets up committee to address journalist complaints ||The Press Council of India has set up a three-member committee to look into the rising complaints of intimidation and harassment of journalists in Jammu and Kashmir at the hands of the establishment. The decision came after former chief minister and People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti wrote to the PCI and the Editors Guild of India asking them to take note of the alleged harassment of journalists in Kashmir. “The Hon’ble Chairman, Press Council of India while taking suo motu cognisance on the communication of Ms Mehbooba Mufti, President, PDP, concerning intimidation and harassment of journalists in Jammu and Kashmir, has constituted a three-member fact-finding committee,” reads the PCI order. “The authorities in Jammu and Kashmir are requested to extend full cooperation and assistance to this fact-finding committee for the discharge of its function,” it added. The members of the committee are Prakash Dubey, convener and group editor of Dainik Bhaskar, Gurbir Singh, journalist at New Indian Express, and Suman Gupta, editor of Jan Morcha. The committee has been asked to conduct a thorough probe and hold discussions with the authorities concerned and the affected journalists. On Monday, Mehbooba wrote to the two bodies about the police raids at the homes of four journalists on September 8 and alleged that their mobile phones, laptops, ATM cards and the passports of their spouses were illegally seized. The police said the four journalists — Hilal Mir, Showkat Motta, Mohammad Shah Abbass and Azhar Qadri — who had worked for local, national and international media organisations were being questioned about a blog called Kashmir Fight. The police claim the blog is run from Pakistan. The journalists have denied any wrongdoing. Along with her letter, Mehbooba had attached a copy of a questionnaire served to the journalists, complaining that the questions were not only irrelevant but also based on the assumption that the loyalty of journalists concerned lies with “anti-national networks”. The questions on the list seek information about the journalists’ political allegiance as well as their relatives in Pakistan. The list also contains questions on whether the journalists are affiliated with any non-governmental organisations and socio-religious bodies and seek details about the properties they own. “Unfortunately, this is a diabolical method to perpetuate the communal mindset throughout the country in order to gain political mileage and relevance by demeaning and marginalising an entire community,” Mehbooba wrote. A journalist working for a local newspaper said the PCI decision was welcome, particularly the presence of “credible journalists in the committee, but said it needed to look at the situation dispassionately and not through the narrow prism of nationalism”. “The fact of the matter is that the state does not trust local journalists. The government has withheld accreditation cards for this year, which is otherwise a routine affair and makes our movement easy. We are told these cards would be issued to only pliant journalists,” a journalist said. Another journalist said the PCI did not have a great reputation in Kashmir, pointing to the clean chit it gave to the army in 1991 mass rapes in Kunan Poshpora. The council was invited by the army to investigate the incident but it had backed the army’s version.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
02-10-2021||West Bengal||In Cong nominee's demand for repoll, whiff of Greek sibling rivalry?||The Theban brothers Eteocles and Polynices in the Greek plays penned by Aeschylus and later Sophocles were mortal enemies, whose lives and deaths gave the world tragedies for the stage. More than 2,400 years later in modern Bengal’s Murshidabad, two brothers pitted against each other divided by political ideology are playing on a similar theme, though not as gruesome as the Theban plays. Zaidur Rahman, the Congress nominee for the Shamshergunj Assembly constituency which went to polls on September 30, along with Bhowanipore and Jangipur, is the younger brother of the Jangipur MP from Trinamul Khalilur Rahman. Khalilur is also the president of the local Trinamul unit and man in-charge of all matters political on behalf of the ruling party, which has uprooted the Congress from its traditional stronghold in the last decade or so. On the day of polling, Zaidur wrote two letters, one to the returning officer and the other to the police observer for the by-election in the constituency. In the letter to the returning officer, Zaidur alleged that Congress polling agents were forced to leave the polling premises in booths 174 and 175 and with the alleged active connivance of  presiding officers, the Trinamul agents ensured all votes went to the, Trinamul nominee Amirul Islam. On polling day Islam was heard reminding women voters queued outside the booth about Lakshmir Bhandar, the Mamata Banerjee government scheme that provides women with cash-in-hand. The second letter from Zaidur, while demanding repolling in booths 162, 163, 168, 169, 170, 171, 174, 175 and 180, warned the police observer about the possibility of electronic voting machines being “snatched by Trinamul goons” while on transit to the counting centres. So far, no such incident has been reported. Counting in all the three constituencies, along with one in Odisha, will be held on Sunday, October 3. “We have brought the issue to the notice of the Election Commission,” said Adhir Chowdhury, state Congress president and Berhampore MP. While Jangipur remained largely peaceful, in South Calcutta’s Bhowanipore, from where Mamata Banerjee is seeking re-election to continue as CM for the third straight term, there were instances of outsiders coming to vote and vehicles of Opposition leaders coming under attack. The reason behind the Trinamul’s going the whole hog in Shamshergunj, a part of the Maldah South Lok Sabha constituency, is that even in its worst days, the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Congress voters had outnumbered both the Trinamul and the BJP by 7,939 votes. Though Shamshergunj is in Murshidabad district, it comes under the Maldah South Lok Sabha seat. The Congress nominee had received 73,054 votes in the previous Lok Sabha polls, while Trinamul managed 65,115 votes. Maldah South was among the few seats from Bengal that went to the Congress. “I have stopped thinking (about counting). The only thing I got from the authorities is assurance. I have left it on the people of Shamshergunj,” said Zaidur. The Congress nominee said he hadn’t discussed the issue with his MP brother who is in the rival camp. "I have not spoken with him,” said Zaidur. The Jangipur MP dismissed his brother’s claim. “This is not about brothers. Didi made me an MP, party comes first,” said Khalilur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
02-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata urges Centre, Jharkhand to help Bengal make a flood prevention plan||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said she would urge Jharkhand to prepare a plan in consultation with her government to mitigate floods in the region. Speaking to reporters at a flood relief camp in Arambagh in the Hooghly district, Mamata said she will request the Centre to prepare a master plan to prevent floods. "This is a man-made flood. I will request Jharkhand to prepare a plan in consultation with us. Will request the Centre to prepare a master plan to prevent recurrence of floods. Had the dams in Jharkhand been dredged, Bengal would not have faced such a situation," she said. After an aerial survey of a few flood-hit areas, Mamata said discharge of more than 5 lakh cusec water by PSU DVC over the past two days without informing the Bengal government has caused the flood in the state. The situation in parts of East and West Midnapore, Bankura, Hooghly, Birbhum, Howrah and East and West Burdwan was grim due to excessive discharge of water by DVC, following rains in Jharkhand, the chief minister said. Four lakh people of the state have been affected by the floods and the state government was providing them relief, she said. Fifty rescue and relief teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and SDRF were working in the affected areas, Mamata said. "Hope the water will recede quickly," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
02-10-2021||West Bengal||Three of family killed in road accident near Singur||Three members of a family from Rajarhat were killed in a car accident near Singur, in Hooghly district, early on Friday. The fourth member of the family, a 65-year-old man who was driving the car, has been admitted to Chinsurah Imambara Hospital with injuries. Around 6am, as the car approached Khasherbheri, it veered to one side of Durgapur Expressway and fell into a ditch. Police said Kajal Kumar Deb, a retired railway employee, was returning with wife Monika, daughter Kamolika Sadhu and Shibang, his four-year-old grandson, from Rajarhat to his Burdwan house.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
02-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Eleven people die in floods in southern districts||At least 11 people have died in south Bengal districts, including Birbhum and Hooghly, that are witnessing floods of a severity unmatched since 2000. A six-year-old boy, Soumyadip Chanak, and two others have died in West Midnapore’s Ghatal since Thursday night. The boy was swept away by floodwaters while going for a bath with his father in Ghatal town. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee called the floods “manmade” and appeared to hold the Centre responsible. “I would have accepted it had the floods been caused by heavy rainfall in the state. But this was only because the dams of the DVC in Jharkhand released excessive water without consulting us.... This is a man-made flood,” she said. “I have been talking about the need for de-siltation of the dams for the past several years, but they are not doing anything,” Mamata added. Minister Manas Ranjan Bhuniya too alleged that the West Midnapore floods had been caused by the release of copious amounts of water by the DVC. “There has not been much rain in Midnapore but Ghatal and at least three other blocks went under water only because the DVC discharged huge amounts of water. Despite the chief minister’s appeal, the DVC released so much water at the same time, causing major floods for the third time in three months,” Bhuniya, water resources investigation and development minister and Trinamul MLA from Sabang in West Midnapore, said. Bhuniya has been assigned by Mamata to monitor the situation in West Midnapore, while a few other ministers have been tasked with overseeing the other flood-affected districts. Kamala Das, a 76-year-old widow, was killed in Goghat when her mud house collapsed on her as river water entered the village early on Friday morning. Police recovered the body of Sibu Das, 17, who had been reported missing during the floods in the same area on Thursday night. The police have also recovered the body of an unknown middle-aged person from the Dwarakeswar river in Goghat on Friday morning. Five people have died in Bankura since Thursday night. The police recovered the body of Subhas Majhi, 40, who was reported missing in the floodwaters in Simlapal on Thursday night. The body of a yet-to-be-identified person was found floating in the Kansabati river in Sarenga. Two women were killed when a mud wall collapsed on them in two villages of Bankura, while a youth died from snakebite while he was crossing a waterlogged road in Bankura’s Bamira village. “Five people were killed because of flood and rain. Many areas like Sonamukhi and Barjora are also submerged. We have visited several affected areas,” K. Radhika Aiyar, the Bankura district magistrate, said. Sources said the flood situation in south Bengal had worsened after the discharge of water from DVC barrages following heavy rainfall in Jharkhand. This left vast areas in Hooghly, West Midnapore, Howrah and Birbhum flooded. Construction of new dams upstream of the Maithan and Panchet dams of the DVC network, rather than de-silting the existing dams, could be the solution to the regular floods in south Bengal caused by the release of water, sources in the central utility and the Bengal irrigation department said. Several government officials said they had not witnessed such devastating floods in 20 years. A large part of Nanoor in Birbhum went under water after the Ajay breached a part of the embankment near Sundarpur village. At least two dozen villages in Nanoor’s Basapara and Thupsura were inundated. “It was in 2000 that such floods had last happened. At least two villages, including Sundarpur, have been washed away with hundreds of concrete houses collapsing there because of the heavy rush of water,” said Karim Khan, a functionary of the Birbhum zilla parishad and resident of Basapara. Sources said at least 500 families had spent the night atop an embankment in Nanoor. Birbhum district magistrate Bidhan Ray and police chief Nagendra Nath Tripathi on Friday visited the affected areas by boat. “We had to evacuate at least 15,000 people and relocate them to relief centres in school buildings. We are providing relief materials to them. The flood was the result of the release of water into the Ajay from Jharkhand’s Shikatia dam. Less water was discharged from that dam on Friday,” Ray said. The waters of the Ajay have also inundated vast areas of Mangalkot, Ketugram and Ausgram in East Burdwan. Several villages and Arambagh town in Hooghly were submerged along with neighbouring Goghat, Khanakul and Pursurah as water from the Mundeswari, Dwarakeshwar and Shilabati rivers entered these areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
02-10-2021||West Bengal||Four East Midnapore blocks submerged for two weeks||Residents of four blocks in East Midnapore, including Patashpur and Bhagabanpur, continued to remain flooded for almost 15 days after the Keleghai broke several of its dykes on the night of September 16 following heavy rains. As residents cry for alleviation of their situation and immediate repairs of the breached embankments, officials of the irrigation department and the district administration have pleaded helplessness in the face of a challenge that has emerged in the form of several wooden bridges spanning the river in the vicinity of areas where the worst flooding has taken place. “We are only waiting for the water level to abate further because our only way to bring repair materials in now is by the river. We are prevented from doing that because of the wooden supports that these two dozen-odd bridges stand on. The wooden stilts are coming in the way of  boats that are used to ferry lengthy items such as wood and bamboo poles,” said a district official, referring to the Amgechhia area where river water was as far as 200m inland as of Friday. The situation is the same in four blocks of Patashpur 1 and 2, and Bhagabanpur 1 and 2, where over four lakh homeowners suffered damage and 65,000 persons were displaced. The district officials are also manning at least 383 relief camps in the area. “The flooding last week was so severe that the river is taking too long to return to its former level. Till then, roads are unusable and we have to rely on rivers for ferrying supplies,” Patashpur 1 block development officer Parijar Roy said. “An additional problem is that the Keleghai is a quick-flowing river as we are lower-lying than West Midnapore and Jhargram,” he added. Irrigation minister Saumen Mahapatra concurred with the district officials, saying repairs could be commenced in a week “if good weather holds up”. “Once we found boats large enough to carry repair materials, we learned that the vessels had no way into Amgechhia owing to the bridge pillars. But we should be able to start remedial work as soon as the water level becomes normal,” he said. Sources cited an additional hurdle in the way of the Bhupatinagar police station, which has been operating out of a local school building. The police station remained marooned even on Friday. “The panchayat cannot coordinate with them for relief materials as a result,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
02-10-2021||West Bengal||New DVC dams only solution to regular flood problem: Experts||Construction of new dams upstream Maithan and Panchet dams of the Damodar Valley Corporation network rather than de-silting the existing dams is the only solution to the problem of regular floods in south Bengal caused by water released from the DVC, sources in the central utility and state irrigation department said. “Undoubtedly, the water holding capacity of the DVC dams has decreased since those were constructed in the 1950s. But de-silting the dams is not a practical solution. New dams upstream appear to be the only solution,” said a senior DVC official. According to sources, there are four dams in the DVC network — Maithan and Tilaiya on the Barakar river and Panchet and Konar on the Damodar river — from where water reaches Durgapur Barrage. Once water is released from the Durgapur Barrage, there is no other dam to hold the water — while it passes through East Burdwan and Hooghly — till it meets the Hooghly in Howrah. “So, if the DVC dams release more water, it is almost certain that parts of East Burdwan, Hooghly and Howrah would get inundated.Parts of Hooghly and Howrah went under water in August as the Durgapur Barrage was forced to release 1.53 lakh cusec water. The barrage released 2.36 lakh cusec water last night and that is why the floods are more devastating,” said a senior irrigation department official. In 2012, the DVC and the Central Water Commission (CWC) had carried out a survey to find out a solution to the long standing problem. The survey revealed that water holding capacity of all the four dams of the DVC network — Maithan, Panchet, Tilaiya and Konar, all in Jharkhand — had reduced significantly because of siltation. But it was also found that de-siltation of the four dams would cost nearly Rs 5,000 crore. It would also require a huge tract of land to stockpile the silt, which was not readily available. “Furthermore, such de-siltation in the dams would require high end technology and the work is a time consuming one,” said a source. The officials conducting the survey felt that constructing two new dams upstream the Maithan and Panchet dams — from where water reaches Durgapur Barrage — would be a better solution. Construction of new dams, however, will be easier said than done, said a DVC source. “Not only will it require huge investments from the Centre, there would also be a need for land... These are the two factors which is the biggest hurdle to building new dams,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
02-10-2021||West Bengal||NFR to do interlocking works, traffic blocks await trains||The Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) has decided to go ahead with a major traffic block for five days starting from Saturday to carry out track interlocking works at four stations of north Bengal as a part of a double-lining and electrification project. During the block which will continue till October 7, the NFR has decided to cancel as many as 64 long distance trains and divert 21 other long distance trains, including two pairs of Rajdhani Express, through another route. According to sources, the work would be carried out along a 37km- stretch between Dhupguri (in Jalpaiguri district) and Ghokshadanga (in Cooch Behar district) stations which are along the principal rail route that connects northeast with rest of the country. A number of trains connecting Calcutta with north Bengal and Northeast like the Kamrup Express, Kanchenjungha Express, Saraighat Express, Teesta Torsha Express and Uttarbanga Express — which run as daily special trains these days — will remain cancelled during the period. “Once this work is over, trains will run on double tracks along the stretch which will also be electrified. This block might cause some inconvenience to people but in the days to come, they will have to spend less time in their travel,” said an official of NFR. The decision to cancel so many long-distance trains on the eve of the festive season has left stakeholders of the tourism industry — particularly those in eastern Dooars (or Alipurduar district — worried. “Tourists have already started pouring in and we have a number of reservations during the period when the trains have been cancelled. The situation had just started becoming favourable and now this five days’ traffic block has come as a fresh poser for us. We fail to understand why the railway authorities did not carry out this task last month,” said Biswajit Saha, secretary, Jaldapara Lodge Owners’ Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
02-10-2021||West Bengal||BSF seizes 2.6kg silver, arrests youth in North Dinajpur ||The Border Security Force (BSF) intercepted a 16-year-old youth while he was allegedly trying to cross the border at Phulbari in North Dinajpur on Thursday and seized 2.6 kilos of silver granules from his possession. BSF sources said the youth, a resident of a village under Goaklpokhor police station, was trying to smuggle the silver granules to Bangladesh. Later, the BSF handed over him to the local police. The BSF troops, sources said, carried out anti-smuggling drives in different areas of north Bengal on Thursday and Friday and have seized different items worth around Rs 8.22 lakh. Among the seized items include cattle, cough syrups and some other contraband items, BSF officials said. In another incident, a resident of Chharkatola in Malda  was arrested after fake notes amounting to Rs 3 lakh were allegedly recovered from his house on Thursday evening. Police said 600 pieces of fake Indian currency notes (FICN) all in denomination of Rs 500, Rs 42,500 original Indian currency and Rs 642 in Bangladeshi Taka was seized from Anisur Rahaman’s house. “It seems he is associated with a racket involved in smuggling of FICN. We need to interrogate him to gather more information,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
02-10-2021||West Bengal||This is a man-made flood: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Friday indirectly held the Centre responsible for the large-scale inundation in at least 20 blocks in south Bengal districts before calling the flood situation in the state “man-made”. “I would have accepted had the floods been because of heavy rainfall in the state. But this was only because the dams of the DVC in Jharkhand released excessive water without consulting us.... This is a man-made flood,” the chief minister told a private news channel on Friday morning. The DVC is a central government power utility and it was clear that Mamata was pointing fingers at the Centre. Mamata said she would undertake an aerial survey of the affected districts on Saturday. Sources close to the chief minister said she would make the repeated instances of flooding of south Bengal districts — because of release of water by DVC from its dams — a political issue to sharpen her attack on the BJP-led Centre. The top brass of the Bengal government are of the opinion that lackadaisical attitude of the Centre in restoring and renovating the dams of the central power utility is the main reason behind regular inundation in the state. “The chief minister had repeatedly written letters urging the Centre to take some concrete measures to renovate the DVC dams, but nothing has been done so far. This is why she is terming the floods man-made,” said a senior state government official. Mamata, during an interview with the channel over the phone, said though several places in the state, like Asasnsol, had recorded heavy rainfall, the situation would not have turned “grave” had the DVC dams could hold more water. “I have been talking about the need for de-siltation of the dams for the past several years, but they are not doing anything,” she said. “You see... Bankura has been inundated. Asansol was under water yesterday. East Burdwan, Howrah, Hooghly all are flooded because of this release of large quantities of water from Jharkhand,” said Mamata. A source in the state irrigation department said, in her last letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier this year, she had specifically mentioned the need to de-silt Maithan and Panchet dams as successive surveys had pointed out how water holding capacity at the two dams was going down over the years. “The chief minister had clearly mentioned that the DVC dams have a catchment area of about 1,000sqkm and that’s why a moderate rainfall in Jharkhand creates trouble for Bengal. Similar letters were sent in 2015, 2017, and 2019, but no action was taken,” said an irrigation department official. Although Mamata sounded worried with the flood situation, she made it clear that her government would take all possible steps to minimise the miseries of marooned people. Besides instructing district officials to carry out relief and rescue work on war footing, she also deputed several  senior cabinet ministers — like Firhad Hakim, Aroop Biswas, Subrata Mukherjee and Becharam Manna — to monitor the situation in the districts. “We will take stock of the damage that the flood has done to the people and try to compensate those affected,” she said. The army was deployed in West Burdwan, Hooghly and Howrah. Sources said that 25 NDRF teams were deployed in the flood-affected areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
02-10-2021||West Bengal||Dam water floods 20 blocks in south Bengal||Over 10 lakh people were marooned after at least 20 blocks in south Bengal were submerged following heavy rain in the state in the past 48 hours and release of water from DVC dams in Jharkhand, which forced the Durgapur Barrage authorities to release water since Thursday. The affected blocks are in West Midnapore, Birbhum, East Burdwan, Bankura, West Burdwan, Hooghly and Howrah districts. Reason: The Damodar has already crossed the danger level of 12.89 meters Majority of the areas were submerged because of excessive rainfall in the catchment areas of the Maithan and Panchet dams maintained by the DVC in Jharkhand, which resulted in release of water that submerged downstream areas in Bengal. For example, Asansol which falls in the catchment area of the Durgapur Barrage had recorded over 350 mm rainfall between Wednesday night and Thursday morning, which was highest in the recorded history. Moreover, the Maithan and Panchet dams had released 1 lakh cusec of water since Thursday morning. With water gushing in from Jharkhand and heavy rain in its catchment area, the Durgapur Barrage released 2.36 lakh cusec water on Thursday afternoon, which submerged large parts of East Burdwan, Hooghly and Howrah. Rivers like the Ajay, Kansabati and the Darakeswar in Birbhum, Bankura and Purulia, which carry water from the dams like Shikatia in Jharkhand, also crossed danger levels. This has caused inundation in several blocks in Birbhum and Bankura. “Such inundation in these districts is a rarer phenomenon,” said a senior official. . More than 5 lakh people have already been evacuated. In view of the grave situation, the Bengal government has sought help from the army to carry our both relief and rescue operations. More than 1,000 relief camps are being operated across the state. The government has asked district authorities to open more camps as and when required. The extent of damage can be assessed only after water levels recede, but preliminary reports suggest the following: nTens of thousands of mud houses have collapsed because of the inundation||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
02-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 708 cases, 694 recoveries and 13 deaths||Bengal’s active Covid-19 cases rose for the third day in the past six days as the state logged 708 infections, 694 recoveries and 13 deaths on Friday. The total of active cases climbed by one to reach 7,571. Bengal has 2.8 per cent of the national total of active cases and remains seventh on the list of states with the highest number of such patients. Calcutta on Friday logged 146 infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 116. These are the only two districts in Bengal to log three-digit figures of new infections on Friday. Seven districts reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.8. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas logged four each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.79 per cent on Friday. Bengal now has nearly 15.7 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.43 lakh recoveries and 18,806 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
02-10-2021||West Bengal||Raiganj MLA Krishna Kalyani quits saffron party||Raiganj MLA Krishna Kalyani quit the BJP on Friday. In North Dinajpur, the BJP had won two of nine seats — Raiganj and Kaliaganj. Last month, Kaliaganj MLA Soumen Roy had defected to the Trinamul Congress. Kalyani is the second BJP MLA from north Bengal and the fifth in the state to walk out of the party after the Assembly elections. North Dinajpur is the first district without a BJP MLA in north Bengal. Kalyani didn’t say if he would join any other party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
02-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: The salt of India’s earth||Diplomacy, it is often assumed, is the art of communicating through winks and nudges. Yet there are times when a message can be passed on without subterfuge. Consider Joe Biden’s recent remark on the relevance of M.K. Gandhi whose 152nd birth anniversary is being celebrated today. Speaking with the Indian prime minister beside him, the president of the United States of America chose to remind the world — and India — of the critical importance of Gandhian values in today’s world. Mr Biden’s reminder assumes significance in the context of New India’s problematic relationship with, arguably, its tallest leader. Usually, the Mahatma is invoked in the land of his birth through pageantry. Gandhi Jayanti — a public holiday — is marked with fervour each year; countless welfare programmes have been christened after this great man by successive political dispensations; texts and curriculum continue to pay their customary tributes to him. But India, new and old, has been guilty of trapping Gandhi within the narrow confines of reverence. The consequences of such veneration — even though Gandhi is remembered more in breach than in honour of the Gandhian spirit — have been the most explicit and worrying in the last few years. The distance between New India and the Father of the Nation — the crux of Mr Biden’s message? — could not have been starker than it is today. India’s pluralist fabric is in tatters with the republic’s seemingly enthusiastic embrace of a majoritarian sensibility. That a parliamentarian chose to glorify Gandhi’s murderer and, by that logic, the divisive ideology that Gandhi fought against and, ultimately, died for is indicative of the anti-Gandhian zeitgeist. Gandhi’s comprehension of caste had many critics: B.R. Ambedkar, another founding father, was among them. Yet, none can dispute the Mahatma’s antipathy towards institutionalized discrimination and violence perpetrated against social groups that are vulnerable, economically and socially. A little over seven decades after Gandhi’s martyrdom, a crime is committed against a Dalit every 10 minutes in this country. The Indian media’s peddling of false narratives, with social media as their cohort, would have also drawn a chuckle from that seeker of truth. Men and empires have ignored, laughed at and fought Gandhi but the man has, inevitably, emerged triumphant. He is likely to win the battle against New India’s amnesia too. This is because Gandhi’s endurance transcends his roles of politician — he was the real Chanakya — philosopher, social activist, champion of morality and so on. In its ceaseless campaigns against violence, inequality, ostentatiousness, material excess, ecological depredations, unimaginative mechanization, to cite a few among the long list of human follies, the Gandhian voice is, in essence, the voice of conscience itself. The human race, in spite of its reprehensible efforts across the ages, has not managed to silence it yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
02-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: RSS mouthpiece attacks Amazon||Costly attack Sir — The right-wing magazine, Panchjanya, has accused Amazon of “taking steps to encircle the political, economic and individual freedom of people” and of assaulting Hindu values (“Feet in the fire”, Sep 30). This comes on the heels of a vicious attack on the home-grown information technology company, Infosys — Panchjanya alleged that the company was acting against India’s interests after some glitches were encountered on the income tax portal developed by Infosys. Shortly before that, the Union commerce minister, Piyush Goyal, had vilified the Tata group. If such unsubstantiated and disparaging comments continue to be made, foreign businesses will be increasingly reluctant to invest in India. This will further contribute to our economic woes. The government must condemn these comments. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore Sir — It seems that after Infosys, Panchjanya has now targeted Amazon as an imagined enemy of the nation. These companies have provided employment to millions of Indians. Entrepreneurs such as Sachin Bansal and Binny Bansal — co-founders of Flipkart — had worked at Amazon before starting their own company. Panchjanya must show some restraint while writing about companies that have been instrumental in driving growth in India. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — It is curious that the corporate world — its members are known to be supporters of Narendra Modi — is now facing the ire of the right-wing machinery. Industry pioneers must speak up against this attack. Nitya Singh,Patna Curious omission Sir — A travel advisory issued by the United Kingdom stating that people from India will be considered “unvaccinated” even after two shots of Covishield — developed jointly by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India — had sparked a controversy. The UK has now revised the travel rules, qualifying Covishield as an approved vaccine starting October 4 with some caveats such as even fully vaccinated passengers needing to quarantine themselves for a period. It is curious that only a handful of Asian countries are on the UK government’s approval list. This has led many to suggest that there might be a racist bias to the decision. The Indian government must seek answers. Venu G.S.,Kollam, Kerala Sir — Several European countries — Belgium, Switzerland, Germany, Spain among them — have recognized the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by the SII unconditionally. There is no good reason why the UK is yet to do the same. Aparajita Saha,Calcutta  Mixed message Sir — The fibreglass statue of a girl staring impassively out of Bilbao’s River Nervion which caused a stir recently is not the only instance of ‘climate artivism’. Earlier, a polar bear sculpture had been floated down the Thames. While these are undoubtedly well-intended, what the pieces of art have in common is that they are, in essence, large chunks of plastic in a water body. Over a period of time, they will erode and leave the rivers more full of microplastics than before. The chemical in the paint on these will also impact marine ecosystems. Surely, this sends out a mixed message? Sucheta Iyer,Chennai Parting shot Sir — A large number of old houses in Calcutta have collapsed over the last few years. Several others are at a risk of crumbling soon. The excessive rainfall is not helping matters. What is worse, many recently constructed apartment buildings, too, do not have a firm foundation. This is dangerous for people living in these buildings. The municipal corporation should identify such houses and put in place appropriate safety measures. Utpal Kumar Basu,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
02-10-2021||Opinion||Green goodness: Chelsea Flower Show||Sitting opposite me at Chourangi, the new Bengali restaurant in London started by Anjan Chatterjee and Aditya Ghosh, was Sangeeta Datta’s husband, Soumilya, who revealed that having retired from banking, he had taken up gardening as a hobby — “I don’t know the names of all the flowers but everything in the garden is lovely”. This will make the Royal Horticultural Society very happy because it is trying to encourage more Indians to take up gardening. The RHS, established in 1804, runs the Chelsea Flower Show, which was pushed to September instead of May for the first time in 108 years. There was a profusion of blooms to delight the eye — everything from Dahlias to Chrysanthemums, Fuchsias, Clematis and Alliums. The RHS’s chief horticulturist, Guy Barter, said: “The Chelsea Flower Show is the flagship of the British gardening industry and a huge amount of our interest revolves around new plants that are introduced. Garden designers show off the best concepts, nurseries show the best plants. It’s the standard that everybody aims for.” But he also told me how easy it was to grow coriander, fenugreek, basil and other herbs, as well as aubergine, tomatoes, courgettes, peppers, chillies, carrots, onions and garlic for the Indian kitchen. Plants, he said, “give comfort to everybody. There’s lots of scientific research to prove that greenery and green space make people feel better. Gardening is a wonderful hobby, it’s very rewarding.” Rediscover Ray The British Film Institute is to pay a remarkable tribute to Satyajit Ray by showing all of his films, reveals author and film-maker, Sangeeta Datta, who will curate the season to mark the director’s 101st birthday next summer. Datta comes fresh from receiving a “Shera Bangali” award for her cultural work at last weekend’s UK Bengali Convention in the Cambridgeshire village of Cambourne. In fact, her documentary on Rituparno Ghosh, Bird of Dusk, closed the convention that united 55 Bengali organizations from across Britain in an inspiring celebration of “debate, music, adda, food”. Britain’s solidly middle-class Bengali community is well-represented in most professions, especially medicine, academia and the arts. “We have so many good things we can be proud of,” Anirban Mandal, one of the organizers, tells me. “Next year’s UKBC will be held in Manchester. Our aim is to pass on Bengali culture to the next generation.” Sangeeta makes the same point: “We have to engage with schools and colleges to bring in younger students. They don’t necessarily have to be film students because Ray’s films have so much to do with the history and sociology of Bengal.” The BFI’s plan was to mark the centenary of Ray’s birth on May 2, 2021 but this had to be pushed back because of the pandemic and also the delay in sourcing prints from the US film academy archives. Sangeeta hopes to discuss what it was like to work with Ray with the likes of Sharmila Tagore, Shabana Azmi, Deepankar De, Dhritiman Chatterjee and Barun Chanda. She says: “What I’m trying to do is not just show the films chronologically but to arrange them thematically and look at more imaginative ways of bringing younger people...” Artistic comeback Exhibitions are coming back. To coincide with the Chelsea Flower Show, the RHS Botanical Art & Photography Show was held at the Saatchi Gallery near Sloane Square. During the raj, British women painted the fauna and flora of India, with many examples among the 30,000 items held at the RHS Lindley Library in Vincent Square in London. I also visited the British Museum, which is holding an exhibition of 103 newly discovered drawings by Katsushika Hokusai, Japan’s most famous artist, best known for the Great Wave off Kanagawa. Curator Alfred Haft estimated that a third of the drawings in the exhibition related to Buddhism in India. What was remarkable, added Haft, was that Hokusai never left Japan but “allowed his imagination to roam India”. This year’s Summer Exhibition at the Royal Academy was pushed back to September from June for the first time in 253 years. This year it has been coordinated by the British-Nigerian artist, Yinka Shonibare, and, in the light of Black Lives Matter, was dominated by works from the African diaspora. But a few Indians, Shanti Panchal and Chila Burman among them, were included too. Woke reality Vivek Ramaswamy is an author whose book attacking big businesses, Woke, Inc. — Inside Corporate America’s Social Justice Scam, has attracted favourable attention in both America and Britain. Ramaswamy was born in Ohio of parents who emigrated from India 40 years ago. A graduate of Harvard College and Yale Law School, he founded Roivant Sciences, a bio-pharmaceutical company, in 2014. His main thesis is that corporate America is hypocritical — post Black Lives Matter it is making big bucks by paying lip service to the “woke” agenda, that is progressive and liberal causes. “Basically, being woke means obsessing about race, gender, and sexual orientation,” claims Ramaswamy. “Maybe climate change too. That’s the best definition I can give.” FOOTNOTE Incidentally, I noted two Indian touches at the Chelsea Flower Show this year. At one shop, Nehru jackets and waistcoats, tailored exquisitely from Italian wool and costing £350 and £250 respectively, were flying off the racks. Meanwhile, a Shropshire company called Wilstone, run by Christo McKinnon who has toured India for some 30 years, was displaying stone and wooden carvings fashioned for him by skilled artisans in Rajasthan and Gujarat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
02-10-2021||Opinion||Dangerous populism||It seems sacrilegious to say today of all days that much of the cant and corruption that shroud India can be laid at Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi’s door. Not that Gandhi Jayanti is left with much of the remembered atmosphere of overpowering sanctity. Richard Symonds, the young English Quaker whom the Mahatma befriended in Delhi, might have denied any inconsistency even in some club bars remaining open today: he remembered that Gandhi regarded porter, a heavy dark beer brewed from malt, as medicinal because his landlady in London had forced him to drink it when he was unwell and it tasted so horrible. Nevertheless, the day is of consequence because Gandhi’s widely-publicized reverence for Daridranarayan set an unattainable ideal of probity, which widened the gulf between practice and precept. One result was that India’s 2019 election was reckoned the costliest in the world. Another is pious posturing. If Jawaharlal Nehru reportedly claimed to live on fifty rupees a month, Narendra Modi got away with “Hum to fakir aadmi hai, jhola leke chal padenge.” Such legacies make it impossible to speculate on the likely consequences of Gandhi’s (or Christ’s) return to earth. Conjecture is simpler when the subject is someone more easily grasped like Nehru whose “internal elegance — an absence of all coarseness” struck the Australian diplomat, Walter Crocker, so forcefully. “It was not for nothing”, Crocker wrote, “that one of his [Nehru’s] severest animadversions was ‘vulgar’.” Since propaganda is by definition vulgar, it’s difficult to think of what is not vulgar about a regime that steals credit by changing the names of existing schemes, emblazons certificates and other communications with its leader’s mugshot and slogans, and is now thought to bask in a global role, thanks to Joe Biden and the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue although Australia’s Scott Morrison won the Sheriff’s role. Tastelessness and mismanagement are not confined to one party. If Mamata Banerjee is “shocked and stunned” at aspects of New Delhi’s conduct, Bengalis are also shocked and stunned at so many people, including two young girls, being electrocuted because of poor maintenance resulting from political rapacity and administrative negligence. One is humbled by the pluck of the bereaved mother who responded to the state government’s compensation of Rs 2 lakhs by offering to give double that amount to have her 13-year-old daughter back. While the pandemic has heightened what Arun Maira calls the “clash between the needs of humanity and the principles of capitalism”, a certain coarseness had begun to disfigure society’s higher echelons much earlier. Perhaps it was always there but undetected. Not many Indians noticed or understood the sensitivity that prompted Lord Pethick-Lawrence, the saintly socialist secretary of state for India, to refuse to enter G.D. Birla’s house when visiting India in 1946 as part of the British Cabinet Mission; he waited in his car under the jamun trees outside for Gandhi’s emissary, Sudhir Ghosh. Money is being made and squandered in the midst of destitution, underscoring the relevance of Edward Heath’s comment about “the unpleasant and unacceptable face of capitalism”. Apart from the extravagance of Air India One, which flew Modi non-stop to the Washington summit and the lavish investments abroad by India’s tycoons, a small indication of the overwhelming vulgarization of society is the dazzle of jewellers’ shops extending in a chain of gold and glitter even in unpretentious middle-class areas like Calcutta’s Rashbehari Avenue. The 13-month (at the time of writing) farmers’ agitation more specifically confirms crony capitalism, disdain for outsiders, and administrative incompetence. Nothing could contrast more sharply with the pride, concern, vision and firmness with which Lee Kuan Yew responded in 1980 to the work-to-rule agitation by Singapore Airlines pilots. When their recalcitrance disrupted a London-Dubai flight, Lee summoned the striking pilots to his office and ordered them, out of sight of TV cameras, “Get back to work, restore discipline, then argue your case.” They capitulated in 65 minutes because they knew that the airline would otherwise be grounded. “Whoever governs Singapore must have that iron in him,” Lee explained. “Or give it up. This is not a game of cards. This is your life and mine. I spent a whole lifetime building this. And as long as I’m in charge, nobody’s going to knock it down.” An Indian politician would have considered only the strikers’ castes, the vote banks they represented, the amount of money received in donations, bonds or whatever from them as well as from the airline, and the danger of rival parties wooing the disgruntled pilots. Social disruption, economic stability, public convenience, a State-owned institution’s reputation, and the loss of millions of dollars in sales and advertising would have been of no concern. The political mentality has not changed since it was fashionable to chant “Sarkar ka maal, pani me dal!” A crucial test of civilization lies in how power is handled. There could be no more revealing contrast in that respect than between last Sunday’s jejune elation over the prime minister’s American visit and Indira Gandhi’s rejection of Lee’s pleadings to move into Southeast Asia when Britain withdrew 50 years ago. Shrewd and realistic, Mrs Gandhi knew — as Lee acknowledged many years later — that an India that was beset with domestic problems and hostile neighbours did not have the capacity to invest in the security of what European geographers once called Further India but which is now a buoyant region of nation-states with vigorous economic and political agendas. As China’s ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, must know despite his formal protest against the trilateral Aukus, Modi does not face the responsibility Mrs Gandhi rejected. If the treaty charges anyone with underwriting regional security, it’s Morrison who will get eight nuclear submarines (to start with) for the task. Some 20 years ago, another Australian prime minister, John Howard, invited George W. Bush’s rebuke by calling himself America’s “deputy sheriff”. “There’s nothing deputy about this relationship,” Bush clarified; Australia was an “equal partner” and Howard a full-fledged sheriff. Yet, New Delhi’s opinion-makers gloat over what they call the prime minister’s bid for global leadership and imagine he will pick up Security Council membership on the way. Even Biden’s reference to “a shared responsibility to uphold democratic values” must be read with the Economist Intelligence Unit’s finding that the global ranking of India’s “flawed democracy” has “slipped from 27th (in 2014) to 53rd” because of “democratic backsliding by the authorities and crackdowns on civil liberties...”. His mention of a “joint commitment to diversity” (also stressed by the vice-president, Kamala Harris) may have reminded Modi of the EIU’s charge that he had “introduced a religious element to the conceptualisation of Indian citizenship, a step that many critics see as undermining the secular basis of the Indian state”. As for Biden’s reference to “four million Indian Americans who make the United States stronger every single day”, America’s gain is India’s loss: those four million are there only because India cannot provide for its children. It’s not spoken of only because, as the president also said, India’s journalists are “much better behaved” (meaning mealy-mouthed) than their American counterparts. People might applaud humongous statuary, outsize turbans, boasts about intimacy with the world’s movers and shakers, reinvention of the capital city, ostentatious consumerism and steady movement towards a majoritarian ethic. But, as Gandhi warned, “Those who claim to lead the masses must resolutely refuse to be led by them, if we want to avoid mob law and desire ordered progress for the country.” It’s also worth recalling this Gandhi Jayanti that someone who refused to be called a saint who had strayed into politics, much preferring the description of “a politician who is trying to become a saint”, understood the perils of populism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
02-10-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town lawyers march to raise awareness on govt legal aid||Dhanbad’s legal fraternity, including judicial officers, lawyers, court staff and para-legal volunteers along with school students took out a march to raise awareness about the aid being provided to common people under the various schemes of the National Legal Service Authority (NALSA) meant for social upliftment and legal empowerment. The march was taken out by Dhanbad Legal Service Authority (DLSA) as part of the pan-India awareness and outreach programme of NALSA being conducted as part of a 13-day long Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav programme being organised to commemorate 75 years of Indian independence. The march was taken out under the leadership of Ram Sharma, Principal District and session judge of Dhanbad. It began at around 7am and reached the City Centre of Chowk of Dhanbad passing through Randhir Verma Chowk, SSLNT Women’s College and Dhanbad club, where dignitaries garlanded the statue of Mahatma Gandhi. The participants comprising Nitasa Barla, Secretary DLSA and other members of DLSA were holding placards bearing the different schemes of NALSA and Jharkhand Legal Services Authority (JHALSA). Talking to media at the sidelines of march, Ram Sharma, who is also the chairman of DLSA said, “Our Para Legal Volunteers will visit different villages of the district as  part of the programme which will continue till October 14 during which they will apprise people about the various welfare schemes of the government meant for the common people and also note down the names of people who are deprived of the benefits of the scheme and then coordinate with the concerned government department to ensure the benefit of such schemes for them.” Nitasa Barla on the other hand said legal help has been provided by NALSA’s 10 different schemes, including Legal Services to disaster victim through Legal Services Authorities; Victims of Trafficking and Commercial Sexual Exploitation Scheme; legal services to workers in unorganised sectors; legal services to children and their protection scheme; legal services to mentally ill and mentally disable persons; effective implementation of poverty alleviation scheme; Protection and effective implementation of tribal rights scheme; legal services to victims of drug abuse and eradication of drug menace scheme; legal services to senior citizens besides legal services to victims of acid attack scheme. She further said that a number of other schemes including Tripti, Manavta, Aatmnirbhar, Kartavya under the aegis of Jharkhand legal services authority, to provide the benefit of legal services to different people. On June 24, DLSA provided cheques worth Rs 20,000 each to eight children who lost both their parents during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
02-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi Smart City offers land at Re 1 for educational enterprises  ||Top ranking educational institutions of the country that would like to set up a campus at Ranchi Smart City, a project coming up in the HEC area of the state capital, will be given 25 acres of land at a token price of Re 1, Jharkhand government officials announced on Saturday at an investors’ meet held here. The meeting, which was piloted by the Ranchi Smart City Corporation (RSCCL) under the state urban development department and was held to brief prospective investors about the second phase of e-auction of plots , was  attended by about 100 people from real estate, hospitality, medical and education sectors. As many as 42 plots comprising institutional (10), commercial (16), public/semi-public (02) and mixed use (14), covering a total area of 218.03 acres, will be put for auction. A similar auction in the first phase was initiated in December last year which got completed in early 2021 during which 9 plots were sold. CEO of RSCCL Amit Kumar spoke about the project in detail. "Everything starts with a vision. When we began this project, the state government’s vision was to make it an educational hub. This is also the vision of the chief minister Hemant Soren. Therefore, we have decided to offer 25 acre land to educational institutions ranked 500 and below as per QS ranking of universities. In Bangalore, which is considered as an educational hub, the entire socio economy of the city hinges around this concept. Ranchi too has immense potential.” State urban development department secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey said besides education, medical infrastructure too was a priority. Highlighting why the smart city site would be the best bet for any investor, he said, “The existing city is saturated and the government is putting all its projects in this region, like, a new secretariat building, an IIM, host of banking entities, a mega residential project of 15,000-plus houses by the state housing board, among others." Ranchi is among 100 cities selected by the Centre for India’s Smart City Mission. In 2017, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu had laid the foundation stone, but work on the ground to set up basic infrastructure began only in 2019. The state urban development department, so far, has invested around Rs 800 crore for constucting facilities like a drainage system, command and control system and a  convention centre. The entire project is set up across 657 acres in the HEC area of which 37 per cent has been earmarked for greenery and open spaces in the master plan. About 278.52 acres of land covering around 51 plots of various dimensions are initially being auctioned in various phases, said officials. A few attendees, mainly from the medical sector, had some suggestions to offer. Dr Jogesh Gambhir, owner of Raj Hospital in Ranchi, advised the government to consider revising the land rates to encourage investments for hospitals. “For the medical sector, one of the terms for participating in the auction for plots is that the project should be of 500 beds. No hospital in Jharkhand is of 500 beds. This apart, making a 500-bed hospital viable isn’t easily. A 300-bed hospital can be viable with an investment of Rs 60 crore initially. However, the plot rate here starts at Rs 70 crore, which needs serious reconsideration,” he said. Dr Suhas Chaturvedi, director of Harmu Hospital, criticised some aspects of the Smart City Plan. “A plot size of 11 acre is proposed for a medical college. But whoever prepared the plans should have known that at least 25 acre is mandated for a medical college by National Medical Commission (NMC). I have serious doubts... no private player will not want to come at a time when the state government is struggling to run its own medical colleges,” he observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
02-10-2021||Jharkhand||State claims gold and silver on opening day of senior archery nationals||Jharkhand started their campaign in the 40th NTPC Senior National Archery Championship by claiming a gold and a silver in the Indian Round (shooting with traditional bows and arrows) at JRD Tata Sports Complex on Saturday. Asrita Biruily slotted home gold in 50m distance in women's individual category, Goldi Mishra bagged silver in 30m distance in men's individual section. Arjun Munda, Union minister of tribal affairs and president of Archery Association of India, formally inaugurated the championship in the presence of Chanakya Chaudhary, vice-president (Corporate Services), Tata Steel, Pramod Chandrukar, secretary general (AAI), Partha Mazumdar, regional executive director (Coal Mining, NTPC) and Farzan Heerjee, chief (Protocol and Sports), Tata Steel and office bearers of Jharkhand Archery Association (JAA). The event is being organised by AAI along with Jharkhand Archery Association (JAA) and hosted by Tata Steel’s Tata Archery Academy. Congratulating Tata Steel for hosting the championship, Munda said that the government is committed to promoting every sport and is working towards creating infrastructure, training of sportspersons and promoting and supporting coaches and players. "The government is committed to promoting sports and creating the required infrastructure for players and coaches," he added and thanked Tata Steel for hosting the event. Chanakya Chaudhary said Tata Steel is proud to host the nationals. "This event was planned as part of the celebration of 25 years of Tata Archery Academy (TAA), which was established on October 4, 1996. Jharkhand has a legacy of archery and has produced many prominent archers like Deepika Kumari, Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat who are the examples who have recently made all proud in the World Cup and Youth World Championships. Hosting this event in Jharkhand will motivate the local archers by watching the best archers from all over the country perform live." He added that Tata Steel is grateful to Arjun Munda for giving Jharkhand Archery Association and Tata Steel the opportunity to host this event and also the national camp for the selected archers in Jamshedpur. The 10-day long national meet will witness the presence of hundreds of eminent archers from across the country, team officials, sports control promotion boards, esteemed jury, among others. The action-packed event will have Indian Round, Compound and Recurve National (men and women). The championship is reserved for the Indian round on October 2 and 3, followed by compound events on October 5 and 6 and Recurve (Olympic) event on October 8 and 9. The Senior National is of immense importance as the top 16 rank holders in recurve (men and women) and compound (men and women) categories will be picked from this championship for the final trials to be held on October 10 and 11 at Jamshedpur. This will be the basis of the Indian team’s selection for Asian Archery Championship to be held in Dhaka. On October 4, Tata Steel will also observe the silver jubilee of the TAA, which was set up to encourage the indigenous talent of local youth. Since 1996, the Tata Archery Academy has successfully nurtured and trained talented youngsters to contribute to the greater glory of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
02-10-2021||Jharkhand||Woman dies of mucormycosis in Ranchi, first black fungus death in state after July 31||A 58-year-old woman, suffering from mucormycosis, died at the trauma centre of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on Saturday after the fungal infection spread to her brain in barely two days since her hospitalization, leaving doctors with no time to plan a surgery. “Her condition deteriorated quite abruptly. I saw pictures of her clicked on September 26, and she looked fine in them,” said Dr Pradip Bhattacharya,  in-charge of the trauma centre at RIMS. “She was admitted here on September 29 after she could not open her eyes. We sent her samples for tests and were preparing for  surgery, but her condition continued to deteriorate as she did not respond to medication,” he added. This is the first mucormycosis casualty reported in Jharkhand since July 31, highlights data with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP). The state reported at least eight cases of black fungus from August 1 to October 1, but all of these patients responded to medication and were discharged from hospitals. Another patient of suspected mucormycosis was admitted to the old trauma centre of RIMS on Friday, doctors said. This patient was stable, but his hospitalization indicated a rise in cases of black fungus once again in the state, doctors added. According to the latest update from IDSP shared on September 27, there were six active cases of mucormycosis in Jharkhand and five of these patients were undergoing treatment in Ranchi. The Gumla woman’s death on Saturday takes the mucormycosis toll in the state to 32. “No mucormycosis casualties were reported at RIMS in the past couple of months. Even patients whose lungs were affected by the fungal infection have survived,” said Dr. Bhattacharya. According to sources from RIMS, surgeons from different departments held a meeting to decide on the course of action in the treatment of the woman who died on Saturday. However, after examining her condition, the surgeons unanimously decided to keep her on medication and go for a surgery once her condition improved, sources added. “Unfortunately, she did not respond to Amphotericin B, the anti-fungal drug commonly used for treating black fungus,” said a doctor from the new trauma centre at RIMS. Mucormycosis or black fungus is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. The line of treatment includes surgery and administering anti-fungal drugs, mostly Amphotericin B. Jharkhand notified black fungus as an epidemic earlier this year following directions from the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
02-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jabs for 900 on Day One of Dhanbad's mega vaccination||Dhanbad district administration launched a mega vaccination drive at IIT (ISM) shopping complex on Saturday  during which 900 beneficiaries were administered doses of the  Covishield vaccine. Kumar Tarachand, the  ADM (Law and Order) of Dhanbad who inaugurated the drive in the presence of  Dhanbad Civil Surgeon Shyam Kishore Kant and Vikas Rana and  District Reproductive and Child Health Officer (DRCHO)  Vikas Rana, said, "The special drive, besides helping the people of remote areas who could not book the slot online,  will also help  accelerate the vaccination drive in  the district.” Rana told The Telegraph Online , “The mega drive will continue at the same centre. Although we targeted  900 doses on the inaugural day, we will soon increase it to 2,000 doses per day.” Rana said the mega drive was being held  in addition to  vaccines being given  at other centres across the 10 ten blocks of the district including Dhanbad, Tundi, Topchachi, Govindpur, Purbi Tundi, Nirsa, Egarkund, Kaliasol, Bagharma and Baliapur. In Dhanbad on Saturday,  vaccinations were carried out at  54 centers, including 17 centers of Dhanbad Sadar, 12 of Jharia, seven of Topchanchi, six of Baghmara, four each of Nirsa & Tundi and two each of Baliapur and Govindpur. “Covishield  doses are being given at at the  mega drive but depending on the availability of vaccines, Covaxin may also be given,” Rana said and added that manpower for the  drive was being provided by Care India, an NGO carrying out a vaccination drive at Ranchi and Jamshedpur. Pratyusha Kumari, an M Tech (Electronics Engineering) student of IIT (ISM) who took the second dose of Covishield at mega camp said, “We returned  to thw campus after a gap of around 18 months on September 1. Since we arrived here after taking the first dose at our home town of Ranchi, we were concerned. But now that we got our second doss, we feel  quite safe.” Ravi Kumar Agrahari, a classmate of Pratyusha who also took the second dose at  the mega camp, said, “The arrangements at the mega camp were good and my parents back home at Siddharnathnagar in UP who were also concerned about our safety at the campus, felt getting to know that I had got my second jab on Saturday."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
02-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand plan to ease traffic jams in cities||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday announced that all cities facing traffic bottlenecks due to entry of heavy vehicles will get bypass roads to ease the pressure. After inaugurating the 400MW Itkhori power grid and transmission line in Chatra district on Friday afternoon, Soren said: “Several representatives placed a demand for a bypass road in Chatra. I would like to announce that the foundation stone for a bypass in Chatra would be laid in January. The government is working on identifying all those cities having the need for bypass roads and would soon approve plans for their construction to reduce traffic bottlenecks due to heavy vehicles.” The newly constructed 220/132/33KV grid at Itkhori having a total length of 108km has been built at an estimated cost of Rs 189.70 crore with an aim to ensure quality power supply to the region. With the commissioning of this grid sub-station and transmission line, the decades-long power woes in the districts of Chatra, Hazaribagh and Koderma are expected to come to an end and also reduce their dependence on the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) for power supply, officials said. “Seven districts of the state — Bokaro, Dhanbad, Giridih, Koderma, Ramgarh, Chatra and Hazaribagh — are fully dependent on the DVC for power. With the inauguration of the Chatra-Itkhori transmission line, the entire district of Chatra, along with parts of Hazaribagh and Koderma, would no longer have to remain dependent on the DVC as these areas would now receive power directly from the Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL), the state-owned power distribution company,” said an official of the JBVNL. The chief minister also announced the laying of foundation stone for another power grid at Dhada and a dairy processing plant in Chatra district. The chief minister said that the government will promote solar power plants. “Use your barren land and the roof of the house to set up a solar power plant. With this, not only will they be able to generate electricity for themselves, but the government will buy the surplus electricity. This will increase your income and you will become a partner in the development of the state. The government will give subsidy for setting up solar power plants,” said Soren. The chief minister warned those contractors and influential persons who allegedly encourage villagers to cultivate opium and stated that strong action would be taken against them. He also asked the villagers to take benefit of alternative sources of farming by engaging themselves in animal husbandry and other schemes of the government and assured they would be able to earn double of what they get from opium cultivation. The chief minister inaugurated 82 schemes worth Rs 275.45 crore and laid the foundation stones of 18 schemes worth Rs 91.79 crore along with the distribution of assets to the beneficiaries of various government schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
02-10-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant sets March 31 target  to link farmers with KCC scheme||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has set a target of March 31 next year to link farmers with the Kisan Credit Card (KCC) scheme and by October 15 this year for linking rural homeless people with housing schemes. The directive was issued during a review of the performance of the agriculture, animal husbandry and cooperative department in Ranchi on Thursday. According to sources in the chief minister’s secretariat, Soren was not pleased with the pace of issuance of Kisan Credit Cards. “All deputy commissioners in the 24 districts should take up KCC linkage with farmers on a priority basis and work in coordination with banks. All state farmers, both landowners and landless, should be linked with KCC by March 31, 2022,” an official quoted Soren as saying during the review meeting. There are nearly 38 lakh cultivable farmers (having own land) but the figure goes up to over 58 lakh, including the landless farmers. In the financial year 2020-2021, 13 lakh farmers were linked with the PM-Kisan scheme and in the current year over eight lakh have been included. “The bottlenecks lie with the rejection rates of KCC beneficiaries by the banks. The deputy commissioners are working closely with the banks in sorting out hassles of documentation so that the rejection rate is brought to the lowest. We are confident of attaining the target,” said Nisha Oraon, director of agriculture. The KCC is a government scheme that provides timely access to credit in the agriculture, fisheries and animal husbandry sectors. The scheme helps farmers in availing short-term loans and provide them with a credit limit to purchase equipment. It exempts them from the high interest rates for the regular loans offered by banks and reduces their reliance on moneylenders. During the review of the rural development department, Soren directed the officials to cover the needy and eligible beneficiaries with government housing schemes in rural areas and ensure that they are linked with the rural housing schemes of the central and state governments by October 15 this year. The chief minister also directed officials of the food, public distribution and consumer affairs department to ensure that all beneficiaries get the first lot of saris, dhotis and lungis (garments provided at a subsidised rate by the state government) before Durga Puja in the first week of October through the public distribution shops. Soren had re-launched an old government scheme named after his grandfather Sona Sobran, providing dhotis, saris and lungis at Rs 10 to poor families in Jharkhand last month. The scheme was discontinued by the erstwhile BJP-led government in 2015. The scheme covers 58 lakh BPL families. The ST/SC, minority department secretary, K.K. Soan, told the chief minister that by October over 16 lakh eligible matric students would be registered for government scholarship schemes in the state. The chief minister during the review of the energy department directed officials to prepare an action plan for setting up solar power plants as a business model providing income as it would act as an incentive for more people to take up this business. The deputy commissioners were directed to identify maximum land for solar power plants in their respective districts. The chief minister on Thursday reviewed 17 government departments in a marathon meeting that lasted till late evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
