03-10-2021||Business||RBI may keep interest rates unchanged during next week's policy review, say experts||Amid rising global commodity prices and the need to contain inflation at home, the Reserve Bank is likely to maintain status quo on interest rates for the eighth time in row in its upcoming bi-monthly monetary policy review later in the week, according to experts. The Reserve Bank had last cut repo rate by 40 basis points in May 2020 to 4 per cent to spur demand in the COVID-hit economy. Since then, the RBI has refrained from taking any action on interest rates. The RBI Governor headed six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) is scheduled to meet for three days from October 6. The decision taken at the meeting would be announced by Governor Shaktikanta Das on October 8. A Morgan Stanley research report expects the RBI to continue to keep rates on hold and retain its accommodative stance in the upcoming policy review. "We opine headline CPI to remain range bound around the 5 per cent mark in the current fiscal year, even as core inflation remains sticky and pressures emanate from higher global commodity prices. We will remain watchful of the RBI's tone and guidance regarding the likely path of policy normalisation. We see the risks of a rate hike (base case in 1Q22) as skewed to delay as growth concerns might dominate given that inflation will likely track below RBI's forecast," it said. SBI Chairman Dinesh Khara had recently said that it looks like that interest rate should remain as it is. "Growth is only showing green shoots. So, I think perhaps, rate may not really go up, but commentary could talk about inflation. To my mind inflation is essentially on account of the supply chain disruption and once this disruption gets addressed, inflation may not really raise its head, as much as it was seen at the time of the last policy decision," he had said. On his expectations from the MPC meet, Ramesh Nair, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), India and Managing Director, Market Development, Asia Colliers, too anticipates that the repo rate will remain unchanged in the upcoming monetary committee meeting. "This will go a long way in rekindling momentum in the housing market. Stable housing prices, a cut in stamp duty in some states, and an inclination to own homes has revived housing demand from the fourth quarter of 2020...A stable repo rate will ensure banks keep their home loans rates low. It will definitely lead to an uptick in sentiments, after a dull Q2 2021 due to the second wave of COVID," Nair said. Rumki Majumdar, Economist, Deloitte India opined that there is pressure on the RBI to change the monetary policy stance. "A lot of it is because there has been an increase in speculations about monetary policy stances in the industrial nations as recovery in industrial countries is leading to higher inflation and rising commodity prices," Majumdar said. According to the Deloitte India economist, the Reserve Bank may decide to continue with the status quo and not change its monetary policy stance or increase interest rates. Majumdar also said that with falling Covid infection rates and rapid inoculation, India's growth outlook and prospects are very promising. The September edition of EY Economy Watch, authored by D K Srivastava, Chief Policy Advisor, EY India, said given that CPI inflation has remained under pressure, the RBI may not undertake any further repo rate reduction in the near future. The monetary policy would only be playing a supportive role while the main impetus to growth may need to come from the fiscal side, it added. If the RBI maintains status quo in policy rates on Friday, it would be the eight consecutive time since the rate remains unchanged. The central bank had last revised the policy rate on May 22, 2020, in an off-policy cycle to perk up demand by cutting interest rate to a historic low. The RBI has been asked by the central government to ensure that the retail inflation based on the Consumer Price Index remains at 4 per cent with a margin of 2 per cent on the either side. The Reserve Bank had kept the key interest rate unchanged in its after monetary policy review in August citing inflationary concerns. The RBI has projected the CPI inflation at 5.7 per cent during 2021-22 -- 5.9 per cent in the second quarter, 5.3 per cent in third, and 5.8 per cent in the fourth quarter of the fiscal, with risks broadly balanced. CPI inflation for Q1 2022-23 is projected at 5.1 per cent. The CPI inflation was at 5.3 per cent in August. The inflation data for September is scheduled to be released on October 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
03-10-2021||Business||Petrol, diesel at all-time high after hike for three straight days||Petrol and diesel prices were hiked again on Sunday to send rates soaring to new record highs across the country but top government officials insisted oil companies haven't passed on the entire increase warranted from international oil and gas rising to three-year highs and have ensured UK-like situation of pumps going dry isnt seen anywhere in India. Petrol price for the third straight day hiked by 25 paise a litre and diesel by 30 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. This sent petrol price in Delhi to its highest ever level of Rs 102.39 a litre and to Rs 108.43 in Mumbai. Diesel rates too touched a record high of Rs 90.77 in Delhi and Rs 98.48 in Mumbai. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. Petroleum Secretary Tarun Kapoor said oil companies are taking their own decision on aligning retail rates with the cost but they are ensuring extreme volatility is avoided. "We are watching the situation and trying to ensure the impact of global volatility is moderated to a large extent," he said. The basket of crude oil India buys has jumped to a near three-year high of USD 76.71 per barrel. International prices of petrol, against which local rates are benchmarked, have risen from USD 85.10 per barrel to USD 87.11 in just one day while diesel has gone up from USD 85.95 a barrel to USD 87.27. This sudden spike in international oil prices follows global output disruptions but the entire increase in retail rates necessitated by such an increase is not being effected, another official with direct knowledge of the matter said. "Just look at LPG rates. They have gone up from USD 665 to USD 797 in one month but oil companies haven't passed on the increase warranted from that," he said adding state-owned companies were absorbing a lot of volatility. The increases, he said, have been "mild to moderate". "Some people are making a big deal out of the 62 per cent hike in natural gas prices. But if you look at the rates previously at USD 1.79 per million British thermal unit were abnormally low and way below cost. They have now gone up to USD 2.9. They still are less than the cost of production of USD 3.5 per mmBtu and are certainly lower than the USD 4.2 price that was prevalent in India a decade back," the official said. Naturally, the hike in natural gas price will warrant an increase in CNG price but the increase is again being moderated there too, he said adding internationally the price of LNG in the spot market last week soared to an unprecedented USD 35. "Compare to what is happening worldwide, we have managed the situation well," the official said. "Some of the developed nations such as the UK have seen petrol pumps go dry but you won't have heard of such a situation anywhere in India. Our oil companies are not just moderating retail prices but also ensuring uninterrupted supplies." Officials said India believes the situation internationally is temporary and abnormal and things should stabilise over the next few days and weeks. The fifth increase in its rates in less than a week's time has sent petrol prices above Rs 100 in most major cities of the country. Similarly, the eighth increase in prices in 10 days has shot up diesel rates above Rs 100 mark in several cities in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. State-owned Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL) resumed daily price revisions on September 24 after international oil prices neared a three-year high. Global benchmark Brent crude is trading above USD 78 per barrel. In eight price increases since September 24, diesel rates have gone up by 2.15 paise per litre. Petrol price has increased by Rs 1.25 per litre in five instalments this week. When international oil rates fell in July and August, retail prices of petrol and diesel in the Delhi market were reduced by Rs 0.65 and Rs 1.25 per litre. Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period. India is dependent on imports to meet nearly 85 per cent of its oil needs and so benchmarks local fuel rates to international oil prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
03-10-2021||Business||Narendra Modi govt adds sting to retrospective tax amendment||The Narendra Modi government has added a sting to the retrospective tax amendment that will make it harder for companies like Cairn Energy to exit from the country without any liabilities. The government has tacked on a condition in the rules underlying the tax amendment passed in early August that would require entities like Cairn Energy to indemnify the Indian government against any future claims relating to their disputes that have dragged on before courts in India and abroad for over a decade. The rules, which were notified late on Friday, say the companies looking to shake off the rigours of the retrospective tax imposed in 2012 will have to furnish an indemnity and commitment not to seek any damage from the Indian government or its affiliates —with the obligation extending to any other interested party that might emerge in the future because of business restructuring. The government has promised to pay Cairn a sum of Rs 7500 crore which is only a part of an international arbitration award of $1.2 billion along with interest that the Edinburg-based oil explorer was granted in December last year. Tax experts say the rules indicate that the repayment will take a minimum of 2-3 months — but only after an open-ended commitment on indemnity is made. Under the rules, the companies will have to withdraw any pending litigation or proceedings before any forum against the levy of the retrospective tax and also give an assurance that they won’t pursue any further claims in the future. In addition, the companies and any other interested party will have to furnish an indemnity bond committing not to seek damages from the Indian government or its affiliates. Companies will have to file a declaration with the income tax authorities along with a board resolution or legal authorisation besides an indemnity bond, the rules said. The freedom from the retro tax has been granted to companies that had restructured their businesses in the country prior to May 28, 2012 — the date when the amendment took effect. The Income Tax (31st Amendment) Rules, 2021, introduce a new portion pertaining to ‘indirect transfer prior to 28th May, 2012 of assets situated in India’, and lay out the conditions and formats for undertakings to be submitted by all ‘interested parties’ to the tax department in order to settle their tax disputes. The affected taxpayers, along with all the interested parties will have to give up all claims in any ongoing legal proceedings, including arbitration, mediation efforts and attachment proceedings, with an explicit undertaking that such initiatives will not be reopened under any circumstances. In order to pre-empt the possibility of an unknown interested party invoking fresh claims against the government in the future, the rules stipulate that the ‘declarant and all the interested parties shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Republic of India and Indian affiliates from and against any and all costs, expenses, interest, damages, and liabilities of any nature arising out of or in any way relating to the assertion or, bringing, filing or maintaining of any claim, at any time after the date of furnishing the undertaking.’ The I-T Rules also require the taxpayer and all the interested parties to issue a public notice or press release explicitly stating that ongoing claims against these tax demands ‘no longer subsist’ and they have signed an indemnity undertaking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
03-10-2021||Business||Zee in court to scupper EGM||Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd (ZEEL) has moved the Bombay high court asking it to declare Invesco’s demand for an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) as illegal and invalid. The move comes just a day after its board rejected a notice from Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund LLC to convene a meeting of shareholders to vote on a batch of resolutions seeking to remove the company’s managing director & CEO Punit Goenka and appoint six new independent directors. Sources said the board had advised the company to file a declaratory suit in a civil court to confirm that the requisition notice from Invesco was not legally valid. In a regulatory filing with the bourses, Zee said it did not anticipate any financial implications as a result of the civil suit, barring legal costs. On Friday, the Zee board said the Invesco notice did not comply with provisions under multiple laws that obliged it to seek prior permission from the information and broadcasting ministry and regulatory authorities before seeking to remove Goenka from his position. Invesco and OFI Global together hold 17.88 per cent in Zee. Under the regulations, a shareholder holding more than 10 per cent in a listed firm can seek an EGM. The battle between Invesco and the Zee turned fractious after the institutional shareholder submitted a notice on September 11 demanding an EGM to vote on a resolution to oust Goenka because of concerns over related party transactions and poor corporate governance that had hurt shareholder returns. Since then, Zee has announced a non-binding agreement to pursue a merger with Sony to create a $2 billion media powerhouse. The two sides expect to close the deal by the end of December. Zee needs to deal with the Invesco notice before it can seal the merger. The Invesco resolutions must be placed before the shareholders within three months. Invesco has already moved the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) seeking its intervention in the dispute. On Thursday, the tribunal had asked the company’s board to consider the Invesco request for the EGM. The NCLT will now hear the matter again on Monday. The battle will now be played out on two legal fronts — the Bombay high court and the NCLT. Observers said Zee is going to highlight the legal infirmities in the Invesco notice when the matter is heard before the tribunal and the high court. Under Section 98 of the Companies Act, 2013, the tribunal is empowered to either suo motu or on the application of any director or shareholder order a meeting of the company in a manner that it deems fit. The legal battle between Zee and Invesco may drag on for some time casting a shadow on the merger with Sony. Shares of ZEEL have come under pressure over the past two sessions because of fears that this could place hurdles to the Sony deal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
03-10-2021||Business||Interest cut on telecom dues||The government has amended the telecom licence rules to rationalise the interest rate for delayed payment of licence fees. The amendment comes into effect from October 1. The move is expected to ease the financial burden on the telecom sector. The department of telecommunications (DoT) will now charge 2 per cent interest above the one-year marginal cost of lending rate (MCLR) of State Bank of India for any delay in the payment of licence fees or any other statutory dues and the interest will be compounded annually. Earlier, telecom firms were required to pay 4 per cent interest above the one-year MCLR of the SBI and the interest was compounded monthly. The reduction in the telecom fees had been announced when the government unveiled its reforms for the sector last month. The DoT has also removed the licence clause under which telcos were charged a penalty equivalent to 50 per cent of the short payment they made for licence fee. The penalty was imposed if short payment was more than 10 per cent of the payable licence fees. The earlier levies were one of the main reasons why a legacy telecom player like Vodafone was forced to the brink of collapse because of a mountain of dues for which it made no provisions while pursuing a two decade-old lawsuit against the authorities that it eventually lost in October 2019. The Supreme Court had upheld the government’s claim of Rs 1.47 lakh crore against 16 telecom players, many of which have since shuttered operations. The basic dues were around 26 per cent while 74 per cent component of the total demand got accumulated on account of interest on this amount, penalty and interest on penalty. Meanwhile, the DoT has cancelled letters of intent (LoIs) issued to 71 firms for providing internet service as virtual network operators. The virtual network operator permit allows firms to resell internet services of telecom companies under their own brand. The LoIs had been issued to the firms but they had failed to initiate further action even after the extension of deadlines. The applicant companies were required to submit the compliance status within a period of 60 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
03-10-2021||India||Cruise ship raid: NCB arrests Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, two others ||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday arrested Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, and two others in connection with the seizure of banned drugs onboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and booked them under the NDPS Act. Aryan Khan, Munmun Dhamecha and Arbaaz Merchant were produced before a metropolitan magistrate's court for remand later in the day. Aryan Khan has been booked under sections 27 (punishment for consumption of any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance), 8C (produce, manufacture, possess, sell or purchase of drugs) and other relevant provisions of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS). Advocate Satish Maneshinde would be representing Aryan Khan in court. He and seven others were detained late Saturday night by NCB sleuths after they raided the cruise ship on its way from Mumbai to Goa. As per the arrest memo of the NCB, 13 grams of cocaine, five gram of MD, 21 grams of charas and 22 pills of Ecstasy and Rs 1.33 lakh was seized after the raid. Based on a tip-off that a party was scheduled on the ship, an NCB team, led by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, raided the Goa-bound Cordelia cruise ship on Saturday evening and recovered drugs from some of the passengers, an NCB official said. "During the operation, the suspects were searched and different drugs were recovered from them, which they had hidden in their clothes, undergarments and purses (by women)," the NCB official said. Early this morning, the NCB questioned the detainees at its office here, he said. Apart from Aryan Khan, Munmun Dhamecha, and Arbaz Merchant, others are identified as Nupur Sarika, Ismeet Singh, Mohak Jaswal, Vikrant Chhoker, and Gomit Chopra, the NCB had said. Meanwhile, the cruise company in a statement on Sunday said it had nothing to do with this incident. "Cordelia Cruises is in no way, directly or indirectly, connected to this incident. Cordelia Cruises had chartered its ship for a private event to a Delhi-based event management company, Jurgen Bailom, Chief Executive Officer and President, Waterways Leisure Tourism Pvt Ltd said in the statement. It said Cordelia Cruises is extending our full support and cooperating with the authorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
03-10-2021||India||Violence during protest against UP’s Deputy CM||Violence broke out after two SUVs allegedly ran over over a group of anti-farm law protesters who were demonstrating against the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya at Tikonia-Banbirpur road here on Sunday. Unconfirmed reports said that a number of farmers were seriously injured in the incident. Angry protesters allegedly forced the two vehicles to stop and set them on fire. They also allegedly thrashed some passengers. The farmers had assembled there to oppose Maurya's visit to Banbirpur, the native village of Union minister of state for Home Khiri MP Ajay Kumar Mishra. Several journalists were also reported to have sustained injuries in the incident. Meanwhile, in view of the violence, Deputy Chief Minister Maurya's visit to Banbirpur village has been cancelled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
03-10-2021||India||Paddy procurement starts in Punjab||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday launched the paddy procurement across the state from a grain market here. The development came a day after the Centre allowed the paddy procurement in Punjab and Haryana from October 3. The Centre's earlier decision to postpone the procurement till October 11 due to heavy rains recently had sparked protests by farmers in the two states. While interacting with farmers, commission agents and labourers at the grain market here, the Punjab chief minister said all the necessary arrangements for a smooth, prompt and seamless procurement and the lifting and storage of paddy have been made, an official statement said. Reiterating his government's commitment, Channi said every single grain of the farmers' produce would be lifted from the market and strict adherence to the prescribed norms of timely payment to the farmers would be ensured. He also urged farmers to bring their produce within specifications of moisture content laid by the government of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
03-10-2021||India||Battle for UP: BJP adopts multi-pronged strategy to woo OBCs & SCs||Gearing up for the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls next year, the BJP has adopted a multi-pronged strategy of wooing OBCs and SCs by holding caste-specific rallies and forming teams of party workers to reach out to voters on all minority-dominated booths, party leaders said on Sunday. Keeping in mind the caste dynamics of the politically crucial state as it is the largest in terms of Lok Sabha seats, the BJP's central leadership has already announced a team of poll-incharges comprising leaders from all castes led by experienced poll manager Dharmendra Pradhan, who himself hails from the OBC category. The BJP plans to hold a three-phase outreach programme among various castes of OBCs, the party's state OBC unit head Narendra Kumar Kashyap told PTI. "In the first phase, the party will hold 20 'Samajik Samelans' (social seminars) of various sub-categories within OBCs which will be addressed by several leaders, including Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, his deputy Keshav Prasad Maurya and Union ministers Pradhan and Bhupender Yadav," Kashyap said. These programmes will be of different castes such as Kashyap, Rajbhar, Pal, Prajapati, Jogi, Teli, Yadav, Gujjar, Saini, Chaurasia and Kurmi, he said, adding that a 'sammelan' of Jaats will also be organised. Jaats, who are mainly farmers do not come under the OBC category in UP. The BJP is trying to win back this crucial votebank which has a significant presence in western Uttar Pradesh, the epicentre of farmers' protest in the state. It will be followed by an outreach programme under which BJP workers will meet prominent OBC personalities and caste leaders and will update them about the developmental work done by the party, Kashyap said. "In the last phase, the party will organise 202 OBC rallies, a rally each in two assembly constituencies. These rallies again will be of one sub-caste and they will be addressed mainly by the party leader from that caste," Kashyap said. Similarly, the party's SC morcha is also exploring the idea of holding 'Ansuchit Jati Sammelans' (seminars of Schedule Castes) in 75 districts across the state, sources in the party said. The party's state unit will also hold a special facilitation ceremony for newly appointed BJP vice-president Baby Rani Maurya across several places in the state. Rani Maurya, who hails from Agra, recently resigned as Uttarakhand governor. She belongs to the Jatav community and is expected to contest upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Similarly, in its bid to secure minority votes, the BJP's Minority Morcha unit of UP has plans to build a team of workers on Muslim booths across the state. "The minority morcha is in the process of building 21-member teams of its booth workers on all minority-dominated booths and is aiming for 20 per cent of the Muslim votes," BJP's minority cell UP unit head Kunwar Basit Ali told PTI. Ali said even if each booth worker is able to manage 10 votes, the party will be able to reach its target of 20 per cent minority votes. He said the party's workers will be stationed in all localities with Muslim-dominated booths at designated places on the day of polling. When contacted, BJP's state vice-president Vijay Bahadur Pathak said the party is in election mode and all its frontal organisations have been instructed to reach out to people and spread word about the developmental work done by both governments at the Centre and in the state. The BJP has outdone its rivals in three consecutive polls -- the 2014 general elections, 2017 Uttar Pradesh elections and 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Politically observers are of the opinion that the party has carved a place for itself and it holds sway over non-Yadav OBCs and non-Jatav Dalits. These two sub-castes are traditionally the supporters of SP and BSP, respectively. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
03-10-2021||India||Centre in talks with Zydus Cadila over pricing of ZyCov-D jab||With talks underway between the central government and Zydus Cadila over the pricing of the COVID-19 vaccine ZyCov-D, the pharma company is learnt to have proposed a price of Rs 1,900 for its three-dose jab that can be given to those above 12 years of age. However, the government is negotiating for a reduction in price and a final decision on it is likely to be taken this week, sources in the know of the developments told PTI. The government had on Thursday said that the indigenously-developed, world's first DNA-based needle-free COVID-19 vaccine by Zydus Cadila will be introduced in the nationwide anti-coronavirus vaccination drive shortly. "The company has proposed a price of Rs 1,900 inclusive of taxes for its three-dose jab. "Negotiations are on. The company has been asked to reconsider all the aspects regarding the cost of the vaccine. A final decision on the price of the vaccine is likely to be taken this week," a source said. Another source said the ZyCoV-D has to be differently priced than Covaxin and Covishield as, apart from being a three-dose vaccine, there is a needle-free jet injector used for administering the vaccine that costs Rs 30,000. That jet injector can be used for administering around 20,000 doses. The vaccine is to be given on days zero, 28 and 56. According to sources, around three rounds of meetings have taken place so far between the Centre and the company, the last one on Thursday. Meanwhile, the ministry is also waiting for the recommendations from the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI ) for introducing ZyCoV-D in the inoculation drive and prioritising beneficiaries focusing on those aged 12-18 years with comorbidities. The NTAGI will provide the protocol and framework for the introduction of this vaccine in the COVID-19 immunisation drive, an official source said. As far as the price of the vaccine at which it will be procured is concerned, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, at a press conference on Thursday, said the government is in conversation with the manufacturers. "Since this is a three-dose vaccine and comes with a needleless delivery system, it would have a differential pricing than the existing vaccines which are being used in the COVID vaccination programme," he said. The vaccine ZyCoV-D received Emergency Use Authorisation from the drug regulator on August 20 making it the first vaccine to be administered in the age-group of 12 to 18 besides adults. Vaccines Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V are being given to only those above 18 years of age and unlike ZyCoV-D, these are two-dose vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
03-10-2021||India||TMC, AAP backed by BJP in Goa, alleges Congress||The Congress on Sunday alleged that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Aam Admi Party (AAP) were backed by the BJP in Goa, where these two parties want to contest the upcoming Assembly elections to divide secular votes. All India Congress Committee's Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao also said that his party was open for alliance with the "like-minded parties and people who are secular and have local connect". Addressing a press conference in Panaji along with the party's state unit chief Girish Chodankar and Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat, he said, "The parties like TMC and AAP are in the state to divide the votes. They are backed by the BJP." Rao accused these parties of indulging in corrupt practices before the elections, scheduled to be held in February next year. The TMC has recently announced that it plans to contest the Goa Assembly polls on all 40 seats, while AAP, which had contested the election in the state in 2017, is also in the power game. Rao said the phenomenon of dividing the Congress's votes was not limited to Goa alone, but is found across India. Responding to a question, the Congress leader said, "The party is open to alliance with like-minded, secular parties and people with local connect." The Congress looked forward to having a "proper and stable alliance", he said. The Congress had emerged as the single largest party by winning 17 seats in the last Assembly election held in 2017. However, the BJP, which had bagged 13 seats, acted swiftly and came to power with the support of a few regional parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
03-10-2021||India||SC: Plea seeks high-level inquiry into medical oxygen shortage during Covid-19 second wave ||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a high-level inquiry by a commission into the alleged non-supply and non-availability of medical oxygen for COVID-19 patients during the second wave of the pandemic from March to May this year. The petition, which is scheduled to be taken up for hearing on Monday by a bench of justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna, has alleged that non-availability of medical oxygen during the second wave of the pandemic had resulted in the death of several patients in various parts of the country. The plea, filed by a Delhi resident, has also urged the apex court to direct a court-monitored inquiry by the CBI or any other investigating agency in the matter relating to non-availability of medical oxygen in the months of March to May this year. It has sought a high-level inquiry by a commission headed by a retired judge of the apex court or retired chief justice of any high court in the matter. It said that the inquiry would identify negligence on the part of officials, if any, that had led to the shortage of medical oxygen supply. The plea has arrayed the Centre and others, including the National Disaster Management Authority and health departments of several states, as respondents. "This court through its various judgements has logically extended the interpretation of the right to life to include the right to health. "Therefore, it is the fundamental duty of the State to care for the health of the public at large, the petitioner has said in his plea filed through advocate Rajeev Kumar Dubey. It has also referred to media reports about the death of COVID-19 patients allegedly due to the shortage of medical oxygen. The plea said medical oxygen is an essential and critical life-saving drug and its shortage had resulted in several untimely deaths in the country during the second wave of the pandemic. In May this year, the apex court, which hearing a separate matter, had constituted a 12-member National Task Force of top medical experts to formulate a methodology for allocation of oxygen to states and union territories for saving lives of COVID-19 patients and to facilitate a public health response to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
03-10-2021||India||NCB cruise raid meant to divert attention from Adani port drug haul, says Congress||The Congress on Sunday alleged that the raid conducted by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on a cruise ship in Mumbai and subsequent action against some persons was an attempt to deflect attention from the "real issue" of the drugs seizure at Mundra port in Gujarat. The party also demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the drugs haul at the port. Last month, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) had seized 2,988.21 kg heroin, likely worth Rs 21,000 crore in the global market, from two containers at the Adani-operated Mundra port in Gujarat's Kutch district. On Sunday, the NCB detained Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and seven others after raiding a Goa-bound cruise ship in Mumbai and recovering drugs from them. "There is a news that a Bollywood actor's son has been arrested. Where did this drug come from? The NCB has come out and all of sudden saying that it has caught drugs from a cruise ship," Congress' spokesperson Shama Mohamed told reporters. "They are deflecting attention from the real issue. The real issue is Mundra port, the drug cartels in the country and drugs that is smuggled from Afghanisthan, she alleged. "They (NCB) catch some people here and there so that media will show that case, (that will) divert the attention. But I want you all to write about Mundra port, why it is not investigated? Why it is not investigated? What is happening there? Why is it ignored?" she asked. Had the drugs not come from there (port), there would not have been any party happening (on the cruise ship), she claimed. Seeking an SC-monitored investigation into the drug seizure at Mundra port, the Congress spokesperson said that drugs are smuggled into India from Afghanisthan, which will fund terrorist organisations, separatist groups and eventually create political instability in the country. She also questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on the drug seizure at Mundra port, which has happened in their home state. "Gujarat is becoming a hub of drugs smuggling," Mohamed said, and expressed apprehensions that privatisation of ports would lead to such activities. The Maharashtra Congress welcomed the raid on the rave party on board the cruise ship, but expressed doubt if it was done to suppress the Mundra port drugs seizure. "It is good if the government stops peddling of drugs and their consumption in the state. We welcome it. But at the same time, it has to be noted that there has been no action or discussion on the seizure of drugs worth Rs 21,000 crore at the Mundra port in Gujarat. There is room for doubt if such raids are being conducted to shift focus fro the last month's seizure," state Congress spokesperson Atul Londhe said. He sought to know what action was being taken in the Mundra port seizure case. "What are the agencies doing to stop drug trafficking from the international borders?" Londhe asked. BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said he has learnt from the media about the NCB action in the sea and he would comment on it as further information about the raid is awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
03-10-2021||India||Sidhu reiterates demand to sack Punjab DGP, advocate general||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday again strongly demanded replacement of Punjab's police chief and advocate general from his own party's government, saying otherwise we will have no face. His tweet pressing the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government to change the director general of police and state's advocate general appears to indicate that he continues to remain unhappy over certain key appointments. The development comes three days after Sidhu and Chief Minister Channi held a meeting, following which it was decided to set up a coordination panel for prior consultation on all major decisions of the state government. Demand for Justice in Sacrilege cases and for arrest of main culprits behind the drug trade brought our Govt in 2017 & Due to his failure, People removed the last CM. Now, AG/DG appointments rub salt on wounds of victims, they must be replaced or we will have No face !!, said Sidhu in a tweet on Sunday. A miffed Sidhu, who had resigned as the Punjab Congress chief a few days back, had raised a question over the appointments of director general of police, state's advocate general and tainted leaders. Sidhu has been seeking removal of senior IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota who has been given the additional charge of Director General of Police of Punjab. Sahota had remained the head of a special investigation team (SIT) formed in 2015 by the then Akali government to probe sacrilege incidents. The cricketer-turned-politician is also raising questions over the appointment of A S Deol as the state's new Advocate General. Deol was the counsel for former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in 2015 post the sacrilege police firing incidents. On Saturday, Sidhu had said that he would stand with Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi whether he holds any post or not. "Will uphold principles of Gandhi Ji & Shastri Ji Post or No Post will stand by @RahulGandhi & @priyankagandhi ! Let all negative forces try to defeat me, but with every ounce of positive energy will make Punjab win, Punjabiyat (Universal Brotherhood) win & every Punjabi win !!," Sidhu Sidhu had tweeted on the birth anniversaries of Mahatma Gandhi and former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on Saturday. The abrupt resignation of Sidhu has triggered a fresh turmoil in the Punjab Congress. The Congress had replaced Amarinder Singh as Punjab chief minister with Charanjit Singh Channi following a bitter power tussle between Sidhu and Amarinder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
03-10-2021||India||Covid: India's active cases lowest in 199 days||India added 22,842 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,38,13,903, while the active cases declined to 2,70,557, the lowest in 199 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 4,48,817 with 244 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.80 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.87 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 3,332 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 14,29,258 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 57,19,94,990. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.80 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 34 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.66 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 100 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,30,94,529, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 90.51 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 244 new fatalities include 121 from Kerala, and 49 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,48,817 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,166 from Maharashtra, 37,811 from Karnataka, 35,627 from Tamil Nadu, 25,303 from Kerala and 25,088 from Delhi, 22,894 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,815 from Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
03-10-2021||India||NCB detains Shah Rukh Khan's son, others after raiding rave party onboard Mumbai-Goa cruise ship||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has detained Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aaryan Khan and seven others after it raided a cruise ship named Cordelia here and busted a drugs party, an official said on Sunday. The detainees include two women, he said. Apart from Aaryan Khan, the others were identified as Munmun Dhamecha, Nupur Sarika, Ismeet Singh, Mohak Jaswal, Vikrant Chhoker, Gomit Chopra and Arbaaz Merchant, the NCB official said, adding that different drugs like MDMA, ecstasy, cocaine, MD (mephedrone) and charas were recovered from them during the raid conducted on Saturday evening. According to a report by anandabazar.com, Aaryan has admitted that he had taken drugs during the party. The information came up from the superstar's son while he was being questioned by NDB officials at its Ballard Estate office in south Mumbai. According to NCB sources, after about six hours of interrogation, Aryan admitted that he had taken drugs at the cruise rave party. The report by anandabazar.com also suggests that Aaryan's WhatsApp chats are also being investigated for further information. Officials are scrutinising everything including whom he talked to or kept in touch with. They are also trying to ascertain whether he was part of any drug racket. So far, however, the central bureau has not issued a statement on the matter. Nothing was reported on behalf of Shah Rukh's family either. According to the NCB, Aaryan entered the party without any entry fee as his name was on the 'VVIP' list. He himself has admitted this in the interrogation, its sources were quoted as saying by anadabazar.com. The anti-drug agency has registered an FIR in connection with the drugs party, he said. Based on a tip-off that a party was scheduled on the ship, an NCB team, led by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, had raided the Goa-bound Cordelia cruise ship on Saturday evening and recovered drugs from some of the passengers, the official said. "During the operation, the suspects were searched and different drugs were recovered from them, which they had hidden in their clothes, undergarments and purses (by women). The detained persons will be produced in a court later in the day after the legal formalities get over, the NCB official said. Early this morning, the NCB questioned the detainees at its office here, he said. If any information is found against Aaryan, a case may be filed against him under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. For now, NCB officials are trying to get various information about the party from the Bollywood superstar's son.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
03-10-2021||India||Punjab: Centre rolls back decision to postpone paddy procurement||Following protests, the Centre has rolled back its decision announced on Thursday to postpone paddy procurement from Punjab and Haryana till October 11. Procurement will now begin on Sunday. The two states where farmers have been protesting against the Modi government’s three farm laws account for 15 per cent of the country’s paddy output. On Saturday, farmers protesting against the postponement of paddy procurement near the Haryana chief minister's office faced water cannons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
03-10-2021||India||China build-up but we are ready for any eventuality: Army chief||India Army chief Gen. M.M. Naravane on Saturday said China had built a lot of infrastructure along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, adding that the Indian soldiers were ready for any eventuality. “China has built a lot of infrastructure on its side of the LAC and has deployed more troops. We have inducted advanced weaponry and are ready for any eventuality,” Naravane said. He said the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had stationed troops in considerable numbers all across eastern Ladakh, including forward areas, which was a matter of concern. “We are closely monitoring all the developments and are well prepared to meet any eventuality,” the army chief said. Naravane, who had earlier asserted that incidents with China would continue until a long-term solution in the form of a boundary agreement was reached between the two countries, on Saturday said India was hopeful that the border standoff would be resolved through dialogue. He is in Ladakh on a two-day visit to review the security situation and operational readiness along the China frontier. Sources said the army chief visited several forward areas and was briefed by army commanders on the ground situation at the multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh where the Chinese army had been occupying Indian territories since last year. So far 12 rounds of military talks have taken place between the two armies to resolve the border standoff. There has been “partial” disengagement from the Galwan Valley, the Pangong Lake and Gogra by creating a demilitarised “buffer zone” with the Chinese stepping back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines. The standoff at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains continue. The Chinese are said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines at the Depsang Plains. Sources in the Indian Army said the disengagement process between the two armies had hit a wall as a result of the Chinese PLA’s reluctance to pull back its forward deployed troops at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains. Naravane on Saturday said the 13th round of military talks between the two sides was expected soon in which disengagement from other friction points would be taken up with the Chinese army. Sources in the security establishment said Beijing continued to resist New Delhi’s demand for disengagement and de-escalation of troops from multiple friction points. Since May last year, the PLA has altered the unmarked LAC at several friction points and as per estimates it has taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. On Thursday India had hit out at China for attempting to blame it for the ongoing border standoff and asserted that the “provocative” behaviour and “unilateral” attempts by the PLA to alter the status quo along the LAC in the region had seriously disturbed peace and tranquillity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
03-10-2021||India||Jab reach need not lower new Covid cases: Study||A new analysis has detected no discernible relationship between the proportions of populations fully vaccinated and new Covid-19 cases, although jabs do reduce hospitalisation and deaths from the infection. The study led by a population health researcher at Harvard University has found no meaningful association between new Covid-19 cases that emerged over a recent seven-day period and fractions of populations fully vaccinated in 68 countries. In other words, having more fully vaccinated people do not necessarily mean fewer Covid infections. The results actually point to a marginal positive association: countries with a higher percentage of fully vaccinated population had higher Covid-19 cases per million. Israel, which had 60 per cent of its population fully vaccinated, had the highest Covid-19 cases per million — 6,224 — over the seven days prior to September 3. India had fully vaccinated about 11 per cent of its population by September 3. India had around 182 new Covid-19 cases per million over the prior seven days. The US had fully vaccinated 51 per cent of its population but had 3,039 new cases per million. Iceland and Portugal had over 75 per cent of their populations fully vaccinated, but both had more Covid-19 cases per million than Vietnam or South Africa, which had less than 10 per cent of their populations fully vaccinated. “We can’t rely solely on the current set of vaccines to mitigate Covid-19 infections,” S.V. Subramanian, professor of population health and geography at Harvard University, told The Telegraph. The study, just published in the European Journal of Epidemiology, reinforces the need to continue with non-pharmaceutical precautionary measures such as wearing masks, maintaining safe distance and washing hands to reduce the risk of the infection. Experts in India have argued that the decline in Covid-19 cases since mid-May had been largely a consequence of the massive spread of the infection during the March-May surge, which reduced the pool of the susceptible population. “Vaccines would certainly help in reducing the burden on hospital needs and mortality, but it is abundantly clear now the impact of vaccination on transmission is likely to be considerably less, especially for India,” Subramanian said. The findings come amid narratives that attribute surges in Covid-19 cases in the US, Germany or the UK to areas with low vaccination coverage and the initial focus on vaccines as a strategy to gain immunity and protect people from infections. Medical experts said the findings weren’t surprising. “Vaccines protect against severe disease, not against the infection itself — I’ve said this consistently for over a year,” said K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India, New Delhi. Jacob John, professor of community medicine at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, said observations from several countries, including India, had already suggested that the vaccines did not offer significant protection from Covid. “But vaccines have been an unalloyed success in protecting people from severe disease, hospitalisation and death from Covid-19,” John told this newspaper. “Someone who is vaccinated has a more than 80 per cent reduced risk of severe disease and death.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
03-10-2021||India||Nathuram Godse becomes top Twitter trend on Gandhi Jayanti||No amount of collective kowtowing before Gandhi statues by some of the most powerful figures in the country could hide the arrow-tipped tail that wiggled and stuck out on social media on the birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation. #NathuramGodseZindabad was one of the top trends on Twitter for several hours on Saturday, with some of the tweets lauding the assassin of the Mahatma as “hero” and “patriot”. According to trends24, which tracks top trends on Twitter, #NathuramGodseZindabad in Hindi was trending at No. 4 “with 160K tweets” around 5pm. It had started trending about nine hours earlier, and at one point was second only to #GandhiJayanti. Some clung to a straw of hope, pointing out that the Godse devotees did not manage to break past #GandhiJayanti. Similar hope was aired in Europe when Neo-Nazis had begun rearing their heads, setting the stage for the eventual emergence of the Far Right as a force to reckon with. In a country where a candidate who called Godse a patriot was elected to the Lok Sabha, the assassin trending on Gandhi Jayanti need not raise too many eyebrows. But some did speak out. Congress spokesperson and former journalist Supriya Shrinate found it shocking enough to upload a video message in which she said: “Today the whole world is worshipping Gandhi; powerful countries are paying tribute to him…. And what a great irony it is that in Gandhi’s own country, Godse’s worshippers are engaged in worshipping Godse on social media.” Shrinate did not pull any punches. “This is the result of the hate that is being irrigated with great care. Who was Nathuram Godse? Nathuram Godse was the first terrorist of Independent India who did not just kill the flesh and bones that made up Gandhi's body, he wanted to kill Mahatma Gandhi’s ideals….” She also had little doubt on who should be held accountable. “I will say it again, in today’s time, the seeds of hatred that an elected government and its representatives are sowing, and which are irrigated with great care, and the crop reaped, it is the result of this that in Gandhi’s country, on Gandhi Jayanti, when the whole world is standing with head bowed before Gandhi, in Hindustan Nathuram Godse is being celebrated.” The Congress’s minder for Telangana and Lok Sabha MP Manickam Tagore tweeted: “If ‘Nathuram #Godse Zindabad’ is trending in India, will the pertinent question be asked. Who is responsible? Dear Mr @narendramodi, will you act or with your silence you will support those Sanghis who are doing this?” Hardik Patel, working president of the Gujarat Congress, tweeted: “On #GandhiJayanti today, I urge @TwitterIndia and HM @AmitShah ji to take strict action against all those posting in favour of the killers of Gandhi. Any such heinous trends must immediately be banned, accounts blocked & FIR be filed against those tweeting in favour of Godse.” There was no condemnation of the pro-Godse tweets from the authorities although Prime Minister Modi has extolled the Mahatma at various forums in India and abroad, and led the country in officially observing Gandhi’s birth anniversary on Saturday. BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi stood out as an exception. “India has always been a spiritual superpower, but it is the Mahatma who articulated our nation’s spiritual underpinnings through his being & gave us a moral authority that remains our greatest strength even today. Those tweeting ‘Godse zindabad’ are irresponsibly shaming the nation,” he commented. Elsewhere, the project to airbrush history was soldiering on apace. A former president of the BJP in Kerala said on Saturday that Gandhi would have been part of the RSS had he been alive. “There’s no doubt that Gandhiji would have become a swayamsevak had he been alive today,” P.K. Krishnadas, now a BJP national executive committee member from Kerala, told a small gathering at a Gandhi Jayanti event in Kottayam. He claimed that Narendra Modi had given “a new life to the Gandhian ideals that Jawaharlal Nehru buried”. Krishnadas had earlier in the day posted a Facebook message where too he claimed that Gandhi would have worked with the RSS had he been alive. “Gandhi was proud of being a Hindu. Gandhi had declared the Bhagavad Gita as his mother,” he wrote. “From a philosophical perspective, Gandhi was a swayamsevak.” At the Kottayam event, Krishnadas targeted the Congress and the Nehru-Gandhis. “There’s no doubt he would have used his walking stick against today’s ‘duplicate’ (fake) Gandhis,” he said. Krishnadas accused Jawaharlal Nehru and the Congress of “destroying” the country before Prime Minister Modi purportedly revived it using Gandhian principles. “Trusting Nehru was a mistake by Gandhiji because their principles did not match. It was Nehru and the Congress that buried the great Gandhian ideals along with Gandhiji’s mortal remains. That was the reason for India’s destruction,” he said. “But Narendra Modi gave a new life to the Gandhian ideals that Nehru buried, and that is the foundation for the country’s growth now.” The Congress urged the police to book Krishnadas for insulting Gandhi. “This is tantamount to killing Gandhi again,” party lawmaker and state Youth Congress president Shafi Parambil told The Telegraph. “These people have always celebrated Godse. They are now trying to appropriate Gandhi the same way they have claimed ownership of Vallabhbhai Patel and Lal Bahadur Shastri.” Shafi recalled how Hindu Mahasabha national secretary Puja Shakun Pandey had on January 30, 2019, re-enacted Gandhi’s assassination in Aligarh by firing at his effigy and garlanding a statue of Godse. The same year, BJP leader Pragya Thakur hailed Godse as a “deshbhakt” (patriot). “Godse worshippers have never been so active. They were a restrained lot even during the government of (Atal Bihari) Vajpayee,” Shafi said. “History is the biggest enemy of the RSS and its allies. They are trying to cover up their lack of role in the freedom struggle by trying to appropriate great figures like Gandhi, Patel and Shastri.” Shrinate, the Congress spokesperson, ended her message on an optimistic note: “But Nathuram could not kill Gandhi’s soul then, nor will his followers be able to kill him now. Gandhi is in India’s soul, he is the biggest identity of each one of us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
03-10-2021||India||Odisha: Biju Janata Dal pays tribute to Mahatma Gandhi||The ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) in Odisha on Saturday launched a month-long social service programme to mark the birth anniversary of Mahatama Gandhi. However, unlike in the past the party would not organise the Jana Samparka Padayatra (public connect march) on Gandhi Jayanti this time due to the Covid-related restrictions. The social service programme will focus on mass blood donation, shramdan (voluntary labour) and cleaning of roads, hospital premises and school premises starting from the panchayat level to the district headquarters. The BJD leadership thinks that the programme will help the party connect with people and win their support ahead of the panchayat and municipal elections to be held next year. “The party workers will be able to connect with the masses and make them aware of important issues,” said BJD general secretary Vijay Nayak. Earlier, chief minister and BJD chief Naveen Patnaik garlanded the statue of Gandhi. The BJP, too, organised various programmes on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanati with Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan attending most of the events and also taking part in a padayatra. He also interacted with the state’s handloom weavers. The BJP, which is the main Opposition party in the state, is keen to extract as much political mileage as possible through these programmes, observers said. The Congress leadership also paid rich tributes to Gandhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
03-10-2021||India||Bihar govt Covid-19 aid pace ‘tardy’||The Bihar government has been quite slow in providing compensation to family members of Covid-19 victims raising questions about systemic flaws in the process. Chief minister Nitish Kumar had announced Rs 4 lakh ex gratia in May for the next of the kin of those who succumbed to Covid-19. According to government data, it has paid the amount to the kin of just 42 per cent or around 4,100 of the 9,661 Covid-19 victims (official figures) so far. This has led to serious problems being faced by the families of the victims that are yet to receive the compensation. A majority of these deaths had happened by June this year, when the state government revised the pandemic toll by a whopping 73 per cent from 3,951 to 9,429 after an audit conducted under directions of Patna High Court which had noticed inconsistencies in death figures reported by different government agencies. According to the government, funds are not a problem for this purpose and the district administrations have been provided ample money to deal with the situation and more money could be transferred, if needed. Jehanabad, Madhubani, Sitamarhi, Begusarai and West Champaran are on the lowest rung in compensation distribution among all 38 districts in the state. They have managed to disburse just 21 to 35 per cent of the money allotted to them to distribute to the kin of Covid-19 victims through RTGS (real-time gross settlement). Asked about the slow pace, Begusarai district magistrate Arvind Kumar Verma said the delay happened partly due to a mismatch or errors in the names and bank account details of the kin of the victims. “However, we have approved 80 per cent of the claims of the kin of 387 victims in our district. We are going to provide the ex gratia to all the eligible persons in the next 10-15 days,” Verma said. Madhubani district magistrate Amit Kumar said: “Camps are being organised at the level of circle officers to expedite the process of providing compensation.” Additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit and disaster management secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal did not respond to calls or messages from this newspaper. However, a senior IAS officer said on the condition of anonymity that the delay has been “an outcome of the way the bureaucracy complicates everything. The state government has the data of all the deceased and their next of kin. It could have proactively reached out to them on its own, provided compensation quickly, and won accolades from the people. However, it chose to ensure that those in grief and need come to it, and flaws could be detected in their applications, names and bank accounts”. According to data obtained by RTI activist Shiv Prakash Rai from the state planning and development department, it seems that the Covid-19 death toll could be much more than the official figures. Altogether 3.59 lakh deaths were registered in Bihar in 2019. The pandemic broke out in the state in March 2020 and 4.15 lakh deaths were recorded during the year. The toll in the first five months of this year from January to May has been 2.24 lakh. Estimates suggest that the final death figures at the end of the year could be anywhere between 5 and 6 lakh. “The Covid years have shown a sharp jump in the number of deaths in comparison to 2019 without any clear reason apart from the pandemic. It is a pity that the state government is not paying attention towards this. The indications are that lakhs of people could have died in Bihar due to Covid-19,” Rai said. “We must also bear in mind that all deaths, especially those in the rural areas or in less educated and poor families, are not registered with the government,” Rai added. The CPI-ML has been continuously asserting that at least 2.5 lakh people have died of Covid-19 in Bihar. The party has conducted a village-to-village survey in several districts in the state and has submitted its findings to the Assembly and Patna High Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
03-10-2021||India||Ad for Jawaharlal Nehru University VC reissued, teachers  cry foul||The education ministry has reissued an advertisement for the post of vice-chancellor of Jawaharlal Nehru University, drawing the ire of its teachers’ association, which called it an effort to allow the continuation of Jagadesh Kumar in the post. On Friday, the education ministry issued the advertisement for the post again “for a wider choice of selection”. In October last year, the ministry had issued an advertisement seeking applications and a search panel was set up. The panel is yet to hold an interview. Kumar’s tenure ended in January this year. He has been serving as acting VC since then. While the government has specially asked acting VCs not to push any policy decision, Kumar has pushed several policy issues in the last eight months, including the move to set up a medical college and start four-year under-graduate courses in the university. “The call for re-advertisement for the post of JNU vice-chancellor brought out by the ministry of education, after nearly a year, speaks volume of not just its inefficiency but its active connivance in systematically destroying the university,” said a statement issued by the Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers’ Association. The statement alleged that Kumar’s tenure as VC had been regressive and marked by several volatile moments. “The re-advertisement offers a pretext for the continuation of Prof M. Jagadesh Kumar for an indefinite period, allowing him the opportunity to further erode the university’s autonomy,” the JNUTA said. Last month, the education ministry had reissued the advertisement for the VC’s post at the Banaras Hindu University nine months of the first ad. At present, half a dozen central universities do not have regular VCs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
03-10-2021||India||UP government recommends CBI probe into Yogi fan's death||The Uttar Pradesh government has recommended a CBI probe into the alleged police killing of Yogi Adityanath’s “admirer” and businessman Manish Gupta but also formed a special investigation team, apparently keen on keeping options open while looking to pacify the victim’s wife. “The chief minister has sent a recommendation for a CBI probe. The SIT will probe it till the CBI takes over,” Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary in the state home department, said. Manish’s wife Meenakshi told reporters the police had been trying to protect the accused and she therefore didn’t trust a police SIT to unearth the truth. She said only a CBI probe would do and dropped her previous demand for a high court-monitored inquiry. But a state home department source said the Union home ministry rarely accepted recommendations for CBI investigation unless there was “sustained pressure” from a state or the case involved multiple states, huge sums of money, intractable mystery or national implications. Manish, a Kanpur-based property dealer, was apparently visiting Gorakhpur with friends to see how the city had developed under Adityanath’s rule. He died after six policemen allegedly beat him with rifle butts at a hotel room on Monday night for failing to promptly produce ID proof. The police, who say they were checking hotel rooms as part of a pre-festive-season security routine, claim Manish slipped and fell, fatally injuring himself. Even on Saturday, additional director-general of police (Gorakhpur zone) Akhil Kumar seemed to dilute the case for a CBI probe, saying: “When the police asked for identity proof, Manish tried to run away, fell and died.” Meenakshi, whom the state government has given Rs 40 lakh as compensation and a job as officer on special duty with the Kanpur Development Authority, welcomed the recommendation for a CBI probe. “The SIT is part of the police. How can I trust the police, who killed my husband? The entire force is trying to save the killers,” she said. “Senior administrative and police officers had pressured me on Tuesday not to file an FIR.” The SIT on Saturday visited Hotel Krishna Palace in Gorakhpur where Manish was allegedly beaten by the police. Mohit Kumar, a relative, claimed Manish had “joined the BJP four months ago at a function in Kanpur” but this could not be verified. A police officer cited past instances to express doubt whether a CBI inquiry would indeed be ordered. “More than a year has passed but the Centre is yet to accept the recommendation for a CBI probe into the June 2020 kidnapping and murder of Kanpur lab technician Sanjeet Yadav. He was killed even after his family paid a Rs 30-lakh ransom in the presence of the police,” he said. Nor has the Centre yet accepted a November 2019 recommendation for an investigation by the central agency into a Rs 2,600-crore financial scam in the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited. While Adityanath’s April 1, 2017, recommendation for a CBI probe into alleged financial embezzlement in the Gomti Riverfront Project – a Samajwadi government initiative --- was accepted, the agency did little for four years apart from making an arrest. Then, in July this year, it conducted raids in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan before things fell quiet again. The Gomti project was the brainchild of then PWD minister Shivpal Yadav, uncle of then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav. Shivpal now runs his own Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) and is considered close to Adityanath.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
03-10-2021||India||Bhupesh Baghel made Cong poll observer for UP Assembly elections||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday appointed Bhupesh Baghel as the AICC observer for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, possibly bringing the speculation over change of guard in Chhattisgarh to an end. The Congress was in ferment in Chhattisgarh for the last few months despite a massive mandate because cabinet minister T.S. Singhdeo wanted to become the chief minister, saying there was an understanding of mid-way rotation with Baghel. The high command never formally denied the rotation formula but looked reluctant to change the chief minister. While the MLAs supporting Singhdeo have been campaigning for a change for some time, supporters of Baghel reached Delhi over the last few days to lobby for their leader. Over 35 MLAs are said to be in Delhi to convey to the high command that Baghel should not be changed. Saturday’s decision to give him the charge of Uttar Pradesh indicates he is going to continue. His services might have been used because of the resources he can deploy as the chief minister. Baghel promptly thanked Sonia for giving him the “big responsibility” and promised to rise to the party’s expectations. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s services were also used in Kerala elections earlier this year but there is a perception that his relations with the high command are strained now. Baghel was given the task of overseeing the Assam Assembly election earlier this year and he created a robust support system there, running a strong campaign along with the state unit despite starting very late. The same set of people is being used in Uttar Pradesh to assist Priyanka Gandhi who is the general secretary in-charge. Former minister Jitendra Singh, a Rahul Gandhi loyalist, who was in charge of Assam, is now looking after the candidate selection exercise in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
03-10-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir doctors protest against medical quota plan||Doctors and students in Jammu and Kashmir are protesting the Centre’s plan to introduce the all-India quota in medical courses, fearing that locals will lose out to outsiders. The all-India quota comprises 15 per cent of the total available undergraduate seats and 50 per cent of postgraduate seats in government medical colleges. Till now, MBBS and postgraduate seats in medical colleges in Jammu and Kashmir used to be reserved only for locals. The protests follow a notification by the Centre’s Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) last week stating that the Jammu and Kashmir government is likely to participate in the all-India quota (AIQ) from this year, adding that the matter had been referred to the administration of the Union Territory for its approval. Doctors have staged protests at multiple places across Jammu and Kashmir against the plan and threatened to intensify the agitation. If such a move is implemented, it would be a continuation of the Centre’s 2019 decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status by diluting Article 370. The government has already allowed non-locals to buy property or take up jobs in the Union Territory. Dr Nisar-ul-Hassan, president of a doctors’ body, said the introduction of the AIQ would jeopardise the careers of local aspirants. “Jammu and Kashmir was previously exempted by virtue of being a state. Now that it is a Union Territory, things have automatically changed. If they (the Centre) want, they can do it. Health is a state subject and states have the discretion to accept or reject a decision. But now we are a Union Territory,” Dr Hassan told The Telegraph. “There are some advantages too. Our candidates will also get seats in the central pool elsewhere in the country. Those who refuse to implement the AIQ cannot get seats under the quota in other states and Union Territories. We will obviously lose because our children might not be able to compete at the central level,” he added. The doctor, however, concluded that overall such a move would be detrimental for Jammu and Kashmir as the AIQ would open the floodgates for outsiders and gravely impact local aspirants. “Pooling will block job avenues for locals and increase unemployment among doctors in Jammu and Kashmir,” Dr Hassan added. An official in the health department said Jammu and Kashmir was yet to give its approval to the MCC notification. An academic at Srinagar’s National Institute of Technology said its seats were distributed equally among locals and outsiders. “In our case it happened when our college was upgraded to an NIT some years ago. Other engineering colleges are still exempt as admissions are made by the Union Territory’s own body,” he said. A doctor at Srinagar’s Medical College said the region had poor infrastructure and on top of that was a conflict zone. “All our educational colleges are shut for one or other reason for the past two years. How can there be a fair competition?” she asked. Political parties have expressed concern over the plan. In a joint statement, Lok Sabha MPs Farooq Abdullah, Muhammad Akbar Lone and Hassnain Masoodi said this would “further choke the already scant avenues for JK youth”. “It will prove detrimental to the interests of our youth. The decision will also have a cascading effect in terms of depleting employment avenues of our educated and skilled youth in JK and furthermore lead to brain drain,” they said in the statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
03-10-2021||India||EC freeze on Lok Janshakti Party’s name and symbol||The Election Commission of India on Saturday disallowed the use of Lok Janshakti Party’s (LJP) name and its symbol “bungalow” ahead of the bypolls in Bihar owing to a dispute between the two factions led by MP Chirag Paswan and his uncle and Union minister Pashupati Paras. The EC cited Para 15 of Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968, which says: “When the Commission is satisfied on information in its possession that there are rival sections or groups of a recognised political party each of whom claims to be that party the Commission may, after taking into account all the available facts and circumstances of the case and hearing such representatives of the sections or groups and other persons as desire to be heard decide that one such rival section or group or none of such rival sections or groups is that recognised political party and the decision of the Commission shall be binding on all such rival sections or groups.” Bypolls in Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan Assembly seats are scheduled to be held on October 30. “The time frame needed to ensure the above due process for the Commission to reach a finding under Para 15 is incongruous to the time line being invoked by the 2 groups in view of the announcement of September 28, 2021 of the ECI to conduct bye-polls…,” the EC added. Both the factions have claimed exclusive use of the party name and symbol. In the recent past, a dispute over the symbol of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam took four years to resolve with lakhs of affidavits being submitted to the EC by the office-bearers of all the factions. The matter went to the Supreme Court and was resolved only in May this year. “Both the groups shall be known by such names as they may choose for their respective groups, including, if they so desire,  linkage with their parent party ‘Lok Janshakti Party’,” the EC said in its order. The factions have to submit their new names and choice of symbols from the list of free symbols by October 4. They will also have to submit documents to back their claim on the party by November 5. The LJP had split in June after five of the party’s six MPs elbowed out Chirag. The BJP recognised the faction led by Paras and made him a minister. Despite being in the NDA, the LJP under Chirag had contested against candidates of ruling ally Janata Dal (United) in the 2020 Bihar polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
03-10-2021||India||‘(Himanta) Sarma is the most divisive CM in Assam’s history’||For his fans — mostly marginalised peasants spread across the state — Akhil Gogoi is a one-man army and the maverick “always in the opposition” to fight for their cause. Gogoi, 45, has worn several hats over the last two decades. First, he shot to limelight as a Right to Information activist. He has also been a forest rights crusader and an anti-corruption fighter. In 2019, he took to the streets against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act or CAA. Currently, his calling card is leader of the newly formed party, Raijor Dal. In the 2021 Assam Assembly elections, he contested from Sivasagar and defeated the BJP candidate by a huge margin. “I am perhaps the only candidate who built a political party from jail, couldn’t even campaign for a single day, yet won and was sworn into the Assembly from prison,” says Gogoi. He was jailed for 18 months on charges of instigating violence with the help of Maoists during the anti-CAA protests. On July 1, he was cleared of these and released. “Had I been out of jail and campaigned freely we’d have made the BJP government in Assam fall,” he says. It has not been easy to get hold of Gogoi since he was released from jail. He has been travelling across the state and meeting political leaders across India to “fight against the fascist BJP”. When I finally get through to him, he is having an early dinner at New Delhi’s Assam Bhavan. It seems he arrived a couple of days ago at the invitation of poll strategist Prashant Kishor (PK) to learn “how elections are fought”. He met PK and the representatives of some regional parties that wish to form a kind of a “federal front against the fascist BJP government”. He says he has plans to meet some top Congress leaders too. I ask him about his equation with the Trinamul. He says, “They proposed I lead the Trinamul in Assam. That’s not possible, but I have not rejected their proposal to form an alliance with Raijor Dal. The discussion is on and we shall arrive at a decision before the by-elections [for six Assembly seats] in October.” Gogoi explains that although the main objective of both parties is to oust the BJP, there are differences in perspectives. Gogoi’s party supports the plan to properly implement the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam only; the Trinamul is dead against the NRC. Gogoi says that the illegal migration of people from Bangladesh has different connotations for Assam and West Bengal. He and his party follow the Assam Accord of 1985 and, accordingly, believe that those who illegally entered Assam after March 25, 1975, should not be given citizenship. “Assam doesn’t have the capacity to accept more immigrants, yet the BJP government is trying to legalise many of them through CAA,” he says. “There’s a difference between Assamese nationalism and Bengali nationalism,” he adds. However, he has no qualms over backing the Trinamul supremo, Mamata Banerjee, as the next Prime Minister of India. He says, “I don’t see Mamata as the chief minister of a state, but a much larger leader who can lead the federal front to oust the BJP. All regional parties must unite and rally with her in the run-up to the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.” He believes his party, which he defines as a “Leftist nationalist party”, will also spearhead a Leftist revival in Assam walking hand-in-hand with all “official” Left parties, such as the CPI, the CPI(M) and the CPI-ML. These parties have had minimal presence in Assam since the 1970s. The Raijor Dal would have tied up with them before the 2021 Assam elections had the Left parties not formed a coalition with the Congress and the All India United Democratic Front — which according to Gogoi is a fundamentalist/communal party and an alter ego of the BJP. “This was a historical blunder by the Congress and the Left that led to their defeat,” he says. Gogoi had Left leanings even when he was a student. This was one of the reasons he was accused of being a Maoist. He says, “They tried to frame me as a Maoist because I have been fighting on behalf of the marginalised against state atrocities and communal forces for decades. But they couldn’t build a single case against me and were forced to release me.” His anger erupts when I mention the Cow Protection Bill passed in the Assembly recently at the behest of the Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. He regrets he could not stop it despite being an MLA. He says, “Sarma is the most communal and divisive CM in the history of Assam. His only aim is to implement the BJP’s hidden political agenda in the state.” According to Gogoi, the bill was meant to harm farmers of a particular community, but it is actually harming thousands of poor farmers in the state who can’t afford to buy tractors to plough their fields and use oxen. Besides, he thinks, the Covid-19 induced lockdown in Assam is the strictest in the country and may soon lead to starvation deaths in the state. Gogoi talks about the “encounter spree” unleashed by the Assam Police ever since Sarma took charge as CM. “At least 56 such encounters happened in which the accused happen to be the poorest among the minority community,” he says. And what is he going to do about all this? Gogoi vows to don his activist’s hat again and unite all opposition forces in the state and the country. He says, “We shall take the fight to every street and lane of India.” 1976: Gogoi is born in Selenghat in Jorhat, Assam 1993: Joins Cotton College, Guwahati; is elected general secretary of the students’ union and becomes associated with the United Revolutionary Movement Council of Assam; leaves in five years 1999: Becomes editor of Natun Padatik, an Assamese Marxist journal 2005: Founds Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti, a peasant organisation 2011: Joins the anti-graft campaign India Against Corruption movement 2019: Is accused of sedition, thrown into jail and from there forms his own political party, Raijor Dal 2021: Wins the Sivasagar Assembly seat||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
03-10-2021||India||Art historian Jerry Losty passes away in London||Jeremiah P. Losty, better known as Jerry Losty, noted historian of the art of the book and curator par excellence, died in London on Wednesday. He was 76 years old. Losty was for 35 years curator of Indian visual materials at the British Library, London. He had published extensively on Indian manuscripts and paintings. His publications include a book on Delhi’s topography, Delhi 360: Mazhar Ali Khan’s View From Lahore Gate, and on the visual arts: Indian Book Painting, Paintings from the Royal Courts of India, The Art of the Book in India, Krishna: A Hindu Vision of God, The Ramayana: Love and Valour in India’s Great Epic, Picturesque Views of India: Sita Ram, and Calcutta, City of Palaces, published in 1990 on this city’s tercentenary. He co-authored Mughal India: Art, Culture and Empire, and was working on English painter William Daniell’s diaries for almost 25 years. Losty had also written about valuable art works originating from India that were in private collections all over the world. Art historian B.N. Goswami said: “Jerry Losty will be greatly missed. He wrote extensively on the arts of India, his finest work perhaps being The Art of the Book in India, published as long ago as 1982 — a small jewel which stood out even among the slew of books which were published during the Festival of India in England. “But neither he nor the body of work he published will be forgotten. His writings on the Udaipur Ramayana, the nearly forgotten but immensely talented painter Sita Ram, and — lately — the catalogues he kept writing for major auction houses will continue to serve as reminders of a scholar of gentle disposition and great dedication,” Goswami said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
03-10-2021||West Bengal||EC writes to Bengal chief secretary to ensure no celebrations take place over poll results||The Election Commission on Sunday afternoon directed Bengal Chief Secretary HK Dwivedi to ensure that no celebrations take place over poll results amid fears of violence. In a letter, the EC said the state government must ensure that adequate steps are taken so that no post-poll violence happens. "... no victory celebrations/ procession during/after the counting shall be allowed in the ongoing elections in West Bengal, for which counting is being taken place on October 3, 2021," EC secretary Rakesh Kumar said in the letter. "All necessary actions must be taken to ensure the strict compliance of Commission's direction where in all such activities have already been prohibited in view of pandemic. Further, state government must ensure that adequate steps are taken so that no post poll violence takes place," he added. The EC asked Dwivedi to ensure strict compliance with the directions. The letter came as TMC workers across the state hit the streets to celebrate the massive lead Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee received in the Bhowanipore by-election. The party's candidates in Jangipur and Samserganj assembly were also ahead of their rivals, adding to the revelry. BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal, Banerjee's rival in the Bhowanipore seat, had on Saturday night written to the Acting Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court Rajesh Bindal, urging him to give orders to the police to take preventive steps to avoid incidents of violence after the results are declared.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
03-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata wins by a record margin, bolsters Trinamul's national ambitions||A lazy, relaxed, bright Sunday turned brighter for Mamata Banerjee as she sealed her claim to the chair of Bengal’s chief minister cruising to a smooth victory over her nearest opponent from the BJP, while the CPM nominee was always out of the frame. Mamata's final victory margin was 58,832, surpassing her  2011 margin of 54,213. Earlier, at the end of counting for round 21, she was leading by 58,389 votes,  breaking former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee’s record of a 58,128-vote victory margin as a sitting chief minister in 2006. There of course lies a difference between Mamata and her former bete noire Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee. Mamata also happens to be the only chief minister to have continued as CM despite facing a loss while her party romped home in the summer of 2021. Around 2.30 pm, just before  fresh downpour lashed south Calcutta, Mamata stepped out in the open to greet party workers who had assembled at her Kalighat  residence. "I am grateful to the people of Bhowanipore. Despite  Covid and rains they came out to vote. I have received the highest votes in all the wards. Bhowanipore has shown the country, who Bengal's favourite is," said Mamata. She also announced candidates for the coming October 30 bypolls _ Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay will contest  from Khardah, Brajakishore Goswami from Santipur, Udayan Guha from Dinhata. For Gosaba Trinamul would  either field  Bappaditya Mandal or Subrata Naskar.  "We will announce the Gosaba candidate later," she said. Around 1 pm, as Mamata was gradually cementing her position, a poster claiming her as "ModiShahsurmardini", a clever play  on "Mahishasurmardini",  the name given to Bengal’s favourite Goddess Durga, the slayer of the Buffalo Demon. It’s another matter that Trinamul fanboys and the RSS pracharaks have viewed Mamata through the same prism. Sunday’s emphatic win cements Mamata’s claims at the national level for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. The Trinamul mouthpiece, Jago Bangla, has already staked her claim to the space of the leaderless Congress and positioned itself as the main challenger to the Modi-Shah combine. Mamata has a distinctive advantage over three other chief ministers who have kept the BJP in abeyance in their respective states. Uddhav Thackeray in Maharashtra, M.K. Stalin in Tamil Nadu and Pinarayi Vijayan in Kerala. A fourth chief minister, Naveen Patnaik, has largely been ambivalent in his stance towards the BJP. Both Stalin and Thackeray have the disadvantage of being successors of parties which were born with a distinct identity, the Dravidian movement of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagham in Tamil Nadu and the Maratha Manoos for the Shiv Sena. Vijayan on the other hand is leading a party which is facing an existential crisis in parliamentary democracy and is largely restricted to agitprop. The emergence of Mamata and the Trinamul was only to dislodge the Left from power in Bengal, and not to protect the Bengali identity. That is the reason why Mamata’s first cabinet even had a Sikh minister. While she projected herself as the protector of Bengal from the alleged atrocities of the Left, she extended the same privilege to members of other communities, religious or linguistic, keeping true Calcutta’s cosmopolitan identity. She has been careful to address the individual needs of linguistic and social minorities in the hills of Darjeeling or the tribals of Jhargram. That is one of her biggest advantages, which is why she can think of extending her party to distant parts of India like Manipur and Goa, which have little in common with Bengal. Mamata’s claim for a bigger role in national politics will only get louder in the coming days and one can expect more defections, not just in Bengal, where dissidents and disgruntled political elements rally around the three-time Bengal chief minister. One of the factors behind Mamata’s success is her reliance on cash-driven politics providing short-term benefits to the needy through  various schemes launched by her government. Mamata is likely to turn more aggressive in pursuing the same policies, which have paid her rich dividends in these 10 years and will continue to do so for the next five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
03-10-2021||West Bengal||Fisherman rescued from tiger’s jaws in Gosaba ||A 37-year-old fisherman was severely injured by a royal Bengal tiger in Gosaba area of the Sunderbans in South 24Parganas when he, along with four others, went to collect crabs from a restricted area of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve (STR) early on Saturday. Fisherman Gour Mistri was rescued from the jaws of the tiger by his companions who fought with the tiger with bamboo sticks for around 10 minutes. Gour was admitted to the Canning subdivisional hospital with critical injuries on his head, shoulders and neck and was struggling for his life. “The group of fishermen went inside the restricted zone illegally to collect crabs from the wetlands when the tiger attacked one of them. Though they had made illegal entry into the forest we arranged treatment of the fisherman on humanitarian grounds,” said Jones Justin, the deputy field director of STR. Foresters said the trend of going to the forests without permission has increased in recent days following job losses during lockdown. As a result, incidents of tiger attacks have also increased in recent times. On September 3 another fisherman was injured by a tiger as his coworkers battled with the big cat with oars of their boat to save his life On August 24, a group of fishermen were ambushed in Gosaba's Satjelia by a tiger, who dragged one of them off the boat. That incident had taken place on the heels of another incident in Jhila, where a lone fisherman had been killed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
03-10-2021||West Bengal||Three persons sentenced to life imprisonment for murder of minor||Three persons were on Friday sentenced to life imprisonment for killing a 16-year-old migrant worker 10 years ago. Five others, also linked to the crime, have been jailed for three years and a fine of Rs 10,000 has been imposed on each of them. Sources said Rakesh Singha was hacked to death over an advance of Rs 4,000 at Niyoginagar in Malda on June 26, 2011. Police held 19 persons following a complaint by the victim’s family. Among them, 11 were released in due course. On Friday, the additional district and sessions judge (fourth court) here ordered life imprisonment for Nikhil Singha, Ashim Singha and Gautam Singha. Also, a fine of Rs 50,000 has been imposed on each. “Finally, we got justice after 10 years,” said Ajay Singha, a relative of the deceased. Five others — Akhil Singha, Sujit Singha, Madhab Singha, Tarapada Singha and Pankaj Singha — jailed for three years will have to pay a fine of Rs 10,000 each. Arms and explosives A Malda resident was arrested after an improvised firearm, two rounds of live cartridges, around 1.9 kilos of explosives used to make crude bombs and 40 small canisters apparently used to make the bombs were recovered from his house on Friday night. Sources said Chandu Sheikh had been remanded in police custody for seven days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
03-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal flood situation is man-made, claims Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday explained why she called the floods “man-made” as she rolled out data on the quantum of water released by the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) over the past 48 hours. The chief minister said the manner in which huge quantities of water was released from the DVC dams within a short period was a “crime” as it caused havoc in several south Bengal districts leaving over 22 lakh people marooned. “You have to listen to me to understand why such a flood occurred this time. The DVC’s Panchet and Maithon dams released 49,000 cusec water at noon on September 30, the day of polls (Bhowanipore and two segments in Murshidabad) here. Within an hour, they started releasing again and 1 lakh cusec was released till the evening. From 8.30pm, they (the DVC) started releasing 1.25 lakh cusec. Which means they released around 3 lakh cusec water only on September 30,” Mamata said after visiting flood-hit areas of Arambagh’s Kalipur in Hooghly. She reached Arambagh by a chopper at around 1pm, and after landing at Pallishree helipad, went to visit flood-affected areas in Kalipur where she also spoke to people and enquired about their well-being. Then she made an aerial survey of flooded areas in Bankura, West Burdwan, Hooghly, Howrah and West Midnapore. Later in the day, she held a review meeting at Nabanna and a news briefing. “They released water at midnight too without informing us.... So I am saying it is a crime and the flood is a man-made one,” she said. The chief minister, reading out from sheafs of papers,  said at Nabanna that instead of allowing the water released on September 30 to recede, the DVC released a huge quantity of water on October 1, which aggravated the situation. The chief minister said 1.5 lakh cusec water was released from 8.15am on October 1 till 5.30pm. From 5.30pm, they released 1.25 lakh cusec of water. In the evening, the DVC started releasing nearly 2 lakh cusec from its dams. “A total of nearly 10 lakh cusec water was released from the DVC in a span of two days. Release of such a huge quantity of water in a span of 48 hours is unprecedented,” said Mamata after holding a review meeting with senior government officials at Nabanna. She compared the release of water by the DVC in July with that now to explain why the flood was completely man-made. “In July when many areas were inundated, DVC released only 1.12 lakh cusec of water. But now they have released around 10 lakh cusec of water. There was heavy rain on one side and on the other side there was no information for us,” she said. She said heavy rainfall in Asansol on Wednesday night inundated parts of the town, but the water receded within hours. “We have dug up 3.5 lakh water bodies and constructed check dams worth Rs 500 crore. This is why we could tackle heavy rainfall this year. The problem occurred only because the DVC released excess water without prior information,” said the chief minister. She also criticised DVC’s failure to hike water storage capacity of its dams and blamed its inaction despite reminders from the state. The chief minister said that DVC’s dams could store more 2 lakh cusec water if they could desilt and dredge them. “DVC could store more than 2 lakh cusec water in their dams if they dredged them. If they did so, our Bengal would not be submerged repeatedly,” she said. The chief minister said that more than 4 lakh people were evacuated and 1 lakh houses were damaged due to the heavy floods.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
03-10-2021||West Bengal||Water release protocol followed, says Damodar Valley Corporation||The DVC on Saturday said that there were no procedural lapses in warning Bengal state officials before releasing water from its dams in response to the Bengal government narrative that floods were caused by indiscriminate release of water by the DVC without information. The DVC releases water from its dams on advice of the Damodar Valley Reservoir Regulation Committee headed by a member from Central Water Commission and includes representation from Bengal, Jharkhand governments and the DVC, said the statement. It said a warning is sent to Bengal’s irrigation department if it releases more than 23,000 cusec water from its dams. The first warning is sent six hours before release. “Before the release of water, flood warning messages are communicated well in advance to chief engineers of West Bengal government, district magistrates of Purba Bardhaman and Paschim Bardhaman, Purulia, Bankura, and superintending engineer and executive engineer, Durgapur. The executive engineer, Durgapur, further communicates the messages to district magistrates of Hooghly and Howrah, SDOs, ADMs, BDOs and others...,” DVC said in a statement on Saturday. State sources said the irrigation department had received a warning from the DVC that its dams would be forced to release more than 1.5 lakh cusec water from Maithon and Panchet on September 30. A source said the first mail from the DVC does not cite how much water will be released as it updates on its website the amount after the first warning is sent. “The warning mail is forwarded to all DMs of districts concerned, the disaster management and top brass of Nabanna. It is advised the DVC website is monitored... This time too the process was followed,” said a Nabanna source. Two hours before release, the CWC chairman mails the irrigation department on the amount of water, and this is forwarded to the ADM of Asansol and West Burdwan authorities so that they can monitor the DVC Barrage, a protocol followed this time too, the state official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
03-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata requests ‘friendly state’ to desilt dams to prevent flooding||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said she would request the “friendly” Jharkhand government to desilt dams in the neighbouring state to prevent flooding in several Bengal districts that annually bear the brunt of water released by power utility DVC during monsoon. Mamata made this remark shortly after the Birbhum administration decided to reconstruct village Sundarpur in Nanoor that got almost washed away by waters released by a dam in Jharkhand’s Shikatia. “Jharkhand is our neighbouring and friendly state. We will request the Jharkhand government if they kindly renovate (desilt) their dams. We will request the Jharkhand government that they can do joint planning with us. We will also request them (the Jharkhand government) to talk to the DVC,” said Mamata after visiting flood-hit Arambagh in Hooghly on Saturday afternoon. She explained how “uninformed” release of water from Shikatia dam in Jharkhand flooded areas of Birbhum and East Burdwan on the banks of river Ajay. “Apart from DVC, 80,000 cusec water was released on September 30 and 1,20,000 cusec water was released the next day from Shikatia dam in Jharkhand. The water from the dam flooded Ajay that overflowed its banks and flooded eight districts, including East Burdwan and Birbhum,” said Mamata. The Birbhum district administration on Saturday held meetings to plan how to get back normalcy at Sundarpur, including livelihoods of around 160 families of the farming village. Sundarpur village is Birbhum’s worst affected where almost all 160 houses, including concrete and mud buildings, have been completely washed away and at least 300 acres of farmland covered with silt and sand. “The devastation of Sundarpur is unimaginable. We need to do everything to reconstruct not only the houses but to reconstruct the village. The government will help reconstruct homes and dredge sand and silt from fields as cultivation is the main profession of villagers. We have already held meetings and will allot funds to help them,” said Bidhan Ray, the Birbhum district magistrate. “For the first time I witnessed such devastation. Concrete houses have been washed away, including our two-storey home,” said Bharat Majhi, 45, the deputy chief of Nanoor panchayat samity and resident of this village. Sources said around 3am on Friday morning a stretch of 150 metres of an embankment was suddenly swept away by floodwater. Government officials said though they were yet to receive the final survey reports about the quantum of loss to property, farmland and livestock, they decided to reconstruct the village after repairing the embankment. The release of over 2,00,000 cusec of water from Shikatia dam into river Ajay submerged several pockets of East Burdwan and Birbhum. The situation worsened earlier this week when the Ajay overflowed its banks and breached embankments at several places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
03-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee backs TV channel that received showcause notice from I&B ministry||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday backed Kolkata TV, a Bengali news channel that recently received a showcause notice from the information and broadcasting ministry asking it to explain why permission granted to it under uplinking guidelines should not be scrapped following the home ministry’s denial of “security clearance” to it. “I’m very sorry to hear that Kolkata TV is facing such an assault... I think which TV will support whom, which journalist will support whom and which media will support whom are their personal decisions…. I will appeal to the central government that they shouldn’t try to shut Kolkata TV because of vendetta politics,” the chief minister said at Nabanna, adding it had become the Centre’s practice to shut dissenters. BJP Bengal chief Sukanta Majumdar later said he did not consider Kolkata TV to be a news channel but the mouthpiece of one particular party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
03-10-2021||West Bengal||BSF cop arrested for murder in Raiganj||A team of Raiganj police district of North Dinajpur on Friday arrested from a Meghalaya motel Sital Roy, a BSF constable and main accused in the firing here this week, which killed a woman. Sital, his wife and brother-in-law were produced at a court here on Saturday. The court sent them to police custody for 14 days. On September 27, Sital, and some others went to the house of Nikhil Krishna Majumdar, a retired police officer, at Sukanta More. Sital used to be his tenant once, and seemed to have had a grouse. He allegedly shot at all three children of Majumdar, and one of them, a woman, died. “Preliminary probe suggests the accused had problems with his former landlord and wanted to settle scores. He got into a quarrel with Rupa, Majumdar’s daughter who first came out, prompting her to call her brother and sister who were inside. When they came out, the accused whipped out a gun, fired at them, and fled,” said a police officer. All three siblings were hit by bullets and Debi Sanyal, one of the two sisters, died. Sujoy Krishna, the brother and also a police officer, and Rupa, are still hospitalised. “We need to interrogate them to find out the motive behind the attack,” said Sana Akhtar, SP, Raiganj police district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
03-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to write to PM Modi on DVC water release||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said that she would write a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to look into the problem of regular floods in Bengal owing to excessive release of water from the dams of the Damodar Valley Corporation, a central power utility. “I will write a letter to the Prime Minister urging him to take serious care (about Bengal). I would also say that don’t deprive Bengal,” said the chief minister during a news meet at Nabanna on Saturday after a review meeting on the  flood situation. Nearly 22 lakh people in Bengal have been hit by the floods, which the state government termed “man-made”. “The chief minister has made it clear that she would blame the Centre for the misery of lakhs of people in the state... If the PM cares about the people of Bengal, he should take steps to ensure they don’t suffer because of floods every year,” said a Trinamul insider. Mamata on Saturday made it clear that this time she would urge Modi to take up the issue of sudden release of water with the DVC in addition to the existing demands of renovation and restoration of the DVC dams. She also said her government could claim compensation from the DVC. “The DVC is responsible for the floods in Bengal. I condemn this and we would claim compensation from the DVC for the damages. I will draw the attention of the Prime Minister in this regard,” she said. She added that she would ask Union home minister Amit Shah for assistance too. “I will ask the Union home minister to allot funds for the disaster. We don’t get central funds after any kind of disaster...,” Mamata said. “We did not get anything after Amphan, Phani or Yaas. This time, I will request (the Centre) to release funds for the people who are struggling amid the floods,” she added.” In the past few years, the chief minister had written several letters to the Prime Minister urging him to initiate measures to restore and renovate the DVC dams. On August 4, she wrote the last one on desilting the DVC dams to ensure they hold more water. “However, nothing was despite the chief minister’s appeals since 2015. But this time, the chief minister’s letter is likely to put pressure on the Centre... It is clear she will make it a political issue against the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls," said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
03-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 761 new infections, 743 recoveries and 9 deaths||Bengal on Saturday recorded a rise for the fourth day since last Sunday in active Covid-19 cases, as the number rose by nine to 7,580. The state saw 761 new infections, 743 recoveries and nine deaths. It now has 2.8 per cent of India’s active cases and is seventh among states with the most such cases. Calcutta logged 149 new infections and North 24-Parganas 124, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Both districts logged two deaths each on Saturday. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure of new infections. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.8 per cent. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.81 per cent on Saturday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has more than 15.7 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.44 lakh recoveries and 18,815 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
03-10-2021||West Bengal||Timber worth Rs 40 lakh seized, 2 held||The foresters of Baikunthapur forest division seized illegal Burmese teak estimated around Rs 40 lakh from Fulbari, on the outskirts of Siliguri, on Saturday afternoon and arrested two residents of Haryana in this connection. Sources said Burmese teak is used to make costly furniture and has a huge demand in India and in West Asia. “The timber was loaded in Assam and headed to Nagpur in Maharashtra. It seems a racket is using the Siliguri corridor to send the teak to different parts of the country from the Northeast,” said a forester. Those arrested have been identified as Samedeen and Israil, both residents of Haryana. “We need to interrogate them to gather more information about the racket,” the forester added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
03-10-2021||Opinion||Crumpled spaces||As I write this sentence, a seven year old sits a few feet away from me. His eyes are closed. Through the darkness, he is trying to see the soft sitar music playing before him. Trances don’t happen easily to him. But he’s in school now, waiting for his first session to begin: Circle Time. As a writer, I’m used to a small and portable office that I can rest on my lap, a screen my field of vision, a keyboard my sphere of action. But it’s now been over 18 months that my son has had his school in a laptop. All of Class II has gone by and, now, much of Class III, too, has sprouted inside a screen. As I write this, the pandemic moves through the uneasy, jagged rhythm of ups and downs around the world and we claw through the nightmare that was this summer in this country. Struck by the pain of our children losing their childhood and aware of the privilege of affording an uninterrupted virtual ‘education’ throughout, many of us wilt before the possible dangers of sending our unvaccinated children back to reopened campuses trying to clean the rust on their gates. Some of us, possibly most of us who read this newspaper regularly, are among the minority in this country for whose families, the remote classroom, howsoever unsatisfactory, has provided some sad semblance of learning continuity. I also count myself among those with the privilege of space, that I have a separate room in which to work — to write and to teach my own virtual classes — while others in the family carry on with their official and educational lives from their own zones. But a seven year old is the least mindful of his own private space — certainly a lot less than a teenage child would be — and it is with a longing for intimacy that I make it a practice to sit and work in his room through the mornings. It is, in effect, living in his classroom. The children talk about dreams. What dreams they have had, what do dreams mean to them. “Saisha just said that dreams are horror,” my son turns to me and says as I try to sharpen a sentence. “That’s a nightmare, isn’t it?” I say, without looking up. “But she said dream.” “Niya said her dream was to become an interior decorator,” he reports. I tell him to pay attention to his class. It’s my way of guarding my private wall of the mind, frail against attacks by a chattering seven year old. I eavesdrop just in time. “Dreams are things that I wish,” he says when his turn comes. I hear things I’ve told him: dreams are sometimes made of things that you want, or things that you fear. Of course, I did not take Freud’s name. He might have said Fried. I remember my own childhood, when the first mention of Freud had sounded delicious: Freud-fried, a well-fried slip. It’s not entirely unlike when an undergraduate student includes bits of your own phrase in his presentation, or when a doctoral student quotes your sentences in her thesis. But it’s different too. Not just because the wisdom was shared under a sleep-inducing blanket, but more importantly, it was a raft offered to someone just learning to drift through the waters, not of an academic subject but of life itself. What about the dreams and nightmares I meet in my virtual office? Concentration marks itself as crucial for any writer, artist, or thinker. Pandemic-era space sharing tells me there is only one thing more important than concentration. Distraction. For those of us lucky enough to hold on to life and livelihood these last couple of years, what have we lost? Life itself: the touch of air on an unmasked face, the joys of recreational travel, the frustrating thrill of a crowded Puja pandal, whiling away time in a pub or a teashop with strangers without fear in our lungs. If you’ve been lucky enough to continue working, work is all you’ve got, because Zoom meetings and classes do not even require climbing the stairs or taking a break in the cafeteria, or smiling at a stranger in the elevator — the odd punctuation marks of living that we now know used to make up a life. For the writer for whom solitude and isolation are currency, there has been wealth of one kind, but great poverty in the very breath of life. What a gift it is, this clangour of articulated dreams in the middle of the sentence to which I’m trying to give form? “Ma’am, I have put the straws through the bottle,” a small voice asks next to me. “Do these balloons now look like our lungs?” How does one shape a world in one’s head and give it language while a small one erupts a few feet from you and insists on your attention? “It’s raining too heavily and my chhole-sprout will die so what will I show in class?” One shapes, I realize, new worlds with weird delight! I remember telling my university writing class, held in the campus dhaba, that it’s a good idea to take one’s attention off the class discussion from time to time and eavesdrop on the conversation in the next table, for what is the art of writing, indeed, without love for gossip? How do I pull myself away from the tiny heap of gossip next to me as I write? He jumps on the bed in between classes. I ask him not to mess and crumple his shirt as he has more classes coming up. “Don’t worry, papa,” he tells me, “I’ll ‘touch up my appearance’ on Zoom so nobody will understand anything.” There is space and the blankness I’m given purely as a function of my gender. The endless queries of domestic life, kitchen and housekeeping decisions that could be resolved there but never are intrude not in my home working space but that of my partner. Domestic distraction and childcare demands punctuate and interrupt the working life of countless female colleagues I know, all around the world, far more than even those men who have tried to deepen their domestic selves during what has been the strangest phase of confinement and disembodiment in our lives. My sharing the seven year old’s classroom is a choice, initiated by the impulse to be a warm, breathing body in what I see for him is a laptop with human voices and silhouettes of human form struggling within. I’ve always wanted to be in his classroom, be a sleeping presence there. What I did not reckon was how it would reshape my working, thinking, writing life. If and when we can look forward to our home and work spaces to return to their original, disassociated locations, we will take away from this prolonged sickness a warm, sticky, noisy cohabitation of life and work that is likely to realign our work-life relationship forever. Home, office, and school have shared the crumpled bed for too long. Even when they return to their spaces, they won’t quite be the same again, not in our lifetime. Saikat Majumdar is Professor of English and Creative Writing at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
03-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Fairies with pens||Once upon a time, there was a woman with a story to tell. Along came a man, rewrote her stories, and sold it to the public as his own. Research on the provenance of fairytales by Ruth B. Bottigheimer of Stony Brook University, New York, has revealed that the first edition of fairy tales by the likes of Giambattista Basile, Charles Perrault and the Grimms cited women — grandmothers, society matriarchs — as the original spinners of these stories. Unsurprisingly, under the male gaze of the new chroniclers, the original narratives were tweaked, transforming rich reflections on the experiences of women of flesh and blood into unimaginative, but socially conformist, plots. For instance, before the Grimms waved their wand of propriety over the tale of Rapunzel, she and the prince were said to have spent most days together in her tower of isolation, until the princess remarks to her foster mother that her clothes fit more tightly than before, indicating premarital pregnancy. Bibbidi-bobbidi-boo went the Grimms and turned Rapunzel into a damsel in distress, waiting to be rescued by the proverbial — male — knight in shining armour. Hearteningly, women writers — fairies with pens — are now reclaiming storytelling. From Amazon’s recent retelling of Cinderella, where she seeks salvation not in the arms of a prince but through her own creativity in fashion designing, to books like Fierce Fairytales and Girls to the Rescue, women screenwriters and authors are reimagining fairytales in a more egalitarian light. Purists will no doubt gasp and reach for a poisoned apple at the prospect of such alterations, arguing that this spells doom for the fables that have been passed down through the generations. But in reality, feminist retellings of fairytales might be seen as a reclamation of the original spirit of fairytales that were not so biased in favour of men. In fact, a recent study conducted by The Washington Post showed that while earlier adaptations of fairytales by Disney divided dialogues equally between princesses and princes, heroines were given fewer and fewer dialogues since the 1980s and ’90s. At their core, however, fairytales are about much more than who saves whom from the ivory tower. The reason fairytales are universally cherished is because they illustrate humanity’s deepest fears and desires that transcend the barriers of time and geography. The story of Cinderella, for example, has been the subject of Italian operas, Russian ballets, and even Japanese kabuki plays, but each of these versions puts its own unique twist in the tale. Change, then, is the only constant when it comes to fairytales. Conversely, in real life, the more things change, the more they remain the same. Reading the patriarchal adaptations of fairytales is a chilling reminder that medieval notions about women and who controls their bodies have proved to be as resilient as the chivalrous knight. A 2016 study on the working of Special Courts under the POCSO Act in Delhi found many judges unwilling to convict adolescent boys of assault for forcibly kissing a girl. Little wonder then that Sleeping Beauty’s beau found it perfectly acceptable to kiss a sleeping woman without her consent. Refreshingly, rewritten fairytales are accommodating the possibility of transformations, such as a world that is more equal for women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
03-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Journalists and philosophers do have a lot in common||Spot the difference Sir — The Union minister for women and child development, Smriti Irani, claims that India has the highest number of women in political offices globally if one includes female members of panchayat. It is common knowledge that in most of these cases, the women are just figureheads and the decision-making rests with their male family members. But the more important question is this: since women are not a homogenous group — caste, religion, geography divide them — what is the guarantee that the women who get elected will represent the interests of all their peers? Jharna Murmu, Jhargram Kindred spirits Sir — As strange as it may seem at first, philosophers and journalists do have a lot in common (“Philosopher’s stone”, Sep 29). Both analyse facts, pursue the truth, ask whether objectivity is possible and have a tendency of becoming passionately involved in the politics of ethics. Yet, there exists a chasm between the two worlds that neither side is ready to breach. If this gap is breached, both professions can benefit. Some of the ways have been outlined by Uddalak Mukherjee in his article. Besides those, philosophers can draw out the philosophical implications of stories in the news as well as improve the work of advocacy that journalists undertake — especially editorial boards — in public interest. Without journalists, philosophers would have nothing to analyse. It is the news and happenings from around the world that journalists carefully search out that allow philosophical thought to progress. Abhay Kashyap, Gurgaon Image matters Sir — While the entire nation celebrated Gandhi Jayanti yesterday, Madurai was ahead of the rest of India when it organized the centenary celebrations of M.K. Gandhi’s ‘dress revolution’ that took place there on September 22, 1921. Here Gandhi shed his Western attire and chose to wear a shawl and a half-dhoti, which remained his chosen apparel till his death. Gandhi’s iconic makeover went on to make him the symbol of the common man and bore testament to his spiritual strength. It is a matter of great pride that Gandhi elected the path of truth and simplicity to lead the nation to freedom. Ranganathan Sivakumar, Chennai Sir — On his trip to Madurai to urge civil disobedience among people, Mahatma Gandhi realized that the poor of his country were too poor to afford even khadi. This led him to shed his traditional Gujarati garb and don the legendary loincloth that later became synonymous with him. One hundred years later, at a time when the number of poor has increased to a staggering 134 million in India, the country’s prime minister shed his absent-minded ascetic image with a beard and hair trim before travelling to the United States of America. Image, truly, is everything. K.K. Navada, Udupi, Karnataka Hot wheels Sir — The bicycle sharing system introduced by the Greater Chennai Corporation was welcomed by one and all. But the programme seems to be running at a loss. The primary reason behind this is the exorbitant rent. While the charge of Rs 5.50 for the first hour for the next-gen and the eco-bike is reasonable, Rs 9.90 for the subsequent half an hour is too high for the common people who avail this service. The charges for the electric cycle are even more expensive where after Rs 10 for the first 10 minutes, one has to shell out Re 1 per minute. Unless the rates are made affordable, the programme would continue to incur a loss. N. Mahadevan, Chennai Parting shot Sir — It is encouraging that the Institute of Neurosciences, Kolkata has started a monthly cognitive reorientation clinic for dementia patients. Mental health needs more attention in India. Pranav Mishra, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
03-10-2021||Opinion||Why a split now may end up saving the Congress||Split to survive Amidst the serious churn within the Congress, friendly parties appear to be more worried about its fate than its own leadership. While some Opposition leaders are praying for an amicable resolution to the crisis, there are others who are eagerly waiting to poach the defectors. Many regional parties doubt the chances of a revival and some of them have even set their sights on a leadership role in the 2024 general elections. But one regional party leader, an exceptional sympathizer of the Congress, had an interesting theory. He said the Congress should split now: the sooner the better. He argued that the Congress history reveals it can rejuvenate after splits and the party hasn’t suffered any serious jolts for long. He insisted that Rahul Gandhi was faced with similar dilemmas as his grandmother, Indira Gandhi, who emerged stronger after the split in the party in 1969. Jawaharlal Nehru survived after the socialists and some trusted colleagues deserted him to form the Praja Socialist Party and the Swatantra Party. The party led by PV Narasimha Rao survived when the veterans, Arjun Singh and ND Tiwari, walked out with a significant number of followers. Even Sonia Gandhi survived when Sharad Pawar, PA Sangma and Tariq Anwar broke away to form the NCP. Rahul is probably fated to suffer the same experience before the party rises again. Keep calm and carry on The focus of the media may be on the newly appointed ministers in the Narendra Modi government, but it is the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, who is creating a buzz in the corridors of power. The first full-time woman finance minister of the country is being praised not so much for her handling of the economy, but for her transformation. She had attracted attention as a spokesperson of the Bharatiya Janata Party, particularly for her feisty responses to political rivals, which were sometimes considered arrogant. Her temper continued to rise even after she was made the defence minister in the first tenure of the Modi government. Her ire against the Congress over the Rafale deal controversy had become a talking point. It was widely felt that she was yet to overcome the ‘spokesperson syndrome’. But as finance minister in the second Modi government, Sitharaman seems to have transformed into a silent worker. Friendly ties Most senior Jawaharlal Nehru University students saw Kanhaiya Kumar’s defection to the Congress coming given the tumultuous relationship he had with the Communist Party of India. The rivalry between him and Aparajitha, an AISF leader in JNU and daughter of the party chief, D Raja, is no secret. However, the subject of memes and jibes among students over the past week has been Anshul Trivedi — a lesser-known former JNU activist of the SFI-breakaway, Democratic Students’ Federation, and aide to the Congress stalwart, Digvijaya Singh. Bhopal-based Trivedi — of CPI roots in Indore — also formally joined the Congress soon after Kanhaiya. Trivedi has been working for Singh since 2018 but maintained close personal ties with Left groups on campus and Kanhaiya. The DSF campaigned for Kanhaiya in Begusarai in 2019. The organization condemned Kanhaiya’s defection and many blame Trivedi for facilitating the bonhomie between the Congress and the larger Left fold with Kanhaiya in the last two years. Change of guard The election for the post of Bhubaneswar Club’s president was billed to be the battle of titans and it lived up to the hype. It generated unprecedented excitement with two former chief secretaries locking horns. The city’s elite club is a de facto bureaucratic power centre. Hence the battle between Asit Kumar Tripathy (1986 batch IAS) and Bijay Kumar Patnaik (1976 batch IAS) — both have served as chief secretaries of the state under the chief minister, Naveen Patnaik — expectedly created quite a stir. There was even talk of the chief minister’s office being involved in the election. Tripathy emerged victorious by a convincing margin of 278 votes. This proved that the officer, who was appointed principal adviser to the chief minister and chairperson of Western Odisha Development Council following his retirement as chief secretary last year, is not only more popular than Bijay Kumar Patnaik, who is much senior to him, but also enjoys the blessings of the powers that be. Another message from the contest was that the time is up for the old guard. Silent treatment Congress seniors are clearly still upset about having been sidelined by the new leadership in Kerala. This became evident at a time when allegations are rife against the Congress state president, K Sudhakaran, whose friendship with a con artist and quack has put the party in a fix. Sudhakaran could not but admit that he had consulted Monson Mavunkal, a recently arrested scamster and self-styled antique dealer and ‘cosmetologist’, to treat some skin issue. But neither Oommen Chandy nor Ramesh Chennithala has uttered a word in defence of their party chief. Peeved at being ignored while hand-picking new office bearers, the two leaders who once called the shots seem to speak louder with their silence. Footnote BS Yediyurappa certainly has his ways. The BJP veteran who was forced to resign as CM in July has been trying to claw his way back. After the party decided against giving his son, BY Vijayendra, a cabinet position, Yediyurappa’s die-hard loyalist and then political secretary, MP Renukacharya, was removed from a powerful position too. But now Renukacharya has been reinstated in the same position in a clear sign of influence over the CM. There is more drama in the offing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
03-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: IIT (ISM) Dhanbad’s Physics dept develops advanced luminescent material||Dhanbad: A research group comprising Prof J Manam, Prof S K Sharma and Dr. Sourav Das of IIT (ISM)’s Department of Physics, has developed advanced luminescent materials for defence and security applications. The Rs 37 lakh project, which has been on for three years has resulted in the development of a substance that can be used for tagging, tracking and locating defence applications. This material exhibits – ‘Long persistent luminescence’, a phenomenon in which material exhibits light after being exposed to solar light for a long time. The IIT (ISM) during the first 2 ½ years of research which began on from March 2019 developed long persistent phosphor material which gives emission to the Near Infrared Region (NIR) The material can be excited by the solar radiation during the day time and NIR radiation can be observed by night vision monocular for 24 hours. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Sourav Das said, “We began the project during March last year and have already prepared the material at the laboratory level and its application has also been made for which publication has already been made in a reputed journal.” He added, “This material has been developed for the first time in India. It took us 2 ½ years of the allotted three years to develop this material. Despite the institute remaining closed due to the pandemic, we have been able to meet the target.” This material is akin to the material used in the glowing duck, a toy for the kids. Praduman Choubey Jamshedpur: Nine fresh Covid positive cases have been reported during the past 24 hours in steel city. The sudden surge has sent the district health department machinery into a tizzy. With the Puja round the corner, the sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases, the health department and local administration have not only intensified Coronavirus sample tests, but have also re-imposed strict Covid-19 measures from Monday. Dhalbhum sub-divisional officer, Sandeep Kumar Meena confirmed the news. “From Monday, the administration will conduct random checking at the markets where unmasked people will be penalised. Not more than five persons will be allowed in a shop irrespective of whether people are in for Puja-shopping or not,” said Meena while talking to The Telegraph Online. The SDO maintained that the administration has also increased the Coronavirus sample tests besides intensifying the vaccination drive in and around the steel city. Meena pointed out that about 85 percent of people in the steel city have received a single dose of Covid jab. According to him, a door to door survey would be conducted to get everyone vaccinated in the next 10 days. Kumud Jenamani||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
03-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand gets ready to recruit professors for five medical colleges||The Jharkhand government has issued a notification for recruitment of at least 86 professors and 83 assistant professors to teach in five medical colleges, many of which faced flak from the National Medical Commission (NMC) over the dearth of teachers and a lack of facilities recently, officials said on Sunday. According to a notification issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, medical colleges in Dhanbad, Jamshedpur, Palamau, Dumka and Hazaribagh will recruit faculty members through a walk-in interview. The eligibility criteria for candidates have been set as per the requirements decided by the Medical Council of India (MCI) and NMC, the government notification, The Telegraph Online has a copy of which, stated. The teachers, as per this notification, will be recruited on contract basis for a period of two years, and their contracts will be renewed depending on their performance while teaching in the five medical colleges – Shahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital-Dhanbad, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital-Jamshedpur, Phulo Janho Medical College- Dumka, Medinirai Medical College- Palamau and Sheikh Bhikhari Medical College-Hazaribagh. The state government recently found itself in the crosshairs of the medical fraternity following a decision of the NMC to disallow admission for MBBS courses in three medical colleges in Palamu, Dumka and Hazaribagh. The NMC, after inspection, had put a hold on admissions in these three medical colleges citing a lack of facilities and faculty members. These colleges were set up during the former BJP-led government of Raghubar Das. The NMC’s decision came as a jolt for Jharkhand, a state that is already dealing with a crisis of doctors and healthcare professionals. The Hemant Soren-led government, however, was quick to take measure to address this issue with the chief minister himself asking officials concerned to intervene. The walk-in interview for the 169 vacancies will be held at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi on October 9 and October 10, the government notification stated. The recruitments would be made for as many as 23 departments and vacancies will be reserved for Scheduled Tribe, Scheduled Caste and Backward Caste categories as per the government norms for reservation in jobs. As per the government notifications, candidates recruited on the position of professor will be paid a monthly salary of Rs 2.5 lakh, while those recruited on the position of assistant professors will be paid Rs 2 lakh per month. However, the candidates will not enjoy any other monetary benefits from the government during their service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
03-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand wins 5 medals on final day of national archery meet||Jharkhand finished with 5 medals - 2 gold and 3 silver - on the concluding day of Indian Round (shooting with traditional bows and arrows) in the 40th NTPC Senior National Archery Championship at JRD Tata Sports Complex on Sunday. The pair of Goldi Mishra and Ritu Kumari won gold in mixed team event, edging out Maharashtra's Natasha Abhiman Dumne and All India Petroleum Sports Control Board's (AIPSCB) Huidrom rajpriyari and P Heruba Singh. Jharkhand's quartet of Ritu kumari, Asrita Biruily, Anku Kumari and Dipti Bodra claimed silver in the women's team event as Manipur's Moirangthem Baby Devi, Wangkhem Malesori Devi, Okram Naobi Chanu and Longjam Tomthinnganbi finished on the top. Maharshtra's Natasha Abhiman Dumne, Ojasvi Uday Salve, Tejasweeni Rajendra Shinde and Sakshi Bandu Tathe settled for the bronze. Jharkhand's Anku Kumari picked the second silver in the women's individual event even as Prabin Boro pocketed the gold. Okran Naobi hanu of Manipur managed a bronze. Asrita Biruily had bagged a gold in the women's 50 m distance while Goldi Mishra had won silver in the men's 30 m distance on the opening day on Saturday, taking Jharkhand's medal's tally to 5. Manipur finished with 8 medals 1 gold, as many silver and 6 bronze while AIPSCB won 6 medals - 2 gold, as many silver and bronze. The compound round event will be held on October 5 and 6 and will be followed by Recurve round (Olympic) on October 8 and 9. Tata Steel will celebrate the silver jubilee of the Tata Archery Academy on Monday. The elite cradle was set up to encourage the indigenous talent of local youth. Since 1996, the cradle has successfully nurtured and trained talented youngsters to contribute to the greater glory of the country. The Senior National is of immense importance as the top 16 rank holders in recurve (men and women) and compound (men and women) categories will be picked from the championship for the final trials to be held on October 10 and 11 at Jamshedpur. This will be the basis of the Indian team’s selection for Asian Archery Championship to be held in Dhaka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
03-10-2021||Jharkhand||Low-intensity quake felt in Jharkhand, epicentre at Jagannathpur||Earthquake in Jharkhand A low intensity earthquake measuring 4.1 on the Richter scale hit Jharkhand on Sunday afternoon. The New Delhi -based National Centre for Seismology which keeps a tab on earthquakes confirmed the tremor which took place at 2.22 pm and lasted for about three seconds. Talking to The Telegraph Online the head of IMD's Ranchi Met Centre, Abhishek Anand said, " National Centre for Seismology has confirmed the earthquake which was of low intensity. It caused no damages." According to Anand, the epicentre of the earthquake was at Jagannathpur in neighbouring West Singhbhum, about 110 km away from Jamshedpur and 185km from capital Ranchi. He said the earthquake took place at a depth of 10km under the earth's crust. IMD issues rain and thunder alert India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued an alert of rain accompanied by thunder and lightning in several parts of Jharkhand during the next 48 hours. An alert of heavy rain was also issued for Sahibganj, Godda, Pakur and Dumka till Monday morning. "The heavy moisture left by the recent low pressure area which on Sunday was lying over central Bihar would result in rain accompanied by lightning and thunder activity in several places across Jharkhand during the next two days. A north-south trough was also running across Jharkhand extending up to 4.5 km above mean sea level, " Abhishek Anand, head of IMD's Ranchi Met Centre said on Sunday. He said conditions continued to remain favourable for the southwest monsoon to start retreating from certain parts of northwest India from October 6. Light to moderate rain occurred at isolated places over Jharkhand since Saturday night. The highest amount of rainfall,  23 mm,  was recorded at Sahibganj. The steel city of Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas also experienced moderate rain on Sunday afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
03-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jamtara library project garners popularity across nation||The Jamtara district administration, a district which has garnered attention in recent years due to cyber crime, has developed 118 community libraries in each of the 118 panchayats spread over six blocks. The authorities have renovated dilapidated and unused government buildings where more than 5000 students of government schools and aspirants of various recruitment exams are studying on a regular basis. All the libraries have been adopted by one senior teacher of government school of the respective areas, where government officials and policemen also take regular classes after their duty hours to motivate the students. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Faiz Aq Ahmed Mumtaz, Deputy Commissioner of Jamtara, who is leading the Community Library project launched in November 2019 from Chengaidih Panchayat of Jamtara block said, “Besides the regular classes conducted every day we have arranged for special guidance classes on Wednesday and Sunday during which the government officials including police officers provide tips to the students to crack various competitive exams including Banking, Railway, SSC etc.” “All kinds of books including NCERT text books, competitive exams, General Studies, English, History, magazines and periodicals etc have been made available in all the libraries and books are continuously being donated by various people from different parts of the country through couriers etc,” said Mumtaz who himself takes classes. The library project has helped the students during the pandemic when schools and colleges were closed. They used the facility to carry out self study and also avail the guidance provided by the teachers and other government officials associated with the libraries. “Besides the text books and educational materials for competitive examination we have also made books on cookeries and foods available in order to attract women to the libraries,” said Ahmad and added that the library project of the district has become so popular across the country that administrations of several districts in North Eastern states have also followed the model. Khurshid Ansari, a villager and librarian of the first library established in Chegaidih Panchayat said, “Classes for the school students are conducted every day from 3pm to 5 pm everyday by two local B. Ed degree holders of our village- Wasim Akram and Maqsood Alam- while the aspirants of competitive exams carry out self study during the evening hours from 7pm to 9 pm.” “A lot of changes have taken place in educational environment of the panchayat ever since the establishment of the library on November 20, 2019 as besides the students, even the common villagers also visit to the library to read newspapers which we procure on regular basis,” said Ansari, a college graduate who earns his livelihood through farming on his land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
03-10-2021||Jharkhand||Villagers in Latehar district pool funds for legal battle ||Residents of Piri village in Latehar district of Jharkhand have managed to collect nearly Rs 20,000 in a crowdfunding drive to fight a legal battle against the alleged killing of a villager by security forces on charges of being a Maoist. The legal formalities for filing a petition through a lawyer has been completed and the plea will be filed in the court of the chief judicial magistrate (CJM), Latehar, on Monday. “Everything including an affidavit of petitioner Jiramani Devi (widow of victim Brahmadev Singh) has been completed and the complaint petition would be filed in the court of CJM, Latehar, on Monday. The court will send the complaint to the police station concerned (Garu) for registration and investigation,” said legal counsel Birsa Munda. Residents of Piri in Ghasitola panchayat under Garu block had drafted a letter seeking donations from the villagers (there are nearly 100 households in Piri) and pasted copies of the letter in the government schools and also in the primary health centres and sub-health centres under the panchayat area. They had initially sought to collect Rs 30,000 through donations. “Jiramani Devi had submitted an application with Garu police station on June 29 demanding that an FIR be registered against security forces allegedly responsible for the death of her husband. But it has been over three months and the police are yet to lodge an FIR. Whenever we go to the police station we are threatened of being implicated in cases. We had no option but to approach the court but for that we needed funds to pay for hiring an advocate, cost of documentation and travelling expenses (distance between Piri and Latehar is over 78km),” said Bisweshwar Singh, 55, a landless farmer of Piri. “The FIR is yet to be registered by the police which is a violation of the constitutional right of an individual. The gram sabha has also written to chief minister Hemant Soren asking for action against the security forces for the fake encounter of innocent villagers,” said Siraj Dutta, a member of the Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (a conglomeration of human rights organisations). A team of human rights activists under the aegis of the Mahasabha had visited the village where Bramhadev was shot dead on June 12. The team in its fact-finding report released on June 23 claimed that innocent villagers carrying single-shot country-made guns were taking part in an annual hunting festival when they were fired at by security forces. “The security forces took Bramhadev Singh to the edge of the forest and fired three shots at him, which led to his death,” states the report, a copy of which was also submitted to Latehar deputy commissioner Abu Imran. “The FIR does not mention Bramhadev’s death by the police firing. According to the FIR, this incident was an exchange of fire in which the first shot was fired by the group of armed villagers and some people fled into the forest. The FIR also mentions that Bramhadev’s body was found at the edge of the forest. These statements are contrary to the facts,” the report states. It also says the police have filed a case against six Adivasis, including Bramhadev, under various sections (including the Arms Act). Lal Mohan Singh, secretary of the Akhil Jharkhand Khirwar Jansabha Vikash Parishad, a social outfit helping the villagers, said that they would continue to pool in resources for legal expenses and take the case to its logical conclusion. The CID is currently probing the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
