04-10-2021||India||WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook face global outage||Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram faced a major global outage on Monday evening with thousands of users, including from India, not being able to use these digital platforms.  Facebook owns photosharing platform Instagram and messaging platform WhatsApp.  The outage is estimated to have started around 9 PM IST. Users complained of not being able to use any of the three services.  "We are aware that some people are having trouble accessing our apps and products. We are working to get things back to normal as quickly as possible, and we apologise for any inconvenience," a Facebook spokesperson said.  The company did not specify the reason for the global outage.  A tweet shared by Instagram said: "Instagram and friends are having a little bit of a hard time right now, and you may be having issues using them. Bear with us, we're on it! #instagramdown".  Microblogging platform Twitter was abuzz with tweets about the outage as netizens shared posts and memes about the outage.  India has one of the highest number of users of Facebook as well as its other platforms.  As per government data shared earlier this year, India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 41 crore Facebook users and 21 crore Instagram users. The company said it was aware that some people are having trouble accessing Facebook app and it was working on restoring access. The company did not say what might be causing the outage, which began around 11:45 ET. It is normal for websites and apps to suffer outages, though one on a global scale is rare. Users reported being unable to access Facebook in California, New York and Europe. Facebook is going through a major crisis after the whistleblower who was the source of The Wall Street Journal's series of stories exposing the company's awareness of internal research into the negative effects of its products and decisions went public on 60 Minutes" on Sunday. Frances Haugen was identified in a 60 Minutes interview Sunday as the woman who anonymously filed complaints with federal law enforcement that the company's own research shows how it magnifies hate and misinformation, leads to increased polarization and that Instagram, specifically, can harm teenage girls' mental health. The Journal's stories, called The Facebook Files, painted a picture of a company focused on growth and its own interests instead of the public good. Facebook has tried to play down the research. Nick Clegg, Clegg, the company's vice president of policy and public affairs, wrote to Facebook employees in a memo Friday that social media has had a big impact on society in recent years, and Facebook is often a place where much of this debate plays out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
04-10-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 534 points to close above 59,200||Snapping its four-session losing streak, equity benchmark Sensex rallied 534 points on Monday, led by gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, Infosys and ICICI Bank. The 30-share BSE index ended 533.74 points or 0.91 per cent higher at 59,299.32. Similarly, the NSE Nifty surged 159.20 points or 0.91 per cent to 17,691.25. NTPC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, SBI, Bajaj Finance, Tech Mahindra, Dr Reddy's and Tata Steel. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, HUL, Nestle India, Kotak Bank and Titan were among the laggards. "As we approach the earnings season, indices remained buoyant through the day led by the metals and PSU names with the market breadth exhibiting positive momentum across midcaps and smallcaps," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Privatisation hopes on few metal names fuelled a 3 per cent upmove on the metal index even as select pharmaceutical and speciality chemical stocks saw good buying interest, he said, adding this month is likely to witness almost a dozen companies going public aiming to mop up over Rs 200 billion. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with heavy losses, while Shanghai and Seoul were closed for holidays. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading flat in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude dipped 0.13 per cent to USD 79.38 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
04-10-2021||Business||Adani completes acquisition of SB Energy India for USD 3.5 billion||Adani Green Energy Ltd (AGEL) on Monday said it has completed the acquisition of SB Energy India for USD 3.5 billion (Rs 26,000 crore). "AGEL, the world's largest solar power developer, successfully completed the acquisition of SB Energy Holdings Ltd (SB Energy India) in an all-cash deal for which definitive agreements were signed on May 18, 2021," a company statement said. With this deal, SB Energy India is now a 100 per cent subsidiary of AGEL. Earlier, it was a 80:20 joint venture between Japan-based SoftBank Group Corp and Bharti Group. The transaction pegs SB Energy India at an enterprise valuation of USD 3.5 billion (approximately Rs 26,000 crore) and marks the largest acquisition in the renewable energy sector in India, it stated. Just last week, Adani Group Chairman Gautam Adani had announced that the group would invest over USD 20 billion over the next 10 years in renewable energy generation. This transaction takes AGEL closer to becoming the global leader in renewables, said Vneet S Jaain, MD and CEO, AGEL in the statement. The addition of these high-quality large utility-scale assets from SB Energy India demonstrates Adani Green Energy's intent to accelerate India's efforts to transition towards a carbon neutral future. Our renewable energy foundations will enable an entire ecosystem of new industries that can be expected to catalyse job creation in multiple sectors, he noted. SB Energy India has 5 GW renewable assets across four states in India through its SPVs. The portfolio holds 1,700 MW of operational renewable assets, 2,554 MW of assets under construction and 700 MW of assets near construction. Solar capacity accounts for 84 per cent of the portfolio (4,180 MW), wind-solar hybrid capacity accounts for 9 per cent (450 MW) and wind capacity accounts for 7 per cent (324 MW). Split across 15 projects with an average project size of 330 MW, this is one of India's highest quality renewable portfolios, with many of the assets being solar park-based projects and constructed using best-in-class governance, project development, construction and operations and maintenance standards. The value-accretive acquisition boosts AGEL's operational portfolio to 5.4 GW and its overall portfolio to 19.8 GW implying a 4x growth locked-in, the company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
04-10-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 350 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 350 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank. After surging to 59,156.62 in the opening session, the 30-share Sensex was trading 340.95 points or 0.58 per cent higher at 59,106.53. Similarly, the Nifty rose 98.40 points or 0.56 per cent to 17,630.45. Bharti Airtel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's, SBI, Bajaj Finserv, Sun Pharma and HDFC. On the other hand, Tata Steel, Nestle India, HUL, Titan and PowerGrid were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 360.78 points or 0.61 per cent lower at 58,765.58, and Nifty declined 86.10 points or 0.49 per cent to 17,532.05. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 131.39 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, the dollar index slipping to 94.05 and the US 10-year yield slipping below 1.5 per cent can be interpreted as indicative of return of risk-on in equity markets. However, news from China can turn out to be a drag. China is trying to limit the damage to its real estate sector without bailing out Evergrande, he said, adding that an inevitable consequence will be a slowdown of the Chinese economy which will have implications for commodity prices and currencies of commodity exporters. "Back home, India's exports are booming and are in line to touch the USD 400 billion mark in FY22," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with heavy losses, while Shanghai and Seoul were closed for holidays. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.30 per cent to USD 79.04 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
04-10-2021||Business||Coal ministry planning scheme to permit coal block allottees to surrender mines ||The coal ministry is planning to come up with a scheme to permit coal block allottees to surrender mines that they are not in a position to develop because of technical reasons. The proposed scheme will allow the surrender of blocks without the imposition of financial penalty or penalty on a merit basis after examining the proposal by a scrutiny committee. “To expedite production from allocated coal blocks and for ease of doing business, a scheme will be prepared to allow the surrender of coal blocks to those allocattees where the present allocattee is not in a position to develop the coal block due to technical reasons,” according to the coal ministry’s agenda for 2021-22. Coal blocks surrendered under this scheme will immediately be offered for auction for commercial mining for putting the block to production early. The move would help to boost the production of coal from the mines allocated through auction route. In another step to meet the increased demand for coal in the country, a scheme is being formulated to allow allottees to sell up to 50 per cent of the produced fuel after meeting its captive needs, the coal ministry said. The incentive to allottees will spur them to produce more coal and sell in the market. India’s total coal production registered a marginal  decline of 2.02 per cent to 716  million tonnes(mt) during the last fiscal year. The country had produced 731mt of coal in 2019-20, according provisional statistics of 2020-21 of the coal ministry. Of the total coal production, 671.29mt was non-coking coal and the remaining44.78mt was coking coal. The public sector produced 685.951mt while the remaining 30.133mt was produced by the private sector. State-owned CIL’s coal production registered a marginal rise to 40.7 million tonnes in September. The development assumes significance in the wake of country’s power plants grappling with coal shortages. Coal India Ltd’s (CIL) production had stood at 40.5 million tonnes(mt) in September 2020, according to a BSE filing. CIL’s production in the April-September 2021 period increased 5.8 per cent to 249.8mt, compared with 236mt in the year-ago period, the filing  said. The company’s offtake also increased to 48.3 mt last month, over 46.7mt in the corresponding month of the previous financial year, it added. Its offtake in the April-September 2021 period also increased to 307.7mt over 255.1mt in the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
04-10-2021||Business||LIC likely to file IPO papers by November||The country’s largest insurer LIC is likely to file draft papers with Sebi by November for the largest IPO in the country’s history, a finance ministry official has said. “We target to bring the IPO within this fiscal and we have set strict timelines. The DRHP would be filed by November,” the official said. The government last month appointed 10 merchant bankers, including Goldman Sachs (India) Securities Pvt Ltd, Citigroup Global Markets India Pvt Ltd and Nomura Financial Advisory and Securities (India) Pvt Ltd to manage the mega initial public offering of country’s largest insurer LIC. Other selected bankers include SBI Capital Market Ltd, JM Financial Ltd, Axis Capital Ltd, BofA Securities, J P Morgan India Pvt Ltd, ICICI Securities Ltd, and Kotak Mahindra Capital Co Ltd. Once the draft red herring prospectus is filed, merchant bankers will hold global and domestic road shows for investors by January, the official said. Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas has been appointed as legal advisor for the IPO. The government is aiming to list the insurance behemoth within the current financial year ending March. The ministry is in the process of estimating the embedded value of the life insurer and once that is done the ministerial panel on disinvestment will decide on the government stake that will be divested through IPO, the official said. The government has appointed actuarial firm Milliman Advisors LLP India to compute the embedded value of LIC ahead of the initial public offering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
04-10-2021||Business||Furnishing retailer HomeTown to expand in Calcutta||Home furnishing retailer HomeTown is looking to expand in Calcutta. The expansion is part of the company’s plan to open 100 stores in the next 3 years. HomeTown is owned and operated by Praxis Home Retail Limited, an independent listed entity following the demerger from Future Retail in 2017. “The expansion will be majorly in tier 2 cities and also tier 1 cities. We have 11 stores in the east and 4 in Calcutta and we are planning at least a couple more in Calcutta. We will be adding more stores in Patna, Ranchi and Raipur where we already have stores,” said Mahesh Shah, managing director HomeTown. He added that the company is scouting for locations which are expected to be finalised soon. HomeTown at present has 44 stores across the country spread over 8.42 lakh square feet of retail space in 28 cities. According to the annual report of Praxis, the company clocked a turnover of Rs 703.72 crore for the year ended March 31, 2020 which came down to Rs 378.67 crore for the year ended March 31, 2021 as business was affected by the pandemic. The company however hopes to make a quick recovery, with its retail store expansion being supported by e-commerce sales. Shah said that the home improvement market has shot up globally driven by the pandemic and the same trend is also seen in India with the demand for study tables, home office furniture, garden furniture, balcony furniture going up. Demand for furnishing has also gone up with people seeking largers spaces for work-from-home purposes. “It’s about how we ensure that the customer gets what they want. We have started looking at digital as an important medium. Our ecommerce sales have grown to 17 percent of total turnover and we are growing every quarter,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
04-10-2021||Business||Maruti virtual car assistant app for repairs||Maruti Suzuki India Limited is witnessing a surge in maintenance at its service stations with the number of vehicles coming for servicing and repairs up 22 per cent in the second quarter of the fiscal compared with the corresponding quarter two-years ago, which is before the pandemic. The pandemic had led to a drop in servicing but as the lockdowns ceased there was a progressive increase on this count, though it was below pre-pandemic levels. “Now we are seeing not just a growth in servicing jobs as compared to last year, it is growing more than the pre-pandemic levels,” said Partho Banerjee, senior executive director, service, MSIL. The company is now introducing digitisation of its servicing process by launching a virtual car assistant app called S-Assist for its Nexa customers. “The scan and voice-enabled virtual car assistant, S-Assist, optimises the application of artificial intelligence and machine learning to provide an online post-purchase experience to customers,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
04-10-2021||Business||Toyota will use facilities of the now discontinued Yaris to make newer cars||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) will use the facilities of the now discontinued Yaris to make newer cars. Last week, the company stopped the sales of Yaris. Toyota manufactured the Yaris along with the Camry Hybrid in its second plant at Bidadi which has an annual capacity of 2.10 lakh units. The first plant manufactures the Innova and Fortuner and has capacity of 1 lakh units. The company is preparing to launch new products in 2022 which will be manufactured in its second plant that is now available for modification, said Naveen Soni, senior vice-president,TKM. Asked about the performance of the Yaris in the Indian market, Soni said: “It was well received but the market shifted to the SUV segment from the sedan segment. The demand for executive or compact sedan lessened over the years.” He said there was a possibility of a new SUV being manufactured from the Yaris facility after modifying the assembly line.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
04-10-2021||Business||Uco Bank to get new managing director||The government is considering appointing Soma Sankara Prasad, the deputy managing director of State Bank of India, as managing director of Calcutta-based Uco Bank. The Banks Board Bureau (BBB) has suggested the name of Uco Bank managing director Atul Kumar Goel for heading Punjab National Bank as MD. The managing director position of PNB will fall vacant after the superannuation of S.S. Mallikarjuna Rao in January. According to sources, since Prasad was in the reserve list when the interview for the appointment for the managing director of Indian Bank took place earlier this year, he has been recommended to head Uco Bank subject to various clearances including vigilance. The final view in this  regard would be taken by the appointments committee of the cabinet (ACC) headed by the Prime Minister, sources said. The BBB, the headhunter for state-owned banks and financial institutions, in May had conducted interviews for the position of MD of Indian Bank. Post interview, Shanti  Lal Jain was recommended for the post while Prasad was the candidate on the reserve list. Last month, the RBI removed Uco from its prompt corrective action framework following improvement on various counts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
04-10-2021||Business||Retrospective tax row in mining||The decision to retrospectively raise the GST rates on royalty for mineral exploration and licence fees for mining rights is expected to face  a legal challenge. The GST Council has proposed to increase the rates retrospectively from July 2017 to 18 per cent from 5 per cent on these two counts. The royalty and licence fees are collected  by the states. Sources said mining and steel companies were in touch with legal consultants to challenge the council’s decision. “This seems to be a retrospective alteration in law which is issued by way of clarification, imposing a significant tax burden on several steel manufacturers and coal mining companies for the past period. These tax demands will be loaded with interest and penalties, leading to a sunk cost pushing up the commodity prices,” Rajat Mohan, senior partner, AMRG Associates, said. The GST Council has increased the GST on ores and concentrates of metals such as iron, copper, aluminum, zinc and a few others to 18 per cent from 5 per cent. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said a correction in the inverted duty structure would help the industry. An inverted duty structure occurs when tax on inputs exceeds that of the output. Kalpesh Shah, senior partner, Lakshmikumaran & Sridharan Attorneys, said there was an ongoing controversy regarding the nature of the royalty payable by a mining licensee to the government. The question whether such royalty is in the nature of a tax  has been referred to a larger nine- judge bench of the Supreme Court. If the bench considers the royalty as a tax, the council can’t impose GST. Pending a decision, if royalty is regarded as charges for the grant of a mining license, it may qualify as a service and would be levied  GST. “There is also a dispute regarding the applicable rate of tax on such mining royalty. Prior to 01.01.2019, the rate notification did not specifically provide for the applicable rate of tax on royalty. As per the residual entry in the rate notification, GST was payable at the same rate of tax as applicable to the underlying mineral which could be less than 18 per cent,” Shah said. However, the GST Council has proceeded to recommend a tax of 18 per cent with effect from July 1, 2017, at its 45th meeting last month. “Such a clarification would effectively amount to giving retrospective effect to the amendment  prescribing 18 per cent as the rate of tax on royalty, which otherwise was meant to come into effect only from 01.01.2019,” Shah said. “Further, even if ITC (input tax credit) is allowed to be availed of such GST paid on royalty, there may be credit accumulation in the hands of various companies, thus impacting their cash flow position,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
04-10-2021||Business||City gas distribution companies unfazed by threat from electric vehicles||City gas distribution companies are not fazed by the threat from electric vehicles (EVs). Vehicles using compressed natural gas (CNG) are expected to remain popular with commercial users over the medium term. Although recent data has shown growing interest among car aficionados for EVs, analysts at HSBC believe that the slow shift toward the latest technology will not affect the CGD firms for whom CNG sales remains a major revenue source. The other key contributor to their topline is piped natural gas (PNG). “Of course, there will be competition from newly-launched EVs which may seem greener. But most CNG vehicles are used for commercial operations which means economics and infrastructure are far more important decision drivers. The economics of CNG vehicles in terms of upfront costs, availability of finance, resale value, choice of models and infrastructure in terms of refuelling/charging infrastructure, repair and maintenance is far superior to EVs in the medium term,” they said in a report. According to the brokerage, India’s CNG vehicle sales have grown at a compounded annual growth rate of by 8.3 per cent over the past seven years. As a result, CNG vehicles account for around 6 per cent of all vehicle registrations, up from 4.5 per cent in 2011. The CGD players are expected to expand their operations to cover an estimated 70 per cent of the population and this is only expected to buttress demand for CNG vehicles. Last month, the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) — the regulator for the downstream sector — invited bids for city gas retailing licences in 65 geographical areas in the 11th licensing round. In the previous round, 50 GAs were authorised for the development of the CGD network. The government has been pushing for the expansion of the city gas network as part of a plan to raise the share of natural gas in the country's energy basket to 15 per cent by 2030 from the current 6.3 per cent. The HSBC analysts, who also compared the economics of CNG with EV and other fuels, said CNG was still attractive at current EV prices even if one accounts for the total cost of ownership. “While we believe personal vehicle owners may still prefer EV over other fuels, we think CNG will find itself as a preferred alternative for commercial vehicles which run constantly and need quick refuelling,”, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
04-10-2021||Business||Adani group set to enter Bengal’s maritime sector||The Adani group, India’s largest integrated port and logistic operator, is all set to enter Bengal’s maritime sector. The Gujarat-based industrial house, led by chairman and managing director Gautam Adani, has emerged as the top bidder for the rights to operate a berth at Haldia Dock Complex. The scope of work includes the provision of end-to-end mechanisation at the berth which must be ready in two years from the date that the port authorities award the contract. It will entail an investment of Rs 300 crore. The berth will be capable of handling cargo of close to 3.5- 4 million tonnes per annum. If everything goes according to the plan, this could mark Adani Group’s foray into the port and shipping arena in this state and will further consolidate its dominance in the port sector. The group’s port business is run by Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Limited (APSEZ). The company’s website claims that it is the largest commercial port operator in India accounting for nearly one-fourth of cargo movement in the country. It has a presence across 13 domestic ports in seven maritime states of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Odisha. Bengal will be added to the list when this project materialises. Vinit Kumar, chairman of Shyama Prasad Mukherjee (SMP), Calcutta, which manages port operations at Calcutta and Haldia, confirmed that Adani had emerged as the highest bidder for the end-to-end mechanisation of berth number 2 at Haldia. The concession will be given for 30 years as per terms of the tender, he added. The project will be part of the National Infrastructure Pipeline, launched by the Narendra Modi government in 2019, whereby opportunities in at least nine infrastructure verticals — roads and bridges, railway track, port among others — will be identified and developed in partnership with the private sector. Adani also features among a clutch of shortlisted bidders to operate a berth in the Calcutta Dock System, Kumar informed. The company did notcomment on the developments. Shipping industry sources say the entry of India’s largest port operator, owned by Asia’s second richest man, may change the dynamics of cargo handling business at Haldia, which handles coal, iron ore and petroleum products more than any other cargo. Local players have so far controlled the majority of the trade with an iron fist, staving off challenges from pan-India businesses. “A presence in Haldia will further consolidate their strength on the east coast of India, where it has a string of ports and terminals. It will also aid in their coal trading business,” said a shipping industry official who is aware of the development. In 2012, the ABG Group had to leave Haldia under questionable circumstances after it failed to operate a terminal at Haldia, blaming entrenched players who had political patronage. Many believe that Gautam Adani, who is perceived to be close to the ruling party at the Centre, will be a different kettle of fish, though. Besides Dhamra in Odisha which is the closest port to Haldia, Adani owns and operates Gangavaram and Krishnapatnam ports in Andhra Pradesh and Kattupalli Port, north of Chennai in Tamil Nadu. It operates terminals at the government-run Ennore and Vizag Ports — just as it plans to do at Haldia and Calcutta. The company has 335mt annual capacity on the West coast and 227mt capacity on the East coast. The company is aiming to achieve a cargo handling capacity of 350-360mt cargo in 2021-22, an increase of 45 per cent over the previous year. The move to introduce end-to-end mechanisation will make the Haldia terminal the most efficient berth. Cargo will be unloaded by mobile harbour cranes to a conveyor belt to the stockyard. A stacker-reclaimer will be used to lift the cargo on to another conveyor  which will take the material to a rapid loading system. With the help of this rapid loading system, which is being introduced for the first time in Haldia, an entire railway rake can be loaded in two hours flat. At present, dumpers are used to load the rakes. The Adani Group has been steadily building its presence in Bengal. It operates an edible oil plant under Adani Wilmar at Haldia. It has also won the rights to distribute city gas in partnership with Indian Oil Corporation in Burdwan district. Moreover, an infrastructure arm of the conglomerate has been awarded expansion of the Durgapur — Pulsit stretch of National Highway to six lanes. At a time the Mamata Banerjee-government is  trying to build a greenfield port at Tajpur, not too far  from Haldia, the interest shown by India’s largest port operator may be seen as positive for the future development of the state’s maritime sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
04-10-2021||Business||Betting on the index||After you finish reading your morning newspaper and drinking your cup of tea, take a minute to check the list of NFOs (New Fund Offers) that Sebi updates regularly. Among the things that you would no doubt notice is the sheer prevalence — some might call it predominance — of index funds and their exchange-traded counterparts. In what underlines a marked change in the overall investing habits of ordinary Indians, index-based allocations are now the rage, thanks to the willingness displayed by asset management companies to roll out contemporary products. Habits perfected over decades (read: choosing actively managed funds with a view to beat the markets) seem ready to be replaced by a serious preference for passively managed funds. The modern investor in India, it seems, is now all set to join his cousin in other markets, especially those where ETFs are the standard bearers. Local fund houses have chosen a range of new indices to design their latest offerings — which implies that the old-style Nifty and Sensex have given way to all manners of other indices. The latter are both broadbased and sectoral. Fund of Funds (FoFs) structured on the basis of international markets too are appearing in the securities regulator’s updated lists quite frequently. Clearly, the smart indexer wants to choose from among an array of products, bearing different flavours, both domestic and international. Nifty and Sensex, in comparison, are limited to just 50 and 30 stocks, respectively. The market is far wider, far broader than just a handful of counters — although it could be convincingly argued that these are indeed the most significant ones in the listed universe. The use of indices in the Indian market is surely on the rise, as recent trends suggest. A larger section of investors is convinced that passively managed funds would be able to deliver sustainable returns over a stretch of time. Beating the benchmark is a constant challenge for an active manager; for the latter, securing “alpha” across all market cycles remains a relentless exercise. The objective is certainly not easy to attain. A passive fund, on the other hand, is a lot different. There is no attempt to beat the index; the rationale revolves around mirroring it as perfectly and efficiently as possible. The biggest task of the contemporary investor, therefore, is to choose the correct index fund/ETF. If he misjudges — especially if the selection happens to be a sector-specific index —the result would be evident. There could well be an adverse impact on his overall portfolio. This would also be particularly true in case of international indices, which are terra incognita for the average Indian. Indices chosen by fund houses can range from the well-known to the relatively-unknown. I have found out that the benchmark could be absolutely customised too. The newly-proposed Tata New Age Digital ETF is an example. As the offer document points out, this has been designed to track a bespoke index made up of “companies benefitting from digital transformation and new age technology”. For the record, such companies could include players engaged in online shopping, food delivery, gaming, fintech and cloud computing. Quite an array of contemporary businesses, I must add. The acceptance and the eventual popularity of index-based funds would trigger a greater awareness of a critical element: tracking error. As the basket of choice gets broader, tracking error is expected to be monitored very closely. As readers would no doubt know, this is a measure of the difference in returns delivered by a fund and that provided by the index. Tracking error, at the end of the day, is a computation —the standard deviation of the difference between the daily returns of the underlying benchmark and the NAV of the fund, on an annualised basis. So if you are an enthusiast waiting to allocate more in index funds/ETFs, here are a few questions for you Additionally, a number of secondary issues would be considered important in this context. Changes made by the index service provider, evident in the removal and addition of stocks, would be a significant matter for the fund manager. Similarly, transaction-related costs would act as a spoiler; any increase in the same would lead to an impact on the returns. Finally, delays in realisation of investors’ funds would have to be monitored as these too are an adverse influence. As the investing public’s interest in indices grows, the market would turn towards greater variety. I foresee the arrival of newer categories of funds. Indeed, boutique investment houses, driven by fintech and dedicated entirely to indexing, may also emerge in the days ahead. Many of the new-generation products would be based on indices that are not so popular yet. And some of these would surely emerge as powerful influencers, garnering a bigger share of allocations. Into the heaven of indexing, let the market awake! The writer is director, Wishlist Capital advisors Source: Sebi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Ajay Mishra telling farmers to discipline' them in purported video angered them||A purported video of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra in which he is heard telling farmers that he would discipline them in "two minutes" appears to have angered them even before Sunday's violent clashes in Lakhimpur Kheri. "Face me, it will take just two minutes to discipline you fellows," the two-time BJP MP from Kheri is heard purportedly saying in the video, which had gone viral on social media before Sunday. "I am not only a minister or an MP and MLA... People who know me even before I became a parliamentarian know that I never run away from taking on challenges. The day I accept a challenge you all will have to leave not only Palia (a local place in the district) but Lakhimpur itself," Mishra is heard saying further in the video. BSP president Mayawati on Monday took strong exception to Misra's purported statement and she alleged that it only reflects the dictatorial tendency of the ruling party. In a tweet in Hindi, the BSP president said, After the Union Minister of State for Home threatened farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri district to see them in two minutes, eight people died in a widespread violence there and in the meantime, such a disgusting statement of the CM of Haryana is a blatant anti-people statement and proves the dictatorial tendencies of the BJP government. Mayawati also referred to the Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's "tit for tat" remark during a meeting of the BJP's Kisan Morcha in Chandigarh on Sunday. The video of Haryana CM Khattar giving provocative instructions to BJP workers to go to jail and become leaders by giving a tit for tat reply to agitating farmers with sticks has gone viral. Any amount of condemnation of this statement of the CM instigating violence will be less, the BSP president further said in her tweet. According to sources, Ajay Kumar Mishra's speech came after some farmers showed him black flags in Palia locality in his Kheri Parliamentary constituency where he had gone to address a public meeting there late last month. Farmers have been up in arms against him since then and the violence, resulting in eight deaths, erupted during the farmers' protest against the visit of Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya in Mishra's native village Banbirpur on Sunday, they said. Local farmer leader Gurmit Singh told a TV channel that on September 25, members of Krantikari Kisan Union and Bhartiya Kisan Union had shown black flags to Mishra following which the minister had threatened to deal with them. He said upon coming to know about Maurya's programme, the farmers sat on a peaceful dharna near the helipad where he was scheduled to arrive. When the farmers came to know that Maurya was coming by road, the farmers stood in protest at a three km stretch on his travel route in the course of which the dastardly incident happened the previous day, he added. Singh alleged that Mishra's son and his supporters "trampled farmers to death under the wheels of their SUVs". Farmer leaders had claimed that the minister's son Ashish Mishra was in one of the cars which allegedly knocked down some protesters who were opposing the deputy CM's visit. Ajay Mishra said he and his son were not present at the spot as alleged by some farmer leaders and he has the photographs and video clips to prove it. Ajay Mishra has also claimed that extremist organisations like the Babbar Khalsa have infiltrated the farmers' protest. An FIR has been registered against Ashish Mishra and others in connection with the incident. Some criminal cases including that of murder were lodged against 61-year-old Ajay Mishra in the past but he was cleared by the court from the murder allegation. Starting his political innings as a panchayat member, Ajay Kumar Mishra was elected as a BJP MLA from the Vidhasan assembly seat in Lakhimpur Kheri district in 2012. The party nominated him for the 2014 Lok Sabha polls from the Kheri seat which he won then and also in the last parliamentary election in 2019. He was inducted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi into his Cabinet last July and given a key berth as the Minister of state for Home. The saffron party projected him as a prominent Brahmin leader and organised several public meetings for him to drum up Brahmins' support in the upcoming state assembly election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
04-10-2021||India||BJP picks Yeddiyurappa's son Vijayendra in bypolls team after dropping him initially||Hours after former Chief Minister B.S. Yeddyurappa's son and Karnataka BJP Vice President B.Y. Vijayendra appealed to his followers to refrain from expressing anger against his non-inclusion in the list of in-charges for the October 30 bypolls, the party on Monday picked him in the team for the Hangal assembly segment. The bypolls for Sindgi and Hangal assembly segments will be held on October 30 and counting of votes will be taken up on November 2. "Some of our Karyakarthas have expressed their anger and anguish about my non-inclusion in the list of in-charge for Sindgi & Hanagal by-elections. My appeal to them: please refrain from making comments that embarrass our party, leaders, or me," Vijayendra tweeted. He said, "As the Karnataka BJP Vice President, I will actively campaign for the party candidates in both constituencies. Let us focus all our energies on ensuring victory in both the seats and further strengthen the party." Vijayendra's name did not figure in the group of in-charges announced by the party on October 1. He is in the revised list released on Monday as in-charge for Hangal. Vijayendra is among the 13 in-charges for Hangal seat that include Ministers Murugesh Nirani, J C Madhuswamy, B C Patil, Shivaram Hebbar, and Member of Parliament Shivakumar Udasi. The In-charges for Sindgi seat include Ministers Govind Karjol, V Somanna, C C Patil and Shashikala Jolle. The by-elections have been necessitated as they fell vacant following the death of JD(S) legislator M C Manguli in Sindgi and BJP's C M Udasi in Hangal. According to sources, the list of probable candidates for Hangal assembly segment include Revati Udasi, daughter-in-law of late former MLA C M Udasi and wife of Haveri-Gadag MP Shivakumar Udasi, Kalyan Kumar Shettar, and Shivaraj Sajjanar. Names doing the rounds for Sindgi seat include Ramesh Bhusanur, who had contested from BJP in 2018, Ashok Allapura, Shambulinga Kakkalameli, Siddu Biradar and Sanganagouda Patil. Vijayendra, who played a key role for BJP's victory in earlier bypolls to K R Pet and Sira assembly segments, was earlier speculated in some quarters as a probable candidate from Hangal. The JD(S) has already named Shakeel Ahmed Angadi and Niyaz Shaikh as its candidates for the Sindgi and Hangal assembly seats. The Congress has finalised M C Managuli's son Ashok Managuli, who has joined the party, as its candidate from Sindgi, and according to sources, former MLC Srinivas Mane is likely to be its candidate from Hangal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
04-10-2021||India||Cruise ship raid: Mumbai court extends NCB custody of Aryan Khan, 2 others till Oct 7||A local court on Monday extended till October 7 the NCB remand of Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, although his lawyer pointed out that no drugs had been found on the 23-year-old. The NCB had on Monday sought further custody of Aryan, Munmun Dhamecha and Arbaaz Merchant till October 11. Opposing the extension of custody, Aryan’s advocate Satish Maneshinde argued that his client had no criminal antecedents. Maneshinde claimed no drugs were recovered from Aryan’s possession. “Nothing incriminating was recovered from Aryan Khan except his mobile phone. His friend (Arbaaz) was arrested because he had six grams of charas, but that has nothing to do with my client (Aryan),” Maneshinde argued. Additional chief metropolitan magistrate R.M. Nerlikar on Monday sought to know from the NCB how much drug seizure was made from each of the accused. Additional solicitor-general Anil Singh, appearing for the NCB, replied that six grams of charas was seized from Arbaaz, while five grams of cannabis was recovered from Munmun. All these are considered as “small quantity” under the NDPS Act. Singh told the court that incriminating material was found through WhatsApp chats of the arrested accused, including Aryan, with drug peddlers and suppliers. “One cannot say that just because he or she is found with a small quantity, they are entitled to bail,” Singh argued. The court on Monday extended the custody of the trio and six others arrested in the case till October 7. The court, in its order, noted that the investigation in the case was of prime importance and considering this aspect, the further presence of the accused before the NCB was necessary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
04-10-2021||India||Centre extends credit guarantee scheme for stressed MSMEs till March 31||The government has extended the Credit Guarantee Scheme for Subordinate Debt (CGSSD) for stressed MSMEs till March 31, 2022. The scheme was approved by the government on June 1, 2020. It was launched on June 24 the same year to provide credit facility through lending institutions to the promoters of stressed MSMEs. "On the basis of the requests received from the stakeholders of the scheme, the Government has decided to further extend it by a period of another six months beyond 30.09.2021. The scheme will now remain operational till 31.03.2022," the MSME ministry said on Monday. In a separate statement, the ministry said Khadi product sales on Gandhi Jayanti crossed Rs 1 crore at Delhi's flagship Khadi India outlet in Connaught Place. "On 2nd October, the overall sale of Khadi products was recorded at Rs 1.02 crore," it said. It added that in the Covid era, there has been a manifold rise in the demand of eco-friendly and herbal products and Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) is constantly adding new products to cater to the larger consumer base.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
04-10-2021||India||Supreme Court seeks replies of 43 farmers' organisations on plea of Haryana govt||The Supreme Court on Monday sought responses from 43 farmers' bodies and their leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, Darshan Pal and Gurnam Singh who are leading protests at Delhi borders against the farm laws, on Haryana government's plea alleging that they have not been participating in talks with its panel to resolve the impasse over road blockade here. Haryana has moved the application in the PIL filed by a Noida-resident Monicca Agrawaal who has sought removal of blockade saying that earlier it took 20 minutes to reach Delhi and now it is taking over two hours and people of the area are facing hardships due to protests at the UP Gate on Delhi border. Issue notice, Dasti (through messenger) as well, a bench comprising Justices S.K. Kaul and M.M. Sundresh said while taking note of the plea. Mr Mehta (Solicitor General Tushar Mehta), you have made around 43 persons as parties. How will you serve them, the bench asked. Mehta said the farm leaders are necessary parties in the matter and he will ensure serving of notice on them and sought hearing of the plea on Friday, that is October 8. Mehta, representing the state, said that Haryana has set up a panel for holding talks with the protesting farm leaders who have refused to take part in talks intended to resolve the issue. Let notice be issued so that they do not say that they had no reason to come," he submitted. The bench has now posted the matter for further hearing on October 20. Haryana, in its plea, said that the state level panel was set up by it on September 15, 2021 to hold discussions with the farmers' bodies but they refused to come forward for talks on September 19. "The Dharna on Sindu Border and Tikri Border is being organized by Sanyukt Kisan Morcha which is a body of number of Kisan Unions and the name of the parties for impleadment mentioned herein above are the office bearer/workers of various Kisan Unions therefore, are the necessary party to resolve the issue", the plea said. The bench had in an earlier hearing wondered by saying that how can highways be blocked perpetually. "The redressal of problems can be through judicial forum, agitation or through Parliamentary debates. But how can the highways be blocked and this is happening perpetually. Where does this end, it had asked. It had also asked the Centre what was the government was doing in the matter. The Centre had said that it had convened a meeting with the protesting farmers and details have been mentioned in the affidavit. Mehta had the said the court should allow the petitioner to make the farmers union party to the petition, so that later they don't say that they were not made parties in the matter. The bench had told Mehta that it is he who will have to move an application for making farmers representative party as the petitioner, a private individual may not know who their leaders are. On August 23, the top court had said that the Centre and Delhi's neighbouring states should find a solution to road blockades on the national capital's borders due to farmers' protest. It had told the Centre why the government can't find a solution to this problem as though farmers have the right to protest but at the designated places and due to the protests, inflow and outflow of traffic cannot be disrupted. The top court had said that this will have an impact on toll collection as well because vehicles will not be able to pass through due to the blockades. It had then ordered, Solution lies in the hands of the Union of India and the concerned state governments. They have to coordinate to find a solution that when a protest takes place, roads are not blocked and traffic is not disrupted to cause inconvenience to the common people . On March 26, the top court had issued notice to Uttar Pradesh and Haryana on the plea. The Uttar Pradesh government has said in its affidavit that continuous efforts are being made to remove the blockade at the Delhi-UP border and there at present about 141 tents and 31 langars' around the area, and the protestors have installed a platform on the flyover from where the leaders give speeches, a media house has also been made below the flyover. Similarly, the Haryana government also told the top court that protesters staging 'dharna' at Singhu border have been camping on about 6 kilometres stretch of lanes of NH-44 since November 27, last year. The farmers are protesting against passage of three laws-Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020. Initially, the protests started from Punjab in November last year and later spread to Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and some other parts of the country. The three new farm laws have already been stayed, the Supreme Court said on Monday and asked a farmers' body what is it protesting against when these legislations are not in place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Priyanka Gandhi on 'hunger strike' following detention||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra sat on a hunger strike on Monday after being detained in Uttar Pradesh's Sitapur while she was en route to Lakhimpur Kheri, her party said. Gandhi and other Congress leaders accompanying her, including Deepender Hooda, had reached the Lakhimpur border in the morning but were not allowed to meet the families of the farmers who died in the violence during a protest a day earlier, the party alleged. "Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi has been arrested. She is on hunger strike. Congressmen are protesting. The government will have to bow to our demands. Voice for justice will be raised with more strength," the UP Congress said in a tweet. In a video released by the party, Gandhi was seen sweeping the floor of a room where she was apparently kept. Stopping them in such a way is "undemocratic", Congress state president Ajay Kumar Lallu told PTI. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. On their way to the violence-hit district, Congress leaders had to take alternative routes to reach the bordering Hargaon area in Sitapur as heavy security was deployed on the main roads. "We are waiting outside Lakhimpur Kheri. We have been prevented by the police from entering. We have come here to meet the victims of the violence," Congress national secretary Dheeraj Gurjar told PTI over the phone at 4.30 am. Gandhi's convoy was earlier briefly stopped by Uttar Pradesh Police officials in Lucknow, where the Congress general secretary had arrived on Sunday night, within a few hours of violence being reported during an anti-farm laws protest here. Mobile internet services have been suspended in parts of Lakhimpur district, where restrictions under CrPC section 144 -- which prohibits assembly of four or more people -- has also been imposed, according to officials. The UP Police took to Twitter early Monday to describe the incident as "unfortunate" and said eight casualties have been reported so far as per the district administration. "ADG LO, ACS Agriculture, IG Range & Commissioner are on the spot & situation is under control. Adequate deployment has been done to prevent any untoward incident," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
04-10-2021||India||Farmers end agitation in UP after state govt promises to compensate||The farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri, who have been protesting over yesterday's deaths, have reached an understanding with the government and called off the protest, reported NDTV.com. The announcement came after  the Uttar Pradesh government announced that a retired High Court judge will probe the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and that it will give Rs 45 lakh compensation to the families of the four farmers killed in the incident. The government will also give Rs 10 lakh to those injured in the violence, said Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Awasthi. "An agreement has been reached with the farmers. The government will give Rs 45 lakh to the family members of the four farmers who were killed in the violence on Sunday. Besides, one member from their families will be given a government job at the local level," he said. "The government will give Rs 10 lakh to the injured and get the incident probed by a retired High Court judge," he said. Eight people were killed on Sunday in the violence that erupted during a farmers' protest in Lakhimpur Kheri ahead of a visit by Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Farmers and BJP workers were among those killed. Two SUVs were set on fire by angry farmers in the clash near Banbirpur. Two FIRs have been registered in connection with the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
04-10-2021||India||No state should deny Rs 50,000 ex-gratia to kin of those who lost lives to Covid, says SC||The Supreme Court Monday said no state should deny the ex-gratia compensation of Rs 50,000, as recommended by National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), to the kin of persons who died of COVID-19 on the sole ground that the death certificate does not mention it as the cause of death. The bench said that the compensation would be disbursed from state disaster relief funds within 30 days of submitting the application and cause of death is certified as of COVID-19. It also ordered the states and the Centre to give wide publicity to the scheme in print media and electronic media. Approving the NDMA guidelines, a bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna said that in cases of death certificates already issued and a family member being aggrieved it would be open for them to approach appropriate authority. On production of essential documents like RTPCR test, the concerned authorities can modify death certificates, the apex court said, adding that if still aggrieved, the members can approach the Grievance Redressal Committee. "No states shall deny ex gratia on ground that in death certificate cause of death is not mentioned that 'died due to COVID'," the bench said. The top court also ordered that the Grievance Redressal Committee can examine medical records of deceased patients and take a call within 30 days and order the compensation. The NDMA had earlier recommended that Rs 50,000 be given to the kin of those who died of COVID-19. It had said that ex-gratia assistance will also be given to the kin of those who died of the virus due to involvement in COVID-19 relief operations or activities associated with the preparedness for dealing with the pandemic. The government had said that NDMA had issued the guidelines on September 11 in compliance with the directions of the apex court given on June 30 wherein it had directed the authority to recommend guidelines for ex-gratia assistance. In its affidavit filed on a batch of pleas by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal and intervenors represented by advocate Sumeer Sodhi seeking ex-gratia assistance to family members of COVID-19 victims, the Centre had said the NDMA has already started discussions/consultations on the recommendation of the 15th Finance Commission regarding insurance intervention.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
04-10-2021||India||Seventy per cent of India's adult population administered first dose Covid vaccine, says Mandaviya||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday said that 70 per cent of India's adult population has been administered the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. "Strong Nation, Rapid Vaccination: India has administered the first dose of #COVID19 vaccine on 70% of the population. Under PM @NarendraModiji, India is achieving new landmarks in the fight against the pandemic. Keep it up India, let us fight Corona," the minister said in a tweet. With the administration of 23,46,176 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, the cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses administered has exceeded 90.79 crore as per provisional reports till 7 am. This has been achieved through 88,05,668 sessions held across the country, the ministry said. According to officials, 25 per cent of the population has been administered both doses. More than 5.67 crore (5,67,37,905) balance and unutilised vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. According to government data, the average daily doses administered in a month has increased from 19.69 lakh in May to 39.89 lakh in June, then further to 43.41 lakh in July and to 59.19 lakh in August. The average daily vaccination in September has been 79.08 lakh per day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
04-10-2021||India||Active Covid cases in country lowest in 200 days||Daily cases of coronavirus in the country remained below 30,000 for the 10th straight day with 20,799 fresh infections recorded in a single day, while the active cases declined to 2,64,458, the lowest in 200 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. With the fresh cases, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,38,34,702, while the death toll climbed to 4,48,997 with 180 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.78 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.89 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 6,099 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 9,91,676 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 57,42,52,400. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.10 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 35 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.63 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 101 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,31, 21,247, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 90.79 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 180 new fatalities include 74 from Kerala and 41 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,48,997 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,207 from Maharashtra, 37,819 from Karnataka, 35,650 from Tamil Nadu, 25,377 from Kerala and 25,088 from Delhi, 22,894 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,825 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: FIR against Union minister Mishra's son, several other persons||Union minister Ajay Mishra's son is among those booked in connection with the violence during a farmers' protest in Lakhimpur Kheri, officials said on Monday as multiple opposition leaders tried to make their way to the Uttar Pradesh district through the night but were prevented from doing so. Two FIRs were registered a day after clashes claimed the lives of eight people, including four farmers allegedly run over and four people in a convoy of BJP workers who were lynched, the incident propelling Lakhimpur Kheri as a new flashpoint in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. The Uttar Pradesh government will give Rs 45 lakh each and a government job at the local level to the family members of the four farmers killed in Lakhimpur, said Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi. As tempers ran high and the opposition trained its guns on the BJP-led state government, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, SP president Akhilesh Yadav, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, BSP's S C Mishra and AAP's Sanjay Singh were among those prevented by police from going to the trouble spot, about 80 km from the district headquarters and 225 km from Lucknow. "FIR has been lodged against several persons, including Minister of State for Home, Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra," Awasthi told PTI in Lucknow. Additional Director General, Law and Order, Prashant Kumar, who was in Lakhimpur Kheri, added that two FIRs from both sides had been registered in the incident, the bloodiest yet in the prolonged farmers' protest against the Centre's new agri laws that began last year. The details were not known immediately. Detailed information is not available as yet as the internet is not working here, he told PTI in the morning. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farm unions, wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind, demanding that the minister be sacked and a murder case filed against his son. It also demanded an investigation by an SIT under the supervision of the Supreme Court. Sources in Lakhimpur Kheri said the FIR against Ashish Mishra and a few others was registered by a man called Jagjit Singh, probably a farmer. The farmers were protesting the visit of Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. They also set on fire two SUVs. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, who managed to reach Lakhimpur Kheri in the early hours of Monday, submitted a memorandum to the district administration to demand Mishra's sacking and compensation of Rs 1 crore as well as a government job for the family members of farmers who were killed. "After our demands are met... only then we will cremate the (farmers)," he said as tension spiralled in the area. During a press conference, some farmers alleged that Ashish Mishra also opened fire on farmers. Ajay Mishra has said he and his son were not present at the spot as alleged and he has photo and video evidence to prove it. Sources in Lakhimpur said nobody, including journalists, is allowed to visit Tikonia where the violence took place. Policemen were deployed at all entry points of the district to stop the entry of outsiders. As Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath went into a huddle with senior officials to view the law and order situation, police stopped prominent leaders from entering the district. With the incident coming ahead of elections in the politically vital state, opposition parties sharpened their attack on the BJP government. Priyanka Gandhi had arrived in Lucknow on Sunday but was detained in Sitapur around 5 am, Congress state President Ajay Kumar Lallu told PTI. As videos did the rounds of a furious Priyanka Gandhi lashing out at police personnel for misbehaving with her and her colleagues, Lallu alleged that policemen pushed Congress leaders. "The BJP government is doing the politics of crushing the farmers and finishing them," she said on Twitter. Saying that farmers will win this fight for justice, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi added in a tweet in Hindi, "Priyanka, I know that you will not retreat. They fear your courage. We will ensure that the country's 'annadatas' win this non-violent fight for justice." Congress also staged protests in the national capital. Priyanka Gandhi put out a video message alleging that this country belongs to the farmers and not to the BJP. She said she was going to Lakhimpur to share the pain of the farmers injured in the violent clashes and it was no crime. In Lucknow, Akhilesh Yadav took up the theme. He was stopped outside his Lucknow home in the morning after which he sat on dharna' with his party leaders. "To suppress voices, vehicles are being run over by those who raise voices. We want the arrest of the Minister and his son in the Lakhimpur incident, he told reporters. A police jeep parked in front of the Gautam Palli police station near his dharna was also set on fire allegedly by SP workers. BSP general secretary S C Mishra was also detained at his home in Lucknow on Sunday night on the plea of maintenance of law and order. BSP supremo Mayawati demanded a judicial probe into the Lakhimpur incident. AAP's Sanjay Singh and Shivpal Yadav were also barred from going to Lakhimpur Kheri and so were Congress leaders Salman Kurshid and Pramod Tiwari. Besides, the Uttar Pradesh government requested airport authorities in Lucknow to not allow Baghel and his Punjab counterpart Chandrajit Singh Channi, who had announced plans to visit Lakhimpur Kheri. A furious Baghel, who has been made senior observer by the Congress for the UP Assembly elections, told reporters in Raipur, my plane is ready, but the UP government has denied landing permission (at Lucknow airport)." When Section 144 (of CrPC) is in force in Lakhimpur, why should landing at Lucknow not be allowed, he asked. BJP's Pilibhit MP Varun Gandhi also took up the issue in a big way. He wrote to the chief minister to demand a CBI probe under the supervision of the High Court. Varun Gandhi, whose Lok Sabha constituency is close to Lakhimpur Kheri, sought Rs 1 crore as compensation to the families of each of the farmers and said those involved in their death should be booked for murder. Underlining that the "agitating farmer brothers are our own citizens", the three-time BJP MP from Uttar Pradesh said, "We should deal with them with great restraint and patience. In any case, we should treat our farmers with sensitivity and only in Gandhian and democratic way within the ambit of law." Uttar Pradesh government spokesperson and cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh termed the opposition move to go to Lakhimpur a political stunt aimed at vitiating the peace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
04-10-2021||India||UP govt asks Lucknow airport not to allow arrival of Chhattisgarh CM, Punjab deputy CM||The Uttar Pradesh government has requested the Lucknow airport authority not to allow the arrival of the Chhattisgarh chief minister and the Punjab deputy CM, who announced plans to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, in view of the violence that erupted there. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. "After the incident in Lakhimpur, the district magistrate has imposed prohibitory orders there to maintain law and order. It is requested that you should not allow Chhattisgarh CM and Punjab deputy CM at the CCS Airport in Lucknow," Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said in a letter dated October 3 to the Airport Authority of India (AAI). Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday attacked the Uttar Pradesh government, asking if civil rights had been suspended in the state. When Section 144 (of CrPC) is in force in Lakhimpur, then why landing at Lucknow is not being allowed? he asked. Have the civil rights been abolished in Uttar Pradesh? Is a separate visa is required for going to UP? Why are people being stopped? It is very unfortunate as it is a question of civil rights. Can't people go to express their condolences and to take stock of the incident. If they (BJP government) are stopping, then what is their mindset?" he further asked. The way farmers were mowed down (in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday), it shows their (UP BJP government's) mentality that those who will raise voice against them will be crushed and trampled, he claimed. "This mentality is very dangerous and the whole country is agitated and everyone wants to go to Lakhimpur," he said adding that the incident has "exposed the real face of the BJP". When reporters pointed out that UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has assured to take stern action into the incident, Baghel said, He used to say like this always after every incident they were elected to power over the issue of law and order and now the entire country is watching how the law and order was violated there. There is nothing left in control of Yogi Adityanath, and his own people are doing such things. Baghel further said he will leave for Delhi at 11.30 am and further strategy (about going to UP) will be decided after discussion with senior leaders there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
04-10-2021||India||Schools reopen across Maharashtra after 18 months||Schools across Maharashtra resumed physical sessions for classes 5 to 12 on Monday after being shut for over 18 months in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Until now, schools were conducting physical classes only in those areas which were reporting relatively fewer COVID-19 cases. Last month, Maharashtra's School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad had announced that physical classes will resume in schools across the state and the government also issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for it. On Monday morning, the minister in a tweet said, "Wishing all parents and students the very best as schools reopen across the state today. We hope you enjoy your first day back in a safe atmosphere." According to the Maharashtra government, physical sessions have started for classes 5 to 12 in rural areas and for classes 8 to 12 in urban areas of the state. But, the physical classes have not yet been resumed for classes 1 to 4 in rural areas and for classes 1 to 7 in urban areas. The Maharashtra education department conducted a meeting on Sunday to take stock of the situation before resuming physical classes in schools. "For a smooth transition to physical classes, effective coordination with the health department, local administration will have to be maintained. We are committed to providing a conducive atmosphere to students, many among whom will be returning to class after a year and a half," Gaikwad had tweeted after the meeting. As per SOPs issued by the state government for the reopening of schools, it is not mandatory for students to attend physical classes. If they want to attend, they will have to submit consent letters from their parents. Gaikwad last month said that as per a survey conducted by the school education department, more than 70 per cent parents favoured reopening of schools. In Maharashtra, physical classes in schools were stopped in March 2020, after the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The state government in July this year allowed schools to restart physical classes in the rural areas where COVID-19 prevalence was negligible. The decision mainly benefited the state's Vidarbha region, but schools in major cities like Mumbai and Pune remained closed. The latest decision was taken after consulting health officials as well as the state government's COVID-19 task force, Gaikwad earlier said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Priyanka, Deepender Hooda detained||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other party leaders were detained in Sitapur on Monday, with the party alleging they were not allowed to meet the victims of the violence that erupted during a farmers' protest in Lakhimpur Kheri a day earlier. Stopping them in such a way is "undemocratic", Congress state President Ajay Kumar Lallu told PTI. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. "Priyanka Gandhi, Deepender Singh Hooda and other leaders were detained in Sitapur around 5 am," Lallu said. The Congress leaders had to take alternative routes to reach the bordering Hargaon area in Sitapur as heavy security was deployed on the main roads amid tension in the violence-hit region of Lakhimpur. "We are waiting outside Lakhimpur Kheri. We have been prevented by the police from entering. We have come here to meet the victims of the violence," Congress national secretary Dheeraj Gurjar told PTI over the phone at 4.30 am. Gandhi's convoy was earlier briefly stopped by Uttar Pradesh Police officials in Lucknow, where the Congress general secretary had arrived on Sunday night, within a few hours of violence being reported during an anti-farm laws protest here. Demanding a judicial probe in the violence, BSP supremo Mayawati said her party's national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra was stopped in Lucknow to prevent him from reaching Lakhimpur. "BSP's national general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP S C Mishra was placed under house arrest late last night at his residence in Lucknow. It is continuing so that the party delegation under his leadership cannot reach Lakhimpur Kheri to get the correct report of the violence. This is very sad and deplorable," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. "Due to the involvement of two BJP ministers in the Kheri case, a proper government investigation of this incident, justice to the victims and strict punishment to the guilty does not seem possible. Therefore, this incident in which eight people have been confirmed dead so far requires a judicial inquiry. This is the demand of the BSP," she said. Meanwhile, security has been beefed up outside the residence of Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav, who had announced that he would visit Lakhimpur. A large police force has been deployed on Vikramaditya Marg, and police trucks have been placed to block the entire road and restrict any possible movement. Mobile internet services have been suspended in parts of the violence-hit Lakhimpur district, where restrictions under CrPC section 144 -- which prohibits assembly of four or more people -- has also been imposed, according to officials. The UP Police took to Twitter early Monday to describe the incident as "unfortunate" and said eight casualties have been reported so far as per the district administration. "ADG LO, ACS Agriculture, IG Range & Commissioner are on the spot & situation is under control. Adequate deployment has been done to prevent any untoward incident," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
04-10-2021||India||Tejashwi Yadav tears into NDA govt over Bihar health infrastructure||Tejashwi Prasad Yadav tore into Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance government on Sunday over the state’s pit-bottom position in the country in Niti Aayog’s population to hospital bed ratio ratings, and asserted that it was not serious about public welfare. “Where is Bihar in the Niti Aayog ranking? It is at number one position from the bottom. When chief minister Nitish Kumar is asked about it, he expresses his ignorance. This shows that the government is not serious about meeting the basic needs of the people,” the leader of Opposition in Bihar Assembly said. Speaking at a doctor’s conclave organised by the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) medical cell, Tejashwi added that the state government could have improved the health infrastructure, number of doctors and nurses among other things after the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic, but did not show any urgency. “Ventilators were purchased, but there were no operators to run them in the hospitals. It was just a waste. Bihar is a failure in terms of governance,” the RJD leader said. The Niti Aayog, on Thursday, released a report titled ‘Best practices in the performance of district hospitals’ in the country. It revealed that Bihar had just six hospital beds per one lakh population against the Indian Public Health Standards 2012 guidelines to have at least 22 beds per lakh of population. This ensured that Bihar was at the bottom among all the states and Union territories in this regard. Puducherry was at the top with 222 beds per lakh people. The national average in terms of hospital beds was 24 per lakh population. As per the Niti Aayog report, almost all the 36 district hospitals in Bihar were afflicted with a scarcity of doctors, specialists and nurses. Reacting to the abysmal performance of the hospitals, Tejashwi pointed out that health minister Mangal Pandey was not responding to questions on the issue. “He is running around to avoid answering questions on the worst performance of Bihar in health facilities. How will a person who flees from questions lead our state to development. These people have no vision,” Tejashwi said. In fact, when reporters asked Nitish about the low hospital bed to population ratio on Saturday, he said, “I don’t know.” Health minister Pandey also refused to answer questions by media persons and was seen walking briskly to avoid them. Nitish and Pandey have often talked about the sterling work done in improving health facilities in the state before the Niti Aayog report hit them. Meanwhile, Nitish’s Janata Dal United (JDU) retaliated to Tejashwi’s attack. Its state vice-president and MLC Sanjay Singh asked the present day doctors to ask their predecessors how they had to face kidnapping for ransom, extortion and murder during the rule of Tejashwi’s parents — Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi. “Many doctors migrated from Bihar to other states during the regime of Lalu and Rabri. Tejashwi is trying to provoke doctors and health workers against the government, which has provided world-class medical facilities. A Class IX pass out is teaching doctors,” Sanjay added. At present there are around 12,000 government hospitals, health centres in the state, including 36 district hospitals, 67 referral hospitals, 54 sub-divisional hospitals, 533 public health centres (PHCs), 9,949 sub-centres and 1393 additional PHCs. Despite such impressive statistics, Bihar has gained infamy for inadequate number of doctors, their absence from duty, lack of ambulances and hearse, dogs resting on hospital beds, water logging inside hospital buildings, wards and operation theatres, misbehaviour between doctors, hospital staff and the kind of patients and vice-versa, bungling in tests, especially those pertaining to Covid-19, lack of test facilities at government hospitals, poor nursing, and scarcity of medicines in the recent past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
04-10-2021||India||‘Blood, sweat & tears’ cap on retirement day of IPS officer||When decorated IPS officer Prateep V. Philip retired on September 30, he wore not just the President’s Medal and other badges of honour he had won in his distinguished 34-year career. Pride of place in his regalia belonged to a bloodstained police cap that looked all of its 30 years, contrasting with his otherwise gleaming uniform, and a “name badge” that gave his rank as assistant superintendent of police (ASP) rather than the director-general of police (DGP) he was retiring as. Philip had moved court to have the old cap and name tag returned to him from CBI custody as his “last professional wish”. To the officer, these two held “immense sentimental value”, being “a reminder of the call of duty” and symbolising his “blood, sweat and tears” from a day that had traumatised the nation and nearly cost him his life. It was these two that Philip had worn on May 21, 1991, on assignment to protect former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi at an election meeting in Sriperumbudur, which fell in Kancheepuram district where he was ASP. The bloodstain on the top surface of the cap was caused by the blast carried out by an LTTE suicide bomber who assassinated Rajiv and caused grievous injuries to Philip, whose memory he still carries in the form of steel plates in his body. The explosion wrenched the name badge from his uniform. The CBI special investigation team (SIT) that probed the assassination recovered the badge and the cap from the blast scene and marked them as exhibits for the trial. They stayed in possession of the CBI-SIT since then. A few weeks before his retirement on September 30, Philip, then DGP (training), Police Training College, Chennai, filed a petition with the court of the additional sessions judge, Chennai, under Section 452 of the CrPC which deals with “disposal of property at conclusion of trial”. He requested an “order for the delivery of the petitioner’s cap and name badge marked as M.O. (material object) 38 and M.O. 39 in C.C. (criminal case) No. 3/1992 to the petitioner”. His counsel — TV journalist turned lawyer Sanjay Pinto and Vidya Pinto — told the court that Philip wanted the old cap and name badge back because to him, they symbolised the call of duty. Philip’s petition underlined that the trial court had delivered its judgment in the assassination case on January 28, 1998, and the convicts and respondents had subsequently exhausted all their appeals in the Supreme Court. The CBI-SIT therefore no longer needed to hold on to the cap and the name tag, he argued. “The petitioner, who faced a near-death experience in the line of duty, wishes to take back his bloodstained cap and name badge which are his personal belongings and are of immense sentimental value, a reminder of the call of duty during his formative years in the service of the nation and quite literally symbolise his blood, sweat and tears over 34 years of his professional career,” the petition said. “It is the petitioner’s wish to wear his cap and name badge on his last day of service. The respondent can have no objection to the petitioner’s legitimate and emotional plea which is in the nature of a dedicated patriotic police officer’s last professional wish.” Philip’s legal team cited Supreme Court judgments that had said that property connected with an offence and seized by the police “ought not to be retained in the custody of the court nor the police for any time longer than what is absolutely necessary”. On September 28, the first additional sessions judge, Chennai, T.C. Chandrasekaran, allowed Philip’s plea, declining “to deny a dedicated and patriotic police officer’s last professional wish”. “It quite literally symbolises his blood, sweat and tears over 34 years of his professional career,” the judge said. Philip could take the cap and badge back after depositing a bond for Rs 1 lakh, the court said, but must hand them back to the CBI-SIT by October 28. The court’s 10-page order recorded the reply of the respondent (DSP, CBI-SIT, Chennai) that it had no objection to Philip’s plea provided he was directed to return the cap and name badge “after the date of his retirement”. The court also referred to the investigations still being conducted abroad by the CBI’s multi-disciplinary monitoring agency (MDMA) since the Jain Commission’s final report two decades ago alleged a larger international conspiracy behind Rajiv’s assassination. The order said that with these investigations “poised at a crucial stage” and “letters rogatory sent to Sri Lanka, UK and Thailand by this court”, there was “every likelihood that the material objects would be required for further proceedings” after the MDMA’s final supplementary report. Saluting Philip’s “commendable and impeccable services”, the court wished him a “long, peaceful retirement life with all enthusiasm to serve society as earlier”. Philip’s counsel Sanjay Pinto said: “The case has given me immense professional satisfaction.” Philip held several sensitive positions and pioneered the concept of “friends of police” — a community policing initiative — in India. He won the Prime Minister’s Medal for Meritorious Service in 2003 and the President’s Medal for Distinguished Service in 2012. Based on his life experiences, research and understanding, he has come out with a book of 3,333 maxims, titled Fillipisms. On Thursday evening, he was given a warm farewell by senior police officers and others led by the Tamil Nadu DGP, C. Sylendra Babu. Philip has been reticent about how close to death he had come on that fateful day 30 years ago, but veteran journalist Walter Scott, who had been a UNI correspondent covering that Sriperumbudur meeting, described the events to The Telegraph on Sunday. “Rajiv first garlanded the statue of Mrs Indira Gandhi on the Sriperumbudur bypass road amid the noise of bursting crackers. He then drove down in a white Ambassador, seated next to the driver, from the main road to the dais on a kutcha road, waving to the crowd and smiling,” Scott said. “The car stopped some 30ft from the dais. He (Rajiv) was wearing kurta-pyjamas with a long shawl draped over him. He got off the car to acknowledge the crowd. A girl started reading out a poem to him. And then there was a blast, sounding like a huge electric transformer explosion, and a ball of fire went up. Immediately, the entire place plunged into darkness and people started running helter-skelter.” Scott had provided the first news flash, booking a trunk call from the Sriperumbudur post office to the UNI office in Chennai. Twenty-six people were accused, convicted and handed the death sentence by the trial court. On appeal, the Supreme Court on May 11, 1999, acquitted one and confirmed the guilt of 25, upholding the death sentences of four and awarding life terms to three and lesser terms to the rest. The four awarded the death sentence — Nalini, Santhan, Murugan and Perarivalan — went on further appeal and filed mercy petitions before the President. After long-drawn legal proceedings, their sentences were commuted to life. Thirty years after the assassination, the four are still seeking their release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
04-10-2021||India||Farmers killed as car in minister’s convoy runs amok in Uttar Pradesh||Four farmers protesting with black flags on Sunday were mowed down by a car linked to a Union minister at his village in Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh, days after he had warned that the protesters would be fixed in “two minutes” if they did not mend their ways. Four more people had died by the end of the day, additional superintendent of police Arun Kumar Singh said. The Union minister of state for home, Ajay Misra “Teni”, said his driver and three BJP workers had been killed but did not give their names. Superintendent of police Vijay Dhull said: “Total eight people have died. Four of them died under the wheels of a car. Everything will be clear after the post-mortem.” The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, under whose banner farmers have been protesting against three farm laws since November last year, said the minister’s son Ashis was driving the car that ploughed through the protesters around 3.30pm. It identified the four dead farmers as Daljeet Singh; Gurvindar Singh of Nanpara in Bahraich; Lav Preet of Paliakalan in Lakhimpur Kheri; and Nachchttar Singh of Dhaurahra, Shahjahanpur. A senior farm leader, Tajinder Singh Virk, was grievously injured and is in hospital. The Morcha said at a news conference that a shot fired from the convoy Ashis was leading had killed a farmer. Jagjit Singh, a farmer, has submitted a complaint with the police stating that Ashis Misra had fired and killed a farmer in full public view. The deaths occurred on a day the BJP chief minister of Haryana, Manohar Lal Khattar, purportedly egged on party workers to raise volunteers in every district in the state’s north-west who would attack farmers. “Pick up lathis. Okay? We will see. And when you pick up lathis, then don’t worry about bail. When you spend some time there, six months, two months… you will become a big leader within months,” the chief minister is purportedly heard saying in a video. The farmers had arrived at Teni’s home village of Banvirpur in the Tikunia area to protest against the minister’s threatening remarks a week ago. They had gathered at a helipad built for deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who was expected to attend an annual wrestling contest in the village. On September 27, addressing supporters in Lakhimpur Kheri, Teni had purportedly said the farm protests were organised by “those who are not able to face Modiji”. “So, I want to say, mend your ways or you will face consequences. I will have you mend your ways in two minutes,” the minister purportedly said. The Morcha, which shared the video, said the farmers were mowed down while “dispersing from their protest at the helipad” and that BKU leader Tajinder Virk was deliberately targeted. It also counted another victim. It said one of the cars in the convoy turned turtle after knocking down and injuring Virk, and one of its occupants died. Teni, the local MP, told CNN-News 18 his son was not present at the spot and that there was video evidence of this. “My driver was driving. He and three BJP karyakartas (workers) were killed. The entire incident is a conspiracy,” he said. Earlier, he had told News1 India Channel: “Someone threw a stone at the driver, he lost consciousness and died. He lost control of the car, which caused an accident.... Some people were injured in the incident and some lost their lives.” The farmers have denied throwing stones and insist they had ensured the protesters moved either before or after the event so the two sides did not confront each other on the way. Ashis told reporters that he was 4km away at the wrestling venue. His version of events differed somewhat from his father’s. “A Mahindra and a Fortuner SUV and a small car carrying my workers were going to receive the deputy chief minister. The farmers stopped the cars, pelted them with stones, and later beat to death my driver Hari Om. Then they killed four more of my workers.” Maurya said: “There was a wrestling programme in Banvirpur, the ancestral village of Ajay Misra, and I was invited. The farmers turned violent and somehow got under the wheels of someone’s vehicle. The guilty will soon be identified.” Additional director-general of police (Lucknow zone) S.N. Sabat had earlier in the afternoon said two farmers had died and three were injured after being run over in an “accident”. He had said that only an investigation could identify the vehicle and driver. Eyewitness Guramneet Mangat said: “Monu Misra and the minister’s brother came with three cars — a Fortuner, a Thar and a Scorpio — and headed for the farmers standing on the roadside. They fired a shot and then ran the cars into the crowd. The car that hit Virk turned turtle and one of those inside the car also died in the process.” Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait had also told reporters in Ghazipur before leaving for Lakhimpur Kheri that Monu, the elder son of Ajay Misra, was driving an SUV and that he had mowed down “(kuchal diya)” the farmers. Opposition parties have condemned the incident, with the Congress describing it as an attempt to crush democracy. The party has demanded that the minister step down, a sitting Supreme Court judge investigate the deaths and that Khattar be sacked. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra set out for Lakhimpur Kheri on foot from Lucknow on Sunday with party workers. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said a five-member team of her party would visit the families on Monday. The NCP and the Samajwadi Party have condemned the incident. Samajwadi president and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav said in a Hindi tweet: “It is most inhuman and cruel that the son of the Union minister of state for home crushed to death the farmers who were peacefully protesting there.” Internet services have been suspended in Lakhimpur Kheri and prohibitory orders imposed. Late in the night, the police said a large number of farmers had gathered on Gurdwara Road and Saharanpur Road in Lakhimpur Kheri and damaged half-a-dozen cars. Ajay Rai, the Tikunia station house officer, said: “I was deployed to prevent the farmers going to the Union minister’s village. But the farmers left the main road and reached the village through agricultural fields. We are trying to find out whose SUV killed the farmers.” Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan, a Morcha constituent, said Sunday’s incident was another attempt to provoke the farmers to give up their peaceful resistance and turn to violence. He said the incident was “shocking” not just for the farmers’ movement but for all manner of people’s struggles. Yadav and farmer leader Darshan Pal said the movement would stay on course and remain peaceful. “The biggest strength of our movement is that it is peaceful. If we remain peaceful, we will win,” Yadav said. The Morcha has given a call for a half-day protest outside the offices of all district collectors/magistrates across the country on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
04-10-2021||India||NCB arrests Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan in drugs case||Actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday after being detained and questioned in connection with a raid on a rave party on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on Saturday night. The others who have been arrested have been identified as Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha. The NCB sources said the three were booked under Sections 8(c), 20(b), 27 and 35 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The sections invite a maximum punishment of 20 years in jail and a minimum of six months, depending on the quantity of drugs found in possession of a person. “We recorded Aryan’s statement in which he denied the purchase of drugs,” an NCB official said. Aryan was remanded in NCB custody till October 4. The memo of arrest says Aryan has been arrested for involvement in “consumption, sell and purchase of contraband”. The memo says 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of MD (mephedrone), 21 grams of charas and 22 pills of MDMA (Ecstacy) had been seized, along with Rs 1.33 lakh. The Congress alleged that the NCB raid was an attempt to deflect attention from the “real issue” of the drug seizure at Mundra port in Gujarat. On September 16, nearly 3,000kg of heroin originating from Afghanistan was seized from the Adani-operated port — the single largest such consignment netted anywhere in the world in recent memory. “The real issue is (the seizure at) Mundra port, the drug cartels in the country and drugs that are smuggled in from Afghanistan,” the Congress said, and asked what action had been taken in connection with that seizure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
04-10-2021||India||Implementation of national minimum wage gets longer||The implementation of a national minimum wage under a new labour law, hanging fire for two years, is set to get further delayed with the Centre recently reconstituting the expert committee that is to recommend the formula for determining the amount. The enforcement of a minimum wage, as mandated by the Code on Wages that was passed in Parliament in August 2019, is expected to benefit over 40 crore of the country’s 50 crore workers. The expert committee, originally set up on June 2, was reconstituted after its chairperson Ajit Mishra of the Institute of Economic growth (IEG), Delhi, and member Tarika Chakraborty from IIM Calcutta resigned from the panel. Labour economist K.R. Shyam Sundar said the reasons for the resignations remained unclear, with neither the two academics nor the government providing an explanation, and that this had created a feeling of “ambiguity” about the Centre’s intentions. “The very appointment of new members and reshuffling of the committee reflects ambiguity with respect to implementation of the (wage) law,” Sundar said. Amarjeet Kaur, general secretary of CPI labour arm Aituc, said the reconstitution of the panel would further delay the implementation of the Code on Wages, “which has been delayed by two years already”. She questioned the government’s sincerity, underlining that a labour ministry-appointed expert committee under economist Anoop Satpathy had three years ago recommended a national minimum wage not less than Rs 375 at the level of July 2018 prices. “The government has had an expert committee report since 2018 on what the minimum wage should be, but it set up another committee in June and has now reconstituted it. I fail to understand the intention, but the process will be further delayed.” The Code on Wages empowers the Centre to notify a “floor wage” based on the minimum living standards. No state would be allowed to keep its minimum wage below this. But the rules cannot be framed until the expert committee works out a formula to determine the floor wage. Kaur accused the government of “delay tactics” to help the corporate world, which she said was against any increase in wage rates. Several leading economies have recently raised their wage rates. For example, the US has increased the minimum wage per hour from $9 to $15. The Satpathy panel had worked out its wage formula on the basis of a balanced diet of 2,400 calories, 50 grams of protein and 30 grams of fat per day per person. It had added expenditures towards clothing, education and housing, and multiplied the total by 3.6 to include a spouse, two children and elderly parents. But the government dumped its report after employers raised objections, a labour ministry official said. Currently, the minimum wage notified by most states is around Rs 200 a day. The Centre is supposed to notify every second year a “national minimum floor-level wage”, but it is not binding on the states. The Centre last notified a floor-level wage, of Rs 176, in July 2017. A revision has been due since July 2019. A labour economist who didn’t want to be quoted said the term “floor wage” in the Code on Wages --- as opposed to the internationally accepted “minimum wage” – suggested a wage meant to ensure only the “basic living standards”. With such a wage, the worker would be able to afford “just the cost of living” while “struggling to get average education or healthcare”, he said. The government has not published the consumer expenditure survey report of 2017-18, prepared by the National Statistical Organisation. “The Satpathy committee had to use the consumer expenditure data of 2011-12. Since no new data has come, what will be the basis for any scientific analysis?” the economist said. He added that any move to lower the wage would also keep demand low, hurting the economy. The reconstituted panel is headed by S.P. Mukherjee, professor emeritus, Calcutta University. The other members are Arup Mitra of the IEG; Anushree Sinha, a Senior Fellow at the National Council of Applied Economic Research, Delhi; Rupa Chanda from IIM Bangalore; H. Srinivas, director-general of the V.V. Giri National Labour Institute, Noida; a representative from the ministry of skill development; and three labour ministry officials. Sinha, Srinivas and two of the labour ministry officials were on the original panel too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
04-10-2021||India||Mystery disorder among children named Zaki syndrome||Nearly five years ago, a three-month-old baby girl with facial abnormalities, a short stature, and other developmental defects had left paediatric geneticist Ratna Puri puzzled. Puri and her colleagues at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, New Delhi, had through a series of sophisticated tests ruled out any of the known genetic disorders involving some 4,000-odd human genes. The girl’s illness remained undiagnosed even as doctors provided her supportive therapy, hoping to address her developmental delay. Now, doctors from five countries, including Puri in India, have identified her illness as a previously unknown genetic disorder that impacts the brain and other organs. A 22-member medical team announced on Wednesday that the mysterious disorder known among children in several countries for nearly a decade is a previously unrecognised syndrome that can also affect the eyes, hands, kidneys, heart and leave children disabled for life. “For these children, the diagnostic odyssey is over — we know what’s going on,” said Puri at the Institute of Medical Genetics at SGRH. “But there are others across India who still remain undiagnosed.” The findings by the team from Egypt, India, Saudi Arabia, Singapore and the US will be published in the New England Journal of Medicine on Thursday. The disorder is rare — only 10 children from five families, including the one girl in India, have thus far been diagnosed. Doctors at the University of California, San Diego, and the National Research Centre in Cairo, Egypt, spent nearly 10 years comparing notes with Puri and others to determine that the children they had tracked shared a mutation in a so-called Wnt-less gene. They have called the disorder Zaki syndrome after team member Maha Zaki who had first spotted the disorder in Egypt more than 10 years ago in a family in which three siblings and a first cousin had the syndrome apparent at birth. The children had profound mental retardation, poor growth, unusual facial features. They had no speech and could sit only with support and were unable to grasp objects or feed themselves. “We’d been perplexed by the children with this condition for many years,” said Joseph Gleeson, professor of neuroscience at the University of California, San Diego. “We’d observed children around the world with mutations in the wnt-less gene but did not recognise they had same disease until doctors compared clinical notes.” Team member Bruno Reversade in Singapore identified more families with members suffering from Zaki syndrome and has explored potential therapies. The researchers have created mice models for Zaki syndrome and treated them with a drug code named CHIR99021 that appeared to counteract the effects of mutations in the wnt-less gene. “The results were surprising because it was assumed that structural birth defects like Zaki syndrome could not be prevented with a drug,” said Guoliang Chai, formerly at San Diego and now at the Capital Medical University, Beijing, China. Puri cautioned that the candidate drug had shown encouraging results only in experimental mice and it could take time before it can be tested in humans. “But what is clear through this effort is how large collaborations help — and are needed — to identify unknown genetic disorders,” she said. The Indian Council of Medical Research earlier this year approved a national collaboration called the India Undiagnosed Diseases Programme with SGRH in Delhi and hospitals in Lucknow and Hyderabad for coordinated clinical evaluation and documentation of patients with undiagnosed disorders. Puri said: “The goal is to shorten diagnostic odysseys — knowing what genes are involved helps us understand the disorder and could lead to clues toward potential treatments.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
04-10-2021||India||BJD proves Naveen Patnaik’s hold with Pipili victory  ||The ruling Biju Janata Dal has retained the Pipili Assembly seat, defeating its main rival BJP in a bypoll by a margin of 20,916 votes. The seat, where a bypoll was necessitated following the death of former minister Pradeep Maharathy, has been a BJD bastion for the past several decades. The regional party has been winning the seat since its formation in 1997. The victory also proved the political invincibility of chief minister Naveen Patnaik. The BJP, despite a high voltage campaign that saw the likes of Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan and former Union minister Pratap Sarangi slogging it out in the constituency, failed to make a dent in the BJD fortress. The victory has further boosted BJD prospects in the upcoming panchayat and municipal elections to be held next year. The BJD has not lost a single byelection after the last general elections of 2019. It had ensured that the BJP, which is now the main Opposition party in the state, makes no inroads into its areas of influence. Aware that Pipili bypoll will be followed by two grassroots level elections (panchayat and municipal) the BJP had marshalled all its resources with top leaders like Pradhan, Bhubaneswar MP Aparajita Sarangi, BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra and a host of state level leaders hitting the campaign trail. Patra campaigned for the BJP candidate for Pipili, as the Assembly constituency is a part of the Puri Lok Sabha seat which he had contested and lost in 2019. Patra is likely to contest the seat again in 2024. On the other hand, BJD’s supremo and chief minister Patnaik was so confident about the result that he did not even visit Pipili, about 25km from Bhubaneswar, to campaign this time. He addressed the people of the constituency on April 12 through virtual mode and promised to take its care in the absence of their late leader Pradeep Maharathy. The bypoll was deferred twice because of the death of Congress candidate Ajit Managaraj and later because of the pandemic related lockdown. The BJD fielded late Moharathy’s son Rudra Pratap Maharathy as its candidate and the BJP fielded Ashrit Pattanayak and Congress put Bishwokeshan Harichandan Mohapatra in the fray. Citing the reasons for the BJD winning the elections, minister Samir Ranjan Dash, who in charge of the Pipili block for the bypoll, told The Telegraph, “The chief minister’s image, the state government’s different socio-welfare works for women, farmers and others, good poll management and Patnaik’s confidence in his team played a crucial role in ensuring BJD’s victory.” Winning candidate Rudra Pratap told the media, “I would work for the constituency. I am indebted to the chief minister. People have showered their love on me the same as they used to for my father.” Voting for the bypoll was held on September 30. Counting began early Sunday morning at Penthakata in Puri. Victory of the BJD candidate sparked off celebrations in Puri and Pipili. The Congress failed once again to put up a good show with the party polling less than 5,000 votes. While the BJD polled 96,972 votes, the BJP managed to get 76056 votes. The Congress got only  4,261.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
04-10-2021||West Bengal||SC defers hearing on Bengal's suit against CBI probe to October 22 ||The Supreme Court Monday deferred to October 22 the hearing of West Bengal government's lawsuit alleging that CBI is pressing ahead with investigation into the post-poll violence cases in the state without securing its nod as per the law. A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao clarified it would not grant any more adjournments in the matter and said it would hear the plea after the Dussehra holidays. "Notice has been served on the Union of India before September 20, 2021 as per the office report. There is no appearance on behalf of the Union of India. List this matter on October 22. Any objections by the respondent may be filed in the meanwhile," said the bench, also comprising Justice B R Gavai. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal appeared for the West Bengal government in the matter. The West Bengal government, in its original civil suit under Article 131 of the Constitution, referred to the provisions of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act 1946 and said that the Central Bureau of Investigation has been proceeding with the probe and filing FIRs without getting the nod from the state government as mandated under the statute. Under Article 131 the apex court has original jurisdiction to deal with disputes between the Centre and states. The CBI recently lodged multiple FIRs in cases of post-poll violence in West Bengal. The state government sought a stay of investigations into the FIRs lodged into post-poll violence cases by CBI in pursuance of the Calcutta High Court order. The plea said that as the general consent given to the central agency by the Trinamool Congress government has been withdrawn, the FIRs lodged cannot be proceeded with. The suit filed through advocate Suhaan Mukerji also sought to stay for any such FIR in future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
04-10-2021||West Bengal||Early celebrations, no-rally advice ||Barely three hours after the counting for the Bhowanipore bypoll started, a Sikh man in his 60s was distributing sweets and playing with green abir at the Chakraberia crossing around noon on Sunday. He had started celebrating the victory of Mamata Banerjee from the seat, though the official results would come later. “We are confident that Didi is going to win, which is why we had ordered sweets, singaras and flower petals yesterday to celebrate the victory. We are only keen to know the margin of victory,” said Ajit Singh, a resident of Puddapukur Road. Long before the results were officially declared, Bhowanipore had started to celebrate Mamata’s victory. About 50 Trinamul supporters — mostly Sikh men — were smearing each other with abir, distributing sweets and dancing to the beat of drums. Chakraberia was, however, not the only place where Trinamul supporters had assembled early. A large group had gathered at Jadu Babur Bazar, near transport minister Firhad Hakim’s home in Chetla and at the crossing of Harish Chatterjee Street and Hazra Road, which leads to Mamata’s home. The supporters had kept an eye on the results after every round of counting, which began at Sakhawat Memorial Girls’ School on Lord Sinha Road at 9am. At the end of the first round, Mamata was leading by 2,799 votes. By the end of round 10, the lead was 31,645. Altogether, there were 21 rounds. Known for its cosmopolitan character, Bhowanipore has Bengalis, Gujaratis, Sikhs and Marwaris among the voters, a sizeable number of whom are Muslims. By 2pm, rallies from all across the constituency started to arrive near Mamata’s home on Harish Chatterjee Street. Mamata’s nephew and Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee arrived at her home, left and returned in the afternoon. Every time Abhishek’s car got out of Harish Chatterjee Street, the supporters swarmed around it. The police had a tough time creating a passage for the car through the crowd. Amid the celebrations, a couple of men came and checked the change in lead from a paint shop that had a computer and whose employees were following the updates. Naresh Chandra Das, a resident of Ballygunge, was among those who gathered near Mamata's home. Das wore a hat that had a picture of Mamata and that of a tiger. “It was known to everyone that Didi will win. I couldn't sit at home and enjoy this victory. I am a party worker and I have come here to be in the middle of everyone and celebrate this win,” he said. Mamata finally won by 58,835 votes. She asked supporters not to organise any victory rallies. Trinamul leaders said Mamata’s decision on victory rallies would serve two ends — stop the spread of Covid and nip in the bud any attempt by the BJP to allege post-poll violence. “The BJP’s candidate from Bhowanipore has already written to the acting chief justice of Calcutta High Court requesting directions to the police to prevent any post-poll violence. If there are no rallies, the chances of skirmishes reduce and the attempt by the BJP to malign us is also nipped in the bud,” said a leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
04-10-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore bypoll: Mamata Banerjee breaks her own record||Mamata Banerjee of 2021 defeated Mamata Banerjee of 2011 on Sunday. The Election Commission declared the Bengal chief minister victorious by a margin of 58,835 votes in the Bhowanipore Assembly seat. The margin broke the constituency’s previous record of 54,213 votes set by Mamata herself in a 2011 bypoll. Mamata’s victory was widely deemed a foregone conclusion, and a prestigious margin was her party’s chief goal. Although only 1.18 lakh votes (57.09 per cent) were cast, the Trinamul Congress chief bagged 85,263 votes or 71.9 per cent of the votes polled. In the April 26 election — when the turnout was 61.79 per cent — Trinamul’s Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay had secured 73,505 votes or 57.7 per cent of the vote share. On Sunday, for the first time since 2014, the Trinamul candidate led in each of the eight Calcutta Municipal Corporation wards in the Assembly seat. Around 2.30pm, shortly after formally being declared the winner from Bhowanipore, Mamata stepped out of her residence with several members of her family to greet supporters gathered there. Thanking the electorate, her party colleagues and the people of not only Bengal but also all of India, the chief minister pointed out that the margin was a landmark despite the low turnout. “My heart is full today because the people of Bhowanipore showed them (the BJP). All of Bengal was watching Bhowanipore,” Mamata said. “All of Bengal was very hurt when, although we swept the state, we lost in Nandigram. That matter is sub judice. A lot of conspiracies there…. I will not say anything more on that now,” she said. Sworn in as chief minister for the third consecutive term on May 5, Mamata had till November 5 to be elected to the 294-seat House. She had unsuccessfully contested from the Nandigram seat, losing by 1,956 votes to Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, now in the BJP. She has challenged the result in court. Underscoring how she broke her own record, Mamata said the victory in Bhowanipore was comprehensive, having won leads in all the eight wards — 63, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 77 and 82 — that make up the diverse constituency spread over a part of Chowringhee in the north to Kalighat in the south. “Each and every ward in this very cosmopolitan constituency, we won… in a first (since the Lok Sabha election of 2014). It was a challenge for us,” she said. After delimitation resurrected the constituency in 2009, Mamata had secured leads from all eight wards in the Lok Sabha polls that year as the candidate of Calcutta South. In the civic polls a year later, her party won all the wards. In the Assembly election of 2011 and the bypoll she contested that same year, Trinamul had got leads from every ward. However, in the Lok Sabha polls of 2014, the BJP’s Calcutta South candidate led from 63 (parts of Chowringhee, Taltala, Park Street, Shakespeare Sarani, the Maidan and Hastings), 70 (Jadu Babu’s Bazaar), 71 (Bhowanipore), 72 (Chakraberia, Padmapukur and Bakulbagan) and 74 (Alipore). In fact, the BJP’s Tathagata Roy led the Bhowanipore Assembly segment by 176 votes that summer. In the civic polls of 2015, the BJP’s Ashim Bose won from ward 70, only to defect to Trinamul shortly after. In the 2016 Assembly polls, the BJP led from Ward 70, again. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Trinamul trailed the BJP in six wards, barring 77 (Kidderpore) and 82 (Chetla). Despite considerable recovery in 2021, Trinamul’s Chattopadhyay — who vacated the seat for Mamata in May — trailed the BJP’s Rudranil Ghosh in the April election in wards 70 and 74, prompting Mamata to assign trusted lieutenants Subrata Bakshi and Firhad Hakim to personally oversee campaign in the two. “Our initial estimates suggest leads between 1,500 and 22,000 in all eight wards. Ward 70 gave us a lead of 1,700-odd, and ward 74, a lead of around 1,500. That’s as good as it gets,” said a Trinamul ward coordinator from the south of the city. That Mamata too considers this momentous was clear from her brief speech. “Even in 2016, I got relatively fewer votes in one of the wards. But this time, not one. Not a single one. This must be remembered,” she said. “Bhowanipore has 46 per cent non-Bengalis. There are Bengalis, Punjabis, Gujaratis, Biharis, Marathis, Odiyas, Marwaris, people from Uttar Pradesh,” she added. Bhowanipore, a socio-economically diverse constituency with around 80 per cent non-Muslim votes, has Hindus, Sikhs and Jains in large numbers. “Everybody contributed to our victory together in peace, despite the weather.” Mamata expressed happiness, not only for herself but also for her victorious candidates in Samserganj and Jangipur, which took the September 30 scoreline to 3-0. “Many were asking me to flash the V sign. I will not do so. I will show the three sign instead. Because I am not selfish. Two of my colleagues are also on the verge of winning in Samserganj and Jangipur. It’s a 3-0 score for us. Ek, dui, tin… Ma, Mati, Manush ke dhonyobad din (One, two, three… thank the mothers, the soil and the people),” she said, holding up three fingers of her right hand for the cameras. “We will win the other four too,” she asserted with confidence, referring to the scheduled bypolls in four seats on October 30. Mamata thanked the poll panel for having the by-elections conducted within the six-month window. “I am grateful to the Election Commission of India for doing the right thing, getting the bypolls conducted within the stipulated six-month window…. The entire central government had conspired to have us removed (in the summer election),” she said. “I will forever be indebted to the people of Bhowanipore,” Mamata said, adding that she has forbidden victory rallies by her party, asking everyone to celebrate by helping out the flood-affected. Bypoll nominees Trinamul will field for the October 30 bypolls Udayan Guha in Dinhata, Brajakishore Goswami in Santipur, agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay in Khardah and Subrata Mondal in Gosaba. Mamata said her party would appeal to the poll panel against allowing any outdoor campaign by any party from October 10 to 20 in view of Durga Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
04-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal logs 701 new cases, 684 recoveries and 10 deaths||Bengal on Sunday recorded a rise by seven in its total of active Covid-19 cases to 7,587 in all, in the fifth such instance since last Sunday. The state logged 701 new infections, 684 recoveries and 10 deaths on Sunday. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in its active cases last Sunday. The state now has 2.87 per cent of India’s active cases, and remains seventh among states with the most such cases. Calcutta logged 145 new infections while North 24-Parganas reported 116, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections detected in a day. Eight districts reported a single-digit figure. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. Calcutta logged two deaths and North 24-Parganas three. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.86 per cent. Its daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.95 per cent on Sunday. Its mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the country is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has more than 15.71 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first in March last year. It  includes nearly 15.45 lakh recoveries and 18,825 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
04-10-2021||West Bengal||Vistadome coach ride 6 days a week for Puja||Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) has decided to run the vistadome coach for six days a week, except Thursdays, instead of three days a week during the upcoming Puja period owing to an overwhelming response to the ride introduced a month back. The ride between New Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar junctions covers around 168km through picturesque forests and tea gardens of the Dooars. Guneet Kaur, chief public relations officer of NFR, said: “From October 6, vistadome coaches will run six days a week till October 18. We will take a call further depending on the unfolding situation.” The service, which started from August 29, was available on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays till date. “From October 6, it will run on all days, except Thursdays. The decision has been taken because of the good response received for the service,” said a railway source. Vistadome coaches allows a 360-degree view of the landscape. The ride through the Dooars as it passes through the Mahananda Sanctuary, the Gorumara National Park, the Jaldapara National Park and the Buxa Tiger Reserve. A selfie-zone has also been accommodated in the coaches. Biswajit Saha, vice-president, Jaldapara Lodge Owners’ Association, said the introduction of the coaches had brought about a “new dimension” to Dooars tourism. “We are thrilled with the announcement as tourism has taken a new dimension after the introduction of the vistadome coaches. People are visiting the Dooars just to take the train ride,” said Saha. Toufique Hasan, the deputy Bangladesh high commissioner in Calcutta had also taken a 40km ride from Madarihat to Rajabhatkhawa (both in Alipurduar) on September 10 and was spellbound to the extent that he wanted the coaches to be introduced in his country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
04-10-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress bags two more seats from Murshidabad||The Trinamul Congress on Monday improved its tally in the Assembly as the party bagged two more seats from Murshidabad — Samserganj and Jangipur — that had gone to polls on September 30. The Election Commission of India had called off the polls in the two constituencies this summer as Congress candidate from Samserganj, Rezaul Haque, and the Revolutionary Socialist Party nominee from Jangipur, Pradip Nandi, had died of Covid-19 in April this year. “We have won both the seats with handsome margins.… Our party’s victory makes it clear that Tinamul is the only major political force in Murshidabad,” said Mohammed Ali, Trinamul MLA from Lalgola. In Calcutta, chief minister Mamata Banerjee congratulated the two winners — Amirul Islam and Zakir Hossain — for their victory. Amirul won Samserganj by a margin of 26,111 votes defeating the Congress’s Zaidur Rahaman. Hossain, a former MLA and a minister who had been injured in a bomb explosion at Nitmtita railway station in February this year, won by 92,365 votes defeating the BJP’s Sujit Das in Jangipur. “This is the first time that Trinamul will be sending 20 MLAs out of 22 from this district.... This is very significant,” said Ali. Two seats — Berhampore and Murshidabad — in the district went to the BJP in the March-April polls. In the 2016 Assembly polls, Trinamul had won only four seats in the district. The party’s tally was just one in the 2011 Assembly polls, which it fought in an alliance with the Congress. Trinamul sources have said the victory in the two seats in Murshidabad is very significant as the district, which has over around 70 per cent Muslim voters, has always been regarded as a Congress bastion. “The BJP’s divisive policy helped us significantly in the district as Muslim voters rallied around us realising that only Mamata Banerjee could effectively resist the BJP,” said a Trinamul insider. Although the twin victories came as good news for the ruling party, sources said the Trinamul leadership was unhappy with the margin in Samserganj. “Zakir’s victory was stupendous as he won by 92,365 votes, but the margin at Samserganj could have been better.… We have decided to probe the reasons behind lower than expected margin in these two seats,” said a senior Trinamul leader. The Congress had an alliance with the Left Front in Jangipur and the RSP candidate Jane Alam Mia was fielded there but the party fought separately in Samserganj. In Samserganj, the Congress fielded Zaidur Rahaman, brother of Trinamul MP Khalilur Rahaman. “The Congress fielded a candidate in Samserganj. But the candidate was confused primarily whether he would contest the polls and we lagged behind in campaigning there. We got only a week’s time to campaign, and we are happy with our performance,” said Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the Bengal Congress chief. However, a section of Congress leaders said it was a defeat for the old-party in Murshidabad as the district failed to send a single Congress MLA.“We know there would be no Congress MLA in the Assembly but it is more hurting for us that there would be no party MLA from Murshidabad, which was once the bastion of the Congress,” said a senior Congress leader in Murshidabad. After the Bhowanipore bypoll victory, Mamata Banerjee said: “I will forever be indebted to the people of Bhowanipore.” She added she had forbidden victory rallies by her party, asking everyone to celebrate by helping out the flood-affected. Bypoll nominees The Trinamul Congress will field for the October 30 bypolls Udayan Guha in Dinhata, Brajakishore Goswami in Santipur, agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay in Khardah and Subrata Mondal in Gosaba. Mamata said her party would appeal to the poll panel against allowing any outdoor campaign by any party from October 10 to 20 in view of Durga Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
04-10-2021||West Bengal||Upbeat Trinamul Congress eyes last district Darjeeling ||Buoyed by Trinamul’s electoral victories on Sunday, party leaders have started preparing the ground in Darjeeling, the only district in Bengal where it has repeatedly drawn a blank. Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee on Sunday won the Bhowanipore bypoll with a victory margin of 58,832, bettering her 2011 margin of 54,213. Her party candidates from Jangipur and Samserganj seats also won comfortably. Darjeeling is the only district where Trinamul failed to win a single Assembly seat in the 2021 polls. Since 2011, the party has neither been able to form a civic board nor take control of the rural body in the district, except Mirik municipality in 2018. Mirik is set for polls in the next six months. Elections to the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) and the Siliguri Mahukama Parishad (rural polls) are due as the tenure of these two bodies expired more than a year ago. However, Darjeeling Trinamul leaders are hopeful that the party will see a turnaround. “We are working to turn the tide this time round. We are confident that today’s victories will rub off in the upcoming elections in the district,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Trinamul leaders maintained leaders and supporters from other parties are making a beeline to join the party but they were treading cautiously. Papiya Ghosh, the president of Darjeeling district Trinamul, said they received applications from over 10,000 people wanting to join Trinamul. “We have received application from over 10,000 people from different political parties wanting to join us but we have decided not to induct anyone without  scrutiny from the grassroots,” said Ghosh. Last month, the party started scrutinising the antecedents of those wanting to join Trinamul from the block level. A policy decision has also been taken not to induct new members for at least a month during which time a thorough scrutiny of applications will be done. Sources in Trinamul said that in the past four months, five former SMC councillors from the Left and two from the Congress joined the party. “We have received requests from other councillors in the Left, but have received instructions from the highest level that without the consent of workers of the respective ward or block, no one will be inducted,” a Trinamul insider said. Sources said the decision has been taken not to anger hardworking grassroots supporters and avoid people who seek to join the ruling party for personal interest. Also, apart from district president, chairperson and spokesperson, no other leader will be allowed to speak to the media or host induction programmes for the sake of “party discipline”. “The decision has been taken to carry out party activities in a disciplined manner,” Ghosh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
04-10-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore bypoll: BJP sulks after Mamata’s win with huge margin||The Bengal unit leaders of the BJP went into hiding on a day Mamata Banerjee won the Bhowanipore bypoll with a historic margin of 58,832 votes. The handful of BJP leaders seen after election results proved they were bad losers. The fact that the BJP camp was clueless on how to react was evident when party spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya was missing in action. Sources in the party said its co-minder for Bengal Amit Malviya — currently the state unit’s only link to its central leadership — asked Bhattacharya and other empanelled spokespersons to refrain from commenting on the party’s defeat. At least two-and-a-half hours after the final results were announced, the party’s media cell shared a release —signed by state vice-president Pratap Banerjee — which said  the outcome of the three polls “are not in line with our expectation but we accept it gracefully”. It went on to level allegations of post-poll violence and the partisan role of the chief secretary for advising the Election Commission to hold the bypoll in Bhowanipore. Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumdar said: “I congratulate chief minister Mamata Banerjee and gracefully accept the people’s mandate… However, there is a doubt on how much of people’s mandate has actually been reflected in this result. Only 57 per cent of people came to vote. A large section, a huge section in terms of democracy, either didn’t come to vote or couldn’t come to vote.” Majumdar had campaigned in Bhowanipore and claimed Mamata was afraid of losing to his party candidate Priyanka Tibrewal. BJP’s Nandigram MLA and Bengal’s leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari had said that Tibrewal would surely defeat Mamata the same way he had in Nandigram in the Assembly polls.. In view of the demography of Bhowanipore constituency with 46 per cent non-Bengali voters, the BJP had flown in Union ministers Smriti Irani, Hardeep Singh Puri and MP Manoj Tiwari from Delhi to campaign. The result, which showed the BJP lost in all eight wards of the constituency, proved the party’s attempts of playing the identity card flopped. The BJP also lost in two wards — 70 and 71 — where it had a lead in the Assembly polls this summer. Rudranil Ghosh who had contested for the BJP from Bhowanipore in the Assembly polls had secured 18,466 more votes than the 26,320 votes Tibrewal got in the bypoll. Tibrewal, after the result, spoke about false voting and lack of party organisation. “If we look at the picture of ward 82 we would see that most of the votes cast there are fake. I myself had caught hold of such fake voters…I’m 101 per cent sure about false voting,” Tibrewal alleged. She  added her party’s organisation needs to be worked on. Her comments were in sharp contrast to what she had been saying earlier. She had  claimed she was born in Bhowanipore and so people will vote for her. The two main BJP offices in the state — its state headquarters at 6 Muralidhar Sen lane and its election office at Hastings — wore a deserted look on Sunday morning. “It was a lost game from the very beginning, but we didn't expect the margin to be this high... The results have proved that we don’t have the organisational might to take on the Trinamul,” a BJP source said. Left Front’s Bhowanipore candidate Shrijeeb Biswas failed to save his deposit with just 4,201 votes. Biswas, also an advocate like Tibrewal, said his party CPIM wasn’t in politics only for poll results. “We are in politics for 365 days a year,” he said. “We have been able to prevent further erosion in our vote share. Also in a bypoll it is natural that the electorate will vote for the party in power. These and a few other issues have led to this result. However, we will keep our fight on,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
04-10-2021||West Bengal||Lowlands of south Bengal choked with water||The misery of people marooned by floods is likely to continue in the lowlands of south Bengal such as Hooghly’s Khanakul and West Midnapore’s Ghatal for another week at least as district officials said floodwaters from the highlands can’t exit through swollen rivers and canals. After the rain gods relented on Saturday and the DVC reduced the quantity of water it had been releasing from its dams, water level in flooded areas of Bankura, East and West Burdwan receded, but this water has been flowing towards the lowlands. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who visited Hooghly’s Arambagh after an aerial survey on Saturday, had alerted people that water from the highlands would come down to the lowlands. “Water takes time to flow down to the low lands. Sometimes it takes 48 hours... as a result the people have to suffer (for long),” Mamata had said. Senior officials and ministers in Howrah, West Midnapore and Hooghly said they are realising the impact from Sunday as water started flowing downwards. “A vast area of West Midnapore is under water and there is no way of releasing water because all rivers are flowing in full capacity. The district is like a bowl and water from all south Bengal districts are now flowing towards it. We don’t know how much time it would take to normalise pockets of West Midnapore like Ghatal or Pingla. We are not sure if it would take a month,” said Manas Ranjan Bhunia, state water resources development and investigation minister and Trinamul MLA from Sabang. “We have heard that a dam in Jharkhand on river Subarnarekha may release water now. If such things happen, the situation will worsen. It is our good luck that apart from government relief we are getting help from Ramakrishna Mission too,” Bhunia added. At least a lakh in West Midnapore and Hooghly are living in waterlogged conditions. West Midnapore has 120 relief camps as on Sunday. “In a few places, floodwater is flowing out but the rate is so slow that it could take at least seven days to be stable,” said Rashmi Kamal, West Midnapore district magistrate. Khanakul in Hooghly is facing the same nightmare as water from highlands has started flowing through most areas of the block. Army personnel have been deployed to distribute relief materials. “We have to evacuate 32,000 people and at least seven of 11 gram panchayats are facing the wrath of floods. All rivers and canals are full and my office is also inundated since Sunday,” said Shankha Bandopadhyay, the BDO of Khanakul-II block. The state government had sent a nine-member team to Delhi seeking funds for Ghatal master plan in August for a lasting solution to floods. Officials said every time areas are inundated, they realise how much the implementation of Ghatal master plan is needed. Mamata had also said on Saturday that she would again write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking funds to combat the back-to-back floods in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
04-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Secular India takes strength from Bengal bypoll results||Ignorance is not bliss Sir — Within minutes of its release, the third season of the Netflix show, Sex Education, entered the list of top 10 most watched programmes in India. This might actually teach Indian teenagers things that schools and society do not. In fact, the chapter conspicuous by its absence in the new National Education Policy is the one on sex education. This assumes importance in light of a recent UK study that shows that sexual violence — on the rise in India — is directly proportional to a lack of sex education. Jhelum Roy Chowdhury, Calcutta Undisrupted reign Sir — The chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, has won the bypolls with a thumping majority from the Bhowanipore constituency. Although this was a foregone conclusion, the thing to watch out for was the margin of her victory. By yesterday evening, she was already leading by more than 58,000 votes — an all-time record — signalling a crushing defeat for the Bharatiya Janata Party. But more important is the Trinamul Congress’s dominance in the Jangipur and Samserganj constituencies — this shows that the people of Bengal are unequivocal in their rejection of the BJP. Secular India takes strength from the results in Bengal. Banerjee is also a prominent leader on the national political stage. She respects pluralism and the Constitution; this makes Banerjee a good prime ministerial candidate. G. David Milton, Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The fact that Mamata Banerjee increased her victory margin considerably since the last election goes to show that the BJP has ceded some ground in Bengal. But the victory should not make Banerjee or the TMC complacent. In fact, it was the results of the last Lok Sabha elections in Bengal that had delivered a jolt to the TMC leader. But given her political acumen, Banerjee was quick to respond and take corrective measures. There are bigger battles ahead and Banerjee should recall the fate of the erstwhile Left government if she feels complacency slipping in. Shyamal Biswas, Calcutta Sir — The BJP did not expect to win Bhowanipore, which has long been Mamata Banerjee’s fief. Yet, it did try to send a message by flying in heavyweight Union ministers like Smriti Irani and Hardeep Singh Puri to campaign for its candidate. Yet, the margin of over 58,000 votes proves that the BJP has failed terribly in dividing the people of Bengal — it tried to provoke the Sikh and Hindu residents of the area against Banerjee. Manjeet Bedi, Calcutta Sir — No one is really surprised at Mamata Banerjee’s victory, especially since she was fighting a political lightweight. While her victory is laudable, only time will tell if more laurels — she is being projected to lead the Opposition in the 2024 general elections — are in store in the future. Murtaza Ahmad, Calcutta Sir — As the reports of Mamata Banerjee’s massive lead started to come in, TMC supporters hit the streets across the state to celebrate her win with abir. The BJP candidate, Priyanka Tibrewal, wrote to the acting chief justice of the Calcutta High Court, Rajesh Bindal, urging him to order the police to take steps to prevent incidents of violence. Given the BJP’s resounding loss, perhaps she should have written to her own party instead. Bhagwan Thadani, Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
04-10-2021||Opinion||Past and present||Students of an esoteric line of English literature know of the great sermon writers of the seventeenth century: John Donne, Lancelot Andrewes, Jeremy Taylor. There are hardly any matching names from the sixteenth century. For much of that period, clergymen were actually barred from delivering sermons. Church services without sermons? Not quite. Sermons were essential spiritual fare; but they were served out of tins, as it were. There were books of approved, ready-made sermons that the priest read out in church. Adding their own words could invite retribution. Edmund Grindal, Archbishop of Canterbury, went so far as to encourage inspirational preaching. He was sequestered, somewhat as civil servants today are suspended. He was not, after all, the head of the Church: that role was reserved for the monarch. This is among the many sinister features of the golden Elizabethan Age. Like most States at all times, it was a police and surveillance regime. Christopher Marlowe was both dramatist and spy, and met with a messy end in the latter pursuit. Philip Sidney, the flower of Renaissance court culture, married the daughter of Elizabeth’s chief spymaster and torturer. But Sidney himself attacked the Queen’s foreign policy and was banished from court. Ben Jonson was jailed for a ‘mutinous’ play. Shakespeare narrowly escaped the same fate when an old political drama of his was staged on the eve of an abortive uprising. Across Europe, politics was steeped in religion. Everyone was Christian except for a sprinkling of Jews (none in England, which had expelled them 300 years earlier). But the precise shade of Christianity could spell life or death. Thousands died for not chanting a particular religious formula, or disputing the exact composition of the holy bread of the Eucharist. The Catholic Church sent undercover priests to England — to preach their faith, they said; to spread sedition, said the State, which therefore imprisoned, tortured and killed them. Home-grown Catholics were fined and their movements watched. They were barred from universities and government jobs. The Church of England was formed when Elizabeth’s father, Henry VIII, quarrelled with the pope for disallowing his divorce from the first of his six wives. This unedifying claim to Protestantism did not impress more committed Protestants, or Puritans, whose radicalism appeared in both politics and direct action. Their more extreme and disorganized groups found favour among the poor. There were a lot of poor people around, ousted from traditional farmlands now enclosed for sheep-rearing to serve the growing wool trade and industry. Bands of dispossessed peasants roamed the countryside. Forests were destroyed, their dwellers and wildlife dislodged, for mining and iron smelting. The poet, Michael Drayton, has a harrowing account of the ecological disaster. So what’s new in all this? Nothing, of course. Such evil and disorder are as old as humankind. One could write a similar, entirely factual account of what we call the golden age of Greece, some 2,500 years ago. For self-protection, let me steer clear of India’s past. But Europe and England’s past bristles with parallels to India’s present. Some are piquant and vaguely endearing, as between Elizabethan London and today’s Calcutta. Others are disorienting, like the long series implicit in my account above. But why should they disturb us, as they seem universal and inevitable? Because two profound changes have occurred in between. One is the scientific revolution. We now understand the material universe as never before: what it contains (and does not contain), how it works, how we can employ its forces — for evil, certainly, but also for good. The other revolution is profounder still: a sense of the value and dignity of the core human condition irrespective of gender, race, class, faith or any other add-on. It teaches us (what would have seemed an absurd notion as late as the European Renaissance) that all individuals have equal right and equal ability to live freely and fully in body and mind. It introduces such novel ideas as welfare, progress, and a diversity bonded by mutual respect. The two revolutions are linked: intellectually by their foundation in rational thought; historically by their concurrence in the European Enlightenment of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. That is the source of their impact on the modern world, though many elements, especially logical and mathematical thinking, had glorious multiple origins long before, abundantly and memorably in our own land among others. Hence, we cannot take heart that Homer’s or Shakespeare’s age was no better than ours. We can no longer accept on mythological ‘evidence’ that ancient India had television and plastic surgery; that the cow exhales oxygen and the peacock impregnates the peahen with its tears; or — an easy jump in illogic — that people of one caste, gender or faith are genetically, thus ‘scientifically’ superior. Nor can we humanly justify such ideas. There is too much evidence of the human potential released if we break such barriers of the mind. Or to phrase it the right way, there is too much joy and reward in viewing all fellow humans as we view ourselves, wishing for them what we wish for ourselves. Once that happens, we will not, as we now do, drag those holding such liberating views to jail without trial or reprieve. We will not consign ‘those not like us’ to systemic deprivation in body and mind: in our schools, our economy, our whole process of rule. We will not sit unmoved while a million uprooted humans tramp the nation’s highways, or congregations of tense women across India keep vigil to assert their claim to their motherland. We will not kill a man for calling god, who understands all tongues, by a name other than ours. Once that happens, we will have passed beyond set sermons to a living faith as diverse as there are people. As diverse as India. This piece is offered to the memory of Swapan Chakravorty. Over 49 years, he taught me many lessons in exploring past texts and cultures, and bringing them to bear on the lived reality of our times. Sukanta Chaudhuri is Professor Emeritus, Jadavpur University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
04-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Beyond digital ||Erroneous diagnoses can be fatal. India’s healthcare system has, for long, suffered from several ailments — poor accessibility and insufficient number of medical personnel are among them — for which no effective solution has yet been found. Instead, the government has now launched the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission to digitize personal medical records using a unique health identification number and create national registries for doctors and health facilities across the country. The aim is to use portable medical records to facilitate interactions among health experts and improve monitoring of public health. The intent may be laudable. But this is not to say that the initiative is free from deficiencies. The reasons are manifold. First, there is concern that the scheme could further deepen the urban-rural divide in terms of access to healthcare. Rural India, comprising 65 per cent of India’s population, struggles to get basic medical support — around 60 per cent of primary health centres have only one doctor while about five per cent have none — let alone possess such infrastructure as reliable internet connectivity to digitize medical records. India’s poor digital outreach is also evident from previous digitization drives — until April this year, only two crore registrations for the Covid-19 vaccine out of the total of 14 crore had been made through the CoWin portal. More importantly, digital enumeration has a chequered history in the country: prior to the pandemic, a report found that 102 million people, including children, homeless citizens and sexual minorities did not possess Aadhaar cards. The demands of diligent data entry are also likely to push an already strained, understaffed health sector to the brink. Given these constraints as well as the perpetual paucity of funds, it would be wiser to opt for a piecemeal approach. Digitization for health portability must be complemented by a simultaneous thrust to modernize physical health infrastructure along with the recruitment of trained physicians and supplementary staff, especially for rural India. There is also an additional challenge. With the new personal data protection bill still pending before a joint parliamentary committee, voluntary registration for this centralized system is effectively being carried out in a regulatory vacuum. The lack of legally enforceable accountability is particularly risky in a sector dominated by vested private interests — 62 per cent of all Indian health infrastructure is private. The concern is not about patient confidentiality alone; without robust technological infrastructure and tight data privacy laws, even national security could be jeopardized — there have been reports of hacking attempts by China on the Aadhaar data base. In the absence of a comprehensive data law, the pursuit of digitization could bring its own pitfalls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
04-10-2021||Opinion||Politics by other means ||According to Joseph Kallarangatt, the Catholic bishop of Pala, Muslims in Kerala are pursuing a sinister plot against his flock. They make matrimonial forays and narcotic infiltrations into the fold and lure gullible youths to their doom. A senior priest, Roy Kannanchira, also alleged that nine Catholic girls were lured away by Ezhava ‘enemies’, especially trained for the purpose. This invited a searing rebuff from Vellappally Natesan of the Ezhava community. Unnerved, the priest withdrew his allegation and apologized. Another priest spewed communal poison against the Muslims in the chapel of a convent in Kuravilangad. Four nuns boycotted the proceedings in protest. Kannanchira’s apology can mean only this: the alleged ‘love jihad’ against Catholic youth is a spectre of Kallarangatt’s subjectivity. It undermines the credibility of the bishop’s charges. Why does the bishop stand firm while the priest becomes apologetic in an identical situation? There is only one explanation for this. It is counterproductive to provoke the Ezhavas, whereas it is profitable to bait the sorely besieged Muslims. This view is reinforced by the striking similarity between the strategy of the Catholic Church in Kerala and that of the sangh parivar nationally. Both need the Muslim community as a hate object. The bishop’s ‘narcotics jihad’ allegation is shrewdly timed. The capture of Afghanistan by the Taliban, the most-feared hybrid of terrorism and narcotics, provides the ideal moment to raise the spectre of a ‘narcotics jihad’ unleashed by ‘sleeping Muslim terror cells’ in Kerala. In this, the operative mindset is that of the sangh parivar. Whether the Pala bishop plagiarized it opportunely or was tutored in it by an interested party remains to be settled. It is easy to see why the Syro-Malabar Catholic Church is forced to resort to the ‘religion-is-in-danger’ bogey. It has suffered a series of moral earthquakes. In the Sister Abhaya murder case, a priest and a nun have been proved guilty and condemned to life-long imprisonment. Since that murder, dead bodies of around 20 nuns have been recovered from various convent wells. Major Archbishop George Alencherry is due to undergo trial for alleged fraudulent land deals. Bishop Franco Mulakkal, accused of raping a nun, is facing trial. Orchestrated resistance to corruption and venality in the church is gathering momentum. Lay defiance of the church’s authority, unimaginable in the Catholic Church till recently, is becoming the new normal. The resultant insecurity is aggravated by political and economic factors. Politically, the power-base of the Catholic Church — the Catholics comprise 60 per cent of Christians in Kerala — has been weakened by two factors. First, the shift in the calculus of electoral politics. The Kerala Congress (M), the main plank of the church’s captive vote bank, has split and its backbone has shifted from the Congress-led alliance. The emergence of the Marxists as the domineering political force in Kerala — the party that the Catholic Church dislodged from power in 1958-59 — is not exactly good news for the bishops’ lobby. This also means that Christians no longer vote as directed by the church hierarchy. On the economic and educational front, the pre-eminence that the church enjoyed in the northern part of Kerala has come under serious challenge from Muslims, who have made significant gains in the last three decades. This is reinforced further by their demographic gains. Muslims are the only community in Kerala to have gained steadily on the population front. They formed 17.5 per cent of Kerala’s population in 1901. The figure rose to 26.56 per cent by 2011. During the same period, Christians grew from 16.3 per cent to 18.3 per cent. It is a widely known secret that the church leaders are keenly mindful of the economic underbelly of demographic shifts. This has been, though unacknowledged, a major determinant in conversion drives as well. Kerala’s Hindus have registered a steady decline in proportionate terms, falling from 68.5 per cent of the population in 1901 to 54.9 per cent by 2011. This lends teeth to Natesan’s attack on the Christian community for its hypocrisy. Thousands of Hindus — the Ezhavas, in particular — have been, he alleges, lured away from their religious homes. While church authorities stayed stuck in a past, the state moved on and there is now a climate of awareness wherein uncomfortable questions are bound to be raised. Diversionary tactics like ‘love jihad’ or ‘narcotics jihad’ will not wash anymore. Valson Thampu is a former principal of St Stephen’s College, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
04-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Three cheers ||The outcome of the by-election in Bhowanipore in which the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, was a contestant was a foregone conclusion. The talk within the Trinamul Congress centred on the margin of her victory. The impressive electoral mandate for Ms Banerjee — she won by a record margin of over 58,000 votes — and the TMC’s victory in two other seats — Samserganj and Jangipur — have sweetened the deal for the ruling party. These results certainly signify the TMC’s unprecedented electoral dominance in the state. Ms Banerjee’s rivals appear to be in a shambles. The Bharatiya Janata Party, which had boasted of winning 200 seats in the assembly elections, has tasted a dose of its own bitter medicine since: the TMC’s triumph in Bengal has been followed by defections in the BJP’s rank and file. There is a possibility that the BJP’s presence in the Vidhan Sabha would shrink further if the party fails to check the slide. The less said about the Congress — it did not contest Bhowanipore — and the Left Front — its candidate in this constituency performed miserably — the better. By-election results seldom create upsets. Yet, these polls have two important lessons. First, the TMC’s tally — 213 in a House of 294 — is likely to climb since Ms Banerjee’s party is expected to hold on to the momentum in the forthcoming by-elections in four other seats. It would be interesting to see what kind of impact this political dominance would have on the TMC. It would choose the path of arrogance and intimidation — something that it has been guilty of in the past — at its own peril. The TMC’s aggression in the last panchayat polls had paved the way for the BJP’s rise in the state in 2019. It is important for the TMC — this is the second lesson to be drawn — not to alienate itself from Bengal for another reason. Ms Banerjee seems to have set her eyes on a pan-India presence for her party. The TMC’s forays into Tripura and Goa are indicative of this ambition. But for the TMC to spread wings, it needs to be rooted firmly in the ground of its base — Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
04-10-2021||Opinion||Old problem new solution: bullying ||How should a 14-year-old who bullies another of the same age be punished, especially if the bullying results in permanent physical damage? In what way can the victim be compensated? More than a year after a 14-year-old student was forced to do squats by her dormitory “leader’’, also aged 14, her foot hasn’t recovered. The victim was punished because snacks were found on her bed, which was a violation of dormitory rules. Although the victim claimed the snacks didn’t belong to her, and pleaded that her foot was injured, the “leader’’ ordered her to do 300 squats. She could manage only 150. Watching all this silently was a teacher. Deep scars Today, the victim walks on crutches; doctors say her foot will never heal. The teacher has been dismissed and the school has paid the victim’s medical expenses. But her parents say this isn’t enough. Officials say they will resolve this dispute under the existing laws, but what does that mean? Reports of the incident do not mention what happened to the 14-year-old “leader’’. Meanwhile, the victim has gone into depression. She’s not the only school student to be so afflicted. A 15-year-old who’s faced bullying since Std II told a research team that she ended up feeling she must be “stupid’’, dropped out of school and is now on anti-depressants. Another teenager admitted to having cut her forearms in despair, thanks to having been bullied for years. The research team, which spoke to middle-school students (ages 12 to 16), found that to some extent jungle law prevailed in schools. Unpopular kids and those at the bottom of the class in academics were most likely to be bullied. Their classmates did not feel making fun of and ostracizing them constituted bullying. Playgrounds, school canteens and dormitories, all places where CCTV cameras were not installed, were “hot spots’’. Perpetrators were mostly older kids, toppers and student “cadres’’, that is, those chosen by teachers for their excellence, which is why teachers did not intervene when they received complaints. Migrant kids were treated with contempt even by teachers. In fact, a 2017 study had found that students disliked by teachers were more likely to be bullied. So victims kept quiet, unwilling to tell even their parents for fear that the latter would complain to teachers. Some schools hired retired soldiers as dormitory “keepers’’; they were often “vulgar and mean, and handed out corporal punishment’’, students said. Teachers sometimes gave lectures on bullying, but no one bothered to pay attention. Nor did teachers bother to make them listen; for them, it was just a task they had to complete. In 2016, the government drew up guidelines on preventing school bullying, and some bullies have faced punishments which have gone on their school records. A few have even been forbidden from taking the high school entrance exam. But that doesn’t seem to be the norm. Creative turn Now, one victim has chosen to use her painful memories to educate others through a board game where players can choose any of three roles: victim, bully or bystander. The game, which won an award at a children’s art festival, is designed by a 22-year-old psychology graduate who’s been through hell in the last 10 years. Bullied in middle school for being fat, she started feeling inferior, leading to her grades falling, and finally to depression. She hopes her game, aimed at middle-school students, will not only help victims fight back and sensitize perpetrators and teachers, but also provide an understanding of what motivates bullies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
04-10-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Archery Academy celebrates 25 glorious years||Tata Archery Academy (TAA) on Monday celebrated its silver jubilee. To celebrate the academy’s journey so far, former Tata Sons director Dr. J.J.Irani, Tata Steel vice-president (Corporate Services) Chanakya Chaudhary, officials of Tata Steel sports young international archers and cadets of the TAA Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat, coach Purnima Mahto, trainees and coaches were present at a function hosted at JFC Media entre at JRD Tata Sports Complex. The elite cradle was set up to encourage the indigenous talent of local youth. Since 1996, the cradle has successfully nurtured and trained talented youngsters to contribute to the greater glory of the country. “Jharkhand has a legacy of archery and this academy has done its bit to produce many prominent archers like Deepika Kumari, Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat who are the examples who have recently  made all proud in the World Cup and Youth World Championships. The academy will continue to produce more international archers for the country,” said Chaudhary. Irani, former MD of Tata Steel, wished the academy his best wishes and said that the cradle has reached a milestone with its silver jubilee. For the uninitiated, the trainees stay at the Sports Hostel and are served a nutritious diet. The cadets also spend time in the gym and swim to build strength and stamina. They also pay stress on education. Training is conducted at a nearby ground. A sports psychologist has also been appointed at the academy and training is imparted in a professional manner by experienced coaches and support staff. A total of 170-plus cadets have so far trained and graduated from the cradle. The TAA-trained cadets have claimed 213 international medals and 875 national medals. Seven have donned country's jerseys in Olympic Games,  4 in World Championship, 3 in  Asian Games, 7 in Asian Championship, 7 in Commonwealth Games and 14 in World Youth Championship. Three mentors from the cradle -- Sanjeeva Kumar Singh, Purnima Mahto and Dharmendra Tiwari have been bestowed with the Dronacharya Award, 2 -- Deepika Kumari and Limba Ram -- are Padma Shri awardees and 7 -- Sanjeeva Kumar Singh, Deepika Kumari, Limba Ram, Jayanta Talukdar, Rahul Banerjee, Dola Banerjee and Atanu Das are Arjuna awardees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
04-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Coal town flyover reopens after 79-hour mega block||Dhanbad: Lifeline of Dhanbad – Bank More flyover resumed operation this morning at around 7 am after a mega block of 79 hours for load testing purpose, which was carried out by Subudhi Techno Engineers Pvt Ltd at the behest of Dhanbad District Administration. The load testing however dispelled the apprehension about the vulnerability of flyover. Talking to media, Vidyadhar Panda, Project Manager of Subudhi Techno Engineers Pvt Ltd said, “The flyover is in good condition and it is in no danger for the next five to ten years even without repairing but it’s life can be increased for 20 to 25 years after full fledged repair work.” Notably, during the comprehensive load testing work of the bridge, carried out from 12 am of September 30 to 7 am of October 3 the load capacity of its 12 pillars were done by putting weight up to 100 tonnes on them. “The weakest pillar of the bridge bent upto 3 mm after putting load of 100 tonne on it for more than 48 hours but the pillar straightened once the weight was removed,” said a representative of Subudhi Techno Engineers Pvt Ltd and added that the recovery of the pillar following the removal of the weight proved it’s strength. Praduman Choubey Jamshedpur: Chief general manager of Jharkhand circle KK Singh who was here on Monday to participate in BSNL’s 22nd foundation day celebration held at Golden Iris, a banquet hall in Golmuri mentioned that their emphasis would be on emerging as a top telecom service provider in fibre technology. Expressing happiness over the growth of BSNL’ s fibre -to- the- home (FTTH) business (also known as Bharat Fibre) Singh mentioned that the Jamshedpur Business Area of the telecom company is doing exceedingly well. “We want the Jamshedpur Business Area to set a target of providing 1000 monthly FTTH connections. Ranchi is also picking up the FTTH business,” said Singh. The Jamshedpur Business Area of BSNL currently provides around 750 monthly FTTH connections. So far the Jamshedpur Business Area has provided a total of over 17,000 FTTH connections. FTTH is the technology of bringing high-speed internet services using fibre optic straight away from the operator's switching equipment to a home. BSNL's  Bharat Fibre service delivers high speed internet service at home using optic fiber replacing the existing cable infrastructure. The business gained pace during pandemic. Pinaki Majumdar Dhanbad: Coal town traders are facing a difficult situation due lesser footfall ahead of festive season. Upset with reduced business ahead of Durga Puja they are  now demanding for the withdrawal of the Sunday lockdown that has been announced to ensure some liquidity in the market. They are demanding permission for the public to shop during the lockdown. The traders under the banner of chamber of commerce also sent out a tweet to Chief Minister, Hemant Soren demanding withdrawal of Sunday lockdown and to allow shops to remain open till 10 pm instead of 8 pm. Md Sohrab, former president of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce who tweeted to the Chief Minister yesterday said, “There is no logic behind the continuation of the lockdown on Sunday when the pandemic situation has improved significantly.” Praduman Choubey||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
04-10-2021||Jharkhand||Lakhimpur Kheri violence triggers protests across Jharkhand||Reacting to the violence in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri region incident, chief minister Hemant Soren tweeted on Monday night stating, "The heinous incident in #Lakhimpur yesterday is a blot on humanity & a blatant display of majoritarian cruelty by the Ruling Party in UP & at Centre. I strongly condemn their undemocratic  attempts to detain all Opposition leaders from meeting the bereaved families of the victims." It was not just limited to Jarkhand's CM reacting to the violence. JMM and Congress, the ruling coalition partners in Jharkhand, on Monday launched a scathing attack on the BJP led governments at the Centre and Uttar Pradesh over violence in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri region on Sunday in which at least eight persons died including four farmers protesting against the contentious farm laws. Congress burnt effigies of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath across the state to protest against the incident including the arrest of AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi and other leaders. Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha, a Left backed farm body, also held similar effigy burning stints at different blocks of Ranchi. MM on the other hand questioned the stoic silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, union home minister Amit Shah as well as of Yogi calling the incident as yet another instance of brutal murder of ‘democracy’. “Sunday’s violence in Lakhimpur Khera was a pre-planned attempt by BJP to kill farmers to thwart their protests ahead of the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. But what is more shocking is the way opposition leaders including Priyanka Gandhi, two chief ministers—Bhupesh Baghel (Chattisgarh) and Charanjit Singh Channi (Punjab)—were either arrested or denied permission to visit families of the deceased farmer’s is proof enough of how democracy has completely died in Uttar Pradesh. And in India, democracy under the Modi regime is almost on its deathbed,” said JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee. He also questioned the silence of BJP’s poster boys while minister of state in union home ministry Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, who along with son Ashish—who are accused of stoking violence—continue to remain free. “UP police has claimed to have initiated FIRs against them, but they are free. On the other hand, opposition leaders are being arrested. Amid all these, the PM, home minister and UP CM, maintain silence. How is an accused minister still in the ministry? This proves BJP’s concern for farmers,” he said. He then quickly added that the only reason why Modi and Shah don’t want to act against him (Ajay Mishra) is because they don’t want to upset bhramin voters before UP polls. He added, “JMM has been supporting farmer’s protest and will continue to support them in all their endeavours against the three black agriculture laws in future too.” Congress on the other hand hit the streets across different districts and burnt effigies of UP CM. Party president Rajesh Thakur said, “Killing our country’s annadatas (farmers), who are protesting peacefully for the past 10 months, will now prove to be a nail in the coffin for the BJP. We condemn the incident and the arresting of our leaders, who are fighting for the cause of farmers and the marginalised.” Notably, violence broke out in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday after four farmers with black flags were mowed down by a car linked to Union minister (Ajay Mishra Teni), days after he had warned that the protesters would be fixed in “two minutes” if they did not mend their ways. A total of eight people have died in a clash that followed thereafter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
04-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi Municipal Corporation to provide free laptops to all ward councillors||The Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) will soon provide free laptops to the ward councillors of all the 53 wards under the civic body as part of its digital push to encourage public representatives to address issues related to civic utilities online. “It also aims to get them habituated to using computers,” officials from RMC said on Monday. According to the officials, RMC has procured at least 55 laptops, one for each of the 53 ward councillors and one each for the mayor and deputy mayor. “The laptops should be made available to all the ward councillors by the end of this month. We will also provide basic computer training to them so that they can operate the portable computers and at least access emails and other important websites related to work,” said Ranchi Municipal Commissioner, Mukesh Kumar. “Distributing laptops among the ward councillors and training them to use the gadget will help the RMC achieve its target of going completely paperless and rely on digital mediums as far as possible,” said Kumar. He added that these days most of RMC’s documentation is done online. The ward councillors will get to use these laptops throughout their term and surrender the gadgets in “working condition” on the completion of their tenure as civic body representatives, informed the officials. “The laptops will remain government property, and the councillors will get to use them only during their tenure,” said an RMC official, actively involved in the initiative. “The training will be provided by the National Informatics Centre and the sessions will be focused on using various applications or websites that are used regularly for various works under the RMC,” the official said. He then added, “Many ward councillors do not have much knowledge about computers and may find it difficult to operate them if they were not trained.” Ranchi’s Mayor Asha Lakra admitted that providing laptops to the ward councillors will make their work easier. She said that municipal councillors in the city have been demanding laptops since 2018, but the process of providing the gadgets to them got delayed due to various reasons. “Providing laptops to ward councillors will obviously help. But I think this should have been done earlier,” she said. According to a source from RMC, the laptops provided to the mayor and the deputy mayor would be worth at least Rs.70,000, while those distributed among the ward councillors may cost about Rs.50,000 each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
04-10-2021||Jharkhand||Coming soon: Packaged holy water from Baidyanathdham temple||Deoghar district administration is all set to package and market holy water flowing out of Baidyanathdham temple after proper filtration and purification. Instructions in this regard has been given by Manjunath Bhajantri, Deoghar Deputy Commissioner during today’s meeting. The officials were inspecting the temple with regards to safety and security measures being taken inside the temple. He also discussed the possibility of integrating more women in the production unit of incense sticks, which are made from Belpatra and flowers used in the temple. Talking to media after the meeting, he said, “The neer (holy water) water flowing through 22 temples situated in Baidyanathdham temple complex flows into the drains and gets wasted. But now it will be stocked in the Mansarovar lake situated next to the temple after being filtered.” He mentioned about the holy water being effectively branded and marketed across the globe. Besides ensuring the availability of water for the devotees, this will prevent wastage of thousands of litres of water. Notably,  several tonnes of Belpatra and flowers used in the temple are already being recycled since 2018 to prepare compost after the installation of solid waste management machines by the Power Grid Corporation of India. Bhajantri used the opportunity to make a public appeal of abstaining from using single-use plastic bags and thermocol to ensure that the temple premise remains clean and green. Alok Mallik, newly elected President of Santhal Pargana Chamber of Commerce and Industry said, “We welcome the district administration’s initiative. We are ready to extend our support to the water filtration project, if the officials are ready to discuss things with us.” Sanjay Mishra, Senior Vice President of Shrine Board titled, Panda Dharmrakshni Sabha said, “The proposal is indeed good. We can understand the water harvesting and filtration part of the project, however, we are not convinced with the proposal for marketing the holy water. We would prefer this water to be distributed to all, even those who can't pay for it. We have a history of not charging for the neer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
04-10-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city: Brace up for traffic snarls during Durga Puja||With puja the traffic management in steel city is going to face a huge challenge in the  absence of a traffic DSP. The onus of managing vehicle movement during the festive period, this year will be managed by five traffic inspectors since the post of DSP (Traffic) is lying vacant since Babban Singh retired on September 30, 2021. With over five lakh vehicles in the city, maintaining vehicular traffic is one of the biggest concerns for the city police during the three-day Puja festivity. During this period a large number of vehicles remain on the roads, thereby giving a tough time to the traffic wing of the police. Superintendent of city police  Subhash Chandra Jat asserted that the task of maintaining vehicular traffic in absence of a traffic DSP during the Puja will be a challenging task. “The post of the DSP (Traffic) is not going to be filled before the Puja. The junior traffic cops will have to take instructions from five traffic inspectors instead of the traffic DSP, something which is very challenging,” said Jat while talking to The Telegraph Online. He also pointed out that a DSP is better experienced in handling the traffic snarls, a common feature during the Puja besides monitoring rash drivers. The senior police officer said that despite the Puja being held in a restricted manner, while adhering to the Covid protocol, the crowd of vehicle-borne revelers is expected to hit the roads for pandal-hopping like the previous year. “Despite senior superintendent of police M Tamil Vanan and myself overseeing the traffic management, the actual job of maintaining the traffic will be done by the five traffic inspectors,” said Jat. For the uninitiated, despite the Covid restrictons being in place over 350 public Pujas are being organised in the city. Traffic jams during the peak hours of the festivity are expected at Kashidih on the Straight Mile Road and Bengal Club in Sakchi, Circuit House Area in Bistupur, Tuiladungri in Golmuri and Telco.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
