05-10-2021||Business||Moody's upgrades India's sovereign rating to ‘stable’ from ‘negative'||Ratings agency Moody's on Tuesday affirmed India's sovereign rating and upgraded the country's outlook to 'stable' from 'negative', citing receding downside risks to the economy and financial system. The sovereign rating by Moody's stands at 'Baa3' -- which is the lowest investment grade, just a notch above junk status. "Moody's Investors Service has today changed the outlook on the Government of India's ratings to stable from negative and affirmed the country's foreign-currency and local-currency long-term issuer ratings and the local-currency senior unsecured rating at Baa3," it said in a statement. The decision to change the outlook to stable reflects Moody's view that the downside risks from negative feedback between the real economy and financial system are receding. "With higher capital cushions and greater liquidity, banks and non-bank financial institutions pose much lesser risk to the sovereign than Moody's previously anticipated. "And while risks stemming from a high debt burden and weak debt affordability remain, Moody's expects that the economic environment will allow for a gradual reduction of the general government fiscal deficit over the next few years, preventing further deterioration of the sovereign credit profile," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
05-10-2021||Business||Centre, states have to work together on fuel price hike: Nirmala||As fuel prices surged to all-time highs on Tuesday, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said prices of petroleum products in the country depend on international oil rates and both the Centre and states have to together handle the issue of their rising cost. Addressing a press conference at the Chhattisgarh BJP office Kushabhau Thakre Parisar in Raipur, she said prices of petroleum products in India, a big consumer of these imported items, depend on their prevailing rates in the global market. "Hence, both the Centre and states have to handle the fuel issue together as they impose taxes on oil products," Sitharaman said. She was replying to a question about the rising prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas in the country. Sitharaman said India had to import almost 99 per cent of its petrol and diesel requirements. "Duty and tax on petrol and diesel are not levied only by the Centre. If we use 100 litres (of petrol or diesel), we have to import 99 litres out of it from abroad. According to oil rates abroad, prices (of fuel products) are fixed here. "When rate in the (global oil) market changes, it also affects us. The Centre imposes a fixed amount as tax and not the value-added tax (VAT). But state governments levy VAT (on petrol, diesel)," she said. Sitharaman said rising fuel prices have definitely increased financial burden on common citizens. "In this structure both the Centre and states impose tax on petrol and diesel. I believe prices are rising and definitely there is a burden on the common people. But both the Centre and states have to handle the issue," she added. Petrol and diesel prices on Tuesday surged to all-time high levels as rates were increased again after international oil prices hit the highest mark since 2014. Petrol price was hiked by 25 paise a litre and diesel by 30 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers issued in New Delhi. This sent the petrol price in Delhi to its highest-ever level of Rs 102.64 a litre and to Rs 108.67 in Mumbai. Diesel rates, too, touched a record high of Rs 91.07 in Delhi and Rs 98.80 in Mumbai. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. The sixth increase in fuel rates in a week's time has sent petrol prices above Rs 100 in most major cities of the country. Similarly, the ninth increase in prices in less than two weeks has taken diesel rates above Rs 100 mark in several cities in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. International oil prices rallied to a near seven-year high following a decision by OPEC+ to maintain its planned gradual increase of supply, despite the market facing an energy crunch. Global benchmark Brent jumped to USD 81.51 per barrel, while West Texas Intermediate rose to USD 77.76 a barrel. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
05-10-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 446 points to close at 59,744||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 446 points on Tuesday, propelled by index heavyweights Reliance Industries, TCS and Infosys amid a largely positive trend in global markets. Despite opening on a weak note, the 30-share Sensex ended 445.56 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 59,744.88. Similarly, the NSE Nifty surged 131.05 points or 0.74 per cent to 17,822.30. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping nearly 5 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, HCL Tech, Reliance Industries, Titan and Asian Paints. On the other hand, Sun Pharma, ITC, PowerGrid, UltraTech Cement and Nestle India were among the laggards. "Domestic equities continued to show resilience and extended gains amid mixed global cues as expectations of strong September quarter earnings lifted investors' sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. IT and energy stocks witnessed strong recovery, while financials (excluding PSU banks) also witnessed modest rebound, he said, adding that heavyweight Reliance Industries continued to move higher and supported the market rally. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Tokyo ended with losses, while Hong Kong was positive. Shanghai was closed for holidays. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.47 per cent to USD 81.64 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
05-10-2021||Business||Petrol and diesel prices soar to record high across India||Petrol and diesel prices on Tuesday surged to all-time high levels as rates were increased again after international oil prices hit the highest mark since 2014. Petrol price was hiked by 25 paise a litre and diesel by 30 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. This sent the petrol price in Delhi to its highest-ever level of Rs 102.64 a litre and to Rs 108.67 in Mumbai. Diesel rates too touched a record high of Rs 91.07 in Delhi and Rs 98.80 in Mumbai. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. The sixth increase in fuel rates in a week's time has sent petrol prices above Rs 100 in most major cities of the country. Similarly, the ninth increase in prices in less than two weeks has shot up diesel rates above Rs 100 mark in several cities in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. International oil prices rallied to a near seven-year high following a decision by OPEC+ to maintain its planned gradual increase of supply, despite the market facing an energy crunch. Global benchmark Brent jumped to USD 81.51 per barrel, while West Texas Intermediate rose to USD 77.76 a barrel. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. A month back Brent was less than USD 72 per barrel. With international crude oil prices moving in both directions during July and August, no price increase was carried out by oil marketing companies (OMCs) from July 18 to September 23. Instead, petrol price was cut by Rs 0.65 a litre and diesel by Rs 1.25. However, with no respite from surging international prices, OMCs have started to increase the retail selling price of petrol and diesel with effect from September 28 and September 24 respectively. Since then, rates have gone up by Rs 2.45 paise per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 1.50. Prior to the July/August price cuts, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period. The relentless increase in fuel prices has been criticised by opposition parties who have demanded that the government cut record excise duty on the two fuels to give relief to consumers. The government has so far not agreed to the demand. Oil Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday refused to even comment on the high fuel prices. Asked about the fuel prices at his ministry's event in the national capital on Saturday, Puri said, "chodo (please leave it)" before walking away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
05-10-2021||Business||India's services sector activity expands in September||India's services sector activity continued to expand in September, supported by favourable underlying demand amid the easing of COVID-19 restrictions, but lost some momentum from August's 18-month high level, a monthly survey said on Tuesday. The seasonally adjusted India Services Business Activity Index fell from 56.7 in August to 55.2 in September, but remained well above its long-run average. "Despite easing from August, the rate of expansion was marked and the second-fastest since February 2020," the survey said. Buoyed by signs of improvements in underlying demand, Indian service providers took on additional staff during September. The increase in employment ended a nine month sequence of job shedding, but was marginal overall as some panellists indicated having sufficient workforces to deal with their workloads. For the second straight month, the services sector witnessed an expansion in output. In Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) parlance, a print above 50 means expansion, while a score below 50 denotes contraction. "Indian companies continued to benefit from a recovery in demand as the pandemic receded further and restrictions were lifted. The improved market environment meant that firms managed to secure new work and increase business activity during September," said Pollyanna De Lima, Economics Associate Director at IHS Markit. However, despite the sustained recovery of the sector, business confidence weakened in September. "While forecasts of better demand in the year ahead supported business confidence regarding output, growth looks set to be constrained by rising inflation expectations. We saw a substantial decline in positive sentiment among service providers due to this factor, despite input cost inflation retreating in September," Lima said. Moreover, travel restrictions continued to weigh on international demand for Indian services. New export business contracted for the nineteenth month in a row, the survey said. Business Activity in India's private sector rose further in September, as both manufacturing and services output continued to expand. The Composite PMI Output Index -- which measures combined services and manufacturing output -- was at 55.3 in September, little-changed from 55.4 in August. On the prices front, amid reports of higher fuel, material, retail and transportation prices, average cost burdens faced by Indian service providers rose further during September. The overall rate of inflation was "solid", but softened to an eight-month low. Economists believe the Reserve Bank of India is expected to continue with the accommodative policy stance in its October 6-8 monetary policy discussions. On the macro-economic front, subdued prices of food items like vegetables pulled down retail inflation for the third month in a row to 5.3 per cent in August, within the RBI's comfort zone. Retail inflation, which rose sharply to 6.3 per cent in May from 4.23 per cent in April, has been on a downward trajectory since then. It was 6.26 per cent in June and 5.59 per cent in July this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
05-10-2021||Business||Sensex sheds over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 100 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking losses in index heavyweights Infosys, ICICI Bank and TCS amid a negative trend in global markets. After slumping to 59,127.04 in the opening session, the 30-share Sensex was trading 102.49 points or 0.17 per cent lower at 59,196.83. Similarly, the Nifty fell 28.60 points or 0.16 per cent to 17,662.65. Bajaj Finserv was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy's, Tech Mahindra, HCL Tech and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, Maruti, Bharti Airtel, PowerGrid and HUL were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 533.74 points or 0.91 per cent higher at 59,299.32, and Nifty surged 159.20 points or 0.91 per cent to 17,691.25. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 860.50 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities do not look to be good as of now. A sharp rise in oil prices is a fresh overhang of Indian equities, which can essentially result in further hardening of inflation and adversely impact the government's fiscal math. US stocks ended sharply lower with all three key indices contracting around 1-2 per cent in the overnight session mainly led by intensified concerns about prolonged inflationary pressure on rising oil prices, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Tokyo were trading with heavy losses, while Hong Kong was positive in mid-session deals. Shanghai was closed for the holidays. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.37 per cent to USD 81.56 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
05-10-2021||Business||A sneak-peek at superapp TataNeu||Tata Group’s ambitious plan to develop a ‘‘superapp” is close to  reality — the company spearheading the venture is offering the mobile application to a select set of employees over the weekend on a trial basis. The app is named TataNeu and appears to be a comprehensive one that brings many of the consumer facing businesses of the salt-to- software conglomerate under one umbrella. A cursory look at the app shows how the final product may shape up. The app has been shared among many group executives via link. However, it is still not available to the public through free downloads from the Google Play Store or Apple App Store. Apart from a comprehensive section that deals with paying utility bills and recharges, the app allows users to explore a plethora of goods and services from the Tata group stable. At the same time, TataNeu provides users options to choose from rival brands and products. Clicking on any of the links takes the user to the respective apps or website of the related product or service. For instance, a click on the grocery section will take the user to BigBasket app/website; from F&B the user will be transported to Starbucks or Qmin, which is the online food delivery service launched by the Taj group of hotels during the pandemic. TataCliq, the already existing marketplace app /website of the group, which already offers a bouquet of third party products and services, appears to be the most common go-to from the TataNeu app. Multiple tweaks Sources said the app would go through many refinements before it was opened to the public. Two of the popular consumer facing brands Titan and Tanishq are yet to onboard the app. The trial of the app kicks off a a month-and -a-half after Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal chided Bombay House for apparently objecting to the draft e-commerce rules that prevent the conglomerate from selling its own products and that of its affiliates on the superapp. However, within days of the public outburst at the CII event, the minister softened his stand, apparently under pressure from outside and within the government. It now appears that Tatas are moving ahead with the plan even as dust is yet to settle on the e-commerce rules in the country. The superapp plans to mirror an e-marketplace, pitting itself directly not only against global behemoths such as  Flipkart-Walmart and Amazon but also the retail dream of Mukesh Ambani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
05-10-2021||Business||Bengal's decision to cut stamp duty and circle rate yields results||The Mamata Banerjee government’s decision to cut stamp duty and circle rate for a limited period is  yielding results. A report published by property consultancy Knight Frank India said July-September recorded the “highest” level of quarterly sales in a three-month period. The government had announced a 2 per cent cut in stamp duty and 10 per cent relief in circle rate in the state budget on July 7 this year, even as it took consumers a few more weeks to avail themselves the benefit. Knight Frank says residential sales in the city spiked by 75 per cent year-on-year (YoY) to 6,861 units in Q3 of 2021. During the same period, new launches in the residential market also increased by 62 per cent YoY to 3,128 units. “Calcutta has seen the strongest recovery during the quarter and achieved pre-pandemic levels in terms of sales as well as launches.The 2 per cent cut in stamp duty and drop-in circle rates by 10 per cent in Bengal which has been put into effect has proved to be an effective driver for bringing sales velocity in the market. The announcement of the state government has encouraged developers to launch new projects.”said Shishir Baijal, chairman and managing director, Knight Frank India. The limited period offer is in place till October 30, even as the city-based developers have exhorted the government to extend the deadline. A buyer can take advantage of the scheme if the registration process is completed within the due date. Stamp duty has come down to 4 per cent and 3 per cent in urban and rural areas, respectively, for properties up to Rs 1 crore and 5 per cent and 4 per cent, respectively, for properties above that ceiling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
05-10-2021||Business||Formal announcement on sale of Air India expected this week||A formal announcement on the strategic sale of Air India is expected this week. The ministerial panel on Air India is likely to clear the bid placed by Tata Sons, who have reportedly outbid SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh. The Union cabinet will give the final seal of approval to the winning bid. The Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism headed by home minister Amit Shah is likely to meet this week and their decision would be placed before the cabinet, officials said. They said there would be little gap between the ministerial panel meeting and the cabinet meeting. The ministerial panel members include finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, commerce minister Piyush Goyal and aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia. The panel would vet the recommendation of the core group of secretaries headed by the cabinet secretary who has held several rounds of consultations and is learnt to have suggested Tata Sons as the suitable candidate to take over the national carrier. However, Ajay Singh had placed a “competitive bid” for the airline, sources said. Valuation firms RBSA Advisors and EY — the consultant for the disinvestment — had given a presentation to the committee of secretaries. They had reportedly set the reserve price in the range of Rs 15,000-20,000 crore. Tata Sons has put in its financial bids through its subsidiary Talace Pvt Ltd, while Ajay Singh is heading a group of investors and is involved in his personal capacity as a businessman. Officials said the Tatas were said to have outbid the SpiceJet chairman and the ministerial panel approval  seemed like a formality. The government plans to hand over the Maharajah before the end of the calendar year.  If successful, this will mark the return of Air India to the Tata fold after 67 years. The Tata Group founded Air India as Tata Airlines in October 1932. The government nationalised the airline in 1953. The Centre is offering to sell 100 per cent in Air India and low cost-carrier Air India Express and its 50 per cent stake Air India SATS Airport Services Limited. Winning bidders will be decided on the basis of who quotes the highest EV value. At least 15 per cent of this value will need to be paid in cash while the rest can be taken on as debt. The bids will be made on the basis of enterprise values. At least 15 per cent of the enterprise value needs to be paid in cash and the rest taken on as debt. Enterprise value of an entity is the equity and debt combined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
05-10-2021||Business||Invesco renews Zee AGM demand||Invesco on Monday urged the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to pass a “mandatory order” on Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd to convene an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) to vote on the removal of MD and CEO Punit Goenka and the appointment of six independent directors. At the hearing , Mukul Rohatgi, counsel of Invesco Developing Markets Fund, also requested the appointment a retired high court judge to chair the EGM even as he said it was the “mandatory duty’’ of Zee to honour the EGM requisition. Invesco and OFI Global China Fund LLC who hold close to 18 per cent in Zee had last month asked the company to hold the EGM. It subsequently approached the tribunal seeking its intervention to direct Zee to hold the meeting. On September 30, the NCLT had directed Zee to hold a board meeting to consider Invesco’s request on the EGM. The Zee board on Friday turned down Invesco’s demand even as it filed a petition in the Bombay High Court saying the demand for the EGM be declared illegal and invalid. Rohatgi said that investors should have a minimum shareholding of 10 cent to request an EGM and given that this condition has been met, the meeting should be held. He said Zee would otherwise create hindrances if funds call for an EGM independently. Invesco is not worried about the outcome of the proposed meeting, but about whether it will be called, Rohatgi said. The tribunal will resume hearing on Tuesday. Zee had cited several reasons for not acceding to Invesco’s request. It pointed out that approval of the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting is needed for any change in the board or the CEO. Rohatgi said that such an approval has to be taken by the company and not its shareholders and this happens after a resolution to appoint new directors is passed by them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
05-10-2021||Business||Sebi wants  five per cent price band in book-building route||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has proposed a minimum price band of five per cent for initial public offering (IPOs) done through the book-building route. Sebi also wants the non-institutional investor (NII) category in IPOs be divided into two sub-categories to prevent the crowding out of lower bids made in this segment. Sebi has sought the comments on these proposals till October 20. An IPO can be made either through the book- building or the fixed price method. In book-building, bids are collected at various prices that are above or equal to floor price and less than or equal to the upper cap, with the offer price fixed after the bid closing date. Sebi rules say in book building the upper end of the price band should not exceed of 20 per cent the floor price. However, the price band is extremely narrow, sometimes as small as Rs 1, Rs 2 or Rs 3. A narrow price band presents an opportunity to the issuer company to camouflage a fixed price issue as a book built issue. Sebi has suggested the upper end of the price band should be at least 5 per cent higher than the lower end. Sebi said that there were concerns on the proportionate allotment method among non-institutional investors as there is an incentive to make an application of a higher bid amount that has the effect of crowding out the lower bids. Sebi wants the segment be divided into two sub-categories. The first is applications in the Rs 2 lakh to Rs 10 lakh range, which will be allocated one-third of the NII quota. The second is applications above Rs 10 lakh, which will be allocated the rest of the quota. MF pooling ban Sebi on Monday announced banning “intermediate pooling” of funds and units by mutual fund distributors, investment advisers, channel partners, platforms and other entities. The new rule, to come into force from April 1. Asset management companies (AMCs) will have to put in place necessary systems to ensure that transactions of funds and units pertaining to subscription as well as redemption are directly done between the accounts of the investors and the mutual fund scheme accounts concerned. There will not be any intermediate pooling, Sebi said. Under the fixed price method, the issuer has to allocate at least 50 per cent to retail investors and the rest to qualified institutional buyers and NIIs. In book building, at least 35 per cent  has to go to retail investors, 50 per cent to QIBs and the rest to NIIs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
05-10-2021||Business||Adanis buy SB Energy Holdings Ltd for Rs 26,000 crore||Adani Green Energy Ltd (AGEL) on Monday said it has completed the acquisition of SB Energy Holdings Ltd (SB Energy India) for an enterprise valuation of $3.5 billion or Rs 26,000 crore. This marks the largest acquisition in India’s renewable sector. Following the closure of the deal, SB Energy India is now a 100 per cent subsidiary of AGEL. Earlier, it was a 80:20 joint venture between Japan-based SoftBank Group Corp and the Bharti group. In May, both parties had entered into definitive agreements for the transaction. The announcement comes just days after Gautam Adani had said that the group would invest over $20 billion across the next 10 years in renewable energy generation. SB Energy India has 5GW renewable assets across four states through its special purpose vehicles (SPVs). The portfolio holds 1,700MW of operational renewable assets, 2,554MW of assets under construction and 700MW of assets near construction. Of these, the solar capacity accounts for 84 per cent of the portfolio (4,180MW), the share of wind-solar hybrid capacity is around 9 per cent (450MW) while wind capacity accounts for 7 per cent (324MW). A statement from the Adani group added that it will get one of India’s highest quality renewable portfolios, with many of the assets being solar park-based projects and constructed using best-in-class project development, construction & operations and maintenance standards. “This transaction takes us closer to becoming the global leader in renewables,” Vneet S. Jaain, MD & CEO, AGEL. He said the addition of the high-quality large utility assets from SB Energy India demonstrates Adani Green Energy’s plans to accelerate India’s efforts to transition towards a carbon neutral future and that its renewable energy foundations will enable an entire ecosystem of new industries that can be expected to catalyse job creation in multiple sectors. Shares of Adani Energy on Monday ended with gains on the announcement. On the BSE, the scrip settled at Rs 1176.20 — up 2.18 per cent over the last close. It currently has a market cap of Rs 1,83,959.36 crore. AGEL said the transaction will boost its overall portfolio to 19.8GW implying a growth of four times. “AGEL’s counterparty mix for its overall portfolio of 19.8 GW is further reinforced with 87 per cent sovereign rated counter parties. The company also ensures a thorough adherence to globally recognised principles such as UN sustainable development goals and science-based targets initiative’’, it added. Key customers of AGEL include Solar Energy Corporation of India, National Thermal Power Corporation and various state discoms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
05-10-2021||Business||Oil prices jump on Opec move||Oil prices jumped Monday after Opec and allied oil producing countries stayed with their gradual approach to restoring output slashed during the pandemic, agreeing to add only 400,000 barrels per day in November. The decision on Monday by the Vienna-based oil cartel tracks with its established schedule of adding back that amount of oil every month until deep cuts made in 2020 to support prices during the depth of the pandemic recession are restored next year. The situation has changed since then as the global economy recovers. The decision comes amid stronger demand for oil products like gasoline and jet fuel, as driving and flying pick up around the globe due to the easing of restrictions aimed at containing the Covid-19 pandemic. On top of that, unusually high prices for natural gas are pushing some electricity producers in Asia to switch from natural gas to oil-based products, helping support prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
05-10-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India supersedes board of directors of Srei||The Reserve Bank of India has ordered the supersession of the board of directors of Srei Infrastructure Finance (SIFL) and Srei Equipment Finance (SEFL) — the two non-banking finance entities of the Kanoria-owned Srei group. Rajneesh Sharma, former chief general manager of Bank of Baroda, has been appointed as the administrator of the two companies. A three-member advisory committee has been formed to help the administrator discharge of his duties. The committee includes R. Subramaniakumar, former MD and CEO of Indian Overseas Bank, T. T. Srinivasaraghavan, former MD of Sundaram Finance Limited and Farokh N Subedar, former chief operating officer and company secretary of Tata Sons Limited. The banking regulator exercised its powers under section 45-IE (1) of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 to supersede the boards of the two entities because of corporate governance concerns and their failure to meet their loan repayment obligations. The banks are expected to initiate insolvency proceedings against the two SREI entities — only the second time that the banking regulator has done so. In 2019, the regulator had launched insolvency proceedings against Dewan Housing Finance Corp which was eventually acquired by the Piramal group for Rs 34,250 crore. “The Reserve Bank ...intends to shortly initiate the process of resolution of the ... two NBFCs under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Insolvency and Liquidation Proceedings of Financial Service Providers and Application to Adjudicating Authority) Rules, 2019 and would also apply to the NCLT for appointing the Administrator as the Insolvency Resolution Professional,” said RBI. “We are shocked by the RBI’s move as banks have been regularly appropriating funds from the escrow account they have controlled since November 2020. Moreover, we have not received any communications from banks on any defaults. Almost Rs 3,000 crore has been collected by them,” the Srei group spokesperson told The Telegraph, adding that they were exploring legal options. The Srei spokesperson said the group had submitted a proposal in October 2020 to pay the full amount to banks under a scheme filed under section 230 of the Companies Act 2013. “They have neither accepted the scheme nor proposed a payment schedule acceptable to them. The NCLT order for all creditors is still in process. There is also an order directing the creditors and the regulator not to adopt coercive measures. We will take all necessary steps as advised by our lawyers in this regard,” he added. The spokesperson said that over the past three decades the Srei Group had paid Rs 30,000 crore by way of interest and another Rs 20,000 crore as principal to banks without delay. Special audit The banking regulator’s action comes after a special audit of the two Srei group entities. The lenders have also initiated a forensic audit of the books of these companies and have supported the regulator’s move to supersede the boards. The two NBFCs saw their problems escalate after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic during which the RBI instructed all lending institutions in March 2020 to grant a moratorium on loan repayment. After the six-month moratorium ended on August 30 last year, the RBI announced a one-time restructuring of loans in the case of certain borrowers without any change in asset classification. While the NBFCs were mandated to provide the one-time restructuring to their own borrowers, they themselves were not permitted to seek any relief on their own borrowings from their lenders. This restriction created a cash flow problem for them. Srei subsequently approached the NCLT with a repayment scheme aligned to cash inflows for all its creditors. Some creditors accepted the scheme, but other including banks did not. With the asset liability mismatch, cash flows of SEFL are currently being controlled by the lenders. At present, the company’s total liabilities amount to around Rs 18,000 crore of bank loans and another Rs 10,000 crore of external commercial borrowings and bonds. Srei’s problems deepened after more than 200 employees including several top-level executives quit because of uncertainty over salary payments.  Credit rating agencies have also downgraded the ratings of SEFL and parent company SIFL to the “default” category -- a classification that the companies have challenged. For the quarter ended June 30, 2021, Srei Infrastructure Finance reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 971 crore compared with a profit of Rs 23 crore in the year ago period. It had reported a net loss of Rs 3,555 crore in the quarter ended March. Total consolidated income for the first quarter dropped 35 per cent year on year to Rs 793.34 crore. Expenses rose 48 per cent from a year earlier to Rs 1764 crore. Finance cost of Rs 936 crore and impairment cost of Rs 439 crore were the largest contributors to the company's expenses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
05-10-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi to visit families of farmers in UP on Wednesday||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi plans to visit Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday, his party has announced, amid the state government's efforts at blocking many opposition leaders, including his sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who have made a beeline for the district where eight people were killed in Sunday’s violence. In a letter written to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the Congress said a five-member delegation led by Rahul Gandhi planned to visit the district. It also called the detention of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra “without any reason or justification”. Gandhi Vadra, a Congress general secretary, on Tuesday alleged that she was being held illegally at a police compound in Sitapur and no notice or FIR has been provided to her even after her 38-hour detention and was not allowed to meet her legal counsel. In a statement, she said she has not been produced in front of a magistrate or any other judicial officer and neither has she been allowed to meet her legal counsel, who has been standing at the gate of the compound since morning. “Presently I am not going into the details of the completely illegal physical force used on my colleagues and me at the time of my arrest as this statement serves merely to clarify the continuing illegality of my confinement at the PAC compound in Sitapur, UP,” she said. “I have not been served with any order or notice. Nor have they shown me an FIR. I have not been produced in front of a magistrate or any other judicial officer either. I have also not been allowed to meet my legal counsel who has been standing at the gate since morning,” the Congress leader also said. Gandhi Vadra has been kept in detention since Monday morning after she wanted to meet the families of the victims of the Lakhimpur clashes. She said she has seen a portion of a paper on social media in which the authorities have named 11 people, including eight who were not even present at the time she was arrested. They have even named the two persons “who brought my clothes from Lucknow on the afternoon of October 4”, she said. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest in Lakhimpur Kheri, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit by UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Four of the dead were people in the cars, apparently part of a convoy of BJP workers who had come to welcome the UP minister and were attacked after allegedly running over the protesting farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
05-10-2021||India||Final decision on Covaxin clearance next week, says WHO||The World Health Organisation (WHO) has said that it'll announce the final decision on granting the much-awaited Emergency Use Listing (EUL) to Covaxin next week. “WHO & an independent group of experts are scheduled to meet next week to carry out the risk/benefit assessment and come to a final decision whether to grant Emergency Use Listing to Covaxin,” the global health body said in a tweet on Tuesday. Covaxin manufacturer, Bharat Biotech, has been submitting data to the WHO on a rolling basis and submitted additional information at the WHO’s request on September 27. “WHO experts are currently reviewing this info & if it addresses all questions raised, WHO assessment will be finalised next week,” said the WHO. The Emergency Use Listing process - done by WHO and the Technical Advisory Group of independent experts - is centred on determining if a manufactured product (e.g. a vaccine) is “quality-assured”, “safe” and “effective”. The Hyderabad-based pharma company last month had responded to all clarifications sought by the WHO on their EUL Application for the Made in India Covid-19 vaccine -- Covaxin. The pharma firm, popularly known for vaccine manufacturing, said it has provided the global health watchdog with all the details and was awaiting EUL approval. Data of clinical trials was fully compiled and available in June this year. The final data for the EUL application was submitted in early July. The EUL application provides advice before the submission of the final dossier. Before that, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had also met WHO Chief Scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan to discuss the approval of Covaxin, reported news agency ANI. Meanwhile, the WHO has already approved Pfizer-BioNTech, AstraZeneca, Moderna, Sinopharm and Johnson and Johnson Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
05-10-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi releases statement, says she is illegally detained||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday alleged that she was being held illegally at the PAC compound in Sitapur and no notice or FIR has been provided to her even after her 38-hour detention and was not allowed to meet her legal counsel. In a statement, she said she has not been produced in front of a magistrate or any other judicial officer and neither has she been allowed to meet her legal counsel, who has been standing at the gate of the compound since morning. "Presently I am not going into the details of the completely illegal physical force used on my colleagues and me at the time of my arrest as this statement serves merely to clarify the continuing illegality of my confinement at the PAC compound in Sitapur, UP," she said. "I have not been served with any order or notice. Nor have they shown me an FIR. I have not been produced in front of a magistrate or any other judicial officer either. I have also not been allowed to meet my legal counsel who has been standing at the gate since morning," the Congress leader also said. Gandhi Vadra has been kept in detention since Monday morning after she wanted to meet the families of the victims of the Lakhimpur clashes. She said she has seen a portion of a paper on social media in which the authorities have named 11 people, including eight who were not even present at the time she was arrested. In fact they have even named the two persons "who brought my clothes from Lucknow on the afternoon of October 4", she said. Vadra said she has been placed under arrest as verbally informed to her by the arresting officer DSP Piyush Kumar Singh, CO City, Sitapur, under Section 151 at 4.30 am on October 4. "At the time I was arrested I was travelling within the district of Sitapur, approximately 20 km from the border of district Lakhimpur Kheri which was under section 144. However to my knowledge section 144 was not imposed in Sitapur," she said. She said she was travelling in a single vehicle with four other persons, two local Congress workers, Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda and Sandeep Singh and no security car or Congress workers other than the four persons were accompanying her. "I was then driven to the PAC compound, Sitapur accompanied by two female and two male constables. Having been brought to the PAC compound, no further communication regarding the circumstances or the reasons, or the sections under which I have been charged have been communicated to me by the UP Police or administration until now-38 hours later at 6.30 pm on October 5, 2021," she said. A number of Congress workers have come out in support of her and have demanded her immediate release so that she can visit the families of the violence victims and share their grief. Congress workers also staged a candle march outside the guest house in Sitapur where she has been kept. They took out the march in solidarity with her and the farmers protesting in Lakhimpur this evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
05-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Mortal remains of three farmers cremated||The Uttar Pradesh authorities on Tuesday agreed to the demand for a second post-mortem of a farmer killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident after his family refused to cremate him, while mortal remains of the three others were consigned to flames at their native places during the day. Family members of Gurvinder Singh (22) of Moharia village of Bahraich had refused to cremate him till a second autopsy is done, claiming that he was shot dead. They received support from farmer leader Rakesh Tikait and Punjabi singer Sonia Maan, who arrived in the village this evening. Senior district administration officials confirmed that the second post-mortem of Gurvinder will be conducted at the district hospital. They said a vehicle has been sent to bring the body to the hospital post-mortem house. A team of experts has arrived at Bahraich district police line from capital Lucknow by helicopter for the autopsy, they said. Additional Director General of Police (Gorakhpur) Akhil Kumar and other senior civil and police officials had come to Moharia village to persuade the family to perform the last rites but when his kin and farmer leaders did not relent, a decision for a second autopsy was taken. "We don't want to conduct his last rites after a false post-mortem report," a relative said. Sonia Mann, who has been actively supporting protests against the three central agri laws, also reached Gurvinder Singh's village and supported his family's demand. Gurvinder's family said that Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who is under detention in Sitapur, talked to his father over the phone. Maan accused the UP government of creating "pressure" through the district administration on the family. "The body will not be sent for last rites till a second post mortem is performed in Delhi," she said earlier. The mortal remains of the three other dead farmers, who were mowed down by a vehicle during a protest in Lakhimpur Kheri, were cremated at their native places. Among the farmers killed in the Sunday incident, two each were from Lakhimpur Kheri and Bahraich and the bodies were handed over to their families after a post mortem on Monday. The families of Lavpreet Singh (19), Nachattar Singh (65)and Daljeet Singh (42) agreed to the cremation after hours of negotiations involving police officials and farmer leader Rakesh Tikait. Tikait was present when Satnam Singh performed the last rites of his son Lavpreet Singh in the family's agricultural field in Palia tehsil in Lakhimpur Kheri late in the afternoon. The mortal remains of Nachattar Singh of Dhaurahra tehsil in Lakhimpur Kheri were consigned to flames by his son Mandeep Singh, who is posted in Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB). In Bahraich, the family members of Daljeet Singh performed his last rites. The UP government is facing massive flak after eight people were killed in violence during a protest against the farm laws in Lakhimpur Four of the dead were farmers who were allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers. The four others included two BJP workers, one driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel. While the first three were lynched by agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering news of farmers' protest against the visit of UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to Ajay Mishra's native place Sunday. The UP Police has lodged a case against Union minister Ajay Mishra's son but no arrest has been made. Additional Director General (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar announced on Monday that the government will order a probe headed by a retired high court judge and give compensation of Rs 45 lakh each to the families of the dead farmers. Their kin will also get a government job. The injured will get Rs 10 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
05-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan's NCB custody extended till October 11 by Mumbai court||A court here on Tuesday remanded four persons to the custody of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) till October 11 in a case pertaining to the seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast in which Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, is also an accused. The anti-drugs agency has so far arrested twelve people, including Aryan Khan, after raiding the Goa-bound ship on Saturday. On Tuesday, additional chief metropolitan magistrate R M Nerlikar remanded Abdul Qadir Sheikh (30), Shreyas Nair (23), Manish Rajgariya (26) and Avin Sahu (30) to the NCB custody till October 11. These four accused were booked under sections 8(c) (produce, manufacture, possess, sell or purchase of drugs) and 27 (punishment for consumption of any narcotics or drugs) and 27 A ( punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders) of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS). The court on Monday remanded Aryan Khan (23) and seven others to the NCB custody till Thursday. The NCB had told the court that "shocking and incriminating" material recovered in WhatsApp chats of Aryan Khan and two others arrested in connection with the case showed international drug trafficking. The NCB had also claimed that in the WhatsApp chats, Aryan Khan is discussing modes of payment to be done for procurement (of drugs) and that several code names are being used. Aryan Khan's lawyer had claimed drugs were not recovered from the possession of his client.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
05-10-2021||India||Gujarat civic polls: BJP bags three seats, Congress gets one||The ruling BJP on Tuesday retained the Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC) and won in two other civic bodies in Gujarat, while the Congress took away Bhanvad municipality in Devbhumi-Dwarka district from the saffron party. In the GMC, the BJP established its lead since the beginning of counting at 9 am, and eventually trumped its rivals Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) by a huge margin. The GMC poll was being seen as a litmus test for the BJP in the backdrop of its sudden and surprising decision to change the state's chief minister and the entire cabinet recently, ahead of the state Assembly polls due next year. The party had registered a thumping win in the local bodies polls held in February this year. As per the final tally released by the State Election Commission (SEC), out of total 44 seats in the GMC, the BJP won 41 seats, the Congress-two and the AAP bagged one seat. Counting of votes was also held for three other municipalities - Okha and Bhanvad in Devbhumi-Dwarka district, and Thara municipality of Banaskantha district. As per the final figures released by the SEC after counting of votes, the BJP won 20 out of 24 seats in Thara, while the Congress got only four seats. The BJP retained Okha municipality by winning 34 out of 36 seats, while two seats went to the Congress. However, in a setback to the BJP, the Congress emerged victorious in Bhanvad by winning 16 out of 24 seats. The BJP, which managed to win only eight seats this time, was in power in Bhanvad since 1995. Voting for elections to the GMC and the three other municipalities took place on Sunday. Besides, bypolls to elect representatives on 104 vacant seats of various other local bodies were also held the same day. Of the total 2.8 lakh registered voters in Gandhinagar, 56.24 per cent had exercised their franchise. The voter turnout in Okha and Bhanvad was 55.07 and 62.27 per cent, respectively, while Thara had recorded an impressive 73.55 per cent turnout. In Gandhinagar, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had put in a concerted effort apart from traditional rivals BJP and Congress. A total of 161 candidates contested the GMC poll, with the BJP and Congress fighting in all 44 seats and the AAP in 40 seats. In the 2016 GMC elections, both the Congress and BJP won 16 seats each out of the total 32 seats existing at that time. Both the parties then had equal chances of forming the board through a draw of lots. However, at the last moment, Congress corporator Pravin Patel switched sides and helped the BJP come to power in the civic body. The latest election was originally supposed to be held in April this year, but it was postponed in view of the high number of COVID-19 cases emerging every day at that time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
05-10-2021||India||Cadila Healthcare gets DCGI nod to conduct phase III trials for its Covid vaccine||Drug firm Cadila Healthcare on Tuesday said it has received permission from the Indian drug regulator for conducting phase III trials for its two-dose COVID-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D. The company has already received the emergency use authorization (EUA) from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for ZyCoV-D to be administered in three doses on August 20. The company has "... got the permission for conduct of phase III trials for two-dose Covid vaccine," Cadila Healthcare said in a regulatory filing. Earlier in August, in a filing to BSE, Cadila Healthcare had said that it plans to seek approval for the two dose regimen of the vaccine. It had also mentioned that the company plans to manufacture 10-12 crore doses of ZyCoV-D annually. Shares of Cadila Healthcare Ltd were trading at Rs 563.95 per scrip on BSE, up 0.29 per cent from their previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
05-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Case lodged against Priyanka, Sidhu threatens march||With the Congress questioning the detention of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, officials said Tuesday a case has been registered in Sitapur against her and 10 others under sections related to preventive detention due to apprehension of breach of peace. The case under Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) sections 151, 107, 116 (all related to preventive detention due to apprehension of breach of peace) has also been registered against Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu and party leader Deependra Hooda, the officials said. "These are preventive sections. Once we get assurance that there would not be violation of peace by them these sections will be removed," Sitapur Sub-divisional Magistrate Pyare Lal Maurya said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other party leaders were detained on Monday when they were going to meet the victims of the violence that erupted during a farmers' protest in Lakhimpur Kheri a day earlier. Eight people were killed as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Several Congress leaders including P Chidambaram have questioned Gandhi's detention, describing it as "totally illegal" and "unconstitutional". In a statement, Chidambaram said Tuesday the facts and circumstances concerning Gandhi's detention in Sitapur "conclusively establish that there is no rule of law in UP". Meanwhile, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu said the state party will march towards Lakhimpur Kheri if Union minister Ajay Mishra's son is not arrested and Priyanka Gandhi is not released by Wednesday. "If, by tomorrow, the Union Minister’s son behind the brutal murder of Farmers is not arrested, and our leader  @PriyankaGandhi being unlawfully arrested, fighting for farmers is not released, the Punjab Congress will march towards Lakhimpur Kheri," he tweeted. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said he will meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah in the evening and will raise with him the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Channi, who along with some ministers and Congress legislators held a silent protest at Gandhi Smarak Bhawan in Chandigarh, said the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri reminds him of the 1919 Jallianwala Bagh tragedy. Channi alleged that the killing of the farmers was intentional . He said he will be meeting the Union home minister at 6.30 pm and will raise the issue of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident with him. Slamming the BJP government at the Centre, he said it should not force the country's youth to look at martyrs like Bhagat Singh, Rajguru, Sukhdev and Shahid Udham Singh for again restoring democracy in the country. Channi said the Lakhimpur Kheri incident was painful and demanded that the three controversial farm laws should be repealed immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
05-10-2021||India||No two-finger test conducted, says IAF Chief on Coimbatore rape case||No two-finger test was conducted on a woman who has alleged sexual assault at an IAF training academy in Coimbatore, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal V R Chaudhary said on Tuesday. At a press conference, the IAF chief countered the woman's claim of being subjected to the two-finger test, and said disciplinary action will be taken against those found guilty in the alleged rape case. "No two-finger test was conducted," Air Chief Marshal Chaudhary said replying to a question on the matter. A local court has allowed the IAF to conduct a thorough probe into the case, days after initial investigation was carried out by the Tamil Nadu Police. "We will take disciplinary action in the case based on the inquiry report," the IAF chief said. An Indian Air Force official in Coimbatore has been charged with sexual assault of a woman colleague on September 10. The 28-year-old female Air Force officer has levelled serious charges against IAF authorities, including subjecting her to the banned finger test and also forcing her to withdraw the complaint against the accused Flight Lieutenant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
05-10-2021||India||Journalists stage protest in Delhi, seek release of Siddique Kappan||Members of various journalist unions staged a demonstration outside the Press Club of India (PCI) here on Tuesday demanding immediate release of Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan who has been charged by the Uttar Pradesh Police with terror offences. "Today, we have organised this programme to mark completion of one year of Kappan being in jail. He was arrested even before going to the spot. Till date he is behind bars. We are fighting for free media. There should be no curb on media if someone is going on a spot to report," said PCI president Umakant Lakhera. "Spot and investigative reporting is dying day by day. We are appealing to the highest judiciary of the country to release Kappan and to quash the charges against him," he added. Members of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), PCI and the Delhi Union of Journalists (DUJ) joined the protest. Kappan and three others were arrested by the Mathura police in Uttar Pradesh on October 5 last year when they were on their way to a village in Hathras to meet the family members of a Dalit girl who had died after being gang-raped. The four were arrested on the apprehension of causing a breach of peace, but were later slapped with stringent charges of sedition and being involved in various terror offences. DUJ general secretary Sujata Madhok said, "We have gathered here today because it has been one year since the jailing of Kappan and others who were accompanying him and were not journalists.... The judiciary must take action. You cannot indefinitely jail people."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
05-10-2021||India||Bhupesh Baghel stopped at Lucknow airport||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel was prevented from coming out of Lucknow's Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport Tuesday when he arrived to visit the state Congress office and meet party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Baghel sat on a dharna at the airport after being disallowed to go to the Uttar Pradesh Congress office amid widespread protest over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. "I am being stopped from going out of Lucknow airport without any orders," he wrote in a tweet with a photo of him sitting on the floor at the airport. The Chhattisgarh chief minister reasoned with the police on duty as to why he was being stopped but to no avail, a Congress spokesman said. "Why am I being stopped? I am not going to Lakhimpur where there are prohibitory orders in place. I am only going to PCC (Congress office)," he asked the police personnel. Talking to mediapersons at the airport, Baghel said he does not plan to go to Lakhimpur Kheri but to the Congress office where he was scheduled to address a press conference later in the day. Baghel also said he has come to meet party national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who is currently in custody at Sitapur. The Uttar Pradesh government had Monday asked the Lucknow airport authority not to allow Chhattisgarh chief minister and the Punjab deputy chief minister who had to visit Lakhimpur Kheri in view of the violence that erupted there. Eight people were killed Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. After the incident in Lakhimpur, the district magistrate has imposed prohibitory orders there to maintain law and order. It is requested that you should not allow Chhattisgarh CM and Punjab deputy CM at the CCS Airport in Lucknow,' Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi had said in a letter dated October 3 to the Airport Authority of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
05-10-2021||India||Leaders share video showing farmers being mowed down, BJP MP demands justice||BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Tuesday shared a video clip purportedly showing an SUV mowing down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, and demanded that police immediately identify and arrest those involved in the incident. The authenticity of the video has not yet been verified. "This video of vehicles deliberately crushing farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri will shake anyone's soul. Police should take cognisance of the video, identify the owners of these vehicles and their occupants, identify others involved in the incident and immediately arrest them," Gandhi said. Eight people died and several others were injured on Sunday in the bloodiest clash since the farmers' protest over the Centre's agri laws began last year. While the BJP has officially maintained a guarded silence over the matter, with the Uttar Pradesh government assuring a thorough probe, Varun Gandhi has been vocal in empathising with the farmers. Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi had also shared the same video. While Rahul Gandhi shared the purported footage on Facebook, Priyanka Gandhi as well as AAP leader Sanjay Singh posted the video on Twitter. "Modi ji, you are coming to Lucknow to celebrate the Amrit Mahotsav of independence, but have you seen this video. This video shows how the son of a minister in your government has mowed down farmers. Please see this video and tell the country why this minister has not yet been dismissed and this boy not yet arrested," Priyanka Gandhi asked two days after eight people were killed during a farmers' protest in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district. The Congress general secretary asked the prime minister, in Lucknow on Tuesday to inaugurate a programme of the 'Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav' celebrations, to visit Lakhimpur Kheri and give justice to the farmers. While four of the dead in Sunday's incident were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, the others were BJP workers and their driver who were allegedly lynched. On Monday, police registered a murder case against Ashish Mishra, the son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, and several others over the death of the farmers. Ajay Mishra and his son Ashish have demanded a judicial probe into the violence. The minister has denied his son's presence at the crime scene and cited an alibi that he was at a local school where a wrestling match was underway on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
05-10-2021||India||Modi attacks previous SP govt in UP, says it created hindrances in implementation of housing scheme||Targeting the previous Samajwadi Party government in Uttar Pradesh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday alleged that it did not want to construct houses for the poor and created hindrances in the implementation of the central housing scheme. He said before 2017, Rs 18,000 crore was approved for Uttar Pradesh for constructing houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana but not even 18 houses were built by the previous government. On the other hand, the Yogi Adityanath government has completed nine lakh houses under the scheme and 14 lakh are under construction, Modi said. The remarks came after the prime minister digitally handed over keys of PMAY-U houses to 75,000 beneficiaries. Modi said his government has made three crore poor families "lakhpati". He also inaugurated 'Azadi@75 -New Urban India: Transforming Urban Landscape' conference-cum-expo here. After arriving at Indira Gandhi Pratisthan, Modi, along with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Union Urban Development Minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Governor Anandiben Patel, walked through the three exhibitions being set up in the expo. He also inquired about the Ayodhya development master plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
05-10-2021||India||Incenza a game changer in the traditional incense market||The traditional and most important constituent of every Indian pooja is the Aggarbati which has taken over globally but in a modified and redefined manner known as an incense stick. Incense sticks are thin, fine sticks coated with earthy and herbal particles which emit fragrance when lit. The pandemic situation has helped a lot, in terms of the incense industry become more self-reliant and start to innovate the basic agarbatti which saw some people reducing their purchase. This was happening due to several reasons like chemical substances, unpleasant smell, too much smoke affecting our respiratory and overall health. The incense industry in India is getting a total makeover, it’s showing tremendous growth in numbers by growing at a rate of 20 percent per annum. As this industry realized over a period that it was the hour to get the products modified with more competitive strategies and product mix, they came up with newer forms of incense sticks. Incenza is one of the big players in the incense industry which has come up with better products. They have launched next-generation sticks which come with nice fragrances and smooth incense sticks for all spheres of life. Incenza has for the first time introduced bamboo-less incense infused with essential oils. Even the other products are hundred percent charcoal free which is safe for the lungs. At the point when we take a gander at the product offering, they have planned and made it dependent on various states of mind, seasons, times, colors, and more. A very well-informed bouquet of items we should note. They have additionally utilized various shadings over their sticks which are likewise all-normal and sourced from regular vegetable-based stains. As we test and check they have guaranteed the wellbeing of their clients in all ways. While you consume these sticks it's absolutely lungs friendly and non-hypersensitive; the catching fire and streaming are pretty much as smooth as the air. We saw all the advancements and advertising pages of these sticks. They have on boarded a portion of the known and natural countenances from the business, who are attempting to change the customary method of seeing these sticks or something similar called Agarbatti. KK Gautam, Abhimanyu Nayyar, and Sachin Rana are the essence of the new age incense brand prepared to set new courses in the business. We know how interested and attracted you are to these thin fragrance sticks. To know more log on to this link now:  www.Incenza.in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
05-10-2021||India||LJP dispute: Chirag, Paras factions allotted separate names, poll symbols by EC||The Election Commission allocated names and poll symbols to the Chirag Paswan and the Pashupati Kumar Paras factions as an interim measure on Tuesday, days after barring them from using the name of the Lok Janshakti Party or its symbol 'bungalow'. In separate letters to Paswan and Paras, the poll panel said it has allotted the name 'Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas)' and the election symbol 'Helicopter' to the Chirag Paswan group. "Having considered your request, the commission has allotted the name 'Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party' for your group and has allotted the symbol 'Sewing Machine' as the symbol to be allotted to the candidate set up, if any, by your group in the current by-election," the EC told Paras. In an interim order on October 2, the EC had barred both the factions from using the name of Lok Janshakti Party or its symbol 'bungalow' till the dispute between the two is settled by the poll panel. The interim order, signed by Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra and fellow Election Commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey, covers the October 30 by-polls to 30 assembly seats and three Lok Sabha seats across India, including two assembly constituencies in Bihar. The order would "continue till the final determination of the dispute in the matter" according to provisions of the Election Symbol (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968. The EC had said both the groups were free to choose the names of their liking, including, if they so desire, linkage with their parent party Lok Janshakti Party. "Both the groups shall also be allotted such different symbols as they may choose from the list of free symbols notified by the Election Commission for the purposes of the current by-elections, including Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur assembly constituencies in Bihar," the order had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
05-10-2021||India||How Super Select is Revolutionising the Way to Buy Luxury Pre-owned Cars||Super Select, is a pre-owned exotic and luxury car dealership by UAE'S Kings Group Venture. Led by Imran Shaikh and Kunal Jain, Super Select is aimed at bringing the finest pre-owned luxury cars to India. They opened their first showroom in India, in 2020 in Baner, Pune and are planning on setting up three more showrooms in the country by the end of 2022. This year, their second location at Hyderabad will become functional. Since opening its doors last year, Super Select has delivered over a 100 cars to a long list of A-listers. What sets Super Select apart from other pre-owned luxury car dealerships is their customer centric focus. Till now the trend in the pre-owned exotic and luxury car market has placed the seller above the customer. But Super Select's model creates a personalized buying experience for every client. Super Select onboards pre-owned vehicles after extensive physical examination and document authentication. It has over 150 criteria to judge the fitness of the vehicle and only the cream of the crop are picked by them. They have delivered the most premium car brands in the world like Rolls Royce, Buggati, Bentley, Lamborghini to Indian consumers.They also have a buy back agreement and offer easy exchange deals which makes the consumer's experience even better. Since the pandemic more and more people are preferring to buy their own vehicles to practice social distancing and to feel safer. With the option to buy pre-owned exotic and luxury cars, they are bringing home their dream cars and Super Select has caught the pulse of it by offering the best selection of pre-owned exotic and luxury cars. Further, Super Select's parent company plans on bringing another one of their ventures to the country - Autowerks. Autowerks is a detailing and body shop studio for supercars, located in Dubai. Autowerks offers a variety of services to luxury car owners such as wraps, custom peelable paints, custom detailings. Very soon, the Indian Customers will have Super Select and Autowerks offering the best in class services for pre owned exotic and luxury cars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
05-10-2021||India||Rohini Court Shootout: Delhi Police gives suggestions on court security||Delhi Police told the Delhi High Court on Tuesday that it has filed suggestions on maintaining security at courts in view of the recent shootout that killed three people in a Rohini courtroom here. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh asked other stakeholders, including the Centre, Delhi government and various bar associations to also their give suggestions so that they could be incorporated in the order. All other respondents shall file a report or affidavit on suggestions which shall be incorporated in our order for the safety of advocates and all others appearing in courts in Delhi, the bench said while listing the matter for further hearing on October 12. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, representing the Centre and Delhi Police, said the police has filed its suggestions on the issue. The court also issued fresh notices to various bar associations here and asked them to file their reports. The high court had on September 30 initiated on its own a petition concerning security at courts in the national capital following the September 24 shootout at Rohini Court. The court had said there was a need for proper and effective deployment of a sufficient number of police personnel in courts. Delhi Police, in its status report filed through Delhi government standing counsel Santosh Kumar Tripathi, made several suggestions including that use of technology should be maximised and physical presence of parties ought to be resorted to in extreme and compelling circumstances. It also said identity cards of lawyers who enter the court premises should be checked and only authorized vehicles should be allowed inside the premises after proper checking with security equipments. The police also said that security gadgets, installed at court premises are outdated and they shall be replaced with high resolution CCTV and monitors, 360-degree vehicle scanning with RF Tag/ bar code reader facilities, scanners for luggage and bag checking, scanners for explosive and NDPS checking. The Centre was represented through central government standing counsel Ajay Digpaul. The high court had earlier issued notice to the Delhi Police, Delhi government, and Central government, as well as the Delhi High Court Bar Association, and directed that suggestions in the form of an affidavit or a report be filed on the issue of maintaining security at courts. The bench had said that there was a need for a fool-proof entry system in courts, installation of metal detectors, under vehicle surveillance system, CCTV cameras at strategic points, and proper training of police personnel as well as a regular meeting of all stakeholders. Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed inside the Rohini courtroom on September 24 in a dramatic shootout that also saw the police fire bullets in retaliation, the officials had said. Video footage of the incident showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers are suspected to be members of rival Tillu gang, an official had said, adding that over 30 shots were fired. On September 24, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana had expressed deep concern over the shootout inside the crowded Rohini courtroom and spoke to the Delhi High Court Chief Justice in this regard and advised him to talk to both police and the Bar to ensure that the functioning of the court is not affected. On September 28, Justice Rekha Palli had issued notice to Delhi Police and Bar Council of Delhi on a petition filed by a woman advocate and said that the issue of security in district courts in the national capital was urgent as lawyers may also become victims of incidents similar to Rohini court shootout.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
05-10-2021||India||Western culture has a strong influence on our clothing, says Vishal Soni, founder of Soni Enterprise||Western culture can be synonymous with influence very reluctantly, can’t it? As we have come across years by years we can only reckon how drastic changes this culture brought to ours. We have been adapting to this civilization even before we could realize it. The Colonial rule marked the beginning of western culture in the country and ever since then, we have been altering our wants accordingly. Our entire lifestyle has a gist of western culture. Addressing clothing, we all know how western culture has made our lives casual and comfy and maybe that is the reason why we are so much incited by this culture. Amidst the clutter of multiple brands selling 1000 varieties of western outfits in exchange for remarkably decent value, there are fewer brands that sell some affordable clothes without cutting over the quality. Soni Enterprise is one of these that deals in clothing and garments. Vishal Soni, owner of Soni enterprise once opened his views on Western culture and said “Western culture has a strong influence on our clothing.” We all will agree to this, wouldn’t we? Our casual clothing is highly driven by outfits that weren’t a part of our culture. Denim, T-shirts, joggers and now chinos none of these had an Indian origin. Each one is taken from western culture. Yet we have accepted them as we find our comfort in those clothes. Mr. Soni also says,” However, we have always added essence of our own even to this western outfit by introducing Indo-western, therefore I see no loss in being driven by western culture and clothing.” Vishal's words make us realize how prominent a part does western culture plays in our life and the fashion industry. Attachments ar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
05-10-2021||India||Adityanath govt reacts to protests with violence, oppression, says Priyanka Gandhi||Lashing out at the Yogi Adityanath government, Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday said the Lakhimpur Kheri incident is not an isolated one and charged that the Uttar Pradesh government's reaction to people raising their voice has been consistently that of violence and suppression. The Congress leader also hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is on a visit to Lucknow for an event, and asked why is he is not going to Lakhimpur Kheri, which is just a 15-minute helicopter ride from here, to wipe the tears of families whose sons have been "brutally murdered". Gandhi was detained on Monday in Sitapur while on her way to Lakhimpur where eight people were killed in violence on Sunday. Four of the dead were farmers allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. The others included BJP workers and their driver were allegedly pulled out of the vehicles and then lynched by the protesters. The UP government on Monday lodged a case against Union minister Ajay Mishra's son and promised a probe by a retired high court judge. When asked how she saw the Lakhimpur incident, Gandhi in a telephonic interview to PTI, said, "I see it as a part of a bigger picture of what is happening in the state and the nation because it is not an isolated incident in the sense that the government's reaction to protests, to people raising their voices has consistently been that of violence and oppression". She charged, "This is an extreme situation that has arisen due to the consistent oppression that has been going on. So when anybody in Uttar Pradesh tries to protest, whether it is the students or teachers, they are beaten, oppressed and sent to jail". "There are violent reactions towards people who raise their voices either in protest or simply to demand their rights," she charged. Gandhi also charged that the focus of the Uttar Pradesh government has been propaganda and public relations instead of welfare of people. On her future course of protest over the violence, Gandhi said, "The farmers are still demanding the resignation of the minister and arrest of the accused." "I would like to understand that when government can arrest opposition leaders without an FIR or an order for their arrest, for the crime of trying to visit the victim's families, then why can't they arrest the accused who ran over the farmers and committed murder in full public view? It is clear that something is very wrong. I want to meet the families of the victims," she insisted. "But it's really not a question of what's happening to me, the main issue here is that when a horrendous crime has taken place why has the government not take any action? Why is it that the BJP Government is pushed into action only due to political pressure? Why is there no due process of law?," she said. "Why are media channels reinforcing to me that a minister, the father of the accused has stated that this (incident) has not happened at all? Why are we told to listen to the father of the accused who is a history-sheeter himself and had threatened those very people just a few days back? Why are we not listening to journalists who were present there, to the families of the victims and the eyewitnesses present at the time?" she said. Condemning all kinds of violence, she said, "For that matter even if BJP workers were killed there, it is wrong...they should not have been...any kind of violence visited upon anyone is wrong. We should speak up for justice for everybody". Asked about PM's visit to Lucknow on Tuesday and if she wanted to say anything to him, she said, "I would like to remind the prime minister that the freedom he is here to celebrate was given to us by the very farmers whose descendants have been protesting for months on end." "It is these very farmer's sons who stand at the borders of our nation protecting our freedom even today. As he sits on stage with his retinue of ministers I want to ask him why one of them, the father of the accused has not been sacked yet?", she said. "Why is UP's entire police force focussing on putting opposition leaders under arrest, placing the families of the murdered farmers under watch, cutting of the internet and sealing the district of Lakhimpur Kheri?," she added. Police have registered a murder case against Ashish Mishra, the son of Union Minister of State for Home, and several others over the death of the farmers. The minister, who is from the area, has denied allegations by the farmers' unions that his son was in one of the cars. Lashing out at the state government over its handling of the pandemic, she charged, "You must have seen even during the pandemic, the government turned against the people." The Congress leader said, "It (government) became an aggressor rather than being a supporter, a facilitator and helping the public during the national crisis. Because the focus of the government is to do its PR and propaganda to enable itself to remain in power and it isn't actually to uphold democratic values and ensure the security and safety of people." On the law and order in the state, Gandhi said, "I am amazed when I see these massive posters all over bus stands and hoardings in Delhi stating that UP is number one in law and order. Working here I see a completely different picture. I actually see a complete collapse of law and order, a collapse of governance where horrendously violent incidents take place." On the BJP's allegation that she visits Uttar Pradesh for political tourism, Gandhi said, "I want to ask them when a prime minister travels all around the world getting photo-ops with presidents, why is he is not called a tourist?" "When I come here and I visit the family of a rape victim or visit families of those who were shot during NRC/CAA (protests) or families of farmers who have been run over by a minister's son then I become a tourist. So, this is purely their propaganda, it is an attempt to paint me as a non-serious politician. I am sorry to tell them that they are not going to succeed because I am extremely serious about my job and my duty."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
05-10-2021||India||BJP leader Uma Bharti slams Priyanka, Congress||Senior BJP leader Uma Bharti on Tuesday said Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and others in her party do not have the right to speak about farmers and democracy, the comments coming in the backdrop of recent violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district. Priyanka Gandhi was detained in Sitapur (Uttar Pradesh) on Monday on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people died and several others were injured on Sunday in the bloodiest clash since the farmers' protest over the Centre's agri-laws began last year. On Tuesday, the Congress general secretary took to Twitter to ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi why the person behind the killing of four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri has not been arrested yet while she has been under "detention for the past 28 hours" without any order or FIR. Later, Bharti in a series of tweets in Hindi said, Congress general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh Mrs Vadra and other Congress leaders do not have the right to speak on issues over which they are speaking, The senior BJP leader claimed that agriculture and farmers were "left behind" because immediately after independence, (Mahatma) Gandhiji's dream of considering agriculture as the country's main economic base was "destroyed" by the then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. The Congress, which imposed Emergency in the country, has lost the right to pronounce the word democracy Congress leaders and workers burnt 10,000 Sikhs alive. So, the word non-violence doesn't suit the Congress, she further claimed. Bharti said her suggestion to Congress leaders is to have a positive attitude and cooperate with the (central) government to solve the problems of farmers. Earlier in the day, Priyanka Gandhi shared a video on Twitter, which showed a group of protesting farmers being mowed down by an SUV. "@narendramodi ji your government has detained me for the past 28 hours without any order or FIR. Why the person who ran over farmers has not been arrested yet?" she said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
05-10-2021||India||Lowest rise in daily Covid cases in 209 days||India logged 18,346 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 209 days, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,38,53,048, while the active cases declined to 2,52,902, the lowest in 201 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll climbed to 4,49,260 with 263 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections have remained below 30,000 for 11 straight days. The active cases comprise 0.75 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.93 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 11,556 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 11,41,642 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 57,53,94,042. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.61 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 36 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.66 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 102 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,31, 50,886, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 91.54 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crores on May 4 and three crores on June 23. The 263 new fatalities include 149 from Kerala and 26 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,49,260 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,233 from Maharashtra, 37,832 from Karnataka, 35,666 from Tamil Nadu, 25,526 from Kerala and 25,088 from Delhi, 22,894 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,837 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
05-10-2021||India||Kept in detention for more than 24 hours without order or FIR, alleges Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday why the person behind the killing of four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri has not been arrested yet while she has been under "detention for the past 28 hours" without any order or FIR. She was detained in Sitapur on Monday on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people died and several others were injured on Sunday in the bloodiest clash since the farmers' protest over the Centre's agri laws began last year. Priyanka Gandhi on Tuesday shared a video on Twitter, which showed a group of protesting farmers being mowed down by an SUV. "@narendramodi ji your government has detained me for the past 28 hours without any order or FIR. Why the person who ran over farmers has not been arrested yet?" she said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress media and communication vice chairman Pankaj Srivastava said the party general secretary, who was detained at 4.30 am on Monday, has been in detention for the past 28 hours. "She is not being allowed to meet her lawyers and the administration is not telling her reasons for her detention," he said. Besides Priyanka Gandhi, state Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu, national secretary Dheeraj Gurjar, Youth Congress national president BV Srinivas, party MLC Deepak Singh are also under detention, Srivastava said. He said there is anger among Congress workers due to the illegal detention of party leaders. "The prime minister is coming for a celebration in Lucknow while the farmers of Lakhimpur are waiting for justice," he added. Four of the dead were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The others were BJP workers and their driver, allegedly pulled out of the vehicles and then lynched by the protesters. The UP Police has lodged a case against Union minister Ajay Mishra's son but no arrest has been made so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
05-10-2021||India||NCB arrests 2 more persons in cruise ship drug case||The Narcotics Control Bureau has arrested two more persons in connection with the case of seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast, an NCB official said on Tuesday. The anti-drugs agency had earlier arrested nine people, including Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, after raiding the Goa-bound ship on Saturday. After the raid, the NCB's Mumbai zonal unit started a crackdown on drug peddlers connected with the arrested persons. The agency sleuths also brought some suspects, including from the cruise ship, to the NCB's office here for an enquiry, the official said. During the questioning of suspects, the role of two more persons came to light, following which they were placed under arrest, the official said without disclosing their identity. So far, 11 people have been arrested in connection with the seizure of banned drugs from the cruise ship. The NCB on Monday claimed before a city court that "shocking and incriminating" material recovered in WhatsApp chats of Aryan Khan and two others arrested in connection with the case showed international drug trafficking. The Narcotics Control Bureau, which got the remand of Aryan Khan (23) and the other eight accused from the court till Thursday, also claimed that in the WhatsApp chats he is discussing modes of payment to be done for procurement (of drugs) and that several code names are being used. Aryan Khan's lawyer claimed no drugs were recovered from his client's possession.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
05-10-2021||India||Barbarism seen in Lakhimpur Kheri outraged nation: Baghel||The Congress on Monday argued that heinous crimes such as mowing down innocent farmers occur when governments start believing in their false propaganda that the protests are organised by criminals and terrorists who need to be ruthlessly crushed. The Congress recalled the RSS-BJP narrative over the past few months, which ranged from character assassination to threats of retribution, and the Narendra Modi government’s attempt to brand the critics and opponents of farm laws as anti-nationals. The call by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to form 500-700 volunteers in every district and start giving tit-for-tat lessons to farmers with “lathi” was cited, as was the threat issued by central minister Ajay Misra Teni, whose son is accused of mowing down the farmers. Both Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and party’s communications chief Randeep Surjewala dwelt on Khattar’s instigation. They also recalled how the Uttar Pradesh BJP put out a cartoon warning farmer leader Rakesh Tikait of Yogi Adityanath’s propensity for peeling off the skin of troublemakers. Several BJP leaders have described the protesting farmers as terrorists, criminals and mawali (hooligan). Baghel, who was on Monday denied permission to land in Lucknow as he wanted to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, said: “The barbarism seen in Lakhimpur has outraged the nation. The BJP line was to crush the farmers; they are inspired by the British. We were yesterday reminded of Jallianwala Bagh massacre. What is the mindset of the central government? So many states have passed resolutions against farm laws, agitations are going on for nine months, is this the way to treat farmers in a democracy?” Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s chopper was not given permission to land in Lucknow. Deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was stopped at Haryana-Uttar Pradesh border as he was trying to go to Lakhimpur. Baghel said: “Have the normal civic rights been suspended in Uttar Pradesh? It is normal for politicians and social workers to visit people who have suffered tragedy, to console the affected families, to demand justice. This autocratic behaviour will not be tolerated.” Channi also wondered how the government could disallow the people’s movement. The Congress central leadership is convinced this was a planned conspiracy, not an accident that occurred in Lakhimpur and hence the main target remained the Prime Minister. Most Congress leaders wondered why the Prime Minister had not sacked the Union minister of state for home after his involvement in the crime became obvious. They also questioned his silence. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “He who is silent on this inhuman massacre is dead already. But we will not allow this sacrifice to go waste.” New recruit Kanhaiya Kumar tweeted: “Prachar-mantri who speaks nonsense on every issue is silent on farmers’ death. Is the secret of his silence is that he eats commission from the dishonest, not the food produced by the farmers?” In another tweet, he said: “Dhongiji (reference to Adityanath) should have used his energies to stop the car of the errant son of central minister instead of stopping the 2 opposition leaders from meeting the victim’s families. Look at the highhandedness — will passport be required to move around in our country now?” Former Union minister and Congress veteran Salman Khurshid, who wanted to reach Sitapur to provide legal assistance to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who was detained there, was not allowed to step out of his home by the police. Khurshid later tweeted: “Cry beloved country because tears too have been arrested. It is a crime to stand by hurt humanity. Dark days are here. But we will light a million lamps to counter evil unleashed upon our land.” Party general secretary in charge of the organisation K.C. Venugopal issued instructions to state units to hold protests at every district headquarters across the country against the illegal detention of Priyanka Gandhi. Protests will continue on Tuesday while massive demonstrations happened over a dozen places on Monday itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
05-10-2021||India||Opposition leaders shut out of Lakhimpur Kheri||Several Opposition leaders headed to Lakhimpur Kheri in the aftermath of the violence that left nine people dead were stopped midway or detained on Monday, barring Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait who managed to reach Tikunia early in the morning along with his supporters. “The police realised they wouldn’t be able to stop me and didn’t confront me,” Tikait said in Lakhimpur Kheri. However, Akhilesh Yadav, former chief minister and Samajwadi Party president, Shivpal Singh Yadav, leader of Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia), and some other leaders who had decided to start for Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday morning, couldn’t leave Lucknow. They were detained in the state capital and released in the evening. Rashtriya Lok Dal’s Jayant Chaudhary, who started from his home in Baghpat on Monday morning, outfoxed the government machinery at many places and his aides claimed he was close to the spot. He was yet to reach there till the time of filing this report. Videos shared on social media by Jayant’s supporters showed him running on the road and escaping the clutches of the policemen at a tollbooth in Shahjahanpur. He was also seen running on the highway. In one video, he was seen walking with his face covered with a cloth. Akhilesh was detained minutes after he came out of his home where his convoy was waiting for him. The police took him to Eco Garden in the city along with his over 50 supporters. “This kind of Hitlershahi was never seen before in the Indian democracy. The government is still protecting the Union minister of state for home (Ajay Misra Teni) and his son (Ashish Misra). They should have been arrested by now on the charge of provoking the people to attack the farmers and crushing them under their SUV. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya went to Banbirpur, the Union minister’s village, and attended a government-organised function even after the minister’s son and organiser of one of the programmes had killed the farmers sometime ago,” the SP chief said. Teni had addressed a meeting of his supporters in Lakhimpur’s Palia area where he said: “I will teach them (the farmers) in two minutes if they don’t mend their ways…. They will not be able to live in Lakimpur Kheri, let alone Palia.” Shivpal was detained for a few hours and then allowed to go home in Lucknow. Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh and Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad were stopped in Sitapur district and forced to return to Saharanpur and Lucknow, respectively. Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat was detained in Dehradun while trying to proceed towards Lakhimpur Kheri. He was released in the evening. Earlier, some unidentified people torched a police jeep in front of Akhilesh’s residence on Vikramaditya Marg. The farmers attacked the police in Lucknow, Saharanpur and Muzaffarnagar but there was no report of any injury. Prashant Kumar, additional director-general of police (law and order), said in Lakhimpur Kheri: “We cannot allow any political leader to reach here as the situation is still not normal. We cannot allow anybody to further vitiate law and order in the area. The leaders of farmer unions can come here alone.” Tikait said the “cruel incident” of Lakhimpur Kheri had once again exposed the undemocratic face of the BJP government. “We will defeat the BJP in the next elections. We will support any party that defeats the BJP candidates in Assembly and Lok Sabha (polls). You keep crushing and killing us till then,” Tikait added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
05-10-2021||India||Varun Gandhi demands CBI probe into Lakhimpur Kheri incident||BJP MP from Uttar Pradesh Varun Gandhi on Monday said a murder case should be lodged against those involved in the death of the farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri and demanded a Supreme Court-monitored CBI probe into the incident while central BJP leaders maintained silence and the Hindutva ecosystem sought to defame the protesting farmers. Varun, who represents the Pilibhit Lok Sabha constituency, wrote to chief minister Yogi Adityanath, stressing that the death of the agitating farmers had “caused anger and anguish among the people of the country”. “I urge you that all the suspects involved in this case be immediately identified and strictest action be taken by instituting a murder case under Section 302 of the IPC,” the BJP MP wrote in the letter, underlining that the protesting farmers were “our own citizens”. He urged Adityanath, known for his highhanded approach towards the protesters, to “deal with the farmers with sensitivity and only in the Gandhian and democratic way within the ambit of law”. In his letter, Varun said the CBI should investigate the incident in a time-bound manner under the supervision of the Supreme Court. Varun has been relentlessly raising the farmers’ issue and urging Adityanath to lend a sympathetic ear, annoying a section of the BJP. This strong stand by the ruling party MP comes amid silence of the top leadership and a concerted effort by a section of the wider Hindutva family to defame the protesting farmers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, BJP chief J.P. Nadda and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar have not said a word. The incident comes in the middle of a massive propaganda launched by the ruling party to refurbish Modi’s image as the “most lovable global leader”. The drive had started on Modi’s birthday on September 17 and is scheduled to continue till October 7. Modi’s tenure as Gujarat chief minister is being included to hail his electorally unbeaten stint of “20 years in public service as head of state”. BJP insiders said the top leadership had left it to Adityanath to handle the incident and given him a free hand. There is, however, concern in a section of the party about the impact of the farmer deaths on the upcoming polls. Led by Modi, the BJP has been terming the prolonged farmers’ protest as politically motivated, claiming that the masterminds of the agitation were political rivals who were deliberately spreading misinformation about the three farm laws. The farmers have been demanding the repeal of the laws terming them as “anti-farmer”. BJP’s Uttar Pradesh spokesperson Harish Chandra Srivastava tweeted: “Yesterday in Lakhimpur, Khalistanis killed BJP workers and today attacked a police station in Lucknow and set it on fire with the support of the goons of the Samajwadi party.” The Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, the RSS-affiliated farmers’ association, said: “Those involved in the incident were not farmers, they belonged to different political parties. The incident was executed in a Leftist manner.” A purported video showing a protester beating up someone with a stick was circulated on social media by BJP members. BJP general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh took to Twitter to target the Congress. “A dangerous precedent is being forced into our system by increasingly radicalised @INCIndia,” he said on Congress chief ministers wanting to visit Lakhimpur Kheri. “What if tomorrow other party CMs also decide to visit every violent incident in @INCIndia ruled states...?” he asked. Some netizens were quick to point him out that Modi as Gujarat chief minister had visited Mumbai during the 26/11 terror attack, while the security forces were battling Pakistani terrorists, and even held a news conference. On a section of the BJP calling the farmers extremists, Varun said it was not only “unfair but also dangerous”. “This (Sikh farmers) is a community that has laid down lives for the country.... Those who call them traitors should be ashamed of themselves,” Varun said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
05-10-2021||India||Youth killed in Belgaum district, seven Hindu group activists held||Seven people linked to a Right-wing Hindu organisation and a Hindu girl’s father have been detained after the dismembered body of a Muslim youth was found near a railway track in Belgaum last week, police sources said. Najeema Shaikh, mother of the murdered Arbaz Aftab Mulla, 24, said members of the little-known “Sree Ram Sena Hindustan” had earlier threatened harm if the young man did not break off his relationship with the Hindu girl. She added that the girl and the Sena had colluded in extorting money from her son. Sources said that on September 29, a day after Mulla’s body was found, the police had seized an abandoned ambulance, with “Sree Ram Sena Hindustan” emblazoned on its windshield, near the spot. Officially, the police said that eight people had been detained for questioning on Sunday but did not identify them or link them to any organisation. Nor did they mention the ambulance. Mulla was found with his head and a leg severed near a railway track at Khanapur in Belgaum district, some 500km from Bangalore, on September 28. The railway police found signs that the victim had been tortured with his hands tied, and transferred the case to Khanapur police station. The police have not revealed what the post-mortem says about the cause of death. Najeema, who identified her son’s body, lodged a police complaint of murder against the girl’s father and members of the Sree Ram Sena Hindustan. A larger group named Sree Ram Sene had over a decade ago gained notoriety in coastal Karnataka through acts of moral policing, such as harassing Valentine’s Day couples and thrashing women pub-goers. Sene founder Pramod Muthalik has denied any involvement with the Sree Ram Sena Hindustan. Najeema, a teacher at a government Urdu-medium school, told The Telegraph on Monday that she and her son had been repeatedly threatened by the girl’s father, Kumbar, and activists belonging to the group, Pundalik Maharaj and Birje. All three are named in the FIR, which doesn’t mention the first names of Kumbar and Birje. Najeema, who lost her husband two years ago, said she had told her son to end the relationship in the face of the persistent threats. “The girl used to be our neighbour when I first moved to Khanapur (a small town in Belgaum) after getting transferred two years ago,” she said. When she realised the two youngsters had fallen in love, she moved to a house in nearby Belgaum town, sensing the trouble the relationship could cause. “Yet they somehow managed to stay in touch,” she said. “Maharaj asked me to take my son to meet them in Khanapur on September 26. At the meeting, I promised that my son would stay away from the girl,” she added. “They deleted the entire contents, including messages, from my son’s phone. Maharaj threatened us, saying he had some 40 cases against him and one more wouldn’t matter.” She added: “At that point the girl called Maharaj and asked him to make us pay a sum as a settlement. Maharaj gave us a phone number to which we paid Rs 7,000 since that’s all we had.” Najeema said that Mulla later told her the girl had demanded Rs 90,000. “On September 27 he sold his car for Rs 70,000. But I have no idea where that money has gone,” she said. “And yet, after all that, they cut my son into pieces.” Najeema now lives alone. Her daughter lives in Britain.In June, Dalit youth Basavaraj Madivalappa Badiger, 19, and Muslim girl Davalbi Bandagisab Tambad, 18, were found bludgeoned to death in Bijapur, north Karnataka. They were apparently in a relationship. The police arrested the girl’s father, brother and two brothers-in-law based on an eyewitness account from Badiger’s mother, who said her son was tied to a tree and clubbed to death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
05-10-2021||India||India inaugurates drone-based vaccine delivery service||India on Monday inaugurated a drone-based vaccine delivery service, using a robotic flying machine to ferry Covid-19 vaccines to a health centre in Manipur and adopting a technology already commercialised for medical supplies in other countries. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya launched the drone service’s first flight, an aerial distance of about 15km from Bishnupur district hospital to Karang island in Loktak lake, where 10 people received the first dose and eight received the second dose. “This is for the first time a make-in-India drone has been used in South Asia to transport Covid-19 vaccines,” Mandaviya said. “We can use drones to deliver life-saving medicines, collect blood samples. This technology may prove a game-changer in addressing challenges in healthcare delivery, particularly health supplies in difficult areas.” The drone service, intended to deliver Covid-19 vaccines to remote areas and hard-to-reach terrain, is currently approved for implementation in Manipur, Nagaland and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the health ministry said. The flight on Monday follows an initial study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research and the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, to test the capacity of drones to ferry and deliver vaccines to sites in Manipur, Nagaland and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. India’s Directorate General of Civil Aviation, the regulatory authority for aircraft, and other authorities granted permission to fly the vaccine delivery drones beyond the visual line of sight on the basis of the results of the ICMR-IIT studies, the health ministry said. The Union civil aviation ministry in August this year had notified a set of “liberalised drone rules” to facilitate growth of the drone industry that has potential applications in agriculture, infrastructure, surveillance, emergency response, transportation and law enforcement. Drones, or unmanned aerial vehicles, initially adopted for the military or aerospace sectors, have expanded worldwide over the years into commercial domains. The global drone market in terms of revenue was worth $18.2 billion in 2020 and is projected to reach $40 billion by 2027. At least 18 countries have deployed drones for the delivery and transportation purposes during the Covid-19 pandemic, a Unicef report has said. Some of them have adopted regular drone deliveries. Rwanda, Ghana and Malawi have used drones for regular medical supplies since the start of the pandemic, the report said. “All three countries already had drone operations prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, therefore, drone operations were adapted in all three countries in order to respond to the increased demand of the medical commodities and Covid-19 supplies,” it said. Earlier this year, Ghana’s government used a US firm Zipline to deliver Covid-19 vaccines via drones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
05-10-2021||India||Show me the order, show me the warrant: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra stole out of her Lucknow home at midnight, dodging the police, when most Opposition leaders would have been waiting for daybreak to start their journey to Lakhimpur Kheri where at least nine people, including four farmers, have been killed. By 2am on Monday, she had already travelled 600km from Delhi and reached Sitapur, 100km from the site of Sunday’s violence, before she was detained. A video showed her sweeping a room at what appeared the guesthouse of the Second Battalion, Provincial Armed Constabulary, in Sitapur city where the Congress general secretary was detained. Late on Monday evening, she was still there. Priyanka had arrived in Lucknow from Delhi around 10pm on Sunday. The police virtually barricaded her rented accommodation, Kaul House at Gokhle Marg, but Priyanka’s aides said she somehow sneaked out close to midnight. She walked half a kilometre to Balu Adda, where a Congress politician’s car was waiting. She travelled about 80km without being noticed before she was stopped in heavily barricaded Sitapur. With thousands of farmers having set off for Lakhimpur Kheri on foot from across Uttar Pradesh, the administration had blockaded every road to Tikunia, where Sunday’s violence took place. Stopped in Sitapur and asked by the police to accompany them to the guesthouse, Priyanka put up a fight, a video circulating on social media suggests. “Listen to me, show me the warrant, otherwise I’m not moving from here. And I shall file a case of kidnapping against you if you force me to sit in that vehicle,” Priyanka tells a police officer, presumably referring to a police SUV. “I shall make the charge against you in particular,” she adds. Local sources identified the officer as the circle officer. The officer then summons a group of policewomen. Priyanka takes a few steps towards the officer and says: “Why are you taking the help of women? Do you fear women? Show me the warrant, tell me on what ground you are removing me from here. I will not move from here.” Deepender Singh Hooda, a Congress Rajya Sabha member standing close to Priyanka, tells the police: “You hit Priyankaji (aapne haath uthaya) today.” A voice, presumably of a policeman, says: “Who hit her? None did.” Hooda says: “I saw you attack her, I’m the witness.” Policemen then push Hooda out of the frame. “See, you have started again. You have started again. Stop them. Stop him. You do not dare talk to a woman but you are beating him,” Priyanka says and appears to push away a policewoman who is trying to grab her arm. “Show me the order, show me the warrant. And if you don’t have this, then you don’t have any right to stop me. We are four people. Show us what your legal ground is. What do you think — you can beat people; you can crush the farmers?” A posse of policewomen then push Priyanka out of the frame. While journalists and Congress supporters were prevented from getting near the Provincial Armed Constabulary compound, state Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu was allowed to meet Priyanka late in the morning. He brought her some fruits. Lallu told reporters in the afternoon: “Priyankaji has sent a message to supporters, saying they should maintain peace and that she has decided not to return without meeting the victims of the BJP leaders.” He added: “She says she prefers going to jail instead of returning. People in the government crushed the farmers under the wheels of their car and now they want to crush us. “She has told her supporters the government must bow before democracy and allow her to go on and meet the families of the victims. We were the first to start this battle against the killer government and we will take it to a conclusion.” From the guesthouse, Priyanka tweeted: “The Union minister and his son are responsible for political tension in Lakhimpur Kheri. Why is the BJP government protecting them? The government should take prompt action against the BJP leaders instead of taking me into custody.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
05-10-2021||India||SC to examine farmers’ right to protest on sub-judice issue||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to examine the constitutionality of the farmers’ right to protest on a sub-judice issue, particularly when the controversial farm laws had been stayed and were “not in force”. The court said the “central issue” was “whether the right to protest is an absolute right”. It also referred to the death of four protesting farmers under a car’s wheels — to which a Union minister’s son has been linked — in Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh, on Sunday. “When such events happen, nobody takes responsibility. When damage to property and physical violence is caused, no one takes responsibility. Deaths also take place,” the bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and C.T. Ravi Kumar observed orally. The observation came following a request from attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, who was representing the Centre along with solicitor-general Tushar Mehta. “Your Lordships may please make it clear they (farmers) can’t continue the protests. All of us have seen the unfortunate incidents that have happened,” Venugopal said, alluding to the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. In January, the apex court had stayed the three farm laws while hearing a bunch of petitions filed by farmers, individuals and NGOs, challenging their constitutionality. “Why the protest when the law is not in force at all? We have stayed the laws, the government has said it is not implementing it. Then why the protests?” Justice Khanwilkar asked advocate Ajay Chaudhary, who was appearing for petitioner Kisan Mahapanchayat, a Rajasthan-based farmers’ organisation. “How can the executive allow these protests? What is the validity of these protests?” The court made the observation after Venugopal and Mehta contended that the farmers, protesting on Delhi’s borders since end-November, could not continue their agitation after having approached the apex court. Venugopal said the government had made it clear that it would not withdraw the three laws but leave their constitutionality to be decided by the apex court. The court was hearing the Kisan Mahapanchayat’s petition to be allowed to protest on Delhi’s Jantar Mantar Road, a designated protest site. The Mahapanchayat is not part of the Delhi border protests. “What’s the point of protesting at Jantar Mantar?… You can’t do both, challenge a law and then go and protest. Either come to court or go to Parliament or go to the road (protest),” the bench said. Justice Khanwilkar directed that a petition filed by the Kisan Mahapanchayat before Rajasthan High Court, challenging the three laws, be transferred to the apex court. The order passed by the bench said: “We deem it appropriate to examine the central issue as to whether the right to protest is an absolute right and, more so, the writ petitioner having already invoked the legal remedy before the constitutional court by filing writ petition, can be permitted to urge much less assert that they can still resort to protest in respect of the same subject matter which is already sub-judice before the court.” The matter will be heard again on October 21. Another Supreme Court bench, headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, has issued notices to 43 farmers’ organisations participating in the protests on Delhi’s borders. The Haryana government had requested the bench to implead these organisations in relation to a petition filed by a Noida-based woman seeking removal of the highway blockades caused on Delhi’s borders by the farmers’ protests. Morcha’s stand The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the farmers’ movement, again clarified on Monday that it had never approached the Supreme Court or any other court for resolution of the core issues of the agitation: repeal of the three anti-farmer central laws and enactment of a law guaranteeing minimum support price. The SKM said it had always believed that the three central laws have to be repealed by the government itself. Towards this end, the SKM has written to the President and the Prime Minister asking for the dialogue to be resumed and demands to be fulfilled. “The SKM did not approach the Court even on the constitutionality matter — while it is important that state government’s constitutional authority over agriculture has to be restored and strengthened, it is equally important to realise that the issues with the farm laws are not just about constitutionality, or lack thereof. It is about the implications of the farm laws on farmers and the death blow to their fragile livelihoods. While the laws might have been suspended from implementation for now, the SKM realises that the stay can be lifted any day. Therefore, the movement has insisted on a full repeal of the laws.’’ The SKM underscored that the petitioner in this case has got nothing to do with the Morcha. As for blocking the highways, the SKM said farmers have not put up any barricades or blockades on the roads. “It was the Haryana, UP and Delhi police which did so. Farmers have, in fact, kept the roads clear for traffic on both sides at the Morcha sites. Public inconvenience, if any, is being caused by the police which has barricaded the highways,” the Morcha said. Additional reporting by Our Special Correspondent in New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
05-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Fingers point at Union minister’s son||Several people who said they were eyewitnesses to Sunday’s bloodshed in Lakhimpur Kheri painted a gory picture of a convoy of SUVs, which they linked to a Union minister, mowing down four farmers. One of them, local farmer leader Guramneet Singh Mangat, said an aide had saved his life by throwing him off the road as the SUVs sped past in a “zigzag manner”. On Monday night, a video emerged that showed a group of men, many of them carrying black flags and some of them wearing the green scarves of protesting farmers, walking down a road that cuts through green fields. The sound of sirens wailing can be heard as an SUV speeds up from behind, ploughs through the men and races away, raising a cloud of dust. A couple of young men jump out of its way just in time. An elderly man in a yellow turban and white shirt is seen turning his head but it is too late -– he gets flung on to the bonnet of the speeding vehicle. A man who has fallen on the side is seen trying to get up but he falls again as another vehicle speeds down the road, following the first. On social media, the video was shared as a “live” account of the mowing down of the farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. However, this could not be independently confirmed. Most of witnesses alleged that Union minister Ajay Misra Teni’s son Ashis “Monu” Misra was at the wheel of one of the SUVs that crushed farmers under its wheels. Teni and Ashis have denied this, saying Ashis was 4km away at the time. One — a police constable who wouldn’t give his name — told reporters some farmers had stopped Ashis’s car after the alleged atrocity and pulled him out, following which he shot a farmer dead. But local farmer Kulwant Singh and a journalist said Ashis’s car had sped away after allegedly crushing people. Mangat said he had heard that Ashis had fired a shot but knew nothing more about it. Aman Deep Singh Sandhu, a local Bharatiya Kisan Union leader, said he saw Ashis step out of his car and fire while someone else too fired from one of the cars. Asked about this, Teni told a news conference in Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday: “My son has a licensed revolver in his name but he was not at the spot.” Additional director-general of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar told reporters in Tikunia, the place where the violence occurred, that an FIR for murder and criminal conspiracy had been filed on the basis of the farmers’ complaints. He didn’t name the suspects but Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, who was at Kumar’s side, said: “The police have registered an FIR against the minister’s son and 13 supporters. Monu is absconding. A case of conspiracy against the minister will also be registered after the inquiry.” Kumar did not contradict Tikait but said it would take “eight days to fix the responsibility” and any arrests would be made only after an inquiry. He said seven local people had been detained but didn’t reveal who. The officer added that the government had agreed to have a judicial inquiry under a retired Allahabad High Court judge and give Rs 45 lakh and a job to the family of each of the five slain farmers, and Rs 10 lakh to each of the injured. Four more people had died on Sunday after four farmers were mowed down, the police had said. Umbrella farmer body Samyukta Kisan Morcha had said a shot fired from the convoy Ashis was leading had killed a fifth farmer. Teni had alleged that a stone thrown by the farmers had killed his driver, causing an accident that cost lives, and claimed three BJP workers had also been killed. Lakhimpur Kheri superintendent of police Vijay Dhull on Monday identified the five dead farmers as Daljeet Singh, Luv Preet Singh, Gurvindar Singh, Jagjit Singh and Nachchattar Singh. Tikait said Jagjit was shot dead and rest crushed under wheels. Eight farmers are injured. Dhull said the other deceased were Hari Om – the driver of one of the SUVs – and Shyam Sundar and Shubham Singh, whose details he didn’t give. The eyewitness accounts largely agreed on the broad picture but differed on some details. Sandhu, the BKU leader, told The Telegraph: “I was standing on a tractor trolley near the helipad, about 20 metres from the road. I’m not sure how many vehicles were there but I remember three — a Thar, a Fortuner and a Scorpio. “All of them were travelling at high speed. While the Thar started crushing the farmers on the road, the other two followed it. We ran towards them but saw Monu Misra step out and fire. Someone else too was firing from the Thar. “A bus was coming from the opposite side, so the first two vehicles jumped off the road. The Scorpio driver managed to drive away. I don’t know how Monu escaped but we caught two criminals — one from Allahabad and the other from Lucknow — and handed them over to the police. Perhaps they were Teni’s sharpshooters.” Narrow escape Mangat told reporters in Tikunia on Sunday night the farmers had learnt that deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya would be attending a wrestling programme in Teni’s village, Banvirpur, in Tikunia and decided to “show him black flags peacefully”. “So the farmers arrived near the (makeshift) helipad and sat there. Then we learnt he was coming by road, so people stood on both sides of the road along a 3km stretch,” he said. “Many of their (Teni’s) guests and other people passed down the same road. We showed them black flags but no one was pelted with stones. We then came to know that Mauryaji had arrived (at the village) using another route. We then announced that all the farmers should return home. “I was talking to someone when Vishnu, my aide, suddenly pushed me and I fell on the side of the road. I asked what happened, who are these crazy people driving so fast? They were driving their vehicles in a zigzag manner. Then they fired a bullet. Someone said the man who fired was Monu Misra.” “Many farmers are critical. They intentionally ran over us. Even the officers saved themselves somehow. Then one of their vehicles turned upside down and one person died in the car. The Fortuner skidded off the road because it was speeding. It crushed someone and lost balance.” Mangat added: “They fled (drove away) while firing. We caught two of their people --- they were from Allahabad and Lucknow and were criminals. We don’t remember their names but handed them over to the police safely.” Mangat underlined that Teni had threatened to teach the protesting farmers “a lesson” at a meeting in Sampurna Nagar, Palia, a few days ago. “We had shown him black flags. When he (Teni) climbed onto the dais he said he was a big goonda... and would teach us a lesson. He said, ‘I will raze their houses and schools’.... It doesn’t become a minister.” Asked about a video that purportedly shows a man being beaten up by farmers, Mangat said: “It is possible. What will your friend do if someone runs you over or fires at you? People were agitated. But we handed their people to the police. We didn’t want to commit any crime.” He added: “There was a huge force here and the police would have lathi-charged us had we pelted them with stones.” Kulwant, the local farmer, told a TV channel: “We were standing near the Agrasen College on the Tikunia-Banvirpur Road, carrying black flags. Some policemen were there, asking us to maintain peace. Suddenly two jeeps came at full pelt and crushed those who were on the road. “Monu was driving the first jeep. Later, I saw two more SUVs coming behind them at high speed. Both these jumped off the road and turned turtle. I don’t know what happened thereafter. Soon, the farmers attacked those who were in the last two vehicles.” The constable who sought anonymity told reporters: “Monu was in the driver’s seat in a Thar with two supporters. There were at least four more SUVs and cars behind him, driving at full speed, running over farmers. “At least four farmers came under the wheels of Monu Misra and again under another SUV. Some farmers stopped Monu and pulled him out. Monu whipped out a revolver and fired, hitting one of the farmers in the head, and he fell there. Monu and some of his supporters then fled on a motorcycle.” A journalist who was at the spot said: “The farmers had been stopped at a distance from the Tikunia crossing through which Maurya’s motorcade was supposed to pass. Maurya somehow reached Banvirpur, where Monu Misra had organised a wrestling competition. “Maurya was also scheduled to lay the foundation stones for a few local development projects. As the farmers waited to show him black flags, Maurya seemed to have concluded his programme in a hurry and left along some other route.” Sources said Maurya had skipped the foundation stone ceremonies. “Maybe Monu Misra was angry because Maurya had left quickly. Monu was definitely in an open jeep and there were five more SUVs in his convoy. As the farmers saw the BJP flags on the vehicles, they started chanting: ‘BJP murdabad, Teni murdabad, Monu Misra murdabad’,” the journalist said. “Suddenly, Monu speeded up, running over the farmers. Another SUV did the same. Then they escaped. Someone opened fire there but I cannot say who.” At his news conference, Teni said Maurya had not yet reached the village when the incident took place. If so, Maurya attended the wrestling contest even after farmers had been mowed down in the area. “My son was at the event in Banvirpur, 4km from the violence site,” Teni said. “Our supporters were going to receive Maurya (at the helipad) when the farmers stopped them and started pelting them with stones and attacked them with lathis and swords. It was in this situation that some farmers came under the wheels of a car.” Teni claimed the violence was committed by members of the banned organisation Babbar Khalsa, which is in line with the government’s past attempts to malign the farmers agitating on Delhi’s borders as Khalistanis. Vijay Pal Singh Tomar, BJP Rajya Sabha member, claimed that the farmers protesting at Tikunia were supporters of militant leader Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, who was killed in 1984. ADG Kumar said: “The farmers have allowed us to take the bodies of the dead for post-mortem. Their last rites will be performed by their families thereafter.” Tikait, flagging the FIR, said: “This is just the beginning. I appeal to the farmers to wait and watch.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
05-10-2021||India||Fact-finding team paints a grim picture of Assam government||A delegation of rights defenders who visited Assam’s Darrang district, where a day labourer and a child were killed in a land reclamation drive in a minority-dominated settlement last month, has reconstructed a grim picture of the government and private groups creating a situation that culminated in the police firing. The fact-finding team has also reproduced an account that sheds more light on a related incident in which a photographer stomped on the day labourer, Maynal Hoque, moments after he was shot. Footage of the atrocity had sent shock waves across the world. The Association for the Protection of Civil Rights (APCR), backed by the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, recommended in its report rehabilitation measures for the eviction-affected and punishment for “guilty” police personnel. Hoque, 33, and Shakh Farid, 12, fell to police bullets on September 23 during the eviction drive in Gorukhuti village near Sipajhar. Several other villagers suffered gunshot wounds and 11 police personnel too were injured in the clash. The APCR report, titled “Eviction, State Violence and Hate”, says: “In July 2021, (Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa) Sarma announced that his government will create a ‘population army’ to ‘curb the birth rate in Muslim-dominated districts’…. Sarma said in July 2021 that shooting at criminals ‘should be the pattern’ if they attempt to escape from custody or try to snatch arms from the police to open fire. ‘If an accused tries to snatch the service gun and run away, or even simply flee, and on top of it he is, say, a rapist, law allows shooting at such a person on the leg, but not on the chest,’ he said.” The report added: “On September 20, Upamanyu Hazarika, convenor of the PVM (Prabajan Virodhi Manch, an anti-immigration NGO), said in a press statement it was the ‘local indigenous’ who were made to suffer as their lands were acquired for the agriculture project, and the encroachers remained ‘undisturbed’. However, those who are living on the land said they have been residing there since 1965, with their ancestors buying small plots of land from locals. The transaction took place without any paperwork. “At least 200 families from Dhalpur 3 moved Gauhati High Court against the eviction late last month. The government, in response, filed an affidavit, saying the ‘settlers’ were on government land. The evictions in question came before the petitioners could file a reply.” Offering a wider perspective, the report said: “It is clear that Muslim residents of the affected area are suffering under discriminatory labels of ‘illegality’ imposed by the government and Right-wing elements in the civil society. This narrative of being ‘infiltrators’, despite figuring in the NRC (National Register of Citizens), would make it difficult for them to settle anywhere in the state.” During the release of the report at the Press Club of India on Monday, senior advocate Sanjay Hegde said: “The recent incidents show that the State is willing to use disproportionate force to quell protests, whether violent or peaceful. Rule of law is replaced by the rule of guns.” Author Farah Naqvi said: “The Assam incident should not be seen in isolation. This is the manifestation of a systemic injection of hate across the country. We have crossed the Rubicon where acts of violence are from the state government itself and not from any mob.” The APCR report quotes Aamir Hussain, the brother of Farid who was shot dead, as saying: “There is only one way to come home. He had no option but to go through the area. He was hit on his way back home.” His father Khaliq, who was not among the evictees, fell unconscious when he saw his son’s body being brought by villagers on a horse cart. Hoque, a father of three, was his household’s sole earner. The report said: “As Haque (the name is spelt Hoque in the Aadhaar card) and his family members were packing up, four-five policemen barged into his shade and started thrashing everyone, including women and children. Hasna Bano, the deceased’s niece, suffered a broken hand in the beating. She recounts that the police hit her from behind. This enraged Haque who took a bamboo and chased the cops, who surrounded and beat him up before shooting him dead. “No representatives of the district administration or the state government have visited the aggrieved family as yet to console them and share their grief, leave aside offering a compensation. “After Haque fell to the ground unconscious, Bijay Shankar Baniya, a photographer hired by the Darrang district administration to film the eviction, started stomping on his body in the presence of the heavy police force.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
05-10-2021||India||Supreme Court clears Covid aid,  lays down norms||The Supreme Court on Monday approved Rs 50,000 as ex gratia for relatives of the Covid dead over and above other compensation that they are entitled to or have already been given by respective state governments or authorities. The ex gratia should be disbursed by the states and Union Territories from their respective State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF), the bench of Justices M.R. Shah and A.S. Bopanna said in a written order. The relatives of patients who succumb to Covid in the future will also be entitled to the Rs 50,000 ex gratia, according to the order. None of the claimants can be denied the ex gratia because of the lack of a death certificate listing the cause of death as Covid-19, provided they are able to furnish other evidence before the competent authorities or the grievance redress committees to be constituted in all district headquarters, the court said. The court also detailed what will count as “deaths due to Covid-19”. The bench issued the directives while dealing with a PIL filed by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal that sought Rs 4 lakh ex gratia to each family that had lost a member to the pandemic. Nearly 5 lakh people have so far died of Covid-19 in the country. The following directives were also issued by the Supreme Court bench. *The ex gratia shall be disbursed by the district disaster management authority/ district administration. * Full particulars and address of the district disaster management authority/ district administration who is required to disburse the ex gratia shall be widely published/ broadcast in the print and electronic media within one week. Such information shall also be published in the prominent offices of the village/ taluk/ district, such as gram panchayat office, taluk panchayat office, district collector’s office and corporation office. ⚫ The ex gratia shall be disbursed within 30 days of the submission of the application along with proof of death from Covid-19 and with the cause of death certified as “died due to Covid-19”. ⚫ If the cause of death mentioned in the death certificate is not conclusive and if other documents are provided, the next of kin will be entitled to the ex gratia. ⚫ No state shall deny the ex gratia solely on the ground that in the death certificate, the cause of death is not mentioned as Covid. ⚫ In case of any grievance about the certification of death, the aggrieved person can approach a committee at the district level, consisting of the additional district collector, the chief medical officer of health (CMOH), the additional CMOH/principal or head of department, medicine, of a medical college (if one exists in the district) and a subject expert. The committee shall take remedial measures, including the issuance of amended official document, after verifying the facts on production of necessary documents showing that death was caused by Covid-19. ⚫ All the states shall constitute such committees within one week and the address location and full particulars of the committee at the district level shall be published in print media and electronic media having wide circulation, besides relevant offices of the government and its instrumentalities. ⚫ In case the decision of the committee is not in favour of the claimant, a clear reason shall be recorded by the committee, called a grievance redressal committee. ⚫ Ex gratia assistance to the families affected by Covid-19 deaths shall continue to be provided for deaths that may occur in future phases of Covid-19 as well. Covid death norms The apex court order said that Covid-19 cases, for the purpose of considering the deaths, are those diagnosed through a positive RT-PCR/ molecular test/ RAT (Rapid Antigen Test) or clinically determined through investigations in a hospital/ in-patient facility by a treating physician. The deaths occurring within 30 days from the date of testing or from the date of being clinically determined as a Covid-19 case shall be treated as “deaths due to Covid-19” even if the death takes place outside the hospital/ in-patient facility. A Covid-19 patient who continues to be admitted to a hospital/ in-patient facility beyond 30 days and dies subsequently shall be considered as having died of Covid-19. So also Covid-19 cases that are unresolved with the patient dying either in the hospital or at home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
05-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: Television reporter killed, versions differ||A television reporter was among nine people killed on Sunday in Lakhimpur Kheri but the death had not been confirmed by police till Monday evening. Conflicting versions emerged on the cause of the death of Raman Kashyap, who was reporting for Sadhna Prime News. The channel’s editor said some hooligans had beaten the reporter. Accounts on social media quoted Kashyap’s father and brother as saying he was shot at and hit by a car. Kashyap died of his injuries in hospital, said Siddharth Kalhans, national secretary of the Indian Federation of Working Journalists. Brij Mohan Singh, editor of Sadhna Prime News, told The Telegraph: “He (Kashyap) had suffered several injuries. Other reporters who were there told us that he was beaten up by some of the bystanders. They were not farmers; farmers do not kill. There were some hooligans from outside in that crowd and they beat him up when they saw him making a video. “He was our tehsil reporter/ stringer (non-permanent correspondent) and we were planning to make him the district correspondent later this year.” In its daily statement, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha mentioned the death of an independent journalist but did not name the person.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
05-10-2021||India||Nitish Kumar takes on Niti Aayog for presenting Bihar in poor light ||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday slammed the Niti Aayog for its surveys which presented the state in a poor light claiming that they did not factor in various aspects before arriving at conclusions and hence failed to give a true picture. Nitish also promised to raise the issue at the next meeting of the Niti Aayog, which deliberates and formulates sustainable development policies for the country. The state government is also going to write to the think tank to convey its objections. “If you (Niti Aayog) are considering the entire country to be equal then it is a surprising thing. You must know that Bihar is at the third position among the states in population after Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, and at the 12th position in terms of area. The population density here is the highest in the country,” Nitish told mediapersons on the sidelines of his Janata Durbar. “How will you compare Bihar with Maharashtra? The poorest with the richest state? Is this the way to understand anything? Do you know how much Bihar has progressed in health services since 2006 when just 39 people visited the block hospital (primary health centre) in a month but now around 10,000 are treated there every month? We are introducing new technologies to treat people wherever they are,” Nitish added. The chief minister went on to claim that while Bihar has progressed a lot in the health sector, Niti Aayog was just a newcomer with people who were novices. One of the immediate reasons behind Nitish’s outburst was the Niti Aayog’s report on “Best practices in the performance of district hospitals” in the country released last week. It revealed that Bihar with just six hospital beds per one lakh population was at the bottom in the hospital bed to population ratio among the states. The report also highlighted a severe scarcity of doctors and nurses in the state. The national average is 24 hospital beds per lakh population, slightly more than the Indian Public Health Standards 2012 guidelines to have at least 22 beds per lakh people. Puducherry is at the top of the rankings with 222 beds per lakh people. The Niti Aayog report put the Bihar government in an awkward position as Nitish and health minister Mangal Pandey had been often highlighting the massive strides made in medical infrastructure and health services in the state. Both the leaders had to scurry for cover when mediapersons bombarded them with questions on the issue. It also provided heavy ammunition to the Opposition, which went hammer and tongs against the NDA government. “These people (Niti Aayog) do not know various aspects and tell similar things for the entire country. We are going to write to it that whatever has been published is not proper. We are treating people for free, giving medicines to so many of them. You cannot arrive at conclusions without paying attention to such work,” Nitish asserted. Nitish, who heads the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in the state, expressed doubts over the way Niti Aayog conducted its surveys. “I do not know through whom and how Niti Aayog gets its work done. If I get a chance to attend its next formal meeting, I will tell them that there should be a method of assessment and you should know the basics. You should club the backward states together to compare. Similarly, the rich states should be put in another group,” he argued. The chief minister also pointed out how the state had topped in Covid-19 vaccination by administering 33 lakh doses on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday on September 17 and followed it with over 30 lakh doses administered on Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary on October 2. “Our aim was to administer 35 lakh doses on Bapu’s birth anniversary. Heavy rains lashed the state, yet 30 lakh people came to take the vaccine,” he said. Nitish also highlighted how Bihar has progressed at a fast pace and registered double-digit economic growth every year continuously for around a decade since 2009. “You should know these things to arrive at a correct assessment, but if you take anything just like that, pull out figures from somewhere, then its not an actual study. I will raise these things also at the Niti Aayog meetings,” Nitish added. Bihar has around 12,000 government hospitals and health centres in the state, including 36 district hospitals, 67 referral hospitals, 54 sub-divisional hospitals, 533 primary health centres (PHCs), 9,949 sub-centres and 1,393 additional PHCs. However, several problems are plaguing the health facilities, including inadequate number of doctors, their absence from duty, lack of ambulances and hearses, dogs resting on hospital beds, waterlogging inside hospital buildings, wards and operation theatres, middlemen on the prowl in hospitals, misbehaviour with doctors, hospital staff, patients and their kin, poor nursing and scarcity of medicines and diagnostic facilities, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
05-10-2021||India||Subplots in Bihar Assembly bypolls||The byelections to two Assembly seats in Bihar on October 30 have turned into an eyeball-grabbing thriller with the potential for a Mexican standoff promising to keep the people hooked. The bypolls in Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur will witness a contest between the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and the Opposition Grand Alliance with chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU) pitted against Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD). However, several subplots have been added to the narrative with the Congress taking on the RJD, Nitish tackling RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Congress leader Kanhaiya Kumar possibly locking horns with Tejashwi. While Kusheshwar Asthan, a seat reserved for Scheduled Castes, fell vacant after its representative Shashi Bhushan Hazari passed away recently, Tarapur MLA and former education minister Mewalal Choudhary died of Covid-19 earlier this year. The importance of the two seats in the 243-member Assembly cannot be lost on anybody as the present NDA government led by Nitish has a thin majority. It has 125 legislators and the support of an Independent MLA taking the tally to 126. On the other hand, the Grand Alliance has 110 seats. Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM has five seats and could be expected to side with it in crunch situations. If the Opposition manages to win the two seats, it will need the support of just four or five more MLAs to destabilise the government. The bypoll results will also help gauge the mood of the voters one year into the rule of the new NDA government, and whether they are satisfied with Covid-19 management and developmental policies of the present dispensation. The JDU had won these two seats in the 2020 Assembly election and has already fielded its candidates for the bypolls. Shashi Bhushan’s son Aman Bhushan Hazari has been handpicked to contest from Kusheshwar Asthan while Rajiv Kumar Singh will contest from Tarapur. The ruling NDA partners have accepted the candidates. However, the Grand Alliance is witnessing turmoil after the RJD unilaterally announced candidates for the two seats on Saturday. The RJD state unit president, Jagadanand Singh, said Ganesh Bharti would contest from Kusheshwar Asthan and Arun Kumar Sah from Tarapur. The Congress, a grand Alliance constituent, had contested from Kusheshwar Asthan in the 2020 polls. The Congress took umbrage in the RJD’s decision to contest the bypolls this time and said it was not abiding by the coalition dharma. Stung by the developments, the Congress declared its own intention to contest both the seats. “We are now going to contest both the seats in the bypolls. If the RJD cannot follow the coalition rules then why should we do it in a one-sided manner? We have conveyed our decision to the high command and are waiting for its nod. We will announce our candidates either on Tuesday or Wednesday,” Bihar Congress president Madan Mohan Jha told The Telegraph. Pointing out that Kusheshwar Asthan has been a traditional stronghold of the Congress and the RJD has not won it in the last couple of decades, Jha said the public sentiment indicated his party should contest both the seats now. “RJD has more seats in the Assembly, but we are a national party. It cannot just force whatever it wishes on us,” Jha said. On the other hand, the RJD also claimed that it had acted on public demand to contest both the seats. Its leaders retaliated after several Congress leaders made sharp reactions on the issue. “Our votes and your candidates are passé. The Congress should check the ground reality to understand that it has no base among the voters. The people from both the constituencies want our candidates and we honoured their wishes. We are going to win both the seats,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said. Tiwary also said that one of the factors behind the RJD’s decision to contest both the seats was the poor performance of the Congress in the 2020 Assembly election. It could win just 19 seats out of the 70 it contested. The RJD later held the Congress responsible for not being able to form a government in the state. There is also a Kanhaiya angle to the latest churning in the Grand Alliance with various sources claiming that he could be dispatched to campaign for the bypolls. Kanhaiya and Tejashwi are said to not see eye to eye as both are young and are gunning to establish themselves as the next generation leaders in the state. The former is considered to be an equally good orator. The acrimony between them increased after the RJD fielded its candidate against Kanhaiya during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He contested unsuccessfully on a CPI ticket from Begusarai. The CPI is currently an ally of the RJD. With Kanhaiya joining the Congress, the RJD saw it as a move that would ultimately pit him against Tejashwi. “Where will Kanhaiya campaign if the Congress is not contesting any of the seats? Our leader Tejashwi has the capability to handle entire Bihar. No other leader in the Grand Alliance has the stature to compete with him,” a senior RJD leader said on the condition of anonymity while accepting that contesting both seats was a subtle way of keeping Kanhaiya out. The infighting in the Grand Alliance could help the JDU retain both the seats. The results will be declared on November 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
05-10-2021||India||Odisha: 54-year-old mother donates kidney to son||A 54-year-old woman in Odisha has donated a kidney to her 23-year-old son who has been suffering from end-stage renal disease. The kidney transplant operation was performed by doctors at the Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Bhubaneswar Sanjukta Mohanty said: “I have seen my son suffering from nephrology problems since his childhood. His health has been a constant cause of concern for the family. When doctors told me about the need for a kidney transplant, I didn’t think twice before agreeing to donate one of my kidneys to save his life. For me his life is more precious than anything else. I have seen the ups and downs of life, but his is just taking off. I am indebted to the doctors of the KIMS.” Her son, who has completed his post-graduation from Utkal University, said: “My mother is great.” Father Suresh Kumar Mohanty, who works as a technician in the Institute of Minerals and Materials Technology (IMMT), said: “We had thought of arranging a kidney from outside. But there is no guarantee that it will work. Since in our case, my son and my wife have the same blood group (O-positive), we decided to go ahead with the kidney transplant. The doctors are very cooperative. My son has got a new lease of life.” Dr Ashwini Prasad Patnaik, who led the team of doctors who performed the kidney transplant, said he was happy that the procedure was successful. “Because of the efforts of the founder of KIMS, Dr Achyuta Samanta, the hospital is fully prepared to conduct such operations. Patients need not go outside the state for transplant. Here it can be done within Rs 8 lakh,” he said. About the treatment, Dr Patnaik said: “The patient was suffering from end-stage renal disease and underwent the transplant. His mother was the donor. The mother was discharged on Sunday while the patient was discharged on Wednesday. Both are doing well.” He said: “The operation was done by transplant team doctors of the KIMS, including Dr Nikunj Kishore Rout, Dr Rajesh Kumar Padhi, Dr Kumar Avijeet Dash and Dr Suresh Ch. Dash from the nephrology team; Dr Sumanta Kumar Mishra, Dr Amresh  Mishra, Dr J.B. Jagdev and Dr Sumit Panda from the surgical team; and Dr Sanjaya Behera, Dr Laba Kumar Nayak, and Dr G.C. Satpathy from the anaesthesia team. Dr D.S. Ray and his team, who came from Calcutta, extended support to the operating team.” Dr Rout said there is a psychological fear that if a person donates one’s kidney they will become weak and face problems in life. “We would like to dispel this misconceived notion by affirming that this is not a fact. A kidney donor can lead a healthy and unencumbered life with the remaining kidney,” he said. Dr Rout added: “Kidney transplant is the gold standard of treatment in end-stage kidney disease. Dialysis is not always the permanent solution. The quality of life is definitely better in comparison to dialysis when a suitable kidney is made available. Relatives are preferred as donors.” Wishing a speedy recovery to the patient, Samanta congratulated the team of doctors for their successful achievement. “The transplant team will continue the programme in the future for the benefit of the needy,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
05-10-2021||West Bengal||Weapons and bullets seized in Malda, two arrested||Two suspected smugglers were arrested with firearms and bullets from Baishnabnagar in Malda on Monday. According to police sources, three disassembled rifled muskets, two improvised pipe guns and some rounds of live cartridges were seized from Alim and Azabul Sheikh during a raid at Natunsikosti area in Shahaban Chowk of Baishnabnagar. Alok Rajoria, the district police chief of Malda, said: “We suspect that the duo are associated with an illegal arms smuggling racket and also make improvised firearms. We will interrogate them to obtain more information. We also need to know whether they had any plans to carry out any criminal activity during the ensuing festivities.” In Malda, the police have been conducting raids ahead of the festivities across the district. On Monday, raids were conducted in localities like Baishnabnagar, Kaliachak, Mothabari, Englishbazar, Manikchak, Ratua, Chanchal, Pukhuria and Harischandrapur police stations, said sources. It may be mentioned that a couple of days back, the police had seized 1.9kg of explosives and 40 small canisters used to make crude bombs, along with a firearm and some bullets from Kaliachak. “We have intensified the vigil and are taking all steps to curb criminal activities across the district. Along with firearms, narcotic and fake currency rackets are also under scanner as these rackets become active during festive seasons,” said a police officer. The sources said more police personnel, including women, in plainclothes have been deployed at marketplaces across the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
05-10-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal University campus installs air quality monitoring station||The campus of North Bengal University (NBU) at Rajarammohanpur, on the outskirts of Siliguri, has installed a continuous air quality monitoring station in collaboration with the West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB). A similar station, with a display board that shows the air pollution level and some other data of the NBU area and its surrounding areas, has also been installed on the Jalpaiguri campus of the varsity. Sources in the NBU said that in November last year, the WBPCB chairman was in NBU when a proposal was mooted for installation of such stations. With the approval of the vice-chancellor, the proposal was sent to WBPCB. “Recently, they approved the proposal, and accordingly, the stations were installed. This station, which continuously monitors air quality, will help students be more aware of issues related to pollution,” said Pranab Ghosh, the NBU registrar. Anjan Chakrabarti, a professor and director of UGC’s Human Resource Development Centre at the varsity, said it was useful for climate change research scholars. “The application of the WBPCB updates air pollution level of the area and shows it on the display board. This will help researchers working on climate change,” he said. NBU authorities, sources said, have also drawn up another plan to address the issue of solid wastes, also with the help of the WBPCB. Every day, biomedical and chemical wastes are collected at the labs as well as wastes from the hostels and residential quarters on the premises. “The idea is to introduce a comprehensive solid waste management (SWM) system at the varsity itself. We have adequate space for the project. Officials of WBPCB are aware of it and soon, a team will visit the varsity to check the proposed site. We plan to install equipment which can dispose waste and we can make biogas out of it,” the registrar said, adding it will also keep the university clean and hygienic. Sources in WBPCB agreed a SWM system will help the varsity. “It will help neutralise different wastes and make them less hazardous. Fuel, biogas or fertiliser can be made from the waste through this system,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
05-10-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul decide to bridge ‘language gap’, speaks in tea belt tongues ||Trinamul leaders in Alipurduar district have decided to bridge the “language gap” in the tea estates of the Dooars. Prakash Chik Baraik, the district Trinamul president who hails from a tea estate, visited a number of tea estates during the past few weeks and found that most workers and their families do not understand Bengali. Even if they understand it and speak it a little, they cannot read Bengali. “It is because of this communication gap that they have no idea about the array of schemes prepared by the state government for their socio-economic uplift. Although most are getting benefits of these schemes, they don’t know if these are central or state schemes,” said Baraik. Hence, the district Trinamul leadership has decided to come up with publicity materials in different languages for  tea gardens. They have already started putting posters, banners and hoardings in these languages at estates to apprise people about the array of initiatives taken up by the Mamata Banerjee government, including Cha Sundari free housing scheme. Trinamul insiders said they have started printing the publicity materials in Hindi, Nepali and Sadri. “Majority of the tea population converse in one or more of these languages,” said a source. A senior Trinamul leader  in the district said language was one of the main reasons for the party lagging behind the saffron camp in the tea belt In the past three-four years, the BJP has  established itself as a major political force in the tea belt. In the Assembly polls held  this summer, Trinamul won only one seat (Malbazar) in the tea belt. “So far, most Trinamul publicity materials in  tea gardens were in Bengali. That is why workers and their families do not know about the state government schemes. BJP leaders on the other hand, communicate mostly in Hindi. This seems to be an important factor for the BJP consolidating support in the tea belt,” the leader said. In north Bengal, this is the first time that the ruling party of the state has decided to use  languages other than Bengali. “In the hills, some local Trinamul leaders speak in Nepali with the Gorkha population. But elsewhere, Trinamul leaders use Bengali. This (using other languages) is a new initiative,” said a political observer. The initiative, Baraik said, is a part of the party’s plan to revive support of the tea population ahead of the three-tier panchayat election in 2023. “We have also instructed our party leaders to use any of these three languages while communicating with the tea population,” said Baraik. The party has also started workshops at the block level where educated youths who are party workers from tea estates can learn about state government’s initiatives and in turn convey the same to the tea population. “These youths can speak in any of these three languages. After the workshop, they will reach out to every family in their respective tea estate and brief them about the state government schemes for them,” said Baraik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
05-10-2021||West Bengal||Left Front in Malda to stage blockade on NH12 over erosion||The Left Front in Malda has decided to stage a blockade on NH12 on October 7, demanding immediate rehabilitation and adequate relief for erosion victims in Malda and Murshidabad districts. The decision was made a few days after a three-member delegation of the CPM comprising politburo member Mohammad Salim had visited some erosion-affected areas of both the districts. According to Malda district LF convener Ambar Mitra, the blockade would be raised on NH 12 at Chamagram in Kaliachak 3 block — one of the erosion affected blocks in the district. “Hundreds of affected people who have become homeless will join the protest,” said Mitra. “Altogether, eight-and-a-half lakh people living in 67 mouzas across the district have been directly or indirectly affected by the erosion. The number of such erosion victims is increasing every day as rivers are constantly gobbling land and anything that stands on it. Thousands of them are living under open sky or are crammed at flood shelters. We hardly find any initiative by the state or the central government to rehabilitate them,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
05-10-2021||West Bengal||Small in size, big on faith: Miniature artist carves 2mm tall Durga idol||Manash Roy, a resident of Birnagar in Raiganj, has made a miniature Durga idol ahead of the autumnal festivity, which is just 2mm tall and needs to be viewed through a magnifying glass. Roy, who runs a spectacles shop in Karandighi of North Dinajpur, had earlier made another 6mm Durga idol. Since a young age, Roy has been making “micro paintings” and had sketched portraits of prominent personalities on rice grains. “My aim is recognition from the Guinness Book of World Records,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
05-10-2021||West Bengal||UP incident: Farmers’ butchery a shame for democracy, says Mamata ||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said she was “very sad” that farmers had been “brutally butchered” at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday and termed the incident as a “shame for democracy” and the BJP. “I am very sad…. The farmers were brutally butchered. This is a very bad, very sad incident. I am at a loss for words in trying to condemn this unequivocally…. It is a shame for democracy. It is a shame for the BJP party,” the Bengal chief minister told journalists outside the Gurdwara Sant Kutiya in Bhowanipore here on Monday evening. She had sent a delegation of five Trinamul Congress MPs — Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar of Barasat, Pratima Mondal of Joynagar, Rajya Sabha members Dola Sen, Abir Ranjan Biswas and Sushmita Dev — to Lakhimpur earlier in the day, but they were denied access by the UP government. “My team may not have been allowed there today. But in the future, we will surely meet,” said Mamata. On Sunday, four farmers protesting with black flags had been mowed down by a car linked to junior Union minister for home Ajay Misra “Teni” at his village in Lakhimpur Kheri, days after he had warned that the agitators would be fixed in “two minutes” if they did not mend their ways. Four more people had died by the end of the day. “(These are) our farmer brothers and sisters, the movement they have been sustaining on the streets for a year, for the rescinding of the contentious farm laws…. There, the deputy (Union) home minister, his car, did this. Many people died, many others injured…. Section 144, everywhere today. After the farmers were brutally butchered,” said Mamata. Trinamul on Monday issued a statement calling out the “barbaric” act, underscoring that the cars involved in the incident were part of a convoy owned by Teni and his son Ashish Mishra was purportedly leading the fleet. “According to Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, the convoy even opened fire at the farmers!” the party said. “The apathy of BJP towards our farmer brethren pains me deeply. It’s a matter of national shame that under Mr. Modi’s watch, our farmers had to see such a day!” the statement quoted Mamata as saying. In the evening, she demanded answers on the BJP’s accountability in the context of alleged attempts to malign Bengal despite the absence of such incidents here. “Bengal runs so peacefully. Yet they send human rights panels and whatnot, making up fake stories, to malign Bengal outside. When so many people are killed under the wheels of his car, or by opening fire… simply because he is a minister’s son?” she asked. However, asked to respond to questions on the administrative action in UP against Congress’s Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav, Mamata said: “I am going to speak for myself, not about anybody else.” In response to a question on whether the BJP’s UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath should resign, Mamata asked: “Who will give resignation?” “They talk about the Ram raj… is this Ram raj? This is a killing raj,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
05-10-2021||West Bengal||Forced to be at home at a relief shelter||Flood-hit Panchali Mondal, 27, a homemaker from Mandirtala of Ghoramara Island, glumly sat on the floor of a school converted into a safe shelter at Bamankhali of Sagar in South 24-Parganas. As it rained without a break last week, the young homemaker had to shift to this shelter. Trying to feed her five-year-old son, she wondered anxiously how long she would have to stay at the government-run shelter. It is for a third time since 2019 that Panchali has been forced to stay in a shelter. It started with Cyclone Fani in 2019 that tore into Panchali’s home. Then came Amphan, which damaged her home beyond repair and rendered her husband Parimal, a farmer, unemployed. Saline water affected the fertility of their land. A couple of months ago, Parimal was compelled to move to Kerala to work as a construction labourer. Panchali is one of the many residents of South 24-Parganas whose lives have been changed amid recurring natural calamities. People living at vulnerable locations such as Ghoramara Island, Gosaba, Kakdwip in coastal areas of South 24-Parganas district are financially crippled as natural calamities like cyclones, high tides or heavy rain keep coming. This time, it was the deluge. . Cyclones like Fani, Bulbul, Amphan, Yaas or the recent downpours have turned  people like her into refugees. Rendered homeless without warning, months go by with people living at relief shelters. Livelihoods have been wiped out. “The cyclones have robbed me of everything... I lost my house totally in Amphan. Whatever I managed to rebuild was further damaged in Yaas. Again, I managed to repair it somehow with the paltry amount paid by the government. But the recent spell of heavy rain has damaged it again. I don’t know how to repair it this time. I am just penniless,” Panchali broke down while holding on to her two small sons at the Bamankhali High School shelter in Sagar. Panchali is one of the 35 families of the shrinking island Ghoramara who had been shifted to the school-turned-safe shelter by the Sagar block administration. Is this the way to live, she wonders, looking at her sons. “Natural calamities have become an unavoidable part of our lives. We live in fear of cyclones and high tides and floods throughout the year. Every time dark clouds gather in the sky we prepare to pack and move to a shelter. Our two sons are suffering. Their studies get affected every time there is a natural calamity,” said Panchali. Every new crisis breaks her a little, she feels. “Even now, the worst is not over as our home is badly damaged. We also lose our farming income as saline water decreases the fertility of our land. My husband could not farm here. Repeated loss of income prompted him to go to Kerala to work as a labourer,” the young woman added. “When will this end?” Rama Mondal, her neighbour, and now in the same relief camp, shares her plight. Rama’s husband has no job for months because salinity of their land has left it unsuitable for farming. “Despite the calamity we are hopeful of returning to our homes. Still, there is a big worry. The administration will offer us ration but who will give us cash?” Rama said. During the past few years, the weather alert and the evacuation procedure undertaken by the state administration have largely helped minimise deaths. As a result, even in the devastating cyclones like Amphan and Yaas, the toll remained low. But economic loss has been heavy. Biswambhar Mandal, a professor of Kalyani University’s commerce department, said that technological advancement has helped society to get weather alerts and plan timely evacuation drives but at the same time a mechanism and infrastructure to minimise the economic loss of people living in the coastal belts must come up. “People should have an alternative means to survive,” he added. Sagar’s block development officer Sudipto Mondal acknowledged the economic impact of repeated evacuations. “The problem is genuine. But saving lives is the priority. Apart from giving food, we do support people to revive their livelihoods. But it is true, much of it is not sufficient.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
05-10-2021||West Bengal||A pregnant woman travels for 9 hours in flood-hit Hooghly||Sabina Begum’s newborn son will have quite a story to tell of his birth when he grows up. The 24-year-old pregnant woman had to travel for over three-and-a-half hours on two boats, an autorickshaw and a battery-run vehicle to reach the nearest hospital in Hooghly’s flooded Khanakul, a 6km journey from her village Dharapara that would have normally taken 15 minutes. Her ordeal that started late on Sunday did not end here. Sabina reached the block hospital in the small hours of Monday only to find out that she needed a Caesarean-section delivery but the hospital did not have the facility. It meant another ride of 17km through flooded stretches to a private facility in Howrah’s Amta. On the way, the car in which she was being taken even broke down on a flooded stretch of the road for about 30 minutes. She finally reached Amta at 8am on Monday. Her son was born at 10am. “My wife was to deliver our first child and the whole process of getting her to a hospital became a challenge for us throughout the night. We started on a boat from our inundated village at around 11.30pm (Sunday) and reached the local block hospital at around 3am (Monday). From there, I had to take my wife to Amta as she needed a Caesarean operation that was not possible at the local hospital. We could not travel to the Arambagh government hospital because the flood has left the area out of bounds,” said Rejaul Haque, 32, Sabina's husband and an employee in a private firm in Calcutta. He thanked the local block medical officers, police and panchayat representatives but added that a “permanent” solution was needed for the yearly floods that plagues lakhs like them. “They helped arrange a boat for us in the dead of the night. Though the mother and child are doing fine, my wife’s plight  proves that we need a permanent solution from yearly floods.” Family members said Sabina’s labour pains started at around 11pm on Sunday. Relatives called up the block hospital in Latibpur for help. The block medical officer of health in Khanakul II block, Raktim Chatterjee, immediately contacted the chief of local Sabalsinghapur gram panchayat Iqbal Khan for help to the family. “There was no speed boat, so we rowed the tin boat to reach nearest dry land. From there we took an auto-rickshaw and reached Gayeshpur ghat to cross the swollen river Mundeshwari as all roads were completely inundated. Local police arranged a motorised boat to take us to the block hospital in Latibpur,” said a family member. Local health officials said the journey of Sabina, who was writhing in pain and bleeding, was an imperative. “The to-be mother’s condition was critical. We gave her first-aid to stabilise her. Later, she was taken by her family to a private hospital (in Amta by car),” said Chatterjee. “Sabina is one of many women who face such a crisis during floods every year in low-lying areas of Bengal like Hooghly’s Khanakul, Pursurah and West Midnapore’s Ghatal. We need a permanent solution as the release of water from dams of the DVC and rain cannot be stopped,” said a senior official in Hooghly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
05-10-2021||West Bengal||After Calcutta high court’s advice and shield, CBI goes to Bengal Assembly Speaker||Calcutta High Court on Monday advised CBI officials to meet Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Bandyopadhyay in his chamber at 4pm during the day after the investigating agency had moved a petition challenging the legality of the Speaker summoning them in connection with the Narada case. Justice Rajasekhar Mantha asked the agency to send the officers to the Speaker but directed him not to take any coercive measure against them as their case was pending for disposal before the court. Accordingly, the CBI sleuths met the Speaker on Monday. Bandyopadhyay scheduled another hearing on October 7. The judge said he would hear the case filed by the CBI at 2pm on Tuesday. Earlier, the Speaker had summoned CBI and ED officials to his chamber on September 22 to seek their explanation as to what law prompted them to take action against members of the House without obtaining his consent. The ED also filed a petition on Monday challenging the Speaker’s action. Justice Mantha said both the cases would be heard together on Tuesday. Suvendu case Calcutta High Court on Monday issued an interim stay till the last week of November on all types of investigations against Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari on charges of allegedly stealing tarpaulins from Contai municipality godown on May 29. The court will hear the case again on November 29. Seeking quashing of the charges brought against him, Suvendu had moved the high court. Post-results violence Calcutta High Court on Monday expressed dissatisfaction with the role of the special investigation team set up by it for probing cases of post-poll results violence. A bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal made some adverse remarks on the SIT after the investigating team placed its status report before the court. “Had the team consulted Justice Manjula Chellur before submitting this report before the court? It seems that team members are not really conducting the probe seriously,” the Acting CJ said. The court had appointed Justice Chellur, who is a former Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court, as the chairperson of the SIT to monitor the investigation. The bench asked the SIT to file a fresh report before the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
05-10-2021||West Bengal||Silver Fir to reopen with 22-seater cafe||Silver Fir, one of the easiest targets for agitators in Darjeeling and that has been gutted twice during Gorkhaland movements, will rise like a phoenix from the ashes on Tuesday evening. Designed like a chalet, the tourism office of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration located at Chowrasta in Darjeeling had been razed to the ground during the statehood agitation first on February 8, 2011, and then again on June 13, 2017. Soon after both the movements fizzled, GTA authorities renovated the three-storied building, sticking to its original design. “The renovation was immediately taken up on both the occasions as it was a big eyesore at Chowrasta,” a former GTA official had said. In fact, the building was gutted in 2017 just a few months after the renovation had been completed. Come Tuesday evening and Silver Fir will open its door to a larger audience. “We have decided to convert the top-floor, which opens onto the Chowrasta road as a café that will be inaugurated tomorrow evening,” said Suraj Sharma, assistant director of tourism, GTA. Earlier, the building used to house the GTA’s tourist information centre, along with the office of the assistant director of tourism and the state regional tourism office (which is under the GTA). “The tourist information centre will be accommodated at the café. Since a large part of the top-floor was under-utilised, we decided to make better use of the space,” said Sharma. The office of the assistant director of tourism and the state regional tourism office will operate from the other floors. The 22-seater café, which also has an outdoor seating arrangement, is looking at being different. “We will serve Darjeeling tea, which is manufactured not by big gardens but by small growers in the Darjeeling hills,” said Sharma. Even coffee will be served from beans grown in Kalimpong. “We are trying to introduce orange pastries freshly baked with the pulp from Darjeeling orchards,” said Sharma. A souvenir desk will also be set up to sell local handicrafts sourced from self-help groups. “We also plan to sell tea and coffee packets that we serve at the café, along with other local products like avocado jams,” said Sharma. Other food items like cookies, cake, sandwich, burger, pakora and momos will also feature on the menu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
05-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal’s biggest oxygen plant opens in Siliguri||Bengal’s largest oxygen plant was opened on Monday at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) in Susrutanagar, on the outskirts of Siliguri. The second wave of Covid-19 led to an urgent demand for a state-of-the-art oxygen plant at the NBMCH. Funds were allocated by the Centre for a pressure swing absorption (PSA) plant in July this year, with the involvement of the National Highways Authority of India and Defence Research & Development Organisation in its setting up. “This plant has a capacity to generate 2,000 LPM (litres per minute) of oxygen. As of now, there is no other government or private hospital in the state that has a plant of this capacity,” said a source in the NBMCH. Sushanta Roy, officer on special duty deputed by the state health department in north Bengal, said this plant will ensure piped medical oxygen supply to patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
05-10-2021||West Bengal||Sukanta Majumdar green-lights BJP's Durga Puja this year||The BJP has decided after much deliberation to organise Durga Puja this year with the move being seen as one of the first signs of the party’s new Bengal president Sukanta Majumdar changing his predecessor Dilip Ghosh’s decision. “The party will hold Durga Puja this year. Sukantada has agreed to our proposal,” a BJP youth wing leader told The Telegraph on Monday. The Puja — like last year — will be held at the Union government’s Eastern Zonal Cultural Complex in Salt Lake near Calcutta. Majumdar is said to have put his strength behind the pro-Puja lobby in the BJP even though Ghosh had categorically rejected the idea saying “it isn’t a political party’s job to organise a Puja”. Ghosh and the lobby led by him had vehemently opposed the idea of the BJP organising a Durga Puja last year as well. However, the Puja happened anyway under the patronage of the party’s minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya. In August, the state youth and women’s wings of the BJP had approached Ghosh yet again seeking permission to organise Puja. Sources said Ghosh had clearly stated his disagreement with the plan. Although state BJP functionaries had publicly said over the past few weeks that the idea was still being considered, sources in the party had confirmed that the likes of Ghosh had rejected the proposal. However, in the evening of October 2 when BJP leaders, including Ghosh and Majumdar, met, the state chief had sought the opinion of others on organising the Puja, a source said. The source added that the state youth wing chief and Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan had pressed on the “inevitability” of organising the Puja this year as well. “Saumitrada told Sukantada that we should be serious about Durga Puja since our scriptures mandate one to hold any Puja consecutively for four years once it is started,” the source said. Later, Majumdar gave his consent to the puja. The leaders considered close to Ghosh are, however, still unhappy with the decision. They said the very idea of a political party organising a Puja was flawed at multiple levels. “Political leaders get an opportunity to connect with local people at these social events. That can be done in several ways. How does it help if the party is busy with its own Puja which will not have any public participation?” a BJP leader asked. The leader added that even if last year’s Puja was considered as a political event — since it was done with an eye on the Bengal Assembly polls — organising the Puja again this year was pointless. However, these reservations about Puja will remain unheard since the centre of power within the party has shifted and Majumdar is clearly trying to come out of Ghosh’s shadow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
05-10-2021||West Bengal||Sanjukta Kisan Morcha protest against ‘murder’ of farmers||The Sanjukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) staged a demonstration at Moulali crossing in Calcutta on Monday afternoon to protest against the “murder” of farmers who were allegedly run over by a car driven by junior Union home minister Ajay Mishra’s son at Lekhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. Similar protest rallies were taken out across Bengal. In Calcutta, the agitators burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “The fascist BJP government has changed its ways to stop our movement. They are treading the path of elimination. (They) did it in Haryana, in Assam and now in UP. But we won’t be cowed down by fascist forces,” said CPM politburo member and SKM leader Hannan Mollah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
05-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 601 new Covid-19 cases, 12 more deaths||Bengal on Monday recorded a rise again, for the sixth day in the past nine days, in its total of active Covid-19 cases. Active cases in Bengal rose by 17 to 7,604, with 601 new infections, 572 recoveries and 12 deaths. Bengal had snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases on September 26. The state has 3.08 per cent of the national total of active cases, and remains seventh on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 135 new infections and North 24Parganas 120, the only two of the state's 23 districts with a threedigit figure of new infections in a day. Six districts reported a singledigit figure. Calcutta reported three deaths and North 24Parganas reported five. Nineteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Monday. The state's recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.9. Daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.27 per cent on Monday. The state's mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.72 lakh Covid19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.45 lakh recoveries and 18,837 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
05-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: German politics at the brink of change ||Futile hurdles Sir — As per new Reserve Bank of India mandate, automatic recurring payments made by credit or debit card, for various recharge and utility bills will have to be further protected with an additional factor of authentication. This is allegedly to protect customers — a near impossibility in an age when card details are uploaded online. What this does in reality is leave people unable to subscribe to services like the New York Times. Surely, the State is smiling? Anamika Saha, Calcutta Uncertain future Sir — The German federal election results have taken everyone by surprise (“Teutonic shift”, Sep 30).  The Social Democrats took a narrow lead with 25.7 per cent of votes over the Christian Democrats who secured 24.1 per cent. Now, the Greens and Free Democrats, at 14.8 per cent and 11.5 per cent respectively, have the opportunity to play kingmaker. Olaf Scholz, the SDP candidate and incumbent vice-chancellor and finance minister, is likely to be the next chancellor of Germany. Armin Laschet, CDU candidate and Merkel’s heir-apparent, was uncharismatic and ran a lacklustre campaign in comparison to Scholz. German politics is at the brink of a massive change. Hopefully, the next chancellor will be able to steer Germany and the European Union in the right direction. S.S. Paul, Nadia Sir — The retirement of Angela Merkel from active politics coincided with the CDU performing poorly at the national elections. Many think that had Merkel chosen to run for the chancellorship, the CDU may have won the elections. The saving grace is that the German public has largely rejected the far-right Alternative for Germany. Germany must not allow the far-right to gain ground. Jang Bahadur Singh, Jamshedpur Sir — Elections, we are often reminded, have consequences, but those consequences can take time to unravel. It is thus heartening that there is a cross-party consensus on the need to address the climate crisis aggressively among most. This is key given the sway that Germany holds over decision-making within the European Union. Ravi Nagori, Howrah Defining role Sir — It was saddening to learn that the actor, Ghanshyam Nayak, passed away following a battle with cancer. Nayak had won hearts with his endearing performance as Nattu kaka in the TV show, Taarak Mehta ka Ooltah Chashmah. This is a huge loss for Indian television. We will remember him whenever we watch reruns of the show. Sourish Misra, Calcutta Sir — Ghanshyam Nayak was a remarkable actor who breathed life into the characters he played on screen. He had a long and illustrious career but we will perhaps always remember him as the goofy and loveable Nattu kaka. He will be missed. Rohan Tripathi, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
05-10-2021||Opinion||Shared podium ||After his spectacular success at the Tokyo Olympics, Neeraj Chopra, deservedly, has become a national hero. But the Paralympics reminded us that Chopra was not the first Indian to get a gold medal in athletics. Tokyo Paralympics silver-medallist, Devendra Jhajharia, won gold in men’s javelin throw both in Athens in 2004 and in Rio de Janeiro in 2016. It is not that Jhajharia, a recipient of the Padma Shri and the Khel Ratna, has not been honoured by the country. But media and public attention follow a different equation. The origin of the Paralympics, meaning ‘parallel Olympics’, was closely linked to a disability sporting event of British World War II veterans held in London in 1948. Rapid commercialization of the Paralympic Games and the increasing visibility of disability in the media, influenced by the widespread coverage of the recent Games, might be instrumental in bringing about social change. Although a large funding gap between the Olympic and Paralympic athletes persists as does the ‘Paralympic paradox’ — the moment a disabled athlete succeeds, the association the athlete has with ‘disability’ becomes weaker — Paralympic success is considered a measure of national, social and economic development. In a 2016 article in the Journal of the Nippon Foundation Paralympic Research, Kazuo Ogoura, secretary general of the Tokyo 2020 Bid Committee, examined the significance of the Paralympics from political, economic, social and cultural perspectives. Not only can the Paralympics — bearing the legacy of ‘war scars’ — impress upon people the importance of peace, but it can also induce changes in business models. Following the 2010 Vancouver Games, a study by the University of British Columbia showed that the Paralympics triggered better accessibility to buildings, sidewalks and public spaces in Canada. It also increased the willingness to hire people with disabilities among 23 per cent of employers. The Paralympics might create a society where those with disabilities can live comfortably. Indeed, social awareness raised by the Paralympics might change people’s view of people with disabilities. For example, until the 1988 Seoul Paralympic Games, 90,000 people were registered as having disabilities — the number increased to about 5,00,000 following the Paralympics. The motto of the Paralympics — ‘spirit in motion’ — emphasizes that para-athletes constantly inspire and excite the world with their performances. But can an event for people with disabilities be transformed into a pure ‘sporting event’ as far as the attitude of spectators is concerned? The Olympics and the Paralympics take place in the same host city, usually a few weeks apart. The possible inclusion of athletes with a disability into the Olympic Games, instead, has been a long-standing issue within the Paralympic movement. A fusion of the Paralympics and the Olympics sounds fascinating. Researchers at the State University of New York used historical data to calculate the potential cost-benefits of such an integration with the 2010 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games in Vancouver as a framework. They concluded that the two could be integrated with little, if any, changes to the proposed schedule, resulting in greater efficiency and economy of scale by eliminating the need for redundancy in personnel like officials, event staff and volunteers. Similar arguments should hold for the Summer Games as well. But the most significant benefit of integrating the Olympic and Paralympic Games would be social justice. In fact, some experts have posited that anything less than full inclusion of the Paralympics into the Olympic Games would be tantamount to discrimination and marginalization of athletes with disabilities. The pandemic-hit Tokyo Games and the clouds of uncertainty over the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics have added to the uncertainties of an already-troubled Olympic movement. Can a landmark ‘fusion’ of the Paralympics and the Olympics rejuvenate its future?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
05-10-2021||Opinion||The infinite game: US vs Taliban in Afghanistan||In game theory, in which mathematical models study decision-making, there are two kinds of games — finite and infinite. A finite game involves known players, clear rules, distinct objectives and well-defined interests. An infinite game has known and unknown players, no obvious rules, no distinct objectives, and overarching values instead of interests. Over time, the United States of America has been involved in many infinite games — in countries like Vietnam, Iraq and perhaps, most dangerously, in Afghanistan. These are games that the US believed it had won, only to realize — when it was too late — that there is no such thing as a winner in an infinite game. On August 15, 2021, America’s current secretary of state, Antony Blinken, observed: “We went to Afghanistan 20 years ago with one mission, and that mission was to deal with the people who attacked us on 9/11.” In contrast, the former president, George W. Bush (the man who decided to invade Afghanistan in 2001), had written in his 2010 memoir, Decision Points, that “Afghanistan was the ultimate nation-building mission... We had a moral obligation to leave behind something better.” It is obvious that Blinken and Bush are talking about different objectives. What neither comprehends is that the very idea of an objective in Afghanistan makes for a perilous promise. This is because the game in Afghanistan is not about determining winners or losers: it is about perpetuating the game infinitely. The only goal in such a game is survival, something the Taliban sensed long before their American counterparts. The struggle in Afghanistan is greater than the battle of temporary interests between a government backed by America in Kabul and the insurgency of the Taliban. It is a battle about enduring values, that of liberal democracy versus Islamic theocracy, that of Western liberalism parachuted in by foreigners versus domestic, often divisive, conservatism. In an infinite game, the struggle over values requires modification of strategies alongside the evolution of players. The Taliban have done this effectively. The way they took control of Afghanistan in August displayed their new prowess in negotiations, almost erasing their reputation for blunt militancy. The Taliban now control more land in Afghanistan than they did when the Bush administration originally intervened. By misreading the game in Afghanistan, America has only succeeded in replacing the Taliban of 2001 with the Taliban of 2021. Players generally quit an infinite game when they run out of resources or the will to compete. This is how the Soviet Union exited the Cold War, and this is how the US has been forced to abandon Afghanistan — too much has already been lost in the “forever war”. Progress in an infinite game, however, necessitates new players, something the Taliban are aware of. This is why they have been courting China, which is now eyeing the Afghan corridor as the latest addition to its Belt and Road Initiative. For Afghanistan, which had a trade deficit in excess of five billion dollars in 2020, Chinese investment through the BRI is the perfect catalyst with which to embark upon the next stage of the game. When the author of this column spoke to Tahir Qadiry (the then chargé d’affaires of Afghanistan in New Delhi) last year, he explained how the Taliban had grasped the need to integrate into a different Afghan society from the one they controlled during the late ’90s. For Qadiry, those differences were tantamount to respect for women’s rights, civil liberties, and the protection of minorities. To what extent the Taliban accommodate Qadiry’s vision remains to be seen, but what is evident is the Taliban’s willingness to shift strategy in the long haul. On August 17, a Taliban official appeared on Afghanistan’s main television network to be interviewed by a female journalist. This would have been unimaginable a few years ago. In 2018, a survey found 46 per cent of the Afghan population to be under 15 years of age. This means that they had not been born when the Taliban last held power. The modern demands of the Afghan youth, especially in the age of social media, cannot be underestimated, a fact the Taliban should grudgingly adapt to or admit. Ultimately, the end of the American era in Afghanistan will go in one of the two ways. A reformed Taliban steer a ravaged country to a semblance of order (albeit a theocratic one) or history repeats itself and chaos reigns supreme, once more. In either case, the Taliban are unlikely to disappear for they are playing an infinite game and they know as much. This is unlike the Americans, who might want to add some books on game theory to the White House library before opting to rescue another nation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
05-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Drowned||Semantics can be illuminating. Bengal’s chief minister has described the devastation caused by floods in several districts in the southern part of the state — Bankura, Birbhum, Hooghly, West Burdwan, West Midnapore have been adversely affected — as a “man-made” disaster. State leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party have christened the tragedy differently: they insist this is a “she-made” deluge. The causal analyses between the political rivals, expectedly, differ. Mamata Banerjee has pointed an accusing finger at the Damodar Valley Corporation — a Central entity — for releasing unmanageable quantities of water without adequate intimation to her government. This, she argued, led to the flooding. She has also stated that she would write to the prime minister, urging him to intervene and resolve the issue. The chief minister’s claim has been refuted by the DVC that said that the customary warning had been sent to Bengal’s irrigation department; Bengal, in turn, has disputed the DVC’s charge by alleging that the quantum of water to be released had not been specified. The BJP, keen to fish in troubled waters, has alleged that the floods are a result of Ms Banerjee’s preoccupation with her by-election campaign as well as the administration’s inability to initiate repair work of weak embankments. The truth of the matter must lie somewhere in between. But the shrill political noise would not be enough to drown the miseries of the common people: 22 lakh have been victims of the flooding. The loss of property and the damage to agriculture are substantial. The rehabilitation of the affected population must be undertaken immediately by the Centre in coordination with the state. A natural disaster of this magnitude during a pandemic is cause for additional concern. Bengal, Jharkhand and the Centre must establish a better template of communication to prevent what appears to be a fatal lapse. This should not be too difficult, given that the Damodar Valley Reservoir Regulation Committee — it advises the DVC on the release of water — has representation from Bengal, Jharkhand and the Central Water Commission. The desilting and modernization of dams should be undertaken soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
05-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Troubled trail ||The enormous hype that China had whipped up with its ambitious Belt and Road Initiative has started to fizzle out. China’s political leadership is bracing to deal with a backlash from several countries in Africa, Asia, central and eastern Europe, and Latin America over stalled projects, a colossal debt burden, corruption scandals, environmental disasters and an outpouring of public anger. A recent report published by AidData, an international development research laboratory based in Virginia, has caused disquiet with its revelation that China’s BRI has left scores of lower and middle income countries with “hidden debts” totalling $385 billion. The study is based on a close examination of a granular dataset covering 13,427 projects worth $843 billion across 165 countries. The BRI project was launched in 2013. Over 140 nations had enthusiastically welcomed the gush of cash from China in the hope that it would jump-start their economies. In the early phase between 2013 and 2017, China outspent the United States of America in terms of development finance commitments by two to one. China spent $85.4 billion against the relatively small US funding of $37 billion a year. Beijing funnelled money into large vanity projects — those financed with loans worth $500 million or more. The small and medium countries lapped up these big-ticket infrastructure projects. The biggest beneficiary of BRI funds was Pakistan with $27 billion, followed by Indonesia ($20 billion), Kazakhstan ($12 billion), Malaysia ($8 billion) and Cambodia ($7 billion). Unlike the West, China was offering these loans at a relatively high interest of almost 6 per cent. Concessional loans were actually a misnomer: the average interest on a loan from a State institution in China was priced at 4.2 per cent with a maturity period of 9.4 years and an average grace period of 1.8 years, says the study. Contrastingly, the soft loans from members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development were priced at 1.1 per cent and had an average maturity length of 28 years. In the resource-rich nations, the Chinese project loans were collateralized against future commodity export receipts. Over time, more than 35 per cent of the BRI projects were mired in trouble because of public outrage over corruption and environmental issues which wrecked implementation schedules. Debt repayment problems surfaced and many borrowers started to default. The AidData study claims that at least 42 of the low and middle-income countries today have a debt exposure to China that amounts to over 10 per cent of their GDP. The problems are compounded by the fact that China has now started to tighten the screws on overseas projects as it battles an economic slowdown. The debt diplomacy strategy that the BRI held out is clearly in tatters as Beijing struggles to put its own house in order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
05-10-2021||Opinion||A heavy price||The aggressive rise of China is compelling the United States of America to augment its security and diplomatic arrangements in the Indo-Pacific region. In addition to its own presence through the Hawaii-headquartered Indo-Pacific Command, the US has relied, since the 1950s, on its bilateral treaties, principally with South Korea, Japan and Australia, for the region’s defence and security. These pacts have enabled the location of US forces in these countries and, in turn, cover them with an American nuclear umbrella. While these bilateral relationships continue, the US, along with the United Kingdom and Australia, put in place on September 15, according to the joint statement of its leaders, “an enhanced trilateral security partnership called “AUKUS” — Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States”. The first Aukus initiative is to enable Australia to build nuclear-powered submarines through the transfer of nuclear propulsion technology. Only once has the US given sensitive nuclear technology to any country; in the 1950s, it did so to the UK. Significantly, Aukus declared that its decision was based in recognition of the three countries’ “common tradition as maritime democracies”. Japan and South Korea are also maritime democracies but they have been kept out of this security partnership. At the same time, the UK, which has by now hardly any Indo-Pacific presence, has been brought in. This initiative has led to Australia reneging on its long-standing agreement with France; the European country was to build submarines for it. An enraged France complained it had been stabbed in the back by its allies. Thus, the US has signalled that it can ultimately rely only on its white, Anglo-Saxon, English-speaking brothers to meet China’s security challenge in the Indo-Pacific. Aukus was announced nine days prior to the first in-person Quad summit held on September 24. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, along with his Australian and Japanese counterparts, joined the US president at the White House. As the essential reason for Quad and Aukus lies in China’s disdain for the norms of the present US-led world order, it was natural for observers to ask if the latter group would undercut the former. The foreign secretary, Harsh Vardhan Shringla, refuted this thought. He said that while Quad is a group of countries with a shared vision of their “attributes and values” and of the Indo-Pacific “as a free, open, transparent, inclusive region”, Aukus is “a security alliance between three countries”. Shringla further asserted that Aukus is “neither relevant to the Quad nor will it have any impact on its functioning”. Shringla’s distinction between Quad and Aukus is technically correct but inter-state diplomacy is not only about exactitude; it is a game of perceptions too. The feeling in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond, even if unspoken or seldom articulated, will be that for the US, the core group to take on China henceforth will be Aukus for, unlike Quad, it will have military and operational teeth. It is true that Quad’s agenda of wide-ranging cooperation with the Indo-Pacific region and its insistence on the observance of norms of global conduct are important for the area, but perceptions are determined more by hard power than by other considerations. This does not detract from the need to meet the challenge of China’s Belt and Road Initiative, which aims to create a web of dependencies and generate coercive influence in the region. China is vigorously and continuously moving into India’s immediate neighbourhood. It is using its vast financial resources to support this ingress. These Chinese actions are detrimental to Indian interests. It is, therefore, natural for India to look to join hands with other Quad countries which share concerns on Chinese behaviour. While doing so, despite the common “attributes and values”, India has to be always conscious that its objective realities and those of the other three Quad countries are vastly different. These objective realities are determined by its stage of development and location. Unlike the other three, it is an emerging economy and a developing country and not an advanced developed country. For this reason, it has to be simultaneously part of the ‘trade unions’ of states and have a seat at the table where the rules of global management are set. Also, it is the only Quad country which has a land border with China. Thus, while it has a coincidence of interests with Quad arising out of China, there are great areas of divergence. All this requires adroit Indian diplomacy to balance its interests and concerns. Did it succeed in doing so in the drafting of the Quad summit joint statement? India took common positions with its Quad partners on Covid vaccines, climate change, technology and infrastructure development, cyber and outer space, and freedom of navigation. These are global issues that impact Indian interests and on many of them Indian perspectives in view of its objective realities necessarily have to be different from those of the advanced countries, including the other three Quad members. This is not surprising because India’s position on the development ladder necessitates adopting views on economic and technology-related issues that are more aligned with those of the developing world. It is here that India has to protect its interests and bring in more balanced and equitable positions in Quad. It has to do so even while sharing the other three states’ opposition to Chinese practices, which are harmful to Indian and the developing world’s interests as well. Specifically on the distribution of Covid vaccines, the government has assured that exports will take place taking into account Indian needs. This is reassuring, but the fact is that while the US and Japan have fully vaccinated more than 50 per cent of their populations, and Australia 40 per cent, only 25 per cent Indians have got the double dose till now. So what will be its criterion of Indian requirements? On climate change, can India be more ambitious than it is at present? The compulsions of geography dictate that Indian orientations have to be different from those of the other Quad members on Afghanistan and Myanmar and, yet, the joint statement does not reflect this aspect. The Quad membership may be desirable but a very heavy price is being paid. Vivek Katju is a retired Indian Foreign Service officer||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
05-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Six members of UP-based shooter Aman Singh’s gang arrested in Dhanbad||Dhanbad: Six members from the gang of UP-based shooter Aman Singh have been arrested by Dhanbad police for making threat calls to coal city traders. They have been demanding extortion money from different traders, property dealers and political leaders of Dhanbad. They also threatened them with dire consequences. Police seized four pistols, including a 9 mm, a 7.65 mm pistol, two country made pistols; four crude bombs; six live cartridges of 7.65 mm; four.315 mm live cartridges; one 9 mm live cartridge besides two motorcycles and seven mobile phones from those arrested. Three of them have been identified as Saddam Ansari (29) a resident of Jharia; Arun Kumar (25), a native resident of Siwan in Bihar and Suraj Kumar Gupta (20) a resident Kustore in Dhanbad have criminal history while the criminal antecedents of three others including two residents of Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh Anuj Kumar Singh and Zeishan Khan and one resident of Sheikhpura of Bihar, Rohit Kumar Tanti is being scanned. Sanjeev Kumar, Senior Superintendent of Police of Dhanbad said, “Several raids were conducted by the special police team led by Manoj Swargiyari Additional Superintendent of police in connection with bomb attack at Juhi Kia Showroom of Dhanbad based trader, Deepak Sanwariya of September 29, following which they were arrested.” “Two persons of the gang of eight involved in the incident are yet to be arrested. Raids are on to arrest them” said Kumar. Saddam Ansari who was involved in the several cases of coal theft in Jharia acted as kingpin of the gang and was in direct touch with Aman Singh. According to forensic experts who examined the seven mobile phones recovered during the arrest, they used to make extortion calls through WhatsApp calls and messages. Notably, Singh was arrested by police on May 3, 2017 in connection with former Deputy mayor Niraj Singh murder case of March 2017 and brought to Dhanbad jail on May 9, 2017. He was transferred to Hotwar Jail, Ranchi last year. Praduman Choubey Dhanbad: The announcement performance linked reward (PLR), also known as bonus worth Rs 72500 to each of 2.5 lakh employees of Coal India Limited, including 38615 employees of its Dhanbad based subsidiary, BCCL, following the agreement between management and employees has brought cheers not only on the faces of beneficiaries but thousands of small medium scale traders of the district. It is expected to bring the much needed liquidity in the market during the festive season of Durga Puja, Diwali and Chhath. Apart from BCCL, around 5 thousand employees of Mugma area of another subsidiary of coal town, Eastern Coalfields Limited, will also be benefitted following the finalization of PLR agreement between management and employees represented by trade unions, although the bonus will be credited in the bank account of employees on October 11. Though, ECL has more than 52 thousand employees but majority of its operational area lies in nearby areas of Bengal in Asansol and Raniganj Apart from BCCL and ECL, the festive bonus announcement for 11,000 thousand employees of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) and around 24,000 Dhanbad Division employees of Railway is also likely to be made soon. Tata Steel has already announced and provided bonuses to its employees in August itself during which around 2500 employees of Jharia Division have been benefited. Notably, a cumulative amount of around Rs 4 billion is likely to be pumped into the market ahead of Durga Puja scheduled on October 15. Talking to the Telegraph Online today, Rajesh Kumar Gupta, patron of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “he market was eagerly awaiting the announcement of finalization of PLR agreement of BCCL as it is the biggest employer of Dhanbad and since the bonus this year is around Rs 4,000 more than the previous bonus of Rs 68500, we have more reasons to rejoice.” “Since the bonus amount is generally not used in saving and rather invested in celebrating the puja by purchasing garments, footwears and electronic items etc,” said Gupta and added that the money is also used in purchasing FMCG items besides vehicles and jewellery during Dhanteras and Diwali. Praduman Choubey||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-10-2021||Jharkhand||Archery Meet: State archers perform below par at compound event||Jharkhand despite having a number of accomplished archers failed to shine on Day 1 of the compound at the 40th NTPC National Archery Championship hosted at JRD Tata Sports Complex. Delhi, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh shared the honours on the opening day of compound event at the 40th NTPC National Archery Championship at JRD Tata Sports Complex on Tuesday 1 bronze All the three states claimed 3 medals each. Delhi won 2 gold and 1 bronze while Madhya Pradesh pocketed 1 gold, as many silver and as many bronze. Maharashtra, on the other hand, bagged 1 silver and two bronze. All India Police Sports Control Board (AIPSCB), Petroleum Sports Promotion Board (PSPB), Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and AAI (Punjab) managed to bag one medal each, while Jharkhand drew a blank. Delhi's Abhishek Verma claimed the top slot in the men's 50x50 m distance with a score of 708 (out of 720) to pip Uttarakhand's Umesh Singh (706) and Delhi mate Aman Saini (706). Delhi proved their mettle in the men's team event with the quartet of Abhishek Verma, Aman Saini, Ritik Chahal and Kawalpreet Singh coming up with 230 points. Andhra Pradesh (227), represented by Kunderu Venkatadri, Manoj Kumar, Thirumuru Ganesh Mani Ratnam and Myneni Sai Charith stood second while Maharashtra (217) finished third with the combined efforts of Prathamesh Bhalchandra Fuge, Swami Sudhakar Dalvi, Rushikesh Arvind Gujar and Tushar Sanjay Phadtare. Ragini Marko, Muskan Kirar, Srishti Singh and Nikita Dagar of Madhya Pradesh finished at the top of the women’s team event with a score of 232, edging out AAI (Punjab) which scored 230 through Parneet Kaur, Prabhjot Kaur, Ritika Verma and Avneet Kaur. AIPSCB (226) finished with a bronze with the efforts of Monali Chandraharsh Jadhao, Komalpreer Kaur, Puja Kumari and Deepmala Meena. Vennam jJyoti Surekha of PSPB bagged gold in the women's 50x50 m distance with a score of 704 (out of 720), tripping Madhya Pradesh's Ragini Marko (699) and Muskan Kirar (698).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-10-2021||Jharkhand||State traders demand scrapping of Sunday lockdown in view of festive rush||Jharkhand traders have appealed Hemant Soren government to scrap or relax existing curbs on the functioning of markets during the weekend, especially on Sundays, in view of the festive season. After facing a massive slump in their business owing to the Covid-19 outbreak since March last year, different traders, mainly those dealing in garments, footwear, electronics and the likes, are banking on the current festive season starting from Durga puja for the revival of their businesses. While the state government has already eased its Covid induced lockdown by allowing almost everything in the last two months, it however is continuing with its weekend lockdown under which non-essential trades are still not permitted to run their business from Saturday night (8pm) till Monday morning (6am). Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), an umbrella outfit of different trade bodies, has urged to relax weekend lockdown too citing festive shopping. “Cases of Covid-19 is very much under control in the state. Ahead of Durga Puja, markets are slowly getting a steady footfall for festive shopping. But closure of major markets on Sundays is becoming a problem as majority of working class prefer to shop on this day. Therefore, we have urged the state government to relax Sunday lockdown during the festive season while everyone will continue to follow all the prescribed Covid-19 protocols,” said FJCCI president Dheeraj Taneja. Another official of FJCCI has also demanded for the extension of trading window during normal days. “Currently, markets, except eateries and bars are permitted till 10pm and rest only till 8pm. We demand all markets to also allow to keep their doors open till 10 pm as customers mostly come during evening and night hours on working days,” he said. Unlike last year, Durga puja this year too is expected to be a simple affair as government hasn’t allowed big ticket pandals and has curbed all kinds of fairs or hosting of events in and around its vicinity to prevent huge gatherings. Entry into the pandals has also been prohibited. Nevertheless, puja fever has caught on with the people visiting markets regularly in the last few days. A staff at Bharat Electronics said that compared to last year, they are expecting good business this time. “Covid was at its peak in our state around this time last year but the situation is different. Moreover, successive lockdowns coupled with loss of salary and jobs forced people to stay away from any kind of celebrations. But since the last one month, we have started doing good business again. Many have even placed advance booking for dhanteras and Diwali,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-10-2021||Jharkhand||No restrictions in home delivery of bhog during Puja, clarifies Banna||Puja committees across Jharkhand have been be allowed to deliver ‘bhog’ to the devotees at their homes during Durga Puja, however, “community feasts” and “bhog distribution programmes” will remain strictly prohibited as a precautionary measure against Covid-19, state disaster management minister Banna Gupta has clarified. Pointing at alleged misinformation being spread regarding bhog distribution during Durga Puja in the state, Gupta said that the government has not imposed any kind a ban on the home delivery of bhog during the festival, if the process is carried out with due adherence to the Covid-19 protocols. “I would request all the devotees in our state to taste prasad or bhog at home as we still need to be cautious about Covid-19,” said the minister. Meanwhile, the Ranchi district administration has refused to entertain the demands of puja committees to allow idols taller than five feet. Several puja committees had demanded that the government remove the five feet cap on the height of idols as taller idols may not lead to any violation of Covid norms and idol makers had already made taller idols by the time the government issued its guidelines for puja. The puja committees have been allowed to play mantras and other puja rituals on speakers, but playing songs remained prohibited. Special police patrolling teams will keep an eye on the violators during the festival and book them under the relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act. The district administration, after a meeting various puja committees, has issued elaborate guidelines for Durga Puja and Dussehra celebrations. Like last year, puja committees will neither be allowed to decorate areas around the puja pandals nor set up food stalls in the vicinity of pandals. As per the guidelines set by the district administration, devotees will not be allowed to enter inner section of the puja pandals. They will have to worship Maa Durga from a barricade set outside the pandals. Not more than 25 people, including puja committee members and priests, will be allowed to remain inside the pandals at a time. The district administration has decided not to allow minors to visit puja pandals in a move particularly aimed at averting the third wave of Covid-19, sources from Ranchi administration said on Tuesday, adding that all puja committee members and priests will have to be at least partially-vaccinated. Continuing the ban on religious processions, the administration has decided to allow only puja committee members to attend idol immersion rituals that will be performed at locations set by the administration in advance. For the second year in a row, Ranchi will not witness Ravan Dahan, a ceremony that attracts hordes of people from suburban as well as urban areas to the Morhabadi Ground here. The administration observed that allowing Ravan Dahan in public places could lead to huge gatherings, which may cause spread of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-10-2021||Jharkhand||Seraikela Puja to be organised sans government fund||Preparation for the state government-sponsored Durga Puja in Seraikela is in full swing, but the money for organising the puja celebration is yet to be remitted. This is for the first in the history of this government-sponsored Puja, which is being celebrated since 1948, that the fund has not been remitted before Puja. “The necessary fund would come from the Law department of the state government by August every year. But this year, it is yet to arrive. Puja festivity is all set to begin from Wednesday,” said Tapan Patnayak organiser of the government-sponsored Puja while talking to The Telegraph Online. Patnayak, the director of Chhau Nritya Academy, Seraikela maintained that the state government provides Rs 500000 to organise five Pujas and festivals, including Durga Puja, Kali Puja and Jagadhatri Puja in Seraikela and Kharsawan. Significantly, the Durga Puja beside other pujas and festivals celebrated in Seraikela are supposed to be government-sponsored because of an agreement between the Royal estate of Seraikela and the Union Government inked during the merger of the Royal estate with rest of the India in the year 1948. As per the agreement, the concerned government will have to sponsor the Pujas and festivals in Seraikela. “We organise the Durga Puja in a simple way, so it is being organised within a budget of Rs 100000 while we keep aside the remaining fund for other pujas and festivals. This year we are preparing for the Durga Puja on credit in the absence from the government fund,” he pointed out. Speaking about the preparation, Patnayak said they are following the Covid protocol. “The height of Goddess Durga’s idol and her children are below five feet. There will be no distribution of bhog and those in the age-group below 18 years will not be allowed to come inside the Puja venue,” he said. Seraikela sub-divisional officer, Ramkrishna Kumar, the 'Karta' for the Puja is scheduled to do the kalash sthapana ritual on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-10-2021||Jharkhand||Passenger buses allowed to stop by Dhanbad Railway Station at night||Taking the security of railway passengers into account, Dhanbad district administration has decided to tweak the new traffic rules. Thereby, making it possible for buses to stop by the railway station between 11 am to 8pm. However, the buses have been allowed to stop for only five minutes to pick the passengers heading towards their respective destinations - Katras, Bokaro, Hazaribagh, Aurangabad, Bihar Sharif, Asansol Burdwan etc. The new route plan for the night operation of passenger buses running between 11 PM to 8 PM, all the buses departing from Bartand based Bus Depot and heading towards Bokaro Ranchi Purulia route will be plying through City Centre- Raju Yadav Chowk (Bekar Bandh) - DRM Chowk – Railway Station Road- Bank More. Notably the stoppage for the buses on station road had been banned on September 3 in accordance with the new traffic plan of the district administration to control the traffic snarls in Dhanbad town area. Talking to The Telegraph Online today Om Prakash Yadav, District Transport Officer of Dhanbad, said “Only minor changes have been made in traffic plan that had been made effective from September 3 to allow stoppage of five minutes on the station road.” “The decision to allow the buses to stop at station road during the night for five minutes has been made in view of the security of the railway passengers. They were facing difficulty in reaching Bartand railway station, which is around two kilometres away from here due to unavailability of auto rickshaw,” said Yadav. “We have simultaneously notified the entry of transport vehicles including mini-trucks for loading and unloading of goods from 11 pm to 8 am,” said Yadav. He maintained that the arrangement was already in practice as per the traffic plan made effective from September 3 but they have notified again in a bid to avoid confusion. The bus operators however termed the measure as discriminatory as it is favouring night travellers only. Sanjay Singh, vice president of Dhanbad Bus Owners Association said “It is like favouring a few passengers who arrive during the night at Dhanbad Railway station while depriving others who reach here the city during day time.” “We will again demand the district administration to allow short span stoppage of five minutes for buses at the station road during the night as has been allowed for the buses during the night,” he asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: Social audit into free food scheme for primitive tribes||The Jharkhand government announced on Monday that it would get a social audit conducted into the free foodgrain scheme for the primitive tribes. “The food and civil supply department would get a social audit conducted into the Dakia Yojana,” state food and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said. He added that the scheme is meant for free delivery of 35kg of food grains every month at doorstep of those belonging to the particularly vulnerable tribal groups (PVTGs). “The intention is to identify the loopholes in the scheme and initiate remedial measures for ensuring smooth delivery of free food grains,” the minister further said, adding the audit schedule was also already finalised. The social audit unit that functions independently under the aegis of the state’s rural development department will conduct a door to door survey between October 22 and November 20 and complete hearings by December 22, Oraon informed, adding the government was serious to facilitate smooth running of the scheme. “I was the chairperson of the National SC-ST Commission when the National Food Security Act 2013 was being drafted and suggested that both the central and state governments should take the responsibility of delivering food grains at doorsteps of such people living in far-flung areas,” he said, adding the Jharkhand government had subsequently introduced the scheme in 2017. The scheme, known as Bishisht Janjati Khadyanna Yojana or Dakia Yojana for PVTGs, assures delivery of 35kg rice free of cost every month to about 73,000 families belonging to PVTGs who are spread across the state. There are 8 tribes identified as PVTGs in Jharkhand and those are the Asur, Birhor, Birjia, Korwa, Parahiya (Baiga), Sabar, Mal Paharia and Souriya Paharia. “I came across some lapses in the PDS (public distribution system) when I went on field visits during the pandemic and tried to remove those,” food minister Oraon said, adding he was hopeful the proposed social audit would also point out the lapses, if any, so that those could be addressed effectively. The social audit unit was requested to visit each of those estimated 73,000 families for gathering the problems they faced, the minister further said, adding he had already instructed his departmental officials to cooperate with the social audit team by providing related files and records to them. “It’s a welcome move that the state government decided to conduct social audit of the Dakia Yojana,” said Ashrafi Nand Prasad, the state convener of the Right to Food Campaign, adding that would help solve the problems faced by the hapless tribals. “The block level officials are supposed to organise delivery of food grains at their homes but they often ask ration dealers to do it and some of those dealers tamper with the food packets and deliver less than specified 35kg of food grains,” he said when asked about the lapses found.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-10-2021||Jharkhand||800 4G towers in Left Wing Extremism affected areas||There will be better mobile communication between security forces and district administration in the Left Wing Extremism affected areas of Jharkhand in the next six months. The Government of India has approved under the Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF) upgradation of 800 mobile towers (Base Transmission Stations) into 4G networks. “Following the approval of the plans by the Government of India we have started work of upgrading BTS in 800 locations in rebel hit areas. The work is expected to be completed within six months,” said chief general manager of BSNL Jharkhand circle, K.K. Singh who was in Jamshedpur to observe BSNL’s 22nd foundation day function. Sources in the state police said that the upgradation of 4G facilities would help them immensely. “The upgradation into 4G technology will be helpful in providing information about ultras movement from our informers in a better manner. The project will help not only in communication with the security personnel but also, for the residents of these areas. Apart from security issues it would also provide better connectivity and boost e-Governance, and economic activities in these areas,” said a senior police official associated with Maoist operations and based in Ranchi. Incidentally most of the Maoist bastion are in densely forest and rough terrains and fall in network shadow areas. “There is hardly any BTS in such areas and if the towers are installed in such areas it would be beneficial for the security forces and the locals too,” said the BSNL official. The BSNL chief general manager also announced that 24x7 customer grievance redressal mechanism for those availing fibre to home and other BSNL services will function in other important cities of Jharkhand by the end of October. “As of now in order to provide round the clock availability of technical expertise to take care of customer services issues, only Jamshedpur’s one network command centre for network operation (CCNO) is functional 24x7 from October 1. However by the end of this month other important cities like Ranchi, Dhanbad, Bokaro etc will have the round the clock facility. This facility will remain operational even on holidays,” said Singh. Incidentally, Jamshedpur business has been designated as the largest business area in Jharkhand circle in terms of fibre to home services accounting for nearly 45 per cent of the total growth of fibre to home connections in Jharkhand. “Customers who experience any FTTH service related issue can book complaint on 18003451500 (from any number) or 1500/198 (from BSNL number). They dial the CCNO number 0657-2301111,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
