06-10-2021||Business||Centre peeved at Moody’s stable GDP forecast||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
06-10-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 555 points amid global selloff||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged 555 points on Wednesday following losses in index majors Reliance Industries, Infosys and ICICI Bank amid a selloff in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 555.15 points or 0.93 per cent lower at 59,189.73. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 176.30 points or 0.99 per cent to 17,646. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, Bajaj Auto, HCL Tech, Sun Pharma and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, HDFC twins and Bajaj Finance were the gainers. "Weak global markets which resulted in profit booking in metals and IT stocks led domestic indices to trade in red, trimming its early gains," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. Spike in crude prices is spooking the Indian market while inflation is affecting US bond yields, he noted. Further, RBI has commenced its three-day MPC meeting in which the central bank is expected to keep rates unchanged. However, it is likely to announce measures to gradually pump out liquidity from the economy, Nair said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with significant losses. Shanghai was closed for holidays. Equities in Europe were also trading with heavy losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude surged 1.14 per cent to USD 82.19 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
06-10-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 100 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in HDFC, SBI and Bajaj Finance amid a positive trend in US equities. The 30-share Sensex was trading 131.76 points or 0.22 per cent higher at 59,876.64. Similarly, the Nifty rose 46.75 points or 0.26 per cent to 17,869.05. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by SBI, NTPC, Bajaj Finance, HDFC, UltraTech Cement and PowerGrid. On the other hand, Titan, IndusInd Bank, Dr Reddy's, Maruti and Reliance were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 445.56 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 59,744.88, and Nifty surged 131.05 points or 0.74 per cent to 17,822.30. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,915.08 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. India's sovereign rating upgrade by Moody's Investors Services in the backdrop of persistent improvement in key economic indicators and faster ramp-up in vaccination bodes well and may aid India to remain resilient compared to global equities, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. US equities witnessed sharp recovery in the overnight session as the buy-on-dips approach of investors especially in technology stocks aided the market. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Shanghai was closed for the holidays. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.25 per cent to USD 82.50 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
06-10-2021||Business||Government to allow 50 per cent sale of coal from captive mines||The government on Tuesday said it has amended rules with a view to allow 50 per cent sale of coal from captive mines. The move is likely to help over 100 captive coal and lignite blocks with an over 500 million tonnes per annum peak rated capacity as well as all coal and lignite bearing states. “The ministry of coal has amended the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 with a view to allow sale of coal or lignite, on payment of additional amount, by the lessee of a captive mine up to 50 per cent of the total coal or lignite produced in a financial year, after meeting the requirement of the end use plant linked with the mine,” the coal ministry said in a statement. Earlier this year, the Mines and Minerals (Development & Regulation) Amendment Act had been amended to this effect. This is applicable for both the private and public sector captive mines. With this amendment, the government has paved the way to release additional coal in the market through greater utilisation of mining capacities of captive coal and lignite blocks, which were only partly utilised because of limited production of coal to meet their captive needs. The availability of additional coal will ease pressure on power plants and will also aid in import-substitution of coal. The allowance for sale in the prescribed quantity of coal or lignite shall also motivate the lessees to enhance the production from the  mines. Further, additional premium amount, royalty and other statutory payments in respect of the quantity of coal or lignite sold shall boost the revenue of the state governments. The government has also made provisions for grant of mining lease to a government company or corporation for coal or lignite for a period of 50 years. Grant of mining leases for a period of 50 years shall boost seamless continuous production of coal or lignite by the government companies or corporations contributing to the coal/lignite security of the nation. The said period can be extended by 20 years at a time upon an application made to the state government. Therefore, an increase in the period of mining leases shall reduce multiplicity of applications for extensions, thereby ensuring continuity in mining operations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
06-10-2021||Business||PMI Services Index dips in September||The PMI Services Index — one of the key gauges to measure activity in the services sector — moderated in September to 55.2, falling from August’s 18-month high of 56.7. A reading above 50 means expansion, while a score below 50 denotes contraction in economic activity. The seasonally adjusted India Services Business Activity Index, however, remained well above its long-run average. “Despite easing from August, the rate of expansion was marked and the second-fastest since February 2020,” the survey said. Buoyed by signs of improvements in underlying demand, Indian service providers took on additional staff during September. The increase in employment ended a nine-month sequence of job shedding, but was marginal overall as some panelists said they had sufficient staff to deal with their workloads. “Indian firms continued to benefit from a recovery in demand as the pandemic receded and restrictions were lifted. The improved market environment meant firms secured new work during September,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. “While forecasts of better demand supported business confidence regarding output, growth looks set to be constrained by rising inflation expectations. We saw a substantial decline in positive sentiment among service providers due to this factor,” Lima said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
06-10-2021||Business||NCLT move backfired on Srei||The Srei group’s decision to proactively move to NCLT in a bid to recast debt and repay creditors in retrospect could have irked the bankers and prompted the Reserve Bank of India to trigger its powers to supercede the board of directors of Srei Infrastructure Finance (SIFL) and Srei Equipment Finance (SEFL). “Unfortunately because of the Covid and the related problems, the infrastructure sector was affected badly. There was also a moratorium which we had to give to our customers. That is the reason why we went and filed the scheme so that everyone can be paid in a structured manner. But maybe some people may not have liked that. Maybe that is the reason why this reaction would have come,” said Hemant Kanoria who has headed the two NBFCs of Srei Group. “We are ourselves perplexed at the decision,” Kanoria said, adding that efforts were being made to pay full dues to all creditors in a structured manner and also rope in investors in a bid to strengthen the company. The company’s total liabilities are around Rs 18,000 crore of bank loans and another Rs 10,000 crore of external commercial borrowings and bonds. Rewinding to 2020, the two non-bank finance companies were affected by an asset-liability mismatch amid the Covid pandemic and the changing regulatory landscape of loan moratorium and restructuring. While the borrowers of the NBFCs got the benefit, the NBFCs could not get the same benefit from the banks. Srei approached the NCLT under section 230 of Companies Act with a restructuring proposal but the lenders were not in favour. The lenders, who have initiated a forensic enquiry, took control of the cash flow of the companies in November 2020 which further affected the day-to-day business including clearance of salary. The company subsequently filed separate schemes for other creditors, besides banks, in December 2020 to make payments. Capital infusion SEFL received interest from a total of 11 global investors including Singapore's Makara Capital Partners for investment of Rs 2200 crore and from US based Arena Investors for investment of Rs 2000 crore. Cerberus Global Investments, Charlestown Capital Advisors, CarVal Investors LP, Varde Parterns Asia Pte and Maystone Capital are among the other firms who have expressed their interest to invest. The erstwhile board of directors had accepted the non-binding term sheets from Arena Investors and Makara Capital and forwarded to RBI for its approval. However the appointment of the administrator with an eventual intent at triggering insolvency puts a question mark over the fate of the proposals received. “We have to wait and see because the decision came only yesterday evening. We have to understand from the RBI what are they going to do and what would be the next step going forward,” said Kanoria. Next step The RBI has appointed Rajneesh Sharma as the administrator for the two Srei group firms and a three member committee to assist him in discharge of duties. Sharma, former chief general manager of Bank of Baroda, has taken charge following the RBI directive on Monday. Srei would likely explore its legal option but according to observers it may not be able to avoid the ignominy of seeing the two entities dragged into bankruptcy resolution - .only the second time this has happened since DHFL went through a highly controversial process. “The appointment of the administrator by the RBI paves the way for the corporate resolution process of the two Srei entities. Once the NCLT approves the same, the board of directors of these entities will stand suspended. A moratorium will be imposed on any proceedings against these entities, enforcement of any security or transfer of assets. “The CIRP will enable foreign creditors, including ECB lenders and bond holders to restructure their debts alongside domestic creditors. If a resolution plan is successfully approved under the CIRP, it will allow the companies to start on a clean slate, which is missing under the RBI stressed assets framework. This decision of RBI follows on the heels of a successful resolution process of DHFL,” said Aashit Shah, partner, J. Sagar Associates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
06-10-2021||Business||Moody’s revises India’s rating outlook to stable from negative||Moody’s Investors Service on Tuesday revised India’s rating outlook to stable from negative. It, however, retained the Baa3 rating which is the lowest investment grade. The government had pitched for a sovereign rating upgrade at a recent meeting with the global rating agency. Moody’s said in a statement that the decision to change the outlook to stable comes as solvency in the financial system has strengthened, improving credit conditions which it expects will be sustained as policy settings normalise. The rating agency added that bank provisioning has allowed for the gradual write-off of legacy problem assets over the past few years. Further, the lenders have strengthened their capital positions, pointing to a stronger outlook for credit growth to support the economy. “Following a deep contraction of 7.3 per cent in fiscal 2020 (year ended March 2021), Moody’s expects India’s real GDP to surpass 2019 levels this fiscal year, rebounding to a growth rate of 9.3 per cent, followed by 7.9 per cent in fiscal 2022. “Downside risks to growth from subsequent coronavirus infection waves are mitigated by rising vaccination rates and more selective use of restrictions on economic activity, as seen during the second wave,’’ it added. According to Moody’s, the affirmation of the Baa3 ratings balances India’s key credit strengths, which include a large and diversified economy with high growth potential, a relatively strong external position, and a stable domestic financing base for government debt, against its principal credit challenges, including low per capita incomes and high general government debt. It noted that with higher capital cushions and greater liquidity, banks and non-bank financial institutions pose much lesser risk to the sovereign than it anticipated earlier. Though risks stemming from a high debt burden remain, Moody's expects that the economic environment will allow for a gradual reduction of the general government fiscal deficit over the next few years, preventing further deterioration of the sovereign credit profile.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
06-10-2021||Business||Bond yields rise, heat on rupee as crude oil prices hit 7-year high||Bond yields rose on Tuesday and the rupee came under pressure as crude oil prices hit a 7-year high amid apprehensions of liquidity tightening by the Reserve Bank of India as it initiates gradual policy normalisation with the economy showing signs of a recovery. The monetary policy committee (MPC) of the RBI is meeting from October 6 to October 8 Reflecting the market’s apprehensions over rising crude oil prices that could push up inflation, yields on the benchmark 10-year bond closed at 6.26 per cent on Tuesday after rising to a day’s high of 6.28 per cent. On Monday, it had settled at 6.248 per cent. Yields are inversely related to government bond prices. International crude oil prices have continued to remain firm after Opec and its allies stuck to their plans of a gradual increase in production. With India importing 80 per cent of its oil requirements, rising prices could lead to higher inflation, forcing the RBI to hike interest rates apart from posing other challenges such as a higher current account deficit. Though the MPC is widely expected to maintain its accommodative stance, market circles expect the committee to take the first steps towards winding up the easy liquidity regime since the start of the pandemic. The central bank could reduce the bond purchases of its GSAP (government securities acquisition) programme under which it had bought securities worth Rs 1 lakh crore in the first quarter of this fiscal rising to Rs 1.2 lakh crore in the July-September period. Recently, the RBI had set a higher cut-off yield for the 7 day variable rate reverse repo (VRRR) auction at 3.99 per cent which is closer to the repo rate of four per cent. While some economists expect a hike in the reverse repo — the rate at which the RBI soaks up excess liquidity — others feel a status-quo is likely to continue. “While the economic environment has changed since the last policy, the MPC is likely to keep a status quo on interest rates and an accommodative stance,” Shanti Ekambaram, group president — consumer banking, Kotak Mahindra Bank, said. The rupee on Tuesday fell 13 paise to close at 74.44 against the dollar weighed down by a stronger greenback in the overseas market and rising crude oil prices. It fell to an inter-day low of 74.63 and finally settled at 74.44, down 13 paise from its previous close. "Some global factors such as a crude price hike because of shortages in China and the UK and the US Federal Reserve indicating it is likely to begin tapering by the end of the year could cause volatility." She said the MPC will keep a watch on all these factors, with domestic growth and inflation likely to guide its policy stance. "If the green shoots of economic recovery sustain, it is possible to expect some steps in the latter part of the year on liquidity and the reverse repo."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
06-10-2021||Business||Centre to reconsider one-time spectrum fee on telecom operators||The Centre has decided to reconsider its stand on the levy of a one-time spectrum fee on telecom operators. The Modi government has sought three weeks’ time from the Supreme Court to decide whether or not to challenge a judgment handed down by the Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) in 2019 which had rejected its claim to Rs 40,000 crore from telecom operators linked to the spectrum levy. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta informed an apex court bench comprising Justices M.R. Shah and A.S. Bopanna that the government wished to reconsider its stand on the spectrum fee in “public interest” and to mitigate the financial distress in the telecom industry. The one-time spectrum fee was imposed in 2012 and was supposed to be levied on telecom operators holding more than 6.2 Mhz of spectrum in a single circle between July 2008 and 2013. The unpaid dues as a result of the fee have ballooned to Rs 40,000 crore. The TDSAT had ruled that the spectrum fee could be levied only from 2013 and would have no retrospective application as contemplated by the government. If the government decides to drop its appeal against the TDSAT order, it would signal a major relief to the beleaguered telecom sector. Analysts suggest that Bharti Airtel and Vodafone would get a financial relief of Rs 8,414 crore and Rs 4,390 crore, respectively, if the government drops its appeal. It will also provide a major reprieve to companies like Reliance Communications which no longer provides services. Last month, telecom operators were granted a four-year moratorium from paying dues arising from a mix of telecom fees and spectrum levies that have swelled to over Rs 1.47 lakh crore. The government had also offered them an option to convert a part of the debt into equity. The apex court has adjourned the matter till November 17. K. Raja Raman, secretary in the Department of Telecommunications (DoT), had filed an affidavit on Monday which came up on Tuesday before the bench headed by Justice M.R. Shah. The affidavit said the Union cabinet had announced a number of decisions on September 15 to head off a situation where the viability of some telecom service providers became unsustainable “resulting in a monopolistic situation” in the industry. The affidavit was referring to Vodafone Idea without actually naming it. The struggling telecom operator had informed the government that it was on the brink of collapse and unable to pay dues worth over Rs 50,000 crore unless it was granted a moratorium. The package of reforms was announced last month because the government was aware that the collapse of Vodafone Idea would blow up into a crisis in the banking industry as well. In its affidavit, the DoT said the Indian Banks Association had also informed the government that adverse developments in telecom sector could lead to "vanishing competition, duopoly, unsustainable operations and severe loss for the banking system which has a huge exposure to this sector." It added that the government wanted to reconsider its "decision to proceed with the present proceedings of appeals." However, it asked for time to review the position as  decisions will have to be taken after the scrutiny at various levels".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
06-10-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal retorts to Punjab chief minister Charanjit Channi’s 'suit-boot' comment||Arvind Kejriwal responded to a blatant comment by Punjab chief minister Charanjit Channi and then switched focus to the ruling Congress's track record ahead of next year's election. Charanjit Channi said his Delhi counterpart, Arvind Kejriwal, should be given ₹ 5,000 to get a "suit-boot". "Channi sahib, you don't like my clothes. No problem... (but) leave the clothes. When will you fulfill these promises," Kejriwal tweeted - a reference to promises made ahead of the 2017 election. "When will you give employment to every unemployed; When will you waive the loans of farmers; Why not send those guilty of sacrilege (a reference to the 2015 desecration case) to jail; When will action be taken against tainted ministers, MLAs and officers?" Earlier the Punjab CM was asked by news channel ABP about Kejriwal's comment that the Congress had made a "tamasha (mockery)" of Punjab. Channi responded by asking if Kejriwal did not have a "suit-boot" - a reference to one of Congress MP Rahul Gandhi's go-to jibes at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his ruling BJP. "Do you have Rs 5,000? Everyone has it. Give it to him (Kejriwal) too... at least he can get nice clothes... can't he get a suit-boot? His salary is Rs 2,50,000, can't he get nice clothes," he said. Kejriwal, while on a visit to Chandigarh last month, told reporters the Congress' leadership crisis in the state was "unfortunate" and that "Punjab has been reduced to tamasha". "People don't know where to go. Punjab Chief Minister should fulfill promises made by Captain Amarinder Singh and act against tainted ministers, MLAs, and officers. Mastermind behind the 2015 sacrilege incidents should be booked," he told reporters. Kejriwal has visited Punjab frequently and has promised major incentives for the people if they vote for the AAP, including free electricity (up to 300 units) and a waiver on previous bills. "This is Kejriwal's promise, not Captain's (Amarinder Singh) vows. We deliver our promises. Captain's promises haven't been fulfilled even after five years," he declared in Chandigarh in June. The Congress in Punjab is teetering on the edge after a prolonged and bitter feud between Amarinder Singh and the party's state chief, Navjot Sidhu, exploded last month. Singh declared himself "humiliated" by his rival's constant needling and the lack of support from the Congress' high command (who have backed Sidhu) and quit. Several of the barbs Navjot Sidhu flung at Amarinder Singh were linked to the questions Kejriwal raised in his tweet on Wednesday, including a delay in justice for those who died during police action that followed protests against desecration of Sikh religious texts in 2015.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
06-10-2021||India||Sachin Pilot detained on way to meet grieving families in UP's Lakhimpur||Senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot, who was on his way to visit Lakhimpur to meet the grieving families, was detained on Wednesday evening. He landed in Delhi earlier in the day and set out for Sitapur in Uttar Pradesh by road straight from the airport. "The Uttar Pradesh government is certainly trying to hide something," he said on several political leaders being stopped from going to Lakhimpur Kheri. The Congress leader said he hasn't been informed by when he will be released. "I have just been put here in the guest house. I have been told I can't go," he said. The Ghaziabad Police had launched a special checking drive upon getting information about Sachin Pilot's intended visit to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of farmers killed in violence. Sources said Pilot's motorcade was moving slowly as it was stopped at multiple places on the way by police personnel who searched the cars and asked him questions before letting him proceed. The Congress leader was stopped by police briefly near Gaur City in Ghaziabad on NH 24 but then permitted to proceed towards Hapur. "They are letting others to meet the grieving families, why aren't they allowing us? I just want to meet the families without creating any law-and-order problem," said Sachin Pilot after being detained in Moradabad. Vehicles were being checked at the Ghazipur border, and City Superintendent of Police (second) Gyanendra Singh, who was on duty there, had said that Pilot will not be allowed to go to Lakhimpur as his presence might cause law and order problems there. Four of the eight people who died in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The four others included two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra, and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel. While the first three were allegedly lynched by agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering news of farmers' protest against Maurya's visit to Ajay Mishra's native place. The UP Police has lodged a case against Union minister Ajay Mishra's son but no arrest has been made.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
06-10-2021||India||SC takes suo motu cognizance, to hear Lakhimpur case today||The Supreme Court has decided to hear on Thursday the Lakhimpur Kheri case of Uttar Pradesh in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed as violence erupted during a farmers' protest. As per the cause list uploaded on the apex court website, a three-judge bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli would hear the matter. Eight people were killed on October 3 as violence erupted during a farmers' protest claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. The court has decided to take up the case amid a growing outcry over the Uttar Pradesh police's handling of the investigation, media reports and a letter written to the Chief Justice by two lawyers from the state. Farmers have vowed to intensify their months-long movement against laws aimed at liberalising agriculture as tension flared after the eight people were killed in clashes between protesters and ruling party supporters on Sunday. Four of the eight were killed when a car belonging to Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish crashed into protesters in Uttar Pradesh state, protest leaders said. And yet four days later, despite being named in a police complaint, he was yet to be arrested. The police have said they were investigating the crash and had registered a case against 13 people, including Ashish Mishra even as his father ruled out resigning and held a meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi. Mr Mishra said his son was not present at the incident but a car driven by "our driver" lost control and hit the farmers after they threw stones at the car and attacked it with sticks and sword. Ashish Mishra has also denied being present and remains at large. An alliance of protest groups called in a petition to President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday for a court-supervised investigation of the violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
06-10-2021||India||India in last stage of finalising details on global minimum tax says Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday said India is "very close" to arriving at the specifics of the two-pillar taxation proposition at the G20 and is in the last stage of finalising the details. A total of 130 countries had in July agreed to a overhaul of global tax norms to ensure that multinationals pay taxes wherever they operate and at a minimum 15 per cent rate. The Finance Ministry had then said that some significant issues including share of profit allocation and scope of subject to tax rules are yet to be addressed and a 'consensus agreement' is expected by October after working out the technical details of the proposal. The proposed two-pillar solution consists of two components - Pillar One which is about reallocation of additional share of profit to the market jurisdictions and Pillar Two consisting of minimum tax and subject to tax rules. Speaking at the ICRIER's Annual International G20 Conference, Sitharaman said the two-pillar solution of international taxation issue will reach an advanced implementation stage which India will have to pilot. "At this stage, we are very close to arriving at something in terms of the specifics of the two-pillar proposition. We already had a conversation and agreed to a framework... We are in the last stages of finalising the details. So I won't think it is time appropriate for me to spell the details of what we are agreeing on but these are the things on which the conversation is ongoing," Sitharaman said. The finance ministers of G-20 countries are scheduled to meet on October 13 in Washington.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
06-10-2021||India||Don't make allegations against court and raise pitch of your voice; SC to ex-Unitech promoter's lawyer||The Supreme Court on Wednesday witnessed heated exchanges during which it warned ex-Unitech promoter Sanjay Chandra's lawyer not to raise the pitch of his voice and also asked him not to make allegations against the court after he said the top court will "repent" if he is acquitted of charges of diversion of home buyers money. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah said it was not expected of senior advocate Vikas Singh, who is representing Chandra, to put forth arguments like this and submissions that the court will not be able to set the clock back. As tempers rose over the issue of sharing of a forensic audit report and status reports of investigating agencies, the top court said that natural justice is being followed as under the law documents which would become part of the charge sheet or case diary cannot be shared with the accused. Justice Chandrachud, who seldom loses his cool, said angrily, What kind of argument is this that this court will repent its mistake. What kind of language is this? You are making allegations against the court. Is there some sense of responsibility towards the court or not. "We are bound by law and cannot share the reports which will become part of the case diary. Maybe you are not briefed properly by your clients. We are very much aware of natural justice . Justice Shah intervened and asked Singh, Don't raise the pitch of your voice too high and don't raise the pitch of the case. Don't remind us of the law of land. "We know our law of land. Our law says, till the investigation is complete nothing can be given to you. It seems you are not aware of what transactions your wife was involved in. Don't say such things and make allegations against the court. We never expected this from you Mr Vikas Singh . The heated exchanges erupted as the court directed suspension of Tihar Jail officials, registration of case against them and a full-fledged probe into their collusion with Unitech's imprisoned ex-promoters Sanjay and Ajay Chandra, based on Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana's report filed in a sealed cover. Vikas Singh said the forensic audit report has claimed that Sanjay Chandra has diverted home buyers money and the Enforcement Directorate(ED) is proceeding on that premise, but he is innocent until proven guilty. My 84-year-old father and wife have been arrested by the Enforcement Directorate without any charge being proven against him. Now they would arrest my children. This is unfair, without giving me a copy of the forensic audit done by M/s Grant Thornton to put my defence, this court has taken over my company . Out of the Rs 2,600 crore transaction, I have collected Rs 1,400 crore from home buyers and have put Rs 1,200 crore from my pocket. We are the second largest real estate company in the country and have delivered over one lakh flats to the home buyers. If tomorrow, I am acquitted of the charge of diversion of funds, will the court be able to set the clock back. This will not be possible and the court will have to repent this, Singh argued. Singh also went on to say that he assumed that the court does not have anything personal against Chandras and I don't want the court to repent later that no timely action was taken . At the outset, when the top court was perusing the reports filed by the ED, Singh said this kind of ex-parte hearing should not go on and he has a constitutional right to be heard. The bench said it cannot allow the status report to be shared with him as the investigation is still under way and the document may become part of the case diary. Singh also asked how many real estate companies the court will run as it is already running Amrapali and Unitech, where for every small thing permission is needed. They have arrested my father, my wife and now they will arrest my children also. At least let me defend the forensic audit report, Singh repeated again, adding that great injustice has been done to him and that his company has been taken over by the court on the basis of a report which was not given to him. Singh said that since the court has been asking the ED that it is not doing anything, now it has arrested my parents and my wife. The bench said that if it gives the report then it will be against the public interest and it may be used to dispose off the assets abroad. Singh said the forensic audit report was never given to him and the court is presuming that his client has diverted home buyers money. He also submitted that had the Unitech got the opportunities which are being given to Amrapali and other group home buyers it would have been revived. He said the ED has been investigating the case since 2018 but claimed the agency has not been able to complete the probe. "Please give me an opportunity, I will satisfy the court that there was no diversion." The top court then asked the ED to rapidly complete the investigation in the matter. Additional Solicitor General Madhavi Divan, appearing for the ED and the SFIO, said the problem that is being faced by the probe agency is that the home buyers' money which has been diverted is blended with other funds and it is taking time to find the trail. The bench said it is at present not finding any fault with the agency but the ED should now proceed rapidly and in a comprehensive manner in the case. Divan said there are some developments in the case as some parties were not cooperating and they have been arrested. The investigation is very much in progress and the ED has found Rs 7,638 crore which have been diverted, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
06-10-2021||India||Mundra post drugs seizure: NIA takes over case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday took over the probe into the seizure of 2,988 kg narcotic at the Mundra port in Gujarat, an official said. "In pursuant to a Ministry of Home Affairs order issued on Wednesday, the NIA has taken up the investigation of the case under sections of the IPC, the NDPS Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against Machavaram Sudhakaran, Durga PV Govindaraju, Rajkumar P and others", the agency official said. The case relates to the seizure of 2,988.21 kg of heroin, disguised as consignment of semi-processed talc stones originating from Afghanistan, which had arrived at the Mundra port from Bandar Abbas Port in Iran, according to the NIA official. The official said that after registration of the case, requisite actions for its expeditious investigation have been initiated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
06-10-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait demands resignation of Ajay Mishra, warns of agitation||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday demanded the resignation of Union minister Ajay Mishra and the arrest of all accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, warning that a nationwide agitation will be launched if authorities failed to implement within a week the agreement made with the farmers here. Tikait, who is among the prominent leaders of the agitation against the Centre's agri laws, had brokered the agreement between the authorities and the farmers on October 4 here, after which they had ended their protest and the families of the four deceased farmers had agreed to their post-mortem. After reaching an understanding, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar, in the presence of Tikait, had informed of the government's decision to give Rs 45 lakh each to families of the victim farmers and set up a judicial probe under a retired High Court judge. "Our protest has not ended. We will wait till eight days since the agreement and if the demands are not fulfilled a nationwide agitation would be launched," Tikait told reporters at a Gurdwara in Lakhimpur city on Wednesday. The deadline coincides with the 10th-day Antim-Ardas ceremony (post-death ritual) in the Sikh community. An FIR under section 302 of IPC (murder) has already been registered against the union minister's son Ashish Mishra and others in the incident in Tikonia police station. Tikait said the pact with the government was reached after consulting the victims' families and farmers, and everybody had expressed "satisfaction" over it. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader had reached the incident site in the wee hours on Monday, after four farmers were mowed down by an SUV when they were agitating against the visit of deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya for a function in the union minister's native place on October 3. Besides the four farmers, two BJP workers, the minister's driver and a local journalist were also killed in the violence. On Tuesday, Tikait visited the family of Gurvinder Singh, one of the four dead farmers, in Bahraich and backed their demand for a second post mortem which the government agreed to, and his last rites were performed this morning. The mortal remains of the other three farmers were cremated on Tuesday. "How can he (minister Mishra) remain a Union minister of Home Affairs when his own son is facing such a serious charge? ''The minister himself has been named in the FIR for his alleged role. For an unbiased probe in the matter, the Centre must sack the minister, BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik told PTI. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), a major participant in the protests against the three central agri laws, also demanded the arrest of the minister's son Ashish alias Monu Mishra. His son should be arrested immediately. We have asked that both these demands be met within seven days, otherwise, the BKU will stage a massive demonstration in Uttar Pradesh to seek justice, Malik added. A faction of BKU workers and supporters led by their national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait is currently staying put in Lakhimpur Kheri, which has now become the epicentre of the turf war among political parties in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. Mishra's son Ashish is the only named accused in the FIR lodged at the Tikoniya police station in the district. Besides him, 15-20 other "unidentified persons" are mentioned as accused in the FIR. However, the minister has refuted the allegations of his son's involvement in the episode that took place near his native Banbirpur village. Meanwhile, Mishra on Wednesday attended the office in Delhi and met with Union Home Minister Amit Shah for the first time since a murder case was registered against his son on Sunday. Mishra is understood to have briefed Shah about the Sunday incident in his home district of Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
06-10-2021||India||BJP accuses Rahul Gandhi of trying to create unrest over Lakhimpur incident||The BJP on Wednesday accused Rahul Gandhi of trying to fan unrest over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, alleging that the Gandhi family is using the tragedy as an opportunity to derive political mileage as it has been facing questions from Congress leaders. Hitting back at Rahul Gandhi after the Congress leader alleged that dictatorship prevails in the country, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said "irresponsibility" has become his second name. The Congress has been trying everything to "provoke" people to cause violence, he said, asking Gandhi to desist from attempts aimed at getting votes from the crisis. With the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh earlier not allowing most opposition leaders to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, Patra said maintaining peace has been the top priority. The Uttar Pradesh Police had detained Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who wanted to go to the site of Sunday's violence and meet families that lost their members. Now the state government has allowed them to travel to the place. Patra also took a swipe at Rahul Gandhi over his allegation that there is no democracy in the country and dictatorship prevails, noting that he had never faced protests from BJP workers for his press conferences, while Congress members threw tomatoes and agitated outside their leader Kapil Sibal's residence for his critical comments about the party's functioning. "There is democracy in the country and that is why you are holding the press conference," he said. Gandhi always tries to spread misinformation, and it has been our endeavour to highlight this, the BJP spokesperson said, adding that whatever happened in Lakhimpur Kheri was painful. Noting that farmer leaders and the local administration had coordinated to deal with the crisis after eight persons. including four farmers, died, he said an "impartial probe" is on into the violence and people should not give irresponsible statements that may obstruct justice. He alleged that the Gandhi family had nothing to do with either farmers or any other section of society. "They are not even concerned about the Congress. All they want is that their fortunes should not be scuttled," Patra said. Hitting back at the Rahul Gandhi over his allegation of corruption at the government, the BJP spokesperson took a dig at him, saying he and his mother and Congress president Sonia Gandhi are on bail in the alleged National Herald corruption case. With Gandhi claiming that farmers have been "systematically attacked" by the government, he said they have been "systematically uplifted", citing a number of pro-farmers schemes. The BJP leader referred to the recent baton charge on farmers by police in Rajasthan, where the Congress is in power, and asked if Gandhi ever spoke to the state chief minister regarding this. Earlier in the day, Gandhi alleged that "dictatorship" prevails in the country with farmers being "systematically attacked" and politicians not allowed to visit Uttar Pradesh to meet families hit by the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. After initially denying permission to Rahul Gandhi to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, the Uttar Pradesh government has now allowed him and Priyanka Gandhi to visit the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
06-10-2021||India||SC directs full-fledged probe into collusion of Tihar jail officials with ex-Unitech promoters||The Supreme Court Wednesday directed a full-fledged probe into the collusion of Tihar Jail officials with Unitech's imprisoned ex-promoters Sanjay and Ajay Chandra, based on Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana's report filed in a sealed cover. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah directed registration of criminal cases against Tihar Jail officials and other unknown persons under relevant provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act and Indian Penal Code against those involved in collusion on the basis of the report. It also directed suspension of Tihar Jail officials, pending proceedings against whom cases will be lodged as per the report, following ED's disclosure that the Chandra brothers were conducting business from prison. The top court further directed the Home Ministry to comply with Asthana's suggestions in the report on enhancing prison management and allowed a copy to be shared with the ministry for for necessary compliance of directions. Besides, the court also took on record reports filed in sealed cover by Enforcement Directorate (ED), Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) and Delhi Police, and listed the matter for further hearing on October 21. On August 26, the apex court had directed that the Chandra brothers be shifted from Tihar Jail in the national capital to Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail and Taloja prison in Maharashtra after the ED had said that they were conducting business from the premises in connivance with the staff. The top court, which then perused two status reports of the ED, had said Tihar Jail Superintendent and other staff are absolutely shameless for conniving with the Chandra brothers to flout the court orders and undermine its jurisdiction. Pursuant to the direction of the top court, the Chandra brothers were shifted to jails in Mumbai. The two ED reports have raised some serious and disturbing issues for consideration and will be dealt with accordingly, the top court had said. It had directed the Delhi Police Commissioner to personally hold inquiry forthwith about the conduct of the Tihar Jail staff with regard to the Chandras and submit the report to the court within four weeks. The ED had made a startling revelation that it had unearthed a secret underground office here which was being operated by erstwhile Unitech founder Ramesh Chandra and visited by his sons Sanjay and Ajay when on parole or bail. The ED, which has been investigating money laundering charges against the Chandras and realty firm Unitech Ltd, said in its report that both Sanjay and Ajay have rendered the entire judicial custody meaningless as they have been freely communicating, instructing their officials and disposing of properties from inside the jail in connivance with the prison staff there. Besides ED and SFIO, Economic Offence Wing of Delhi Police is also conducting investigation into the affairs of the Unitech Group and business transactions of erstwhile promoters of the real estate company. Both Sanjay and Ajay who are in jail since August 2017 are accused of allegedly siphoning home buyers' money. The top court in its October 2017 order had asked them to deposit Rs 750 crore with the apex court registry by December 31, 2017. The brothers have claimed that they complied with the court's conditions and they have deposited an amount in excess of Rs 750 crore and, therefore, they are granted bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
06-10-2021||India||Vaccine hesitancy at lowest in India at the moment, finds study||Only 7 per cent Indian adults are currently hesitant to getting inoculated against COVID-19, the lowest vaccine hesitancy level in the country so far, according to a new survey. The study conducted by the online community platform LocalCircles received 12,810 responses from citizens -- 67 per cent men and 33 per cent women -- across 301 districts. It sought to understand from unvaccinated citizens their reasons for not taking the jab and their plan on getting inoculated. As much as 42 per cent respondents were from tier 1, 27 per cent from tier-2 and 31 per cent from tier 3, 4 and rural districts. India has an adult population of 94 crore, and approximately 68 crore have already taken at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. The responses suggest that overall 46 per cent of the unvaccinated citizens plan to take their first dose soon, said Sachin Taparia, the founder of LocalCircles said. There were, however, 27% of citizens who do not plan to take the vaccine yet as they are not convinced whether the currently available ones provide enough protection from the current and future variants of coronavirus, he said. These 27% are what can be classified as hesitant population, he said. They may take the vaccine if more data become available or if different vaccines become available, he said. "If the entire adult population of India is taken into consideration, the survey shows that only 7 per cent of them are currently hesitant. If these percentages are applied to the unvaccinated population of 26 crore adults, it amounts to 7 crore citizens still hesitant to take the vaccine," Taparia said. Safety concerns, quick clinical trials, rushed vaccine approvals, side-effects were among apprehensions expressed by some citizens for their hesitancy, according to the survey report. Some respondents with a medical condition also cited concerns of potential blood-clotting. Some also cited COVID going away as the reason for them to not get vaccinated, the survey found. According to the feedback received, there are also certain other myths and misinformation holding people from taking the vaccine. When the vaccination drive began in India in January, the vaccine hesitancy stood at 60% which drastically reduced during the brutal second Covid wave that hit India in April-May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
06-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Rahul, Priyanka meet families of deceased farmers||Congress's Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have reached UP's Lakhimpur Kheri and are meeting the family of 19-year-old Lovepreet Singh who died on Sunday, allegedly run over by a car driven by Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son. Besides Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, his Punjab counterpart Charanjit Channi, KC Venugopal, Randeep Surjewala and Deepender Hooda are part of the team. Priyanka, who had been lodged at a guest house in Sitapur since her arrest on Monday, joined the Congress team, which was cleared for a visit  to meet the families of farmers. Earlier Rahul Gandhi had a face-off with the UP police when he landed in Lucknow airport over transport arrangements. Mr Gandhi, who was accompanied by the Chief Ministers of Punjab and Chhattisgarh, refused to take the route or transport suggested by the police, saying,  "Who are you to arrange my transport? I want to leave in my car," Apart from the Congress team, AAP leaders Harpal Cheema, Raghav Chadha and others have met the relatives of the Nachhatar Singh, who was one of the farmers allegedly  mowed down by a vehicle driven by Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has spoken to the family on phone. The Supreme Court has taken suo motu cognizance of the events in Lakhimpur Kheri and the matter will be heard on Thursday by a bench led by Chief Justice NV Ramana. Earlier today, junior home minister Ajay Mishra met his boss, Amit Shah, amid opposition demands for his dismissal over allegations that his son ran over the peacefully protesting farmers on Sunday. Top government sources have ruled out the possibility of his resignation, saying he has clarified twice that he and his son were not present. "Yes his car was there and let a full investigation take place,"a source said. Four people died on Sunday after a vehicle mowed down farmers who were protesting against the visit of the Union minister and the state's Deputy Chief Minister Kehsav Maurya. Another four were killed in the violence and arson that followed. Though Ajay Mishra has admitted the SUV belonged to him, he said he and his son were not present at the spot. Three of the farmers who died on Sunday were cremated yesterday. The fourth farmer, Gurvinder Sngh, who was allegedly shot by the minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Misra, was cremated today after a second postmortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
06-10-2021||India||Punjab Congress leaders to hold protest march to Lakhimpur Kheri tomorrow||The Punjab Congress, led by state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, will take out a protest march on Thursday to Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri over the issue of killing of farmers. The march will begin from Mohali at noon, party sources said here on Wednesday. Sidhu on Tuesday had said that the party's state unit would march towards Lakhimpur Kheri if Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son is not held in connection with the violence in Lakhimpur. Earlier in the day, Sidhu had slammed the Uttar Pradesh police for detaining party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and accused it of violating the spirit of the constitution. 54 hours passed !! @priyankagandhi Ji has not been produced before any Court unlawful detention beyond 24 hours is a clear violation of the fundamental rights. BJP & UP Police :- You are violating the spirit of the Constitution, impinging on our basic human rights !!, he said in a tweet. Four of the eight dead in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
06-10-2021||India||Chhattisgarh, Punjab govts to give Rs 50 lakh to kin of dead farmers, scribe||Both Chhattisgarh and Punjab governments on Wednesday announced a financial assistance of Rs 50 lakh each to families of four farmers and a journalist killed in the violence that broke out in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri. The chief ministers of both the Congress-ruled states, along with party leader Rahul Gandhi, have arrived in Lucknow, from where they intend to go to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of the victims. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said the Lakhimpur violence reminded him of the Jallianwallah Bagh massacre in 1919. He said the UP government has made a "mockery" of democracy. "Our government will provide Rs 50 lakh each to families of farmers and the journalist killed in Lakhimpur violence," he told reporters in Lucknow. Echoing the same sentiments, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said his government will also give Rs 50 lakh to the families of the farmers and the journalist. Four of the eight people who died in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The four others included two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra, and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel. While the first three were allegedly lynched by agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering news of farmers' protest against Maurya's visit to Ajay Mishra's native place. The UP Police has lodged a case against Union minister Ajay Mishra's son but no arrest has been made so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
06-10-2021||India||WorkHours has its own Mobile App, the only intention is to make things much simpler - HelloVeeru||A new step forward to put the individuals at ease, Workhours App! Workhours is launching a mobile application in both Android & iOS! Why are they launching it even though they have a good reputation? Didn’t hear about Workhours yet? Here's what you should know! Workhours, the new Ed-Tech platform that is solely focusing on Self-employment. This new step by HelloVeeru is going to hit the floor soon and will enable any aspiring individual to earn with freedom. The question was: Why is it now? When asked, Veerander says, “ Launching an app was never my idea. I went on teaching students in the best way possible. Giving access to the PCs, Laptops was only to make sure that they have a wider screen to learn and watch the practicals.” But with time and an increasing number of students, a request to have an app came from the students so that it can be more handy for them instead of going to the browser, logging in and learning the course. And he further adds, “I believe not only teaching and guidance are important but understanding their needs as a mentor is too. That’s how I came up with Workhours app that will be accessible and flexible to every student no matter wherever they are, travelling, in between breaks, etc in the comfort of their mobiles.” They believe in updating themselves in each and every aspect of their journey and in order to fulfill their most students' requests, they have updated themselves only to provide the quality of value in training their students. With no doubt, taking students’ request into consideration, Veerander Chowdary is all set to launch Workhours mobile app! For the past one year Veerander and his entire team is working hard on one intention, that is to provide a value to each and every student in their entire course and also to fulfill the dream of Veerander who initiated this mission to make India Self-employed. The team is all geared up to give the best guidance and support in each course. And striving to give the best experience so that no student or individual doubts their potential. Whether it is to sharpen your knowledge, make a career or to learn new subjects, it offers the opportunities to every learner. The idea and mission is always to make the individuals realize that anyone with zeal and dreams is capable of doing something of their own and be independent financially. The team is putting its best in creating the app more reliable and effective. The app will have the features that will enable you to learn with ease. The core intention of the Workhours is to extend themselves to any extent in order to provide the value which is required for their students. Different ideas popped up considering the needs of students, and various suggestions have been given a chance. The team is trying to understand what more a learner needs to avoid the disturbances and increase the interest. With this aim, Veerander Chowdary, our HelloVeeru has started a Mastery course that has led individuals across the country to pursue their dreams of being independent. The age, language, region, profession didn’t matter but the passion of learning and earning did! HelloVeeru has vast experience in teaching 2,00,000 individuals with 8+ experience in Digital Marketing. DBA Mastery course has completed a year and is still growing to continue in helping individuals to learn. It has reached milestones of students’ successes and reached many audiences. Workhours is an advanced platform of HelloVeeru where learning and earning becomes easy. Workhours is all about combining freedom with satisfaction and creativity of work in order to to brush their skills with more knowledge. The new insights that are brought by Workhours will not only give the knowledge of any subject but will stabilize the pressure from the fear of self-employment. Pick your course, learn, execute, and excel, this is what Workhours suggests. This Ed-tech platform will enable the individuals to learn with ease at their comfort. Initially, the Mastery course was only accessible to PCs, Laptops but with mobiles, it included technical glitches sometimes. And that was definitely a major concern. Veerander Chowdary didn’t take it easy but is now making it easy for the learners to avoid such disturbances. As said by Veerander Chowdary, the app will be helpful for the students to learn in a better version. Talking about courses, Workhours is going to offer a great amount that will help students to pick their choice of knowledge they want to get. This advanced platform will be offering opportunities and boost the confidence of the learners to earn better and bigger. This launch of the mobile application is not just to showcase their work or ability, the only intention is to provide valuable training in easy or simple possibilities. Workhours is an advanced platform that is enriched with more value and quality. Well, it does not seem like this will stop here or limit its boundaries to a certain level, there is more in mind and more ideas on the way for the benefit of knowledge-hungry individuals. Are you an aspiring individual who aims to become successful and believes knowledge is the key? If you are, then, prepare yourselves to bloom with this new app platform.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
06-10-2021||India||Petrol, diesel at all-time high||Cooking gas LPG price on Wednesday was hiked by Rs 15 per cylinder while petrol and diesel rates saw their steepest increase in recent weeks, pushing prices to all-time high levels across the country. Rates of both subsidised and non-subsidised LPG were hiked, taking the total increase in rates since July to Rs 90 per 14.2-kg cylinder. Cooking gas now costs Rs 899.50 per cylinder in Delhi and Mumbai, and Rs 926 in Kolkata, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The government has through periodic increases eliminated subsidies on LPG in most cities. Domestic household kitchens, who are entitled to 12 cylinders of 14.2-kg each at subsidised rates in a year, and Ujjwala beneficiaries, who got free connections, now pay the market price. A 5-kg LPG cylinder now costs Rs 502. This is the fourth increase in LPG prices since July. Rates were increased by Rs 25.50 per cylinder in July, followed by Rs 25 hike each on August 17 and September 1. Alongside, petrol price was increased by 30 paise per litre and diesel by 35 paise a litre. This is the steepest daily increase in recent weeks and follows international oil prices touching a seven-year high. The petrol price in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 102.94 a litre and to Rs 108.96 in Mumbai, the notification showed. Diesel rates too touched a record high of Rs 91.42 in Delhi and Rs 99.17 per litre in Mumbai. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. State-owned fuel retailers have in the past few days resorted to modest increases to align domestic rates with cost. But with international benchmark Brent crude soaring to USD 82.92 per barrel after the decision by OPEC+ not to increase output more than 0.4 million barrels per day, fuel rates are being increased by a larger proportion. Sources said oil companies had kept increases to a modest level in anticipation of correction in crude oil and petroleum product prices in the international market. "Oil marketing companies have only made a moderate increase in retail prices of petrol and diesel so far," a source said. "However, in the event of such a correction not being there, the price increase could be substantial." The seventh increase in fuel rates since the ending of a nearly three-week hiatus has sent petrol prices above Rs 100 a litre in most major cities of the country. Similarly, the 10th increase in prices has shot up diesel rates above Rs 100 mark in several cities in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. International oil prices rallied to their highest level since 2014, following a decision by OPEC+ to maintain its planned gradual increase of supply, despite the market facing an energy crunch. Global benchmark Brent jumped to USD 82.92 per barrel, while West Texas Intermediate rose to USD 79.25 a barrel. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. A month back Brent was around USD 72 per barrel. The price of LPG sold by Saudi Arabia has gone up steeply, from USD 483 a tonne in May, to USD 797 in October. With international crude oil prices moving in both directions during July and August, no price increase was carried out by oil marketing companies (OMCs) from July 18 to September 23. Instead, petrol price was cut by Rs 0.65 a litre and diesel by Rs 1.25. However, with no respite from surging international prices, OMCs have started to increase the retail selling price of petrol and diesel with effect from September 28 and September 24, respectively. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 2.80 paise per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 1.75. Prior to the July/August price cuts, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period. The relentless increase in fuel prices has been criticised by opposition parties who have demanded that the government cut record excise duty on the two fuels to give relief to consumers. The government has so far not agreed to the demand. Oil Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday refused to even comment on the high fuel prices. Asked about the fuel prices at his ministry's event in the national capital on Saturday, Puri said, "chhodo (leave it)" before walking away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
06-10-2021||India||Ajay Kumar Mishra meets Amit Shah, attends office||Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra on Wednesday met Home Minister Amit Shah, for the first time since a murder case was registered against his son for allegedly mowing down four farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, sources said. Mishra, union minister of state for home, came to his first-floor office in the North Block and stayed for about half an hour. After doing a few official works, Mishra left the North Block, the sources said. The minister then visited the residence of Shah where he closeted for about half an hour. Mishra is understood to have briefed the home minister about the Sunday's incident in his home district of Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. Police have registered a murder case against Ashish Mishra, the son of Ajay Kumar Mishra, and several others over the death of the farmers in the Sunday's incident. The minister has denied the allegations by the farmers' unions that his son was in one of the cars. He said he has evidence to show that his son was at an event being held elsewhere. According to his version, a vehicle, carrying BJP workers, turned turtle after protesters pelted stones at it. The farmers came under the vehicle and died, he had said. Four occupants of the car were then pulled out and beaten to death allegedly by protestors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
06-10-2021||India||UP govt gives permission to Rahul, Priyanka to visit Lakhimpur Kheri||The Uttar Pradesh government has given permission to Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and three others to visit Lakhimpur, a top official said here. Earlier in the day, the state government had denied permission to Rahul Gandhi for the visit, and an official spokesperson had said that no one would be allowed to visit the violence-hit district to vitiate its atmosphere. "Permission has been given to five leaders of Congress, including Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, to visit Lakhimpur," Additional Chief Secretary, Information, Navneet Sehgal told PTI. Priyanka Gandhi is in detention at the PAC compound in Sitapur since Monday morning. She was on her way to meet the families of farmers killed in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri when she was stopped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
06-10-2021||India||Not allowed to meet Priyanka Gandhi, says Robert Vadra||Robert Vadra on Wednesday claimed that he has been stopped from going to Lucknow to meet his wife and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who has been detained in Sitapur while on her way to meet victims of violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. In a Facebook post, Vadra also said that he was "shocked" at the manner his wife has been "arrested". "I have been stopped to get to Lucknow, UP. to check on my wife and make sure she is fine and well. I am shocked beyond belief, how Priyanka has been arrested under Section 151 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC)," he said in the post. Vadra said he spoke with Priyanka Gandhi on Tuesday and was informed that she has not been served with any order or notice. She has not been produced before a judicial officer and has not been allowed to meet her legal counsel, he said. "I am really worried for her and I had packed my bag to go to Lucknow now, when I was informed that I won't be allowed to step out of the airport. This is totally shocking that as a husband I can't even go and support my wife," Vadra said. "Thankfully, she has a huge support of the masses.But for me, my family and my wife comes first. I really hope and pray that she is released soon and is back home safe," he added. The Uttar Pradesh police on Wednesday also denied permission to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to visit Lakhimpur Kheri. Prohibitory orders have been imposed in Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people, including four farmers, were killed in Sunday's violence during a protest, and in Sitapur, where Priyanka Gandhi has been in detention since Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
06-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: UP govt hits back at Opposition ||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday said the opposition has adopted a negative attitude in the sensitive Lakhimpur Kheri incident and warned that no one will be allowed to vitiate the atmosphere. Government spokesperson and cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh alleged that the opposition parties wanted to visit Lakhimpur Kheri for a photo opportunity and "now yuvraj , referring to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, had decided to tour the area. "Government has taken a decision (by denying permission) as per law and has also requested them (Rahul Gandhi) not to come," he told reporters. Singh said the state government will go deep into the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. "In the Lakhimpur case, the law will take its own course and guilty will be caught, he said. Singh alleged that the opposition's attitude on the sensitive Lakhimpur incident was "negative". "They got a chance for a photo opportunity and do Twitter politics while sitting at home. Their objective is to take photos and post it on social media," he said. "No one will be allowed to vitiate the atmosphere," he added. "If they (Opposition leaders) want to visit Lakhimpur, they can do after some days and meet the victims' families. We have no objection to it," Singh said. Attacking Gandhi, he said, "now yuvraj of a party has also decided for political tourism as his sister is already there, referring to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who is in detention at the PAC compound in Sitapur since Monday morning. He (Rahul Gandhi) might not remember that it was in the Congress regime during the emergency when the massacre took place. Sikhs were killed in 1984 riots," Singh said. "Rahul says he wants to visit Lakhimpur to know the ground reality. If they know nothing, why you and your sister are jumping (kud rahe hai) on the issue. You put a photo of a drone being used in Sitapur. What's wrong with it. It's the technology which is being used by the police," he said. On Rahul Gandhi's allegation over the post-mortem of the victims, Singh said, "All the families agreed to its report. On request of one family, which had an objection, a panel of four doctors was sent for re-postmortem." The probe is being conducted in full "transparency", he claimed, He alleged atrocities being committed on farmers in Congress-ruled Punjab and Rajasthan. Gandhi on Wednesday alleged that farmers are being "systematically attacked" and there is "dictatorship" in India now with politicians not being allowed to visit Uttar Pradesh to meet the families of the victims of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Addressing a press conference, Gandhi said he along with two Congress Chief Ministers -- Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) and Charanjit Singh Channi (Punjab) -- will try to visit Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families hit by the violence. Lucknow Police Commissioner D K Thakur told PTI that the Uttar Pradesh government has not given permission for Gandhi's visit, and he will not be allowed to go to Sitapur or Lakhimpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
06-10-2021||India||Will implement changes in NEET-Super Speciality exams from next year, Centre tells SC||The Centre on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that in the interest of students, it has decided to implement changes in the pattern of the NEET-Super Speciality examination from academic year 2022-23. A bench of justices D Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and B V Nagarathna recorded the submission of Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati and disposed of pleas of students who challenged the Centre's earlier decision to implement changes in the examination pattern of NEET-Super Speciality from this year. The bench, however, said that it is leaving the question open on the validity of the changes made in the pattern of the examination. On Tuesday, the top court had given one last chance to the Centre to put its house in order and take a call on reversing the changes made to the NEET-Super Speciality examination 2021. An anguished top court had said that the medical profession and education have become a business, and now, the regulation of medical education has also gone that way which is the nation's tragedy. The apex court was not satisfied with the justification given by the Centre, National Board of Examination (NBE) and the National Medical Commission (NMC) for making the last-minute changes after the notification for the examination was issued in July. The top court was hearing a batch of pleas of 41 post-graduate doctors and others who had challenged the last-minute changes made to the syllabus after the notification was issued on July 23 for the test to be held on November 13 and 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
06-10-2021||India||Dictatorship going on in India now, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday alleged that farmers are being "systematically attacked" and there is "dictatorship" in India now with politicians not being allowed to visit Uttar Pradesh to meet the families of the victims of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Addressing a press conference, Gandhi said he along with two Congress Chief Ministers -- Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) and Charanjit Singh Channi (Punjab) -- will try to visit Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families hit by the violence. Lucknow Police Commissioner D K Thakur told PTI that the Uttar Pradesh government has not given permission for Gandhi's visit, and he will not be allowed to go to Sitapur or Lakhimpur. Gandhi charged that farmers are being mowed down and the name of a union minister and his son is coming up, but no action is being taken. Farmers of the country are being "systematically attacked", he alleged. "There used to be a democracy, there is a dictatorship in India now. Politicians cannot go to Uttar Pradesh. We are being told since yesterday that we cannot go to Uttar Pradesh," Gandhi said. Four of the eight dead in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The others including BJP workers and their driver were allegedly pulled out of the vehicles and lynched by the protesters. The Uttar Pradesh Police has lodged a case against Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish but no arrest has been made so far. In a letter written to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath yesterday, the Congress said a five-member delegation led by Rahul Gandhi planned to visit the district. It also called the detention of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra “without any reason or justification”. Gandhi Vadra, a Congress general secretary, on Tuesday alleged that she was being held illegally at a police compound in Sitapur and no notice or FIR has been provided to her even after her 38-hour detention and was not allowed to meet her legal counsel. In a statement, she said she has not been produced in front of a magistrate or any other judicial officer and neither has she been allowed to meet her legal counsel, who has been standing at the gate of the compound since morning. “Presently I am not going into the details of the completely illegal physical force used on my colleagues and me at the time of my arrest as this statement serves merely to clarify the continuing illegality of my confinement at the PAC compound in Sitapur, UP,” she said. “I have not been served with any order or notice. Nor have they shown me an FIR. I have not been produced in front of a magistrate or any other judicial officer either. I have also not been allowed to meet my legal counsel who has been standing at the gate since morning,” the Congress leader also said. Gandhi Vadra has been kept in detention since Monday morning after she wanted to meet the families of the victims of the Lakhimpur clashes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
06-10-2021||India||UP govt denies permission to Rahul Gandhi to visit Lakhimpur||The Uttar Pradesh government has not given permission for Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's visit, and he will not be allowed to go to Sitapur or Lakhimpur, a top police official said here. "The UP government has not yet given permission for Rahul Gandhi's visit to Lakhimpur and has asked him not to come," Lucknow Police Commissioner D K Thakur told PTI. "DMs of districts concerned have given us in writing that prohibitory orders are in place there and his visit could create problems. Therefore, he will not be allowed," Thakur said. Prohibitory orders have been imposed in Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people, including four farmers, were killed in Sunday's violence during a protest, and in Sitapur, where Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been in detention since Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
06-10-2021||India||Farmer killed in Lakhimpur violence cremated after second autopsy||Gurvinder Singh, alias Gyaniji, one of the four farmers killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, was cremated on Wednesday morning after a second autopsy was conducted on him as demanded by his family, police said. Family members of the 22-year-old, from Moharia village of Bahraich, had earlier refused to cremate him, claiming that he was shot dead but the post-mortem report had no mention of it. They received support from farmer leader Rakesh Tikait and Punjabi singer Sonia Maan. With the Uttar Pradesh government agreeing to the demand, a second post-mortem examination was conducted on Tuesday night by a team of experts from Lucknow, Superintendent of Police (SP) Sujata Singh said. Hours after this, Gurvinder Singh was cremated by his family members in his village in the presence of Tikait, ADG (Gorakhpur) Akhil Kumar and senior police and administration officials, Additional Superintendent of Police (Rural) Ashok Kumar said. A post-mortem report will be prepared under the supervision of the experts who conducted the exam, SP Singh added. District Magistrate Dinesh Chandra Singh said the family members of Gurvinder Singh had raised objections on the post-mortem examination done earlier. "With the permission of the state government, it was done again and videographed as well," he added. The mortal remains of the three other dead farmers were cremated at their native places on Tuesday. The UP government is facing a massive flak after eight people were killed in violence during a protest against the farm laws in Lakhimpur on Sunday. Four of the dead were farmers who were allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers. The four others included two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra, and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel. While the first three were lynched by agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering news of farmers' protest against the visit of UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to Ajay Mishra's native place. The UP Police has lodged a case against Union minister Ajay Mishra's son but no arrest has been made.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
06-10-2021||India||India logs over 18,000 fresh Covid cases, 278 casualties in a day||India added 18,833 new coronavirus infections taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,38,71,881, while the active cases declined to 2,46,687, the lowest in 203 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,49,538 with 278 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections remained below 30,000 for the 12th straight day. The active cases comprise 0.73 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.94 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 6,215 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 14,09,825 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 57,68,03,867. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.34 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 37 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.68 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 103 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,31, 75,656, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 92.17 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 278 new fatalities include 151 from Kerala and 39 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,49,538 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,272 from Maharashtra, 37,845 from Karnataka, 35,682 from Tamil Nadu, 25,677 from Kerala and 25,088 from Delhi, 22,896 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,848 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
06-10-2021||India||PM asks 9 lakh UP families to light diyas, who he made 'lakhpati'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged nine lakh families in Uttar Pradesh, whom he said he had made “lakhpati”, to light two diyas each outside their homes on Diwali in the name of Lord Ram. “It has been said that 7.5 lakh diyas will be lit in Ayodhya this Diwali, and the nine lakh poor who have got a house will light 18 lakh diyas in front of their houses. Lord Ram will be happy,” Modi said in Lucknow. Around the time he spoke, 129km away, Pawan Kashyap was standing outside the Lakhimpur Kheri district collectorate, waiting for a sub-divisional magistrate rank officer to hear him out. Pawan’s elder brother Raman, 35, a television journalist, was on assignment in Tikunia on Sunday when an SUV owned by Union minister Ajay Misra Teni, and allegedly driven by his son, ploughed through a group of farmers walking back after a protest. Raman got hit and died in hospital, he said. Speaking to The Telegraph over phone, Pawan said: “I have evidence to prove that Ashis Monu Misra, son of Ajay Misra Teni, crushed my brother under the wheels of his Thar jeep. I have video proof that Monu was loading his pistol and trying to run away from Tikunia on Sunday after crushing people on the road, including my brother, a journalist, and farmers, who had gathered there to show black flags to Keshav Prasad Maurya.” Maurya, deputy chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, was a guest at a wrestling event in Teni’s village. The black flag protest was planned against Teni’s threat from a public platform days earlier that he would fix the protesting farmers in two minutes if they did not mend their ways. “Why is the government not arresting the minister and his son? Why is the government not looking at the death of my brother? What about the Diwali of my widowed sister-in-law Aradhana Kashyap, her 11-year-old daughter and two-and-a-half-year old son?” asked Pawan. Neither Modi nor anyone from his government, in which Teni is a minister of state for home, has condemned the horror even after a spine-chilling video emerged showing an SUV hitting the farmers from behind and racing off. The minister had earlier said the protesters had thrown stones at the vehicle, causing the driver to lose balance and lead to an accident in which the farmers died. Teni denies his son was at the wheel. Surjeet Singh Channi, a digital media journalist who was also at the spot on Sunday, told this paper: “The farmers were waiting for the deputy CM at the helipad in Tikunia and later came to know that Maurya had gone by another road. So they were returning home. I thought I would get a bite from some farmers on the road and moved towards them when the minister’s cars came at full speed, crushing many and leaving many injured. I fell on the road and a black SUV ran over my right leg. Still I was not badly injured.” Channi continued: “Two people of roughly 70 years and 60 years were lying there in a pool of blood. I asked the farmers to take them to Tikunia Primary Health Centre in my Swift car. The 70-year-old died in the car. A doctor administered an injection to the 60-year-old man and me and then asked us to go to Lakhimpur Kheri district hospital. From the district hospital, I went home and later came to know that the man whom I took there had also died.” The journalist told this paper: “I am from Tikunia. I couldn’t see who was there in the cars but I could identify that all the cars belonged to the Union minister.” Modi did not utter one word about the bloodbath in his 35-minute speech in Lucknow, in which he claimed credit for having turned 3 crore families into “lakhpatis”.  The reference was to the beneficiaries of a housing scheme for the poor. “Some gentlemen used to say that they have made Modi the Prime Minister but what has he done in return,” the Prime Minister said. “I am going to tell you something after which my detractors, who waste their energy in criticising me…, would jump. I think I should say this. I got the opportunity to make lakhpati those three crore of my friends, my family members who were living in huts and did not have a pucca house,” Modi said. He then went on to ask the beneficiaries to light the diyas on Diwali. The irony of invoking the name of Ram, worshipped as an ideal ruler who symbolises justice, and Diwali, the festival that celebrates the victory of good over evil, seemed to have been lost on Modi. Keval Singh, an uncle of 20-year-old Luv Preet Singh who was crushed to death on Sunday, said: “We want Modi to order the arrest of Monu and suspend Teni, the mastermind killer, who had said in a speech a few days ago that he would teach the farmers a lesson and make them flee Lakhimpur Kheri.” Luv Preet, whose father Satnam Singh told NDTV his son had called him from hospital and asked him to come quickly but died before he could be taken to a bigger hospital, was cremated on Tuesday. His mother fainted several times on the short walk from their home to the field where he was laid to rest. Luv Preet’s two sisters wept by the glass casket that held their younger brother’s body. Satnam Singh, who had kept his composure as he recalled the phone call, broke down before the pyre and tried to embrace his son one last time. When told that Modi was in Lucknow and he did not mention the killings,  Keval said: “Modi has made Teni a minister because they are he same. Modi is not different from Teni. Both threaten the farmers for protesting against the three farm laws. I don’t see any difference between Teni and Modi. But still we demand that they arrest Monu, suspend Teni and ensure that they are punished for the crime they have committed.” Neither Modi nor anyone from his government, in which Teni is a minister of state for home, has condemned the horror even after a spine-chilling video emerged showing an SUV hitting the farmers from behind and racing off. The minister had earlier said the protesters had thrown stones at the vehicle, causing the driver to lose balance and lead to an accident in which the farmers died. Teni denies his son was at the wheel. Surjeet Singh Channi, a digital media journalist who was also at the spot on Sunday, told this paper: “The farmers were waiting for the deputy CM at the helipad in Tikunia and later came to know that Maurya had gone by another road. So they were returning home. I thought I would get a bite from some farmers on the road and moved towards them when the minister’s cars came at full speed, crushing many and leaving many injured. I fell on the road and a black SUV ran over my right leg. Still I was not badly injured.” Channi continued: “Two people of roughly 70 years and 60 years were lying there in a pool of blood. I asked the farmers to take them to Tikunia Primary Health Centre in my Swift car. The 70-year-old died in the car. A doctor administered an injection to the 60-year-old man and me and then asked us to go to Lakhimpur Kheri district hospital. From the district hospital, I went home and later came to know that the man whom I took there had also died.” The journalist told this paper: “I am from Tikunia. I couldn’t see who was there in the cars but I could identify that all the cars belonged to the Union minister.” Modi did not utter one word about the bloodbath in his 35-minute speech in Lucknow, in which he claimed credit for having turned 3 crore families into “lakhpatis”.  The reference was to the beneficiaries of a housing scheme for the poor. “Some gentlemen used to say that they have made Modi the Prime Minister but what has he done in return,” the Prime Minister said. “I am going to tell you something after which my detractors, who waste their energy in criticising me…, would jump. I think I should say this. I got the opportunity to make lakhpati those three crore of my friends, my family members who were living in huts and did not have a pucca house,” Modi said. He then went on to ask the beneficiaries to light the diyas on Diwali. The irony of invoking the name of Ram, worshipped as an ideal ruler who symbolises justice, and Diwali, the festival that celebrates the victory of good over evil, seemed to have been lost on Modi. Keval Singh, an uncle of 20-year-old Luv Preet Singh who was crushed to death on Sunday, said: “We want Modi to order the arrest of Monu and suspend Teni, the mastermind killer, who had said in a speech a few days ago that he would teach the farmers a lesson and make them flee Lakhimpur Kheri.” Luv Preet, whose father Satnam Singh told NDTV his son had called him from hospital and asked him to come quickly but died before he could be taken to a bigger hospital, was cremated on Tuesday. His mother fainted several times on the short walk from their home to the field where he was laid to rest. Luv Preet’s two sisters wept by the glass casket that held their younger brother’s body. Satnam Singh, who had kept his composure as he recalled the phone call, broke down before the pyre and tried to embrace his son one last time. When told that Modi was in Lucknow and he did not mention the killings,  Keval said: “Modi has made Teni a minister because they are he same. Modi is not different from Teni. Both threaten the farmers for protesting against the three farm laws. I don’t see any difference between Teni and Modi. But still we demand that they arrest Monu, suspend Teni and ensure that they are punished for the crime they have committed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
06-10-2021||India||IAF chief rejects two-finger test rape test||Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal V.R. Chaudhari on Tuesday said the banned two-finger test was not conducted on the woman officer who has accused a fellow IAF officer of rape at the Air Force Administrative College in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu. Chaudhari’s statement came days after the 28-year-old officer had levelled serious allegations against the IAF authorities including subjecting her to the banned test and also forcing her to withdraw the complaint against the accused Flight Lieutenant who has been arrested. Asked about the allegations of the woman officer, the IAF chief said: “IAF law is very strict on any such incident and strict action will be taken after the detailed inquiry. No two-finger test was done.” The victim in her complaint to the Tamil Nadu police had said that her seniors at the IAF had forced her to withdraw her complaint against the accused officer. She had lodged the complaint on September 20 and the accused was arrested by police on September 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
06-10-2021||India||‘Guerrilla tactics’ help Jayant Chaudhary reach Lakhimpur Kheri||Rashtriya Lok Dal president Jayant Chaudhary on Tuesday said the entire state machinery under the Yogi Adityanath government is trying to suppress the truth of what happened in Lakhimpur Kheri and clamping down on the Opposition. The RLD chief, one of the few leaders to be able to reach the Uttar Pradesh district where farmers and a journalist were mowed down by a minister’s SUV on Sunday, said he had to employ “guerrilla tactics” to do so. “Reaching Lakhimpur was a tough task because Yogi has put the entire government machinery to work towards thwarting the Opposition. There needs to be a separation between the state and the party which is not there in UP… from the district magistrate to state-level officials, police, it seems everyone has taken membership of the BJP,” Chaudhary alleged in a phone interview to PTI. Chaudhary, who took 13 hours to reach Lakhimpur Kheri from Delhi, several hours more than it would take to cover the 420km-odd distance, met the families of some of the farmer victims. All roads to Lakhimpur Kheri, about 130km from Lucknow, have been blocked for Opposition leaders. Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Deepender Hooda are in detention, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel was not allowed to step out of Lucknow airport, Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was detained at the state border, and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has not been allowed to travel to the district. It is a “worrisome trend” that no one in the bureaucracy has raised questions over orders given by the political class, Chaudhary said, adding that he was surprised to hear additional director-general (law and order), Prashant Kumar, saying that political people are not allowed in the district. Giving details of his journey,  Chaudhary said it was “tough” and he reached on Monday evening. “I had to change many roads as soon as I got advance information that a particular road had been sealed. We could not communicate with anyone as we had switched off our telephones. I had to send people who were with me on a different route, so a lot of guerrilla tactics had to be employed… it is again frightening to have to do those things,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
06-10-2021||India||Halted, Bhupesh Baghel sits on floor at Lucknow airport||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel was stopped by police at Lucknow airport on Tuesday after he landed there and wanted to go to meet Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who has been detained in Sitapur. Baghel sat on a dharna at the airport and later told a news conference on Zoom: “I didn’t want to go to Lakhimpur Kheri, I was going to the Congress party office here and then to Sitapur. But the state government believes I am going to meet the (families of) victim farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. I never saw such a scared government. Its members killed people and now fears that we would reach the spot and expose them.” Baghel said the police prevented him by saying that Section 144 was imposed in many districts, including Lucknow. “If Section 144 is imposed then how is the Prime Minister holding a public meeting here?” asked Baghel. “The PM is celebrating 75 years of Independence by killing the farmers and stopping the leaders from going to meet the victims’ families.” Baghel, who landed at the airport around 1pm, left after waiting for five hours. On Tuesday, former BJP MP of Bahraich Savitri Bai Phule was allegedly pulled by her hair and bundled into a police jeep after she attempted to meet the family members of victims in Lakhimpur. Phule had visited the villages of two deceased farmers in Bahraich on Tuesday morning and was going to Lakhimpur Kheri when she was intercepted. Phule alleged that the police attacked her with criminal intention. “The police thrashed me, pulled me by my hair before pushing me into a jeep. I will keep trying to meet the family of the deceased farmers — two of them are from Bahraich,” she said. Phule, who was a BJP member till 2019 and eventually formed her own Kanshi Ram Bahujan Samaj Party, has been detained at the police lines in Lakhimpur Kheri. Additional director-general of police (law and order), Prashant Kumar, said: “We appeal to the leaders to let us maintain peace and avoid going to Lakhimpur Kheri. Those who violate the order will be stopped.” In Meerut, six Samajwadi Yuvjan Sabha leaders were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly attacking the police on Monday when they tried to prevent them from burning the effigy of chief minister Yogi Adityanath to register their protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Vineet Bhatnagar, superintendent of police of Meerut city, said: “On Monday, some people who were trying to burn an effigy poured petrol on the policemen and tried to set them on fire. The other policemen saved them. We have registered a case against 20 people and arrested seven.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
06-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Sharad Pawar warns BJP of high price ||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday warned the BJP that it will have to pay a heavy price for the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and asserted that the entire Opposition is with the farmers. Describing the violence as an “attack on farmers”, Pawar, a former Union agriculture minister, said its responsibility lies with the BJP governments at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh and the “people will show them their place.” “Whether it is the government at the Centre or in Uttar Pradesh, they are not sensitive at all. The kind of situation that was created in Jallianwala Bagh, we are witnessing a similar situation in Uttar Pradesh. Today or tomorrow, they will have to pay a heavy price for it,” he told reporters here, joining the chorus of criticism over the Sunday incident in which at least nine people, including four farmers, have been killed.. Expressing anguish over the deaths, Pawar assured the farmers that the entire Opposition is with them and will soon take a call on the future course of action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
06-10-2021||India||LAC: China air force in three Tibet bases, says V.R. Chaudhari||Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal V.R. Chaudhari on Tuesday said China had deployed its air force in three bases in Tibet on their side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh and assured that the IAF was fully deployed and prepared for any eventuality. The newly appointed IAF chief said India was also fully prepared to deal with any two-front war scenario, referring to the danger posed by China and Pakistan along its borders. His statement comes three days after Indian Army chief General M.M. Naravane had sounded an alert saying that China had deployed troops in considerable numbers all across eastern Ladakh, including forward areas, which was a matter of concern. “The situation on the Line of Actual Control is that the Chinese Air Force is still present on three air bases on their side of the LAC. We are fully deployed and prepared on our side,” said Air Chief Marshal Chaudhari. As India faces the threat of two-front aggression from Pakistan and China, the IAF is working with a depleted fleet. Air Chief Marshal Chaudhari said the sanctioned 42 squadrons won’t be there in the next 10-15 years. “We will not be able to achieve the 42 squadron strength in the next 10-15 years,” he said. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May last year. Addressing the media on Tuesday ahead of the 89th anniversary of the IAF on October 8, Air Chief Marshal Chaudhari said the induction of Rafale and Apache aircraft have significantly added to India’s combat potential. He said there was an increased presence of the Chinese army across eastern Ladakh as Beijing continues to enhance infrastructure in the Tibet Autonomous Region. “Increased Chinese army presence across eastern Ladakh continues,” he said. Air Chief Marshal Chaudhari also said the S-400 surface-to-air missile defence system would be inducted this year. Sino-Indian talks The next round of military talks between India and China is likely to take place next week, sources in the defence ministry said. So far 12 rounds of military talks have taken place between the two armies to resolve the border standoff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
06-10-2021||India||Priyanka’s query for PM Modi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, detained at the guesthouse of the Second Battalion, Provincial Armed Constabulary, in Sitapur since 4.30am on Monday said in a statement at 6.30pm on Tuesday that she had not been served with any written order or notice or shown an FIR until then. Priyanka and other party leaders were detained early on Monday by Uttar Pradesh police in Sitapur while they were on their way to meet family members of those killed in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. The Congress leader said she had seen a “portion of a paper on social media” in which 11 people had been named, “8 of whom were not even present” when she was detained. Issued by the court of a local sub-divisional magistrate, it says the 11 have been booked under Sections 107, 116 and 151 of the CrPC. All these sections are related to preventive detention because of apprehension of breach of peace. On Tuesday morning, Priyanka released a video on social media, stating in Hindi: “Modiji namaskar. I have heard that you are in Lucknow to celebrate Amrit Utsav of Independence. I want to ask you whether you have seen this video?” Someone is seen giving her a mobile phone in which a video is playing and she asks: “I want to ask you (Modi), have you seen this video?” The video shows a Thar jeep and an SUV running over people on a road. The people are heard yelling and crying. The cars speed away. “This video shows the son of a minister in your government crushing the farmers under his vehicle. See this video and tell this country why this minister was not suspended?” Priyanka asks. Eyewitnesses have alleged Union minister of state for home Ajay Misra Teni’s son Ashis “Monu” Misra was at the wheel. She continues: “You have kept leaders like me in detention without any order or FIR. I want to know why this man is free when Modiji today you are sitting on the dais of a mehfil (gathering for entertainment) of Amrit Utsav of Independence. Do you remember that the farmers had handed us Independence? Even today the sons of the farmers are protecting this country on the borders. The farmers are in trouble for months and raising their voice. And you are ignoring them.” “I request you to visit Lakhimpur. Those who gave us Independence and give us food, those who are the soul of this country, listen to their woes and understand them. It was your religion to protect them,” Priyanka says in the video. The Congress leaders during the day shared a video on social media in which a drone is seen flying. A person is heard saying: “This drone has been deployed by the government just above the place where Priyankaji has been detained. It is above the door of her room.” As the camera through which the video was shot moves down, what appears to be the guesthouse of the Provincial Armed Constabulary comes into view and the person says: “This is the reality of this scared government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
06-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Three TMC leaders get visit nod||A three-member delegation of Trinamul Congress, led by Rajya Sabha MP Dola Sen, visited Lakhimpur Kheri on Tuesday and met the family members of some of the farmers killed on Sunday. The Trinamul team, which included Rajya Sabha MP Sushmita Dev and Lok Sabha MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, visited the houses of the dead farmers. It was unclear how the Trinamul team was allowed to visit the district when other Opposition leaders, including chief ministers, have been barred. Police sources said they were escorted to the spot because they were not violating Section 144, which prevents assembly of more than four people at a place. Dastidar told reporters in Lakhimpur Kheri: “Can the son of a minister murder a common man? He crushed them under his vehicle. He should be punished…. Democracy is missing here.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
06-10-2021||India||Congress expresses apprehensions about future of democracy in India||The Congress has expressed serious apprehensions about the future of democracy in India, contending that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has scant regard for constitutional morality and human values. The party expressed its angst over Modi’s attitude towards the horrific crime committed in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri where a Union minister’s SUV mowed down farmers. The Congress made this grim observation on account of two concerns: first, the Prime Minister’s refusal to dismiss Union minister Ajay Misra Teni despite eyewitness accounts of his son’s involvement in the murder of farmers; and second, his government’s tendency to ignore tragedies and prevent Opposition leaders from meeting families of the victims to express empathy. The Prime Minister never comments on any development that shows his government in poor light even as he tweets and speaks on all kinds of trivial and insignificant issues. Modi hasn’t uttered a word on the death of hundreds of people during demonetisation, lockdown and farmers’ agitation. Even during tragedies that shook the nation — like Unnao and Hathras cases — Modi chose not to react. In the Pegasus scandal, which affects national security, he refused to comment. At a protest organised by the Congress, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said: “Koi sunane wala nahin, koi parwah nahin (There is no one to hear, no one cares). It was never like this. Jo shapath liya uski dhajjiyan uda di (The oath that he took, he has blown it to smithereens).… This is a signal to the country. Will democracy survive? People can foresee the future, what lies ahead. The model of Modi’s governance — resorting to coercion using central agencies — has put constitutional rule in jeopardy.” Arguing that Lakhimpur demonstrated they were itching to cross the line, Gehlot said: “The common people will have to rise now to save democracy. People now know how Modi deploys hollow rhetoric to mislead the nation, he says something and does something else. Nobody feels safe under his rule. And Yogi Adityanath is another form of Modi; the methods are the same. The delusion of Modi’s greatness now lies shattered. The people must rise now.” Even the party’s official briefing by former law minister Ashwini Kumar focused on degeneration of human and constitutional values in Modi’s regime. Kumar said: “Have we lost the right to feel empathy towards our fellow human being who is in grief? Are we expected to rub salt on the wounds? Does the Opposition have the right to raise its voice against the state’s zulm? Can a leader no more articulate the hurt feelings of society? Are we still a democracy?” Insisting that Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was going to Lakhimpur Kheri only to wipe tears, he asked, “What is her crime that she has been under detention?” Former home minister P. Chidambaram said: “Priyanka’s arrest and detention are totally illegal and an abuse of power. The officer told her she was arrested under Section 151 of the CrPC. Any person arrested under 151 cannot be detained for more than 24 hours, unless there is an order of the judicial magistrate under any other provision of law.” The veteran leader added: “There is no order of any judicial magistrate. Her constitutional rights under Articles 19 and 21 have been grossly violated. Her arrest violated several provisions of the CrPC. No woman can be arrested after sunset or before sunrise and Priyanka was arrested at 4.30am, which is illegal. She was arrested by a male police officer — which is illegal.” The Congress has written to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister informing him that a team led by Rahul Gandhi proposes to visit Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
06-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Congress holds peaceful protest  in Odisha||The alleged murder of four farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh has caused ripples across the country with protests taking place even in Odisha. Congress workers on Tuesday held a peaceful protest near the Gandhi statue at the Janata Maidan in Bhubaneswar demanding immediate resignation of Union minister of state for home Ajay Misra Teni and arrest of his son Ashis Misra blaming them for the deaths. Congress activists held protests across the state also. They alleged that Ashis “Monu” Misra was at the wheel of one of the SUVs that crushed farmers under its wheels. Congress workers in Bhubaneswar were joined by a 45-year-old farmer Girish Ranjan Mohanty who said he had chosen to be a part of the protest as it was being held to highlight a gross injustice and to bring farmers’ demands to the fore. “I have joined the protest on my own,” said Mohanty who hails from Gothapatna on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar. An automobile engineer-turned-farmer Mohanty said: “When I was posted as an automobile engineer at Koraput in 2019, about 500km here, I decided to come back to my house because of family problems. I had thought that once the family issues were sorted out I would find a job in Bhubaneswar. But I failed to get a job due to lockdown and decided to take up farming to support my family.” Mohanty has a joint family with nearly six to seven acres of land. “We cultivate paddy. After taking up farming I realised the pain and anguish of farmers. They need support of the government. But the government has turned killer. The hands of the Modi government are stained with the blood of farmers,” he said. While Mohanty sat with Congress leaders at the Mahatma Gandhi statue under the open sky with temperature hovering around 40° Celsius, a Congress worker Ajay Sahu condemned the police brutality against Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. “Is this way UP police should behave with a woman and that, too, someone like Priyanka Gandhi. The UP police and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath should apologize and release her unconditionally,” said Sahu. “Whatever compensation has been announced by the UP government for the slain farmers not acceptable. It should be in crores,” he added. Earlier on Monday, the Sanjuka Kisan Morcha had organised a protest demanding action against the Union minister of state for home. They also accused Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar of inciting violence against the farmers .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
06-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Video makes farmers stick to their demands||The emergence of a video clip that shows a vehicle ploughing through people has changed the mood of the farmers. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Tuesday made it clear that the farmers would continue to protest in Lakhimpur Kheri till Union minister of state for home Ajay Misra Teni is dismissed and his son and accomplices are arrested. In a statement, the SKM said the video shows “the minister’s son Ashis Misra was indeed driving the ‘Thar’ vehicle, from which he later got down and ran away, with cover and support provided by the police, and while firing on protesters. The journalist Raman Kashyap’s family is pointing out that he also got killed by vehicles crushing him”. The SKM is also not backing away from its assertion that one of the farmers had died of a gunshot wound. “Gurvinder Singh s/o Sukhwinder Singh (20 years) from Mukronya Nanpara died because of bullet injury. The first post-mortem did not confirm this, however. In his case, a re-post-mortem will be conducted by a team of doctors from AIIMS, BHU, PGI and a senior forensic doctor in Bahraich, under video recording and in the presence of SKM representatives,’’ the statement said. About the agreement reached with the Uttar Pradesh administration on Monday in a joint media conference by western Uttar Pradesh farm leader Rakesh Tikait and additional director-general (law and order) Prashant Kumar, the SKM said it was only to pave way for the last rites to be performed as the farmers were sitting in protest with the bodies. The key demands of the SKM remain — the immediate arrest of Ashis and his accomplices, and the dismissal of Teni and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar from their posts immediately. The Union minister and the chief minister are being targeted for “inciting” their party workers against the protesting farmers. Tikait has since come under considerable criticism from several quarters, some of whom suggested he had compromised too soon while others saw a possible realignment of forces in Uttar Pradesh because he did the joint media conference and given his earlier political leanings. Several SKM leaders rubbished this narrative being played out on social media, maintaining that other leaders from the movement were also part of the negotiations with the administration and the agreement was struck in consultation with the local unions and the family members of the victims. “For anyone to say Rakesh Tikait has compromised is unfair. There were a whole lot of other SKM leaders also involved besides local unions. Talks with the UP administration paved the way for the last rites. The police also agreed to do a post-mortem which will provide us the legal documents to carry this movement further. It is unfair to say that justice has been compromised. Larger justice issues remain,’’ Kavita Kuruganti of Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch, an SKM constituent, told The Telegraph. An All India Kisan Sabha leader told this newspaper that their members also managed to reach Lakhimpur Kheri by Monday morning, pointing out that most farmer union leaders managed to reach the area despite the barricades, except Gurnam Singh Chaduni. Further, he said, what was most important was to ease the tension in the area and the agreement made that possible as the process for the last rites commenced after the media conference. Since Sunday, the SKM leadership has been appealing for calm, underscoring the fact that it is the peaceful nature of their protest that has sustained it for over nine months and limited the options with the government to break the struggle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
06-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Varun Gandhi demands culprits be arrested||BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi on Tuesday tweeted a video that purportedly shows farmers being run over in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri and demanded that the owners of the cars be identified and the culprits arrested, continuing to prod his party over the farmers’ movement. “In Lakhimpur, the video that shows cars running over farmers will shake anyone’s soul,” Varun tweeted in Hindi. “Police should take note of this video and identify the owners of the car, those sitting in the car and others involved to make immediate arrests,” added the MP from Pilibhit. Farmers have claimed the car, which ploughed through the protesters and killed their brothers, was being driven by junior home minister Ajay Misra Teni’s son Ashis. No arrests have been made so far. On Monday, Varun had sent a letter to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and tweeted it, calling for lodging a murder case against the culprits and favouring a Supreme Court-monitored CBI probe. Earlier, too, the Lok Sabha MP had said the protesting farmers should be treated with sensitivity and had slammed party leaders for linking them with extremists. Varun’s position on the farmers’ issue in the face of silence of the BJP leadership has raised eyebrows in party circles. While many feel he was doing the right thing, others fear his position could anger the party managers. Varun, son of late Sanjay Gandhi, is also a member of the Nehru-Gandhi family. His cousins Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have been championing the farmers’ cause as Congress leaders while Varun seems to be doing the same in the BJP. Varun and his mother Maneka Gandhi, both BJP MPs, had joined the party much before the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah duo took full control of the party in 2014. The BJP then had showcased the mother and son as their own Gandhis. While Maneka was made a minister in the first Modi government, she was kept out in the second government. Varun, too, finds himself sidelined. Modi was in Lucknow on Tuesday to participate in an event connected to his government’s housing scheme for the poor. The event was aimed to prepare the ground for the polls in the key state early next year. Internally, the events in Lakhimpur Kheri, particularly the video showing people being run over, has led to unease and fear that it could cast a shadow on the upcoming polls. The prolonged farmers’ protest has turned out to be a difficult proposition for the BJP to handle amid a firm stand taken by the Modi government not to accept the demand for repealing the three farm laws. After a big show was organised by the agitating farmers at the Muzaffarnagar mahapanchayat, the Yogi government had hiked sugarcane rates, hoping to counter the influence. The incident in Lakhimpur Kheri has triggered a fresh row and party leaders said in private that the leadership needs to deal the issue with sensitivity and patience.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
06-10-2021||India||One year of Hathras imprisonment||Sanjida Rahman asked the crowd of reporters: “My children keep asking where their father is. What do I tell them?” Her husband Atiqur Rahman has been in jail for a year now, along with four others who were headed to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh in 2020 when they were arrested. Sanjida was among the relatives of the two of the five undertrials who addressed a media conference here on Tuesday to mark the first anniversary of their imprisonment. Those in jail include Malayalam journalist Siddique Kappan, Islamist student group Campus Front of India (CFI) leaders Rahman, Rauf Shareef and Masud Ahmed and their driver Alam. Kappan, a freelancer and the secretary of the Delhi unit of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists, had hitched a ride with Rahman and Ahmed who were on their way to Hathras in Alam’s taxi to express solidarity with the family of a girl who was gang-raped and murdered and her body cremated by police despite objections from her relatives. Shareef, CFI’s national general secretary at the time, was arrested later in Kerala by the Enforcement Directorate. They have been charged with sedition, incitement and for allegedly raising funds for terrorism under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and are being investigated for money laundering as well. The police have claimed that they were hatching a conspiracy to create communal disharmony in the state. Rahman was due for treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences here for aortic regurgitation at the time of arrest. Despite an order from the Uttar Pradesh director-general of prisons last week, Rahman is yet to be moved to AIIMS. “What justice is this? What is this punishment for? Only because we are Muslims, and he spoke out for the rights of others,” Lucknow-based Sanjida, a mother of two, said. Her husband is a PhD scholar at Chaudhary Charan Singh University, Meerut. Delhi-based Alam’s wife Bushra said: “He is trapped…. He does not know any political person. I just want him to be released.” L. Hanumanthaiah, Kannada poet and Congress MP, spoke at the media conference. “Sensible Indians must speak now and should not be silent because they are afraid of the administration. If sensible citizens and so-called intellectuals don’t open their mouths, we won’t be living in a democracy. We will go towards becoming a fascist country,” the MP said. He added: “The (rape and murder) victim’s family can still not live in peace. They are guarded by paramilitary troops who accompany them even to the provision shop. They have requested to be shifted as they can’t live in that village but the government has not done so. They have sold six of their seven buffaloes as they are unable to even venture out to graze them.” The victim’s family as well as Hanumanthaiah are Dalits. The accused in the case are from the landed Thakur community. Delhi University professor Apoorvanand said that accusing the Popular Front of India and its mass organisations like the CFI of conspiracy has become a pattern — be it the Delhi riots, the Hathras murder or the recent Darrang killings in Assam. “No permission is needed to express solidarity with the suffering…. If the PFI or the CFI is not banned, then they have every right to engage in political activity. The times are such that almost every day there is the anniversary of someone who is arrested being marked by a news conference,” the professor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
06-10-2021||India||Lok Janshakti Party factions get names, symbols||The Election Commission of India on Tuesday allotted new names and symbols to the two factions of the Lok Janshakti Party for the bypolls to two Bihar Assembly seats on October 30. The faction led by Union food processing minister Pashupati Kumar Paras — the brother of party founder and former central minister late Ram Vilas Paswan — will be called Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party, and can use the “sewing machine” symbol in the bypolls to Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan constituencies. The other faction led by MP Chirag Paswan — Ram Vilas’s son — will be called Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas) and has been given the “helicopter” symbol for the bypolls. These allotments are an interim order until the EC decides on a dispute between both factions claiming to represent the party. Last week, the EC disallowed the use of the LJP’s “bungalow” symbol and its name owing to the dispute. The party split in June after five of its six MPs replaced Chirag with Paras as national president. The BJP recognised the faction led by Paras and made him a minister. Despite being in the NDA, the LJP under Chirag contested against the candidates of ruling ally Janata Dal United in the 2020 Bihar polls. The LJP emerged from a split in the remnant Janata Dal in 2000. In Bihar, the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP), which merged into the JDU earlier this year, held the “ceiling fan” symbol — which is now not in use by any party in the state. The Chirag faction’s “helicopter” symbol potentially offers him a slight benefit from former RLSP voters who may confuse the two. The JDU and RLSP trace their roots to the undivided Janata Party of which Ram Vilas was also a part of. In 2015, six Janata Party descendants — Samajwadi Party, JDU, Janata Dal (Secular), Indian National Lok Dal, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Samajwadi Janata Party had unsuccessfully tried to reunite.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
06-10-2021||India||Kerala High Court bins state’s order capping the price of RT-PCR tests||Kerala High Court on Monday set aside the state government’s order capping the price of RT-PCR tests in all the private diagnostic laboratories. The court directed the state government to take a fresh decision on the price after consulting private labs within three weeks. A single-judge bench of Justice T.R. Ravi passed the directive based on two petitions filed by private diagnostic labs that claimed the price of Rs 500 for the test was too little. The petitioners had contended that many of them were incurring huge losses since a good quality test costs around Rs 1,500. The cost of an RT-PCR test was Rs 4,500 at the beginning of the pandemic. But the price was revised within months to Rs 1,700 last year after a Kerala State Medical Services Corporation Ltd market research showed a considerable reduction in input costs. On April 30 last year, the state government capped the price at Rs 500. But the court noted that it would not be proper to permit the labs to immediately charge Rs 1,700. “The interest of justice requires that the state government decide the matter after hearing the petitioners or their representatives at the earliest, at any rate, within three weeks from the date of receipt of a copy of this judgment,” the court order said. The petitioners argued that the government never heard the labs before capping the price at Rs 500. But the state government contended that it was empowered to order such a price cap according to provisions in several legislations, including the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and the executive powers vested in the government under Article 162 of the Constitution. In its defence, the Kerala government had made a comparison of RT-PCR rates in other states and cited the examples of Punjab where it was Rs 415, Odisha that offered tests for Rs 400, and Rs 500 in Maharashtra, Haryana and Uttarakhand. The government noted that the price cap was based on the advice of the Indian Council of Medical Research. But the court concluded that the government order was open for judicial review since it “cannot be treated as a part of a legislative process”. “The reliance placed on the cost of RT-PCR test in the other states, is also not a reasonable yardstick, since there is no material either before the government or before the court to ascertain how the prices were arrived at in the said states,” the court ruled. The high cost of RT-PCR tests had led to widespread manipulation and fake negative reports in the state. Police in Malappuram had arrested the manager of a lab that sold fake RT-PCR certificates in September. It was found that only a fifth of about 2,500 swab samples collected during August were tested for Covid-19. But all of them were provided Covid-negative certificates, posing a huge health risk in the state already reeling under a stubborn spike in cases. The scam came to light when Dubai health authorities informed airline companies that it would not accept negative certificates issued by the said laboratory. Karnataka police had arrested seven people from Kerala’s Kasaragod district with fake RT-PCR negative certificates in August. They had allegedly procured them at cheap rates before heading to Mangalore where a negative report is still mandatory for entry from Kerala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
06-10-2021||India||WHO to decide on emergency use of Covaxin next week||The World Health Organisation said on Tuesday it would take the final decision next week on whether to grant Covaxin, India’s homegrown Covid-19 vaccine, emergency use listing (EUL) its stamp of approval expected to boost the vaccine’s acceptability. The WHO and an independent group of experts “are scheduled to meet next week to carry out the risk/benefit assessment and come to a final decision whether to grant emergency use listing to Covaxin”, the international health agency tweeted on Tuesday night. “Covaxin’s manufacturer, Bharat Biotech, has submitted data to the WHO on a rolling basis and submitted additional information at WHO’s request on September 27,” the agency tweeted. “WHO experts are currently reviewing this info and it if addresses all questions raised, WHO assessment will be finalised next week.” The EUL process conducted by the WHO and a technical advisory group of independent experts is centred on determining if a manufactured product such as a vaccine is “quality-assured, safe and  effective,” it said. India’s drug regulatory authority had approved Covaxin and Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced in India by the Serum Institute of India, in early January. But while Covishield received WHO’s EUL listing on February 15 this year, WHO’s decision on Covaxin is awaited. The delay has prompted sections of Indian researchers to contrast the speed at which India’s drug regulatory authority had approved Covaxin —  even before Bharat Biotech had made public the results of its vaccine’s efficacy trials —  and the diligence they say is evident in the WHO’s process. Bharat Biotech had published a paper describing the efficacy trial results in early July on an archive for research preprints, but some scientists have expressed concern that the paper had not been published in a peer-reviewed medical journal until early October. India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign currently relies primarily on Covishield and Covaxin. But among the 920 million vaccine doses administered till Tuesday, around 820 million are Covishield and about 100 million are Covaxin. An EUL from the WHO is expected to ease restrictions on international travel for recipients of Covaxin in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
06-10-2021||India||SC rebukes Centre for abruptly changing NEET syllabus||The Supreme Court on Tuesday again pulled up the Centre and medical education authorities for abruptly changing the syllabus for the NEET Super Speciality Examination 2021, observing that it has been done to favour private players. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and B.V. Nagarathna castigated the government over the sudden change in the syllabus pattern, though the Centre informed the court that it will postpone the exams scheduled in November to January 2022 to mitigate the hardships of the aggrieved doctors. “Seats which are vacant are never in government colleges. It is always in private. We have a surmise that the seats in government colleges are not lying vacant. It appears that the entire haste is for filling the vacant seats in private colleges. “The impression we get is that medical education has become a business. That’s the tragedy of medical education in this country,” Justice Chandrachud, heading the bench, told additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati during the hearing. The court made the observations after Bhati, in response to a query from the bench, said there are 414 colleges in the country which are offering super-speciality courses, out of which only 114 are run by the government. “These seats are never vacant in government-run institutions. So the entire aspect looks like it is done to fill up the seats in private colleges.… The interest of students and the medical profession should weigh higher as they will be torch-bearers of this profession,” the bench said. The bench made the oral remarks while dealing with a joint petition filed by over 41 doctors challenging the abrupt move of the authorities to change this year’s pattern for the entrance examination. During the hearing on Tuesday, the bench wondered why the changes had been brought so abruptly, although deciding the pattern and syllabus was in the exclusive domain of the experts concerned. “Why are these changes brought in a hurry? Please have some concern for the students. You have an exam pattern holding field since 2018, so why now? Logic seems to be to fill the seats,” Justice Chandrachud observed. “Just because you have authority, you will exercise it in this fashion. Would the heavens have fallen if it was done from next year?” the bench asked. Justice Chandrachud said its true that setting examination patterns are in the domain of experts, but the same cannot be done in such an arbitrary manner. The arguments would continue on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata emphasises wearing of masks during Durga Puja pandal hopping||Emphasising the necessity of wearing face masks to keep the spread of Covid-19 in check, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Wednesday urged everyone to be careful while pandal hopping as the pandemic is still around. The chief minister appealed to people while inaugurating two Durga Puja pandals in south Calcutta on Wednesday. "I request people visiting the pandals during the festival to wear masks even if they are fully vaccinated. Some people are testing positive for Covid-19, even after being administered both doses of the vaccine," she said while inaugurating the Naktala Udayan Sangha puja pandal. At the Salimpur Pally puja inauguration, the chief minister asked the organisers to keep sufficient masks at their disposal for distributing them among visitors who come without them. Mamata chanted shlokas' to pay obeisance to the goddess and uttered Jai Bangla' while concluding her speech. Amid the beats of dhak, a traditional instrument played during Durga puja festivities, Mamata drew the eyes of the deity, a ritual known as chokhudaan', at Chetla Agrani puja patronised by her cabinet colleague Firhad Hakim. She also urged people to be on guard as the rainy season triggers an outbreak of dengue. The chief minister, on a Durga puja inauguration spree from Mahalaya' marking the beginning of Devi Paksha', unveiled the pandals at Jodhpur Park, 95 Pally, and Babubagan in south Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal coal scam case: Rujira Banerjee challenges ED complaint in Delhi HC||Rujira Banerjee, wife of TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, has approached the Delhi High Court challenging the Enforcement Directorate's complaint against her before a trial court here in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in Bengal. Rujira has also challenged the trial court order taking cognizance of the complaint and the subsequent issuance of summons for physical appearance in the case. The matter, which was listed before Justice Yogesh Khanna on Wednesday but could not be taken up for hearing on account of the non-availability of the judge, will be heard on October 8. Rujira has contended in her petition that the ED's complaint against her is arbitrary, false, vexatious and an abuse of the process of law. The complaint has been filed to harass and cause prejudice to Rujira and her family, the petition claims. A bare perusal of the Impugned Complaint confirms that the Respondent Agency (ED) falsely averred that Petitioner had not complied with its illegal summonses (issued by ED)... "Owing to the fact that she is a mother of two young children and a resident of Kolkata, the Petitioner has repeatedly requested that she be examined at her residence in Kolkata. The fact that the Petitioner was in constant dialogue with the Respondent in relation to the aforementioned summons clearly shows that there was no intention on the part of the Petitioner to disobey the same," says the petition. It further argues that the trial court took cognizance and issued summons on the complaint in a mechanical manner and without application of mind. The CMM "failed to appreciate that not only were the notices in question illegal and in excess of jurisdiction, but furthermore the mode of service i.e., email to a third party, of summons dated 18.08.2021 at the first instance is contrary to law and cannot be held against the Petitioner , states the plea. On September 30, after Rujira appeared virtually in relation to the complaint filed by the ED, Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma directed her physical presence on October 12, while granting her exemption from the personal appearance for the day. The couple has already approached the high court for quashing of summons issued to them by the ED for questioning in the case. On September 21, the court had refused to grant any interim relief in relation to the summons. The 33-year-old MP, who is the nephew of Bengal Chief Minister Mamta Banerjee, represents the Diamond Harbour seat in Lok Sabha and is the national general secretary of the Trinamool Congress (TMC). The ED lodged a case under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act on the basis of a November 2020 FIR registered by the CBI that alleged a multi-crore coal pilferage scam related to Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in the state's Kunustoria and Kajora areas in and around Asansol. Local coal operative Anup Majhi alias Lala is alleged to be the prime suspect in the case. The ED had earlier claimed that Abhishek Banerjee was a beneficiary of funds obtained from this illegal trade. He has denied all charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata writes to PM, seeks permanent solution to 'man-made' Bengal floods||With several districts of West Bengal getting flooded by water discharged from dams and barrages in Jharkhand and those maintained by the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC), Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a permanent solution to the recurring problem. In a four-page letter sent on Tuesday, the chief minister alleged that the floods were "man-made" and caused by "uncontrolled and unplanned" discharge of water from DVC dams in Jharkhand's Panchet and Maithon. Referring to an earlier letter she had written on August 4 in this connection, Banerjee said, " I had highlighted the structural factors that give birth to grave man-made flood situation in southern Bengal, repeatedly, pitifully and tragically. Unless the Government of India addresses the basic underlying structural and managerial issues, both on a short term and on a long-term basis, the disasters will continue unmitigated in our lower riparian state." The TMC chief said she hasn't received any reply to her previous letter. "The issues that I raised affect millions of lives, and I request that the Government of India should get into some serious actions without further delay," the letter read. Banerjee also alleged that the DVC authorities did not pay heed to IMD warnings of heavy rainfall, and "kept the water discharge from the dams at a low level and when there was heavy rainfall, it discharged about 10 lakh acre-feet of water between September 30 and October 2, which caused serious devastation in lower Damodar region before the festive season". She has also given a date-wise list of water discharged from Maithon and Panchet dams. "This annual problem requires immediate short-term and long-term measures so that the sufferings of the people are mitigated and the national loss in terms of loss of life and property is avoided. "I seek your kind immediate intervention so that the Ministry concerned of the Government of India is requested to engage with the Governments of West Bengal and Jharkhand and the authorities of the DVC, to help in arriving at a permanent solution to this problem of our state occurring year after year," she said. Incidentally, parts of south Bengal were flooded in early August, and Banerjee had alleged that the "man-made" disaster was caused due to excessive release of water by the DVC, claiming 16 lives and affecting lakhs of farmers. Last week, Banerjee had held the Jharkhand government and the DVC responsible for the current flood situation in the southern part of West Bengal. She contended that it was caused due to unplanned and enhanced discharge of water from dams and barrages in Jharkhand without prior information to her administration. Banerjee claimed that the reservoirs in Jharkhand have not been cleaned for the last 50 years, and warned of "massive protests" if dredging of dams and barrages was not done on an urgent basis to prevent the recurring floods.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah calls talks on ‘issues’ related to Gorkhas ||Union home minister Amit Shah has convened a meeting in New Delhi on October 12 “for resolution of issues related to Gorkhas”. But the plan for the meeting hasn’t evoked much interest in the Darjeeling hills in the absence of confirmation of the number and the names of the invitees. The invitation letter issued by Paritosh Yadav, assistant section officer, Union home ministry (Centre-State division), said the “Union Home minister is taking a meeting on 12.10.2021 at 4.00 PM in R.No. 119, North Block for resolution of issues related to Gorkhas”. “We don’t know who all are invited to the meeting and what will be discussed with reference to ‘issues related to Gorkhas’.... For months, the BJP and its allies have been talking about a ‘tripartite meeting’ to be held in Delhi and it is expected that they will be happy. We will have to reserve our comments till we have specifics about the participation and the agenda of the meeting,” said a prominent Darjeeling politician who didn’t wish to be named. The BJP has been using different expressions with regard to the Darjeeling issue since 2009, raising questions about the party’s capability or interest in discussing the demand for Gorkhaland state, which is the aspiration of a majority of Gorkhas. In the Lok Sabha election manifestos of 2009 and 2014, the BJP had said it “will sympathetically examine and appropriately consider the long pending demands of Gorkha, Adivasis and other people of Darjeeling district and Dooars region…”. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto, the BJP said it was “committed to work towards finding a permanent political solution to the issues of Darjeeling Hills, Siliguri Terai and Dooars region”. The Centre had called a tripartite meeting on August 7, 2020, on “issues related to Gorkhaland” but within days, the agenda was changed to “issues pertaining to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration”. Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, which was then an ally of the BJP, had said the agenda had been changed following pressure from the Bengal BJP. The meeting did take place on October 7, 2020, but the GTA and the state did not send representatives. At a time when the hills were using the phrase “permanent political solution”, “issues related to Gorkhas” has become the agenda of the October 12 meeting. Neeraj Zimba, GNLF leader who won the Darjeeling Assembly seat on a BJP ticket, however, claimed that for his party, the “issue of Gorkhas” means “Gorkhaland.” Quoting “sources”, the Darjeeling MLA said an invitation had also been sent to the state government. “It is a different matter whether the state will attend the talks or not,” said Zimba. The Telegraph couldn’t confirm independently if the state government had received the invitation letter. With regard to the Darjeeling stakeholders, Zimba said invitations had been sent to individual emails. “As far as I know public representatives, including Raju Bista (Darjeeling MP), John Barla (Alipurduar MP), Bishal Lama (Kalchini MLA) and B.P. Bajgain (Kurseong MLA) have been invited to the meeting,” said Zimba. All these legislators belong to the BJP. “My party president (Mann Ghisingh) has been invited, as has been R.B. Rai (president, CPRM, which is an ally of BJP),” said Zimba.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Kiren Rijiju takes aim at state||Union minister Kiren Rijiju has alleged that successive governments in Bengal deprived north Bengal of development projects though the region is resourceful and strategically important. “Over decades, north Bengal has been deprived of development by the governments which have been formed in the state. It is disappointing that the governments do not understand the strategic importance of the region which is in the chicken’s neck (the stretch where the width of the Indian sub-continent is so narrow) and is the gateway to the Northeast. The region used to be prosperous but over the years, economic activities have declined in north Bengal because of the apathy on the part of the state government,” Rijiju, the central minister of law and justice, said on Tuesday. He was on a short visit to Siliguri and Jalpaiguri to attend a number of events hosted by the BJP. Rijiju said the BJP would continue to focus on north Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress to hold ‘Ananda Mela’ in Santiniketan||The Trinamul Congress has decided to replicate Ananda Mela — a fair that Rabindranath Tagore had started during his times in Santiniketan on the occasion of Mahalaya — on Wednesday to keep alive a tradition associated with Visva-Bharati and register its protest against vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty’s alleged attitude of doing away with events started by the varsity founder. “The present vice-chancellor is intentionally doing away with traditional Visva-Bharati events like Ananda Mela and Pous Mela. Since his arrival on the campus, long held traditions of Tagore are being neglected. We will be organising the festival in Bolpur to pay homage to Tagore and his tradition,” said Anubrata Mondal, the Birbhum district chief of Trinamul. Mondal, along with minister Chandranath Sinha and other senior party leaders, will be present at the inaugural ceremony of the event in ward 6 of Bolpur on Wednesday. Tagore had started Ananda Mela, which many say was also known as Ananda Bazar, for students to sell their produce, including food and crafts, among teachers and employees of Santiniketan. The earnings from the fair used to be deposited in the account of Visva-Bharati’s social service wing Seba Sakha to help poor people during Bengal’s biggest festival, Durga Puja. Although the exact year when Tagore started the tradition is not known, old-timers associated with the varsity said it had always been held on the occasion of Mahalaya, the day when believers in the Hindu faith pay obeisance to their departed ancestors. Unlike the varsity event where the show was run by students, the Trinamul event will have students, local artisans and women self-help groups selling their produce. “Our main goal is to keep Tagore’s tradition alive. His idea was to collect funds and help the poor. We also follow that tradition and deposit the earnings in the chief minister’s relief fund to help flood-affected people,” said Tapas Mondal, fair organiser and municipal coordinator of Bolpur’s ward 6. Asked about Trinamul’s move, newly appointed officiating public relations officer of Visva-Bharati Atig Ghosh said: “I have nothing to comment. As for us, we are not holding Ananda Mela because of Covid restrictions put in place by both state and central governments.” Trinamul leaders, however, are not willing to buy the varsity’s argument. “Covid is nothing but an alibi only. If they had any respect for Tagore’s legacy, they could have organised it by adhering to Covid protocol like us,” said Mondal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Govt sanctions funds to repair schools damaged in cyclones||The Bengal government has sanctioned Rs 109.42 crore to undertake immediate repair of 6,468 affiliated primary, secondary and higher secondary schools that suffered serious damage because of back-to-back cyclones, including Amphan and Yaas. Besides, maintenance eluded the buildings as the institutions remained shut for the past 18 months following the outbreak of Covid-19 and subsequent lockdown. Responding to an appeal made by the commissioner of school education, the school education department on Monday allotted funds to begin the repairs as early as possible. The department has been planing to reopen academic institutions after Diwali. The education department also directed the sub-allotment of the funds through district magistrates. “We hope the Covid situation will improve further leading to a conducive situation to reopen schools by the middle of November. So, our objective is to finish maintenance and repairs by then,” said a senior official of the school education department. Within a couple of months after the pandemic had broken out and the nationwide lockdown had been clamped from March last year, Cyclone Amphan devastated large stretches of Bengal’s Gangetic and coastal areas of North and South 24-Parganas and East and West Midnapore districts. A year later, people in the state experienced Cyclone Yaas, which also caused serious damage to the lives and properties of people. Several school buildings suffered serious damage in the two cyclones. But none of the school authorities could undertake necessary repairs primarily for restrictions on normal activities imposed by the state government because of  Covid and lack of funds. “Several schools have suffered damage and on the basis of inputs provided by the local administration, we have prepared a list of such schools and appealed for financial support for their repairs. The state government has considered our appeal and allotted funds,” an official of commissioner of school education at Bikash Bhawan said. Sources in the commissioner’s office said of the 6,468 schools, a large number of them are in East Midnapore, South 24-Parganas and North 24-Parganas where the two cyclones had wreaked havoc. Large number of schools were damaged with big trees falling on the buildings during the cyclones. While some had their walls and roofs damaged, the cyclone also blew away tin sheds of several schools. Punam Goswami, head teacher of Sodial Basic School at Raidighi in South 24-Parganas, said: “Cyclone Yaas ravaged my school. The building was severely damaged after a huge tree fell on it. We could not take up repairs because of lack of funds and also the prevailing Covid situation. We made an assessment of the loss and asked the higher authorities for help.” “It now appears that the much-awaited repairs will be taken up. Otherwise, resuming normal classes after Puja vacation will be difficult.” Most of the school authorities have welcomed the state government's initiative, but at the same time raised doubts as to how the required job could be carried out in a month with the festive season already setting in. "The festive season has almost begun. Puja vacation is barely four days away. I doubt when work will actually begin," a headmaster of a school in North 24-Parganas said. Chandan Maiti, state general secretary of Advanced Society for Headmasters' and Headmistresses, has demanded that the school education department should ensure immediate allotment of estimated funds in favour of the schools. "Unless funds are sent to schools immediately, the necessary repair and reconstruction would be delayed and it would affect resumption of classes after the Puja vacation," Maiti told The Telegraph. Maiti’s comment carries significance as chief minister Mamata Banerjee had in August hinted at reopening schools after Puja but the ground realities do present a daunting task for the authorities. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty in Bolpur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 619 cases, 637 recoveries and 11 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday recorded a fall in total active Covid-19 cases as the state logged 619 infections, 637 recoveries and 11 deaths. The total number of active cases fell by 29 to reach 7,575. This is the fourth day in the past 10 days that a fall was recorded. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases on September 26. The state has over three per cent of the national total of active cases and remains seventh on the list of states with the highest number on that count. Calcutta on Tuesday logged 126 infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 115, the only two districts with three-digit figures of fresh cases. Seven districts reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.9. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.75 per cent on Tuesday. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Tuesday. Calcutta logged three and North 24-Parganas four. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.72 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.46 lakh recoveries and 18,848 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Royal Bengal tiger drags away fisherman in Gosaba||In the third attack in four days, a royal Bengal tiger dragged away a fisherman inside the dense forest early on Tuesday, leading the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve (STR) authorities to issue a ban on fishing in creeks and rivers of Jhila forest. Asit Sarkar, 50, a fisherman from Gosaba, was taken away by a big cat when he went to catch crabs in creeks and rivers of Jhila. His co-workers said they tried to save him from the tiger but they were unsuccessful. The fisherman is still missing. “It is the third attack by tigers in four consecutive days and all incidents happened in the Jhila zone of the STR. So, we have issued a ban on fishing in an area covering 58sqkm of Jhila forest. We will keep an eye on the tigers to understand the reason for their aggressive behaviour,” said Jones Justin, the deputy field director of STR. The foresters said as per their survey there were two tigers who we suspect of attacking fishermen. The 2020-21 census shared by the Bengal administration on Wednesday, on the eve of the International Tiger Day, counted at least 96 tigers in the Indian territory of the Sunderbans. On Monday, the victim, Samad Mollah, 31, died in the tiger attack when he was catching crabs in Chilamari Khal, a creek in the delta. On Saturday, A 37-year-old fisherman Gour Mistri was severely injured by a Royal Bengal tiger in Gosaba of the Sunderbans and his co-workers were able to rescue him from the jaw of the big cat after fighting with bamboo sticks and oars. “It is really a reason to worry as we have never witnessed such recurrent attacks. After the pandemic several people lost their jobs in other sectors and have taken to collecting crabs and fish from restricted forest areas of the Sunderbans,” said Umashankar Mondal, a geography teacher who runs mangrove plantation movement in the largest tiger reserve. Sources in forest departments said apart from fishermen with official permission from the STR, many people illegally entered the restricted areas and risked their lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Bodies of school girl and man recovered in Hooghly district||Bodies of a school girl and a 50-year-old man, who had gone missing in flood waters in Hooghly district, were found on Tuesday morning. Disha Maity, 14, a Class VII student, had slipped into a canal in the inundated Dhanyagheri area of Khanakul on Monday evening. The NDRF started a search and her body was spotted on Tuesday around 200 meters from where she had gone missing. Jiten Porel, 50, a marginal farmer from Hati village of Pursurah, had been traceless since Saturday. Villagers found his body in a paddy field on Tuesday morning after flood waters receded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Two minor boys injured in bomb explosion in Malda||Two minor boys suffered injuries after a crude bomb exploded while they were collecting firewood at a litchi plantation in Malda district’s Old Baburhat village on Tuesday. Sources said Nur Islam, 12, and Jasim Sheikh, 14, were scouting for firewood at the plantation. “As they were making piles of firewood, one of the wood pieces fell on a crude bomb and it exploded. Locals reached the spot and took the boys to a local hospital for treatment. Their condition is stable,” said a source. During a search at the plantation, police found a plastic canister full of crude bombs and also recovered a bucket with at least six crude bombs. All the bombs were later defused. Alok Rajoria, Malda police chief said: “We suspect some  miscreants had kept the  bombs at the plantation. A probe is on.” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
06-10-2021||West Bengal||SMC launches drive to clear encroached pavements||The board of administrators (BoA) at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation has launched a drive against encroachers, especially those traders who illegally block portions of streets and footpaths by stacking different items in front of their shops every day. Ranjan Sarkar, a member of the BoA who led a drive at some locations in the city on Tuesday, said the SMC had decided to take stern steps against those who keep their items on the roads and footpaths every day. ‘ “This drive is necessary to reduce traffic congestion and create space for pedestrians,” said Sarkar. In Siliguri, it is a common practice in most commercial areas for traders to spread wares on roads. Every day, thousands of shopowners stack their materials on footpaths and roads in front of their stalls. The piling of goods throughout the day narrows roads and footpaths. Sarkar, along with a team of civic officials, conducted the drive at Bagha Jatin Park and adjacent areas of Collegepara and Hakimpara. During the drive, they asked the vendors to remove their materials from the roads and footpaths. Also, a number of house owners were asked to clear the construction materials and debris which they had kept on the road. “In due course, we will start imposing fines on such violators. A person can be fined even Rs 1 lakh for such encroachment,” said an SMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
06-10-2021||West Bengal||New PG course launched at North Bengal University||The North Bengal University, the oldest varsity in north Bengal, has introduced bioinformatics at the post-graduation level from the current academic year. Earlier, a diploma course was taught in bioinformatics, a subject that is fast gaining popularity among science students, at the varsity. But now, students can do MSc in the subject. According to senior faculty members, bioinformatics is an interdisciplinary field of science that deals with biological information. Pranab Ghosh, the NBU registrar, said the four-semester course offers a new opportunity for students of the region. “This emerging interdisciplinary field is often considered a junction between biology and computational sciences. This is a first of its kind course in north Bengal,” he added. Varsity sources said that after doing BSc in any subject related to life science, students can apply for the two-year PG course in bioinformatics. “The department has three faculty members and 15 seats available for the post-graduation course,” said a source. The sources said that in the syllabus of the two-year course, emphasis has been given on understanding the fundamentals of cell biology and genetics, molecular biology, biochemistry, basic bioinformatics and computer application. An NBU official said: “For the PG course in bioinformatics, students have to pay Rs 15,000 — which will include admission and first semester fee. The fee from the second semester will be Rs 10,000 per semester.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
06-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata govt takes initiatives to float tenders for civic projects||The Mamata Banerjee government has taken initiatives to float tenders to execute projects, which were demanded by common citizens through the Paray Samadhan (Solution at Neighbourhood), without any delay. The sense of urgency, officials said, indicated the government’s intention to hold civic polls early next year. “Projects which were demanded by common people during Paray Samadhan would be carried out soon by floating tenders.… Projects worth less than Rs 5 lakh would be taken care of by district magistrates and the departments concerned would float tenders for projects worth more than Rs 5 lakh,” said a senior government official. According to sources, nearly 3,000 applications were submitted under the Paray Samadhan outreach initiative, held alongside the Duare Sarkar camps between August 16 and September 15. Under this particular programme, common people could demand small projects — like installation of water sources, improvement of road condition or drainage facility — in their areas. After the success of the Duare Sarkar programme, on 28 December 2020, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced the new initiative called Paray Samadhan, under which the government promised to address complaints of neighbourhoods. “The programme was first launched ahead of the Assembly polls and nearly 7,000 small projects were carried out subsequently. It is believed that the programme had played a role in the Trinamul Congress’s success in the Assembly polls,” said a senior official. According to sources, the manner in which the state government is taking initiatives to implement nearly 3,000 schemes, mainly small ones, despite the stressed financial condition shows that Nabanna is all set to hold pending civic elections early next year. “As the projects are small ones, these could be completed latest by December if tenders are floated before Puja. It is being considered that the civic elections could be held in January next year,” said a senior government official. According to a rough estimate by officials at Nabanna, about 115 civic bodies across the state, including the municipal corporations in Calcutta, Howrah and Siliguri, are being run by boards of administrators as elections could not be held on time because of the Covid-19 pandemic. During a news conference at Nabanna recently, the chief minister had hinted that the state would start preparations for pending civic polls after the byelections to four Assembly segments are held on October 30. “The way the state government has pushed the departments to float tenders for projects of Paray Samadhan, it is clear that civic polls will be held soon. The small civic issues hold immense importance in local body elections,” said a source. It was evident the state government was pushing the departments for Paray Samadhan projects when engineers of the PWD received a message from the top brass of the department asking them to send the projects to be taken up at the earliest. The message also pointed out that bids for schemes worth above Rs 5 lakh would be invited immediately. “Similar efforts were being made by departments like urban development and municipal affairs, PHE, health and irrigation departments,” said a source. “The activities clearly hint that civic polls are round the corner.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
06-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: New fund||The market regulator, Securities and Exchange Board of India, announced recently that non-profit organizations as well as for-profit social enterprises will be permitted to participate in financial markets and raise funds through equity, various types of bonds, and even tap into mutual funds. There will be a newly created social stock exchange where such entities would be listed. Permission, as per this decision, would be granted to those enterprises that are wedded to social causes and have demonstrated positive results of their activities on the ground. They will be allowed to raise finances through social impact funds having a corpus of Rs five crore. Although the regulations are yet to be framed, Sebi has indicated that organizations involved only in certain approved activities will be entitled to this facility. These activities include, among others, work to eradicate hunger, poverty and malnutrition, promoting healthcare — including mental health — education, gender equality, livelihoods and empowerment of women and LGBTQIA+ communities as well as encouraging environmental sustainability. This step taken by Sebi is certainly welcome. Many non-government organizations doing commendable work are often constrained by lack of financial resources. However, if this measure is to succeed in having a meaningful impact, a few issues need clarity from the Central government. During the tenure of the current dispensation, there has been a significant trust deficit created between NGOs and the State. The government does not seem to be happy with private sector engagements in areas of social empowerment and improvement. There has been a crackdown on philanthropic outfits that receive foreign help of any kind. Many of these NGOs are well-known for their global imprint. Some of them have been forced to curtail their operations; others have shut down for lack of funds and on account of government scrutiny. How will the Centre view Sebi’s new decision? How strict will the new rules be? Would a few not-for profit organizations and for-profit social enterprises that are close to the Central government corner most of the funds? The financial markets are currently awash with funds because of the central bank’s accommodative policy to support growth. Bringing new players into the financial arena may serve a productive purpose, provided access to the market is granted fairly and transparently. The new rule should not be a source of easy money that can be siphoned off by opportunists and charlatans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
06-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Lakhimpur Kheri incident||Dangerous turn Sir — The protests against the visit of the deputy chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Keshav Prasad Maurya, to Lakhimpur Kheri took a grim turn when four farmers were allegedly killed and several injured after being run over by a car that was part of the convoy in which the state home affairs minister’s son was travelling (“VIP car mows down farmers”, Oct 4). Four persons in the minister’s convoy were reportedly killed in the violence that followed. This is undesirable. The agitating farmers and the government must work out an amicable solution. Sundar Subramaniam,Coimbatore Sir — The Lakhimpur Kheri incident is gruesome and needs to be strongly condemned. It is not an indicator of a civilized society. Agriculture is the backbone of the economy, farmers need to be treated like human beings. Yet, the state’s hatred towards the farmers is palpable. The cover-up has started with internet services being blocked in the region. Are these not signs of a despotic State? Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — The death of at least eight people at Lakhimpur Kheri is a serious matter. The confrontation reminds one of the early stages of the French Revolution — the fight between the oppressed classes and the ruling elite eventually culminated in a massacre. India’s rapid spiral into totalitarianism under the influence of capitalists is dangerous. In a world with serious political, military and environmental problems, the future of the country must rest in the hands of the people, who must stay united. The powers that be are not in the least interested in the poor masses or the farmers or the countless millions of the uneducated and unemployed. The discontent and the frustration in the country is now of epidemic proportions. Politicians should address these problems because no government can afford to ignore the workers and the farmers. Anwar Saeed,Calcutta Sir — The violence in Uttar Pradesh is heart-rending. The incident could have been avoided had the protests been dealt with sensibly. The government must reassure the protesting farmers by lending a ear to their apprehensions before the apex court has to intervene. The incident deserves a judicial enquiry, especially because the role of a Union minister and his son is in question. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Twisted tongue Sir — In trying to promote Hindi, the Centre has failed to take into consideration what words in Hindi could mean in a different language (“The language back-lash”, Oct 2). This could also have serious implications. The change of the name of the mid-day meal scheme to PM Poshan Shakti Nirman Yojana, for instance, could make it difficult for people in states where Hindi is not the predominant language. Anthony Henriques,Mumbai Sir — Although the language mix-up in Karnataka’s mid-day meal scheme may appear hilarious at first, the Centre’s cavalier attitude towards languages other than Hindi cannot be taken in jest. It reeks of ignorance as well as an unwillingness to learn — these are not good qualities in an elected government. Sneha Kapoor,Delhi  Break the spell Sir — In a country where people — from politicians to celebrities to common families — depend on astrologers to guide them in life, suffice it to say that the future is bleak. While rationalists — Narendra Dabholkar was one — get killed protecting their countrymen from falling prey to superstition, television channels and newspapers continue to irresponsibly promote astrology. Under the present ruling regime, the scientific temper has already received severe blows. It is time India united to break the spell of superstition. Ahita Goswami,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
06-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Run over||Democracy was left bloodied at Lakhimpur Kheri by the supposed minders of democracy. Several protesting farmers were mowed down by speeding vehicles, one of which, witnesses alleged, was being driven by the son of a Union minister. Some other lives were lost in the violence that followed. Madness has a method, and the bloodbath in Lakhimpur Kheri is not an exception. There are allegations of a provocative speech made by the said minister. If they are true, it would be consistent with the strategy of vilification employed by the Bharatiya Janata Party. Instead of engaging with opponents and critics, the BJP finds merit in employing its formidable propaganda machinery — segments of the media are complicit in such campaigns — to discredit the counter-narrative. Choicest of epithets — ‘anti-nationals’, ‘Khalistanis’ — have been hurled at farmers protesting against the new agricultural laws to deny legitimacy to a movement that has acquired significant force. This mischief has been complemented by explicit threats, such as the ones issued by the chief minister of Haryana recently. The sustained vilification is not the only blot deepening on the fabric of Indian democracy. The Uttar Pradesh administration got into the act after Sunday’s violence, preventing a number of leaders from the Opposition from reaching Ground Zero. Imposed besiegement, too, is typical of the BJP playbook. The Supreme Court’s position on peaceful, democratic protest by farmers has been peculiar. A bench of the apex court has decided to examine the constitutional right of the farmers to protest on a matter that is already in court. Can such a perspective strengthen the Centre’s ploy of discrediting the agitation? Significantly, a former Chief Justice of India had argued that farmers have a constitutional right to protest as long as the mobilization did not threaten public order. Lakhimpur Kheri has exposed the real face of the threat to peace and order. What is at stake here is the sanctity of a principle — public protest — that is integral to the democratic ethic. It must be pointed out that neither a legislative nor a judicial resolution has been in sight in spite of the fact that hundreds of farmers have perished in the course of the long agitation. The horror of Lakhimpur Kheri would provide another spark to the rising flame.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
06-10-2021||Opinion||Great power, greater responsibility||It is always nice to be felicitated on a day that is meant for you alone. Teachers’ Day, alas, has come and gone in India. Fortunately, I haven’t missed the opportunity to pay my annual tribute to teachers. World Teachers’ Day is observed on October 5 each year to commemorate the Unesco/ILO Recommendation (Paris, 1994) concerning the Status of Teachers. This was considered very important for the quality of education. Having found the right occasion to write about the most fascinating of professions, I hasten to state that this article is not about the de facto status of teachers in our country, or about their rights and responsibilities. It is just that as an ardent and unabashed admirer of the teaching fraternity, I wish to give a loud shout-out to all teachers, working or retired, and remember those who are no more. Heads of schools — please don’t be offended, but you are not included in this celebration. This is because although you proclaim that you are teachers first and administrators afterwards, something strange happens to you the moment you are placed in that hallowed chair. Your status shoots up instantly and your persona is suddenly and radically transformed. Sadly, as you don the mandatory gravitas of the Head of your school, you cease to be the beloved teacher that you once were. Indeed, the Head has tremendous power over her school but her plight is most unenviable. In present times, she is likely to have multiple bosses — the CEO or secretary, the director, governing body members and officials of the Board to which her school is affiliated. Lastly, let us not forget the parents to whom she is answerable on a daily basis. In order to run a tight ship, the school Head must see that both teachers and students are functioning properly. To be on top of the charts, the Head has to see that her students are fetching laurels for the school regularly in the form of outstanding examination results as well as awards and trophies from various inter-school contests. Not only must her school be favourably and frequently featured in the media, but the Head’s comments on educational matters must be published from time to time. Moreover, she must be seen participating in important webinars and panel discussions on education policy. Her school must keep abreast of the latest technology and be ever-ready to accommodate the incessant changes that the Board keeps inflicting on all schools in terms of curricula, examination formats and even schedules. This is not all; the Head of a school has a long list of unpleasant routine functions to perform. The paperwork is not only tedious but is of almost Sisyphean proportions. Meanwhile, documents have to be carefully stored and all data properly checked. However, the worst aspect of the Head’s work, I feel, is dealing with people who have an ingrained sense of entitlement. They are influential beings who, either bluntly or in a sophisticated way, attempt to bully school authorities into doing all kinds of unjust things. Hapless principals lament about the manner in which they are made to change marks of certain students or grant admission to undeserving candidates. The worst scenario is when ignorant, but powerful, people tell the Head how to run the school. It is the rare Head who is solidly backed by the school management and is thus able to keep her principles unbent and her ethics intact. Then there is the delicate matter of ‘difficult’ parents. A Head’s task is hugely facilitated when parents support the school in the right way and stand by it in difficult times. In fact, a school can run smoothly only if parents are true partners. But in almost every school, a handful of parents seem to make it their business to find fault with everything that the school does and everything that the teachers do or say. Such obstructionist parents end up wasting the principal’s time and energy and deterring the school’s progress. Considering these tricky and unattractive aspects of a principal’s work, one is sure to wonder why people aspire to this thankless position. Moreover, in spite of the mind-boggling work that the Head does to keep her school running smoothly, it is usually the teachers who are lavished with love and affection by students, past and present. Principals receive the veneration and respectful acknowledgement that an exalted position demands. No wonder Mr Chips (immortalized by James Hilton’s novel Goodbye, Mr. Chips) refused the headmaster’s position. Yet, it is widely accepted that it is the Head who makes or breaks a school. There are famous real-life and fictional headmasters who have been great influencers. Rugby School was single-handedly transformed by Thomas Arnold, who made it a model for all English public schools of the period. Even now, elderly gentlemen talk about their headmasters in worshipful terms. The term, headmistress, however, conjures a forbidding female figure, whose footsteps along the school corridors strike terror in the hearts of all pupils within hearing distance. Roald Dahl’s popular book, Matilda, features the dreadful headmistress, Miss Trunchbull — a compulsive bully with an appearance to match. A real-life tribute that was paid to a much-admired headmistress is strangely familiar to people of my vintage: “Occasionally terrifying, sometimes surprisingly kind, always gracious, she taught me much that I didn’t understand but needed to know until long after I left (school).” This headmistress is certainly a far cry from today’s bright and cheery principal who gets her work done with doses of ‘darling’ and ‘beta’, reminding us of Charlie Brown’s warning, “Never trust a smiling teacher!” Oddly, but happily, this piece has turned out to be a shout-out to our much-misunderstood Heads. I realize that school principals deserve to be especially saluted for running the schools of our land so bravely, and against all odds. Significantly, World Principals’ Day is observed on May 1, which is also International Workers’ Day. Devi Kar is director, Modern High School for Girls, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
06-10-2021||Opinion||My people||Early in 2019, Robert O’Meally, jazz and art writer and Columbia University professor, gave a talk about a film called Paris Blues. The talk took place in Paris. O’Meally was researching a book, which is to have a chapter about the film’s ‘unruly cosmopolitanism’, as espoused by a set of musicians of various colours who found themselves in Paris in 1961, played by Sidney Poitier, Paul Newman, Louis Armstrong, and others. It’s amazing how much black and white film can filter out, and, on the other hand, how much tonal range it can cover. As O’Meally pointed out, the opening scenes during the credits, composed of stills of jazz bars, capture a cultural mix, a range of blacks and whites, that the film’s overseers and financers quickly removed from the rest of the movie. But, throughout, there was — another focus of O’Meally’s lecture — Duke Ellington’s soundtrack: black, in the way the blues and jazz are black, and yet resistant to being pinned down to ethnicity: a different colour, then, that neither had black’s political specificity alone, nor white’s wolf-in-sheep’s-clothing universality. A cosmopolitan soundtrack, but unruly too, in that it embraced, rather than transcended, location. But which location was that? To ask that question is like asking, as Byng Whittaker did in an interview with Ellington in 1964 (a clip O’Meally shared with us in his talk), who an artist’s ‘people’ or constituency might be. Cultural and ethnic background is everything to creativity, and yet there’s no simple answer to this question, as an artist — especially one that, like Ellington, engages with hybrid forms — is, at any given point of time, bringing their people into existence. “You’ve been quoted as saying that you write the music of your people as it sounds to you. Would you like to expound on that a little bit?” asks Whittaker. Ellington does an imperceptible double take, goes calculatedly blank, and tinkers eloquently with his piano, playing chords and a blues line in B flat, while repeating, in an incredulous reverie, “My people… my people …” He stops playing and says: “I was afraid you were going to do this, get me out here… and expose me to my own ignorance.” After this, he embarks on a kind of improvisation, like a musician taking stock notes and defamiliarizing them through different approaches. The stock notes here are the words, ‘my people’: “Now which of my people? I mean… you know I’m in several groups… I’m in the group of piano players… I’m in the groups of the listeners… I’m in the groups of people who have general appreciation of music. I’m in the groups of those who aspire to be dilettantes. I’m in the group of those who attempt to produce something fit for the plateau. I’m in the group of what… oh yeah, those who appreciate Beaujolais… heh heh.” Lists add up to a kind of family. But Ellington’s list, like his idea of the ‘group’, doesn’t; each of its units is a departure. With that mention of Beaujolais, both the laughter that accompanies our encounter with the unfamiliar and the matter of savouring foreignness — ‘appreciating Beaujolais’ — occur in an inappropriate context: the context of identifiability, to do with ‘one’s people’. Ellington has perhaps misunderstood what the words mean. Ellington’s improvisation reminded me immediately of two other responses — both similarly evasive and faintly belligerent — and also of a philosophical reflection on categories, of which ‘my people’ is an inescapable instance. The first comprises Bob Dylan’s replies to interviewers, at the Village Voice press meet in 1965, who are intent on discovering who his ‘influences’ are. “Was Woody Guthrie your greatest influence?” someone asks. “I don’t know that I’d say that,” says Dylan, and clarifies, “but for a spell, the idea of him affected me quite much.” After this, they quiz him about Brecht, Rimbaud, and Hank Williams; at the mention of the last name, Dylan elaborates: “Hey look, I consider Hank Williams, Captain Marvel, Marlon Brando, the Tennessee Stud, Clark Kent, Walter Cronkite and J. Carrol Naish all influences. Now what is it — please — what is it exactly you people want to know?” In an interview given to Rolling Stone magazine in San Francisco that very year, 1965, Dylan continues, like Ellington, to exhibit a special form of dyslexia in relation to the meaning of categories, and, when asked “Which poets do you dig?”, says: “Rimbaud, I guess; W.C. Fields; the family, you know, the trapeze family in the circus; Smokey Robinson; Allen Ginsberg; Charlie Rich — he’s a good poet.” As with Ellington’s list, the constituent parts have a life of their own — they go off in different directions, laughter (W.C. Fields) being one of them. Dylan, at this point, would have known that he had no ‘people’. He had a large following, but that was because his audience mistook him for a ‘folk singer’. Dylan had to create his ‘people’. In 1970, the critic, Philip Engblom, asked Arun Kolatkar, the bilingual Indian poet who had a few years ago embarked on remarkable dual oeuvres in English and Marathi, who his favourite writers were. Kolatkar’s English poetry, in an India suspicious of the colonial legacy, not only had no readers to speak of: eccentrically, Kolatkar worked hard to ensure he had as few as possible, leaving books unpublished for long periods and committing his English work to a small press in Pune which supplied his collections to a single bookshop in Bombay. It was as if, to bring his ‘people’ into existence, Kolatkar strove first to free himself of readers. For a poet so parsimonious about sharing his work, Kolatkar’s reply to Engblom is capacious: “Want me to give you a list? Whitman, Mardhekar, Manmohan, Eliot, Pound, Auden, Hart Crane, Dylan Thomas, Kafka, Baudelaire, Heine… Janabai, Eknath, Tukaram… Ramjoshi… Mandelstam… Apollinaire, Breton, Brecht… Henry Miller, Nabokov, Namdeo Dhasal, Patte Bapurav, Rabelais… Gerard Manley Hopkins… Kabir, Robert Johnson, Muddy Waters, Leadbelly… Eisenstein, Truffaut, Woody Guthrie, Laurel and Hardy.” The philosophical reflection I mentioned occurs at the beginning of Michel Foucault’s The Order of Things (1970), a work that interrogates the bases of knowledge — a knowledge we presume is universal and organic — at different points in history. “This book first arose out of a passage in Borges,” says Foucault, “out of the laughter that shattered, as I read the passage, all the familiar landmarks of my thought — our thought that bears the stamp of our age and our geography — breaking up all the ordered surfaces and all planes with which we are accustomed to tame the wild profusion of existing things.” There’s a typographical and distancing emphasis on ‘our thought’, echoing Ellington’s disbelieving repetition of ‘my people’. Which passage? It concerns a ‘certain Chinese encyclopaedia’ in which ‘“animals are divided into: (a) belonging to the Emperor, (b) embalmed, (c) tame, (d) suckling pigs, (e) sirens, (f) fabulous, (g), stray dogs, (h) included in the present classification, (i) frenzied, (j) innumerable, (k) drawn with a very fine camelhair brush, (l) et cetera, (m) having just broken the water pitcher, (n) that from a long way off look like flies”.’ Foucault says: “In the wonderment of this taxonomy, the thing we apprehend in one great leap, the thing that, by means of the fable, is demonstrated as the exotic charm of another system of thought, is the limitation of our own, the stark impossibility of thinking that.” The impossibility of thinking ‘that’ — whatever ‘that’ might be — and the ‘limitation’ of our ‘system of thought’ (‘my people’) is the point to which Ellington leads Byng Whittaker when he admits to his solidarity with the Beaujolais-lovers; laughing, and provoking laughter. This essay was first read out on A Point of View, BBC Radio 4||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
06-10-2021||Jharkhand||IIT (ISM) offers cyber security tips to social media users||The exponential increase of internet users on social India platforms in India and rapidly evolving technologies is making new challenges surface other than aggravating the existing problems of cybercrime. In view of pressing need to increase cyber hygiene to prevent cybercrimes by inculcating habits of protecting oneself from such crimes, IIT (ISM) Dhanbad has launched a series of awareness programme. A lecture series on the first Wednesday of every month has been scheduled. The first lecture was conducted by Ajay Kumar, a cyber-security and IT risk management leader, today. Speaking during the occasion, Kumar said, “There is a popular adage that ‘Prevention is better than cure’. With the exponential increase in the number of internet users on social media platforms in India, it is warranted that we use technology cautiously.” He added, “We should be very cautious while sharing any personal information on social media and also selectively welcome only request from people we know personally and never accept the friendship request of a stranger etc.” Kumar who conducted the programme online also tipped the participants of the lecture to frequently change the password of social media accounts and also advised to close down the old and unused accounts. “We should always check the privacy setting of our social media account and ensure that we only share information within out network,” said Kumar. He added that regular checking helps to prevent the security caused due to inadvertent change in the setting. Kumar also advised to select longer passwords to make it difficult for tracking and further advised users from the same password for various social media platform accounts. IIT (ISM) signed has an MoU with Oges Solutions Pvt Ltd, a leading Artificial Intelligence/Machine learning based service provider. This MOU will help IIT(ISM) in getting AI/ML expertise in projects to meet Govt of India initiative to apply leading technologies in upstream and will also expose its experts to industry problems on Oges's Knowledge Acquisition platform Oges.info. “Oges has offices in Singapore and Gurgaon(India) and is an expert in providing digital solutions to Indian companies like ONGC and Cairn (Vedanta) and to E&P companies in Oman” said Deputy Director of IIT (ISM) Shalivahan who signed the MoU on Behalf of IIT (ISM). Oges has multiple AI based solutions and offers its expertise in implementing the latest digital technologies to Indian E&P companies since 2015. The MoU on behalf of Oges Solutions Pvt Ltd was signed by its Chief Executive Officer, Saurabh Srivastav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-10-2021||Jharkhand||Archery meet: Madhya Pradesh tops the medal tally with 6, Jharkhand draws a blank||Jharkhand archers cut a sorry figure on the concluding day of the compound event at the 40th NTPC National Archery Championship being hosted at JRD Tata Sports Complex on Wednesday. Jharkhand, which failed to win a single medal on Tuesday, continued with a poor show of performance by drawing a blank on Wednesday again. The bad show disappointed the coaches and officials of Jharkhand Archery Association (JAA) who said the performance of archers was unexpected and immediate attention needs to be given to improve the show. Madhya Pradesh topped the medal tally with 6 (1 gold, 2 silver and 3 bronze -- while Delhi won 5 -- 2 gold, 1 silver and 2 bronze. All India Police Sports Control Board (AIPSCB) claimed 2 medals (1 gold and as many bronze whereas Petroleum Sports Promotion Board (PSPB) finished with 2 gold medals. Uttarakhand, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and AAI (Punjab) won 1 medal each. Delhi's Abhishek Verma and Vennam Jyoti Surekha of PSPB emerged individual champions in the men and women category. The AIPSB pair of Monali Chandraharsh Jadhao and Bhagwan Das clinched the mixed team yellow metal with a score score 155. Delhi's Pragati and Abhishek Verma bagged the silver with 152 while Raginee Marko and Chirag Vidyarthi of Madhya Pradesh managed bronze with a score of 151. The senior national meet will end with the recurve event on October 8 and 9. Olympians Deepika Kumari and her husband Atanu Das are expected to reach Jamshedpur on Thursday to participate in the event. It remains to be seen how an out-of-form Deepika performs against Jharkhand's Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat who are presently in fine form and expected to shine in the recurve competition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-10-2021||Jharkhand||IT department to set up cyber forensic labs in six districts of Jharkhand||Information and Technology and e-Governance department has prepared a proposal to set up cyber forensic laboratories at least six of the 24 districts in Jharkhand, including one in Jamtara, a district that has gained infamy over the years for being the hub of cybercrimes committed across the country, officials from the department said on Wednesday. These laboratories will be used to conduct forensic tests on various electronic gadgets (mobile phones and computers) seized by the police from scene of crime and help the law enforcement agency solve criminal cases, officials said. The laboratories, officials said, “It will also help in tracking down perpetrators of crimes committed against in the cyberspace.” According to a source in the IT and e-governance department, the labs will be set up at Deoghar, Jamshedpur, Jamtara, Palamu, Giridih and Dhanbad. The department, this source said, will also sign an MoU with the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), a government-run organisation involved in research and development works in the field of information technology. “We are working towards setting up cyber forensic labs in the state. The work is in progress at different level for its implementation in different districts,” said secretary department of IT and e-Governance, KN Jha. Several cybercriminals involved in duping people living in metro cities have been traced down to Jharkhand in the past years, said the police. Besides Jamtara, on which a Netflix series has been made, Dhanbad, Giridih, Deoghar and other districts close to the Santhal Pargana region has become a den for cyber frauds, police say. According to police, “Cyber frauds often disguise themselves as trustworthy representatives of banks and finance companies over phone calls and ask for personal banking details of their target.” “Most cyber frauds use phishing to dupe people. The devices they use can lead to other links in their racket and help nab other such criminals,” said a police official from the cyber cell of Jharkhand Police. “Once the cyber forensic labs are ready, they will be handed over to the Department of Home Affairs,” sources from the IT department said. Earlier in July this year, the Ministry of Home Affairs had commissioned at least 18 cyber forensic labs across the country for fight cybercrime and crimes against women in the cyberspace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-10-2021||Jharkhand||Water aerodrome at Chandil dam to be a reality soon||If the initiative taken by the state’s tourism department for setting up a water aerodrome in the sprawling Chandil reservoir falls in place, then the region will emerge as a major tourist attraction. Following the state tourism department’s directive, Seraikela-Kharsawan district administration on Wednesday began making a blueprint of a proposed water aerodrome at Chandil dam. The blueprint is to be submitted to the tourism department within the next fortnight so that the water aerodrome may get functional as early as possible. Revealing about the ambitious project, Seraikela-Kharsawan deputy commissioner, Arava Rakkamal confirmed the news of the blueprint being made for the setting up of a water aerodrome at the Chandil dam. “We will submit a blueprint for the water aerodrome at the Chandil dam to the state tourism department within the next 15 days.  It is a good project in view of tourism as well as disaster management. We are working on the project on priority basis,” said Rakkamal while talking to The Telegraph Online. He said, “Tourists from Bengal, Odisha and Bihar besides Jharkhand come in large numbers, but after a water aerodrome is set up more tourists will visit the place for enjoying the aviation in the reservoir.” The deputy commissioner mentioned that it is a project of the Union Civil Aviation department. “Recently, the Union Civil Aviation department had shared a circular with the state tourism department. Following which, Amitabh Kaushal who is secretary, state tourism department, had asked us to send a blueprint on the Chandil dam which is the most suitable reservoir for such a project. We are, therefore, preparing the blueprint to be sent to the tourism secretary who is also the nodal officer of the project,” the deputy commissioner stated. He said, “Once the project gets the green signal they will start boosting the hospitality sector in Chandil keeping in view of the tourists’ inflow.” Located about 30 kms away from Jamshedpur, Chandil dam is along the NH-33 in Seraikela-Kharsawan district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-10-2021||Jharkhand||No community Durga Puja for steel city’s Circuit House Area||It’s no pandal, no idols and no rituals once again for the posh Circuit House Area of Jamshedpur. For the second consecutive year, the Northern Town and Circuit House Area Durga Puja Committee has decided to skip the festivities due to the pandemic. “We in consultation with our members have decided against holding any community Durga Puja this year too. We consider it as Goddess Durga’s wish for people to stay safe,” said a notice issued by the puja committee on Wednesday. The arch-shaped Durga Puja pandal at the Circuit House Area ground is a favourite meeting place for the affluent and VIPs.  It is also known for its bhog and cultural programmes like plays, the traditional dhunuchi naach and other musical extravaganza. Joint secretary of the committee, Umesh Dubey said, “We want people to stay safe and avoid going to mass gatherings. Pandal hoppers, especially all VIPs make it a point to visit our Puja. Apprehending a rush, we have decided to skip this year's Puja too.” According to him, the community Durga Puja at the Circuit House ground is being organised ever since its inception in 1947. This is the 74th year. It is one of the oldest pujas of steel city which draws a huge crowd. Local residents were disappointed, with the organisers giving it a miss. “Every year I along with my family spent considerable amount of time at the Circuit House Area Puja which provides a perfect ambience. We chat with our friends and enjoy the cultural shows. Last year we missed the Puja because of the pandemic. This year too we are disappointed to know that the organisers have taken a decision to skip the Puja,” said Aniruddh Lahiri, a businessman who stays at the Circuit House Area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-10-2021||Jharkhand||LIFE promises to help green crusaders in their legal battle||An environmental outfit, Legal Initiative for Forest and Environment (LIFE), has promised to help green crusaders of Jharkhand in their legal battle against violators of environment laws. During a workshop on environmental challenges before Jharkhand, organised jointly by LIFE and local environmental outfit Yugantar Bharti in Jamshedpur on Sunday, Delhi-based trustee and scientific adviser to LIFE, Rakesh Kumar Singh, said their organisation was ready to provide legal assistance to crusaders against violators of environmental norms. “The objective behind hosting such a workshop in Jamshedpur, the country’s first planned city, was to make those individuals who have an inclination for an environmental cause, aware about the glaring environmental violations by corporate houses. Now if the crusaders want to take up the issues we are ready to provide them legal assistance at the appropriate forum,” said Singh, who hails from Jamshedpur and has lodged cases against several instances of violation of environmental norms in Saranda and other parts of Jharkhand. He said that they would be hosting similar workshops in state capital Ranchi and in Dhanbad which is ranked among the cities with the worst air pollution in the country. One of the early successes of LIFE, one of the recipients of the 2021 Right Livelihood Award (to be presented in Stockholm in December) has been a case against the mining giant Vedanta in Odisha, which became a precedent-setting judgment. The Supreme Court recognised that the local community’s consent was required for such a project to commence. “Environment clearance compliance status is very poor for big corporate houses operating in Jamshedpur. As per Environmental Clearance (EC) norms, the compliance report should be easily displayed in the website. Even online emission data is also not present, which as per the EIA notification, should be put up on the websites of corporate houses. It also not present on the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board website,” said Singh. The workshop also pointed out that corporate houses have violated environmental clearance norms by extending their area of operation. “We also found that corporate environmental responsibility (CER) expenditure is not in the public domain. As per the government notification, CER expenditure should not be used for pollution control as work done for pollution control comes under environment management plan. Unfortunately, there is no transparency shown on this front by the corporate units in Jamshedpur,” alleged Singh. The participants were also informed about the difference between CER and corporate social responsibility (CSR). Jamshedpur East MLA and former cabinet minister Saryu Roy, who inaugurated the workshop, spoke about the poor air quality in Jamshedpur and prevailing conditions of the Subaranarekha and Kharkai rivers. He once again reiterated the urgent and dire need for restoration of the environment in this region, without which it will be difficult for the people to survive. He also raised the issue of illegal constructions being carried out by government departments, which according to him, needs immediate attention.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
06-10-2021||Jharkhand||Two-day workshop on child sexual victims in Ranchi||A sexually abused child undergoes physical, psychological and emotional stress and should be dealt with utmost care so that the victim is not traumatised further. A two-day workshop on “The role of child mental health professionals in child and law issues” that concluded at the Central Institute of Psychiatry (CIP) in Ranchi on Tuesday cautioned the participants saying the same and emphasising the need for keeping the victims’ tender age in mind. The workshop was organised jointly by the Centre for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (CCAP) of CIP and Support, Advocacy and Mental Health Interventions for Children in Vulnerable Circumstances and Distress (Samvad) of the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (Nimhans), Bangalore, and was conducted by professor Shekhar Sheshadri of Nimhans and his team comprising doctors Sheela Ramaswamy and Kriti Tikko. While “Child sexual abuse and understanding and implementation of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act 2012” was discussed on Monday, “Children in conflict with law” was the topic for the concluding day. “Children comprise a large part of our population but mental health services made available to them are still meagre,” CIP director Dr Basudeb Das told The Telegraph while explaining the need for such discussions. Unfortunately, many cases of child abuse go unreported as the perpetrators in such cases are well known to the victims, if not close relatives, he pointed out, adding the victims are not only shy of reporting but also afraid in many cases. “In many cases, the mothers of the victims are forced to keep silence as they don’t have economic independence and as such can’t muster courage to go against the powerful male relatives or providers,” he explained. But the crime can be put in check only if the case is pursued well under the provisions of the Pocso Act, Dr Das further said, adding that would be possible only if the psychiatrists who are involved know the Act well and make string reports. That was why the participants were advised to understand the Pocso Act well and document such cases carefully, informed Dr Nishant Goyal who is in charge of CCAP at CIP. “Psychiatrists should behave with the victims in a friendly and informal way so that they feel confident and open up for discussing the cases,” he said, adding that would help document such cases in a convincing way. Psychiatrists are often invited to assess such cases and give expert opinion, Dr Goyal said, adding they could do the job better if they know the law well and make an assessment accordingly, he further said explaining why they should understand the legal obligations. “It’s the same while dealing with children in conflict with law,” said Dr Das, adding in that case the psychiatrists have to be conversant with the provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act 2015.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
06-10-2021||Jharkhand||Tribals not to give land for DVC's coal mining||Tribal residents of several villages in Latehar facing displacement due to the Damodar Valley Corporation’s 6MTPA coal mining project have given the call of na jaan denge, na zamin denge (will not give life, nor give land). Several tribal outfits namely Adihak Bhumi Raksha Morcha, Adivasi Sena, Jharkhand Rajya Visthapith Punarvasith Jan Aayog and Jharkhand Bachao Andolan have jumped into the fray in support of the villagers, who are adamant about not parting with their lands for the project. “It is a conspiracy of the PSU DVC to displace the tribals from their ancestral land. We have compiled the list of villages that were acquired by the DVC for their projects but are yet to clear compensation to the affected villagers. “Now they want to do the same in this Oraon dominated area as part of the Central government agenda to wipe out the tribal identity of the local people. We will not let it happen,” said Harendra Oraon, a native of Tubed village which is one of the villages to be acquired for the project. The tribal outfits will be going to the villagers listed for acquisition for the coal mining project of the DVC on October 9. “We will be meeting the villagers and chalk out future course of agitation taking them into confidence on October 9. While on October 11 we will be meeting JMM senior leader and MLA Stephen Marandi who chairs the Assembly committee formed to probe into tribal land transfers illegally and apprise him about the apprehension of the tribals. “We might also stage series of agitation in Ranchi and Latehar against the acquisition of land for the project,” said Adivasi Sena president Ajay Kachyap. In the first phase, as many as six villages will be affected by this project from which 6 million tonnes of coal is expected every year for 30 years. The affected villages include Ambajharan, Dhoniajharan, Dihi, Nawari, Mangra and Tubed (all in Latehar). “Around 7,000 people belonging to the Oraon tribe will get affected. Apart from this, 750 villages will be affected by different other plans under the coal mining project in different stages which includes diversion of course of the Sukri river, constructing 20 feet roads and laying railway tracks for the project,” said Vasvi Kiro, a tribal activist and former member of State Commission for Women and member of the Jharkhand Rajya Visthapith Punarvasith Jan Aayog. The coal project is being established to cater to the needs of a 1,000MW power project in West Bengal and 250MW power project in Chandrapura. An area of 750 acres of land is likely to get involved in the project on which Rs 1,300 crore is likely to be spent every year. Significantly, DVC obtained environmental clearance from the ministry of the forest environment and climate change for the Tubaid Coal  Mine Project in April 2020 and have offered revised rates of compensation to lure villagers. “The corporation has offered to pay Rs 27,36,700 for per acre of agricultural land and Rs 54,73,500 for per acre of residential plots. “In addition, offers were made for shifting allowance, house in R&R colony and absorption of the local workforce in the project. But some vested interest people are creating a disturbance,” said a senior DVC official associated with the project. Chief engineer, DVC Latehar, Subir Mukherjee, however, exuded confidence about the fate of the project. “We will settle all contentious issues amicably with the people and the project will kick-start soon,” said Mukherjee. As per coal block allotment data, the project is spread in 460 hectares which comprises 230 hectares of agriculture land, 162.4 hectares of forestland, 39 hectares of wasteland, 22 hectares of surface waterbodies and settlements spread over 1 hectare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
