07-10-2021||Business||Sensex surges 488 points amid global rally||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 488 points on Thursday, tracking gains in Titan, TCS and ICICI Bank amid a positive trend in global equities. The 30-share BSE index ended 488.10 points or 0.82 per cent higher at 59,677.83. Similarly, the NSE Nifty rose 144.35 points or 0.82 per cent to 17,790.35. Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, zooming over 10 per cent, followed by M&M, Maruti, IndusInd Bank, Asian Paints, Sun Pharma, HCL, TCS, Tech Mahindra and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, HDFC, Bajaj Finserv, Nestle India and HUL were among the laggards. "Bulls stepped up the accelerator ahead of the RBI policy, led by the auto Index which was up 4.5 per cent in afternoon trade. As the festive season commenced we saw heightened activity in textiles, consumer durables and real estate stocks," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. The IT Index lent good support ahead of earnings starting on Friday. "While the street would be keen to watch the RBI stance tomorrow, the market breadth was very good with the small and midcap indices buzzing with optimism," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with significant gains. Shanghai was closed for holidays. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.97 per cent to USD 80.29 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
07-10-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 500 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in Reliance Industries, Titan and ICICI Bank amid a positive trend in global equities. The 30-share Sensex was trading 571.25 points or 0.97 per cent higher at 59,760.98. Similarly, the Nifty rose 164.25 points or 0.93 per cent to 17,810.25. All Sensex components were trading on a positive note. Titan was the top gainer, soaring nearly 9 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, M&M, Maruti, Asian Paints, Reliance Industries and L&T. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 555.15 points or 0.93 per cent lower at 59,189.73, and Nifty tumbled 176.30 points or 0.99 per cent to 17,646. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 802.81 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. "Nifty's range of 17,500- 18,000 is likely to be broken in the next few days. Outcomes of probable Taper timelines, MPC meeting and Q2 results are likely to be market moving," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. An area of concern is the MPC sounding caution on the inflation front and gradually moving away from accommodative monetary policy, he said, adding that the Central bank will have to initiate measures to absorb the excess liquidity in the system. Globally, the US Fed's communication on the Taper timeline, which in turn will be influenced by the non-farm payrolls data, will be keenly watched by the markets, he noted. "While the bears swear by the elevated valuations in the markets, the bulls are optimistic about the prospects of steady rise in corporate earnings for the next 3 to 4 years," he pointed out. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Shanghai was closed for the holidays. Stock exchanges in the US also ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.60 per cent to USD 80.59 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
07-10-2021||Business||Performance and financial bank guarantee requirements slashed for telecom operators||The Department of Telecom has slashed the performance and financial bank guarantee requirements of telecom operators by 80 per cent, which will improve the cash reserves of Vodafone Idea and other operators. The amendment has been made in old telecom licences in the UASL (Unified Access Services licensee) category and new licences that were started in 2012 — the unified licence (UL) category. Under the amended norms in UL, the operators will be required to provide a performance bank guarantee (PBG) of up to Rs 44 crore for each service for the telecom licence compared with Rs 220 crore under the old rule. They will have to give a financial bank guarantee (FBG) of maximum Rs 8.8 crore per circle now, against the previous requirement of Rs 44 crore. The rule will not be applicable in cases where bank guarantees (BG) have been furnished because of any court order or are subject to any litigation, the licence amendment note said. In UASL, there were three different amounts of financial bank guarantees that were charged — Rs 50 crore for each A category telecom circle, Rs 25 crore for B service area and Rs 5 crore for C category circles — that has been reduced to 20 per cent through the amendment, which has been issued with immediate effect. “The PBGs and FBGs of existing licensees shall be revised to 20 per cent of the current total amount held by the licensor...,” the amendment note for UASL said. The new rules will not apply to telecom operators, who are currently going through the liquidation process. “Through the amendment in license agreements, telecom service providers will be eased off the huge burdens of bank guarantees and will enable the availability of more funding for the expansion of the telecom network,” S.P. Kochhar, the director-general of the Cellular Operators Association of India said. Telecom FDI The government on Wednesday notified its decision to permit 100 per cent foreign direct investment (FDI) under automatic route in the telecom services sector. In a press note, it said foreign investment in telecom services will be subject to the condition of Press Note 3 of 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
07-10-2021||Business||ZEE moves NCLAT for more time to file reply to EGM plea||Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd (ZEEL) on Wednesday moved the NCLAT seeking more time to file a reply over the requisition of minority shareholders Invesco and OFI Global China Fund to convene an extraordinary general meeting (EGM). The petition filed by Zee has been listed for hearing on Thursday before a two-member bench of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) comprising Justice Jarat K Jain and Alok Srivastava. According to the industry insiders, Zee has sought more time to file a reply over the petition filed by its minority shareholders Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund and sought a stay over the proceedings going before the Mumbai bench of the NCLT. On Tuesday, the NCLT had directed ZEEL to give a reply over the petition filed by its minority shareholders by October 7 (Thursday), the next date of hearing. Invesco Developing Markets Fund (formerly Invesco Oppenheimer Developing Markets Fund) along with OFI Global China Fund LLC hold 17.88 per cent stake in ZEEL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
07-10-2021||Business||Cooking gas, petrol and diesel prices raised||State-owned oil firms have increased the price of cooking gas by Rs 15 per cylinder, while petrol and diesel rates saw their steepest increase in recent weeks, pushing prices to all-time high across the country. Cooking gas now costs Rs 899.50 per cylinder in Delhi and Mumbai, and Rs 926 in Calcutta, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In 2021, the price of a 14.2 kg non-subsidised LPG cylinder has been hiked by Rs 205.50. The government has through periodic increases eliminated subsidies on LPG in most cities. Domestic household kitchens, which are entitled to 12 cylinders of 14.2-kg each at subsidised rates in a year, and Ujjwala beneficiaries, who got free connections, now pay the market price. A 5-kg LPG cylinder now costs Rs 502. The price of LPG sold by Saudi Arabia has gone up steeply, from $483 a tonne in May to $797 in October. Fuel rates The price of petrol was increased by 30 paise per litre and diesel by 35 paise a litre. This is the steepest daily increase in recent weeks and follows international oil prices touching a seven-year high. The petrol price in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 102.94 a litre and to Rs 108.96 in Mumbai, the notification showed. Diesel rates too touched a record high of Rs 91.42 in Delhi and Rs 99.17 per litre in Mumbai. Petrol now costs Rs 103.65 per litre in Calcutta and Rs 100.49 per litre in Chennai, respectively. While diesel sells for Rs 94.53 per litre in Calcutta, it costs Rs 95.93 per litre in Chennai. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes.? “The increase in crude oil price in the last few days has been caused by the sharp increase in demand as well as constraints on supply...The oncoming winter season tends to put pressure on prices in normal times too. Of late the power shortage in some geographies especially China has been caused by supply chain issues regarding coal. This in turn has increased the demand for oil,” Care Ratings said. India imports around 4.5-5 barrels per day which for the second half of the year would be 820-910 barrels. Intuitively $ 10/barrel will mean an increase in the import bill by $ 8.2- $ 9.1 bn for this period. In FY20 the oil bill was $ 130 billion and in FY21 $ 82.4 billion. In the first 6 months of FY22, oil imports were $ 70.5 billion and hence assuming a similar quantum would be imported in the second quarter there would be an increase in the half yearly bill by 11.6% to 12.9%. This will tend to impact the trade deficit too. The trade deficit for the first half was around $ 75.7 billion, it said. The share of petrol and diesel is 4.7% in WPI and combined with other products which are related to crude oil would have a weight of 9.62%. The share of petrol and diesel in the CPI is 2.33% while other related products especially for conveyance is 6.33%. “The pass through of higher prices in the CPI to the transport sector which can in turn have an indirect impact on other commodity prices,” the rating firm said, expressing concern over the inflationary pressure in the economy. The seventh increase in fuel rates by oil firms since the ending of a nearly three-week hiatus has sent petrol prices above Rs 100 a litre in most major cities of the country. International oil prices rallied to their highest level since 2014, following a decision by OPEC+ to maintain its planned gradual increase of supply, despite the market facing an energy crunch. Global benchmark Brent jumped to USD 82.92 per barrel, while West Texas Intermediate rose to USD 79.25 a barrel. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. A month back Brent was around USD 72 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
07-10-2021||Business||SC suspends Tihar jail officials, orders investigation||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered immediate suspension and a comprehensive criminal investigation against certain Tihar jail officials for allegedly conniving with ex-Unitech promoters — Sanjay and Ajay Chandra —  in running an illegal parallel secret office from within the prison . A bench of Justices D.Y.Chandrachud and M.R.Shah passed the directions after some heated exchanges with senior advocate Vikas Singh appearing for the Chandra brothers, who remarked that the court would “repent” if it passes orders in the Unitech row without hearing the version of the arrested promoters. The directions were passed pursuant to a report submitted by Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana, stating that an investigation by police had revealed a nexus between the Chandra brothers and certain jail officials in the running of a secret office from the jail by the brothers. On August 26, the bench had expressed shock and anger over the manner in which the capital’s highly fortified Tihar jail has become a “haven” for unlawful activities as it ordered the immediate transfer of the Chandra brothers to Mumbai jails. The court ordered Sanjay Chandra to be shifted to Mumbai’s Arthur Road Jail and Ajay Chandra to Taloja. In December 2019, the apex court had directed the Centre to forthwith take over the management of real estate giant Unitech by  appointing  independent directors following a forensic audit that found the group to have diverted around Rs 5,000 crore of home buyers' money. The diversion affected the completion of at least 74 of its projects, affecting the interests of 12,000 buyers in different parts of the country particularly, Gurgaon and Noida bordering Delhi. The two key promoters, Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra, are in jail since 2017 over the alleged diversion but often managed to come out on bail or parole and even otherwise operating from within jail. When the matter came up for hearing on Wednesday senior advocate Vikas Singh argued that his client cannot be subjected to any adverse orders without being given copies of the forensic auditor. “…how long will this ex parte (without hearing the other side) hearing go on? I am the second-largest real estate developer who has built around five crore square feet area and over 1 lakh units,” Singh asked the bench during the hearing. Justice Chandrachud said “This is not an ex parte hearing. You (accused) are not entitled to peruse the case diary.” Later, the bench passed an order directing a criminal investigation into the alleged connivance of the jail officials with the Chandra brothers as stated by the Delhi Police Commissioner’s report. The Commissioner in his report had stated that a criminal case be registered under the Prevention of Corruption Act against the officials of the Tihar jail. “….We direct that officials of Tihar jail who were prima facie found to be complicit will be suspended for the time being till the pendency of proceeding.” The court also turned down the request of Singh for a copy of the forensic auditor’s report. Singh responded saying “I don't want your Lordships to repent later on that you did not take timely action. I am sure the court has nothing personal against the Chandras…I should have been given the Grant Thornton report. I should have been able to show that there is no diversion of funds…. If in the trial it is found that there is no diversion of funds, then can the clock be turned backwards and put time back into my hand?” the senior counsel asked. “Shouldn't the Grant Thornton report be given to me now itself.” the senior counsel asked. However, a visibly annoyed Justice Chandrachud removed his mask and expressed strong displeasure at Singh’s arguments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
07-10-2021||Business||Coinswitch becomes India's most valued crypto company||Crypto platform Coinswitch Kuber on Wednesday said it has raised $260 million (Rs 1,943 crore) in a funding round, valuing it at $ 1.9 billion. Coinswitch has now become the most valued crypto company in the country and the second entity to achieve the unicorn status after rival CoinDCX which was valued at $ 1.1 billion in August. A unicorn is a privately held start-up which is valued at over $ 1 billion. The Reserve Bank has expressed concerns over the spread of crypto currencies, though its use is growing among investors. Coinswitch has raised the money in a C-series funding from Andreessen Horowitz (a16z), Coinbase Ventures and existing investors Paradigm, Ribbit Capital, Sequoia Capital India and Tiger Global. The company said it was targeting to bring 5 crore Indians on its platform. Recently, it said it has registered 1 crore users to become the country’s largest crypto platform since starting operations in June 2020. Of this, close to 70 lakh users were classified as monthly active. The funds will be utilised to hire skilled personnel for [roduct development and data purposes. It will add new asset classes and bring institutional clients with the funds. Founded by Ashish Singhal, Sagar Vimal, and Govind Soni, Coinswitch Kuber allows investors to start trading in cryptocurrencies with investment of as low as Rs 100 on its platform. There is no brokerage or any lock-in period. According to its website, investors can buy, sell and trade in more than 100 cryptocurrencies on its platform.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
07-10-2021||Business||Rupee witnesses biggest single-day drop in six months ||Indian markets were caught in a global selloff on Wednesday as hardening crude oil prices and supply chain bottlenecks stoked fears of rising inflation crimping economic recovery around the world. A depreciating rupee, which plunged 54 paise against the dollar, added to the woes. Snapping its two-day winning run, the 30-share BSE Sensex slumped 555.15 points, or 0.93 per cent, to close at 59189.73. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 176.30 points or 0.99 per cent to 17646. “Weak global markets, which resulted in profit booking in metals and IT stocks, led domestic indices to trade in the red, trimming its early gains. Spike in crude prices is spooking the Indian market while inflation is affecting US bond yields,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. S. Hariharan, head-sales trading, Emkay Global Financial Services, said the global backdrop is worrisome with surging energy prices, slowing demand conditions and a global supply chain crunch across basic materials. “Should central banks respond to rising inflation expectations by paring bond purchases and tightening monetary conditions, that could act as a trigger for sudden re-pricing of risk assets,” he added. Rupee, bonds feel heat Rupee and bonds continued to feel the heat of firm crude oil prices, with the domestic currency witnessing its biggest single-day drop in six months, and yields on the benchmark 10 year bond rising to an 18 month high. The rupee on Wednesday came close to the 75 per dollar mark as international crude prices went past $83 per barrel (though it dropped later), stoking concerns about its impact on inflation and India’s current account deficit. At the inter-bank foreign exchange market, the rupee opened at 74.63 and touched a day’s low of 74.99 against the greenback. It finally settled at 74.98 to a dollar, down 54 paise over its previous close. This was the lowest closing for the rupee since April 23 this year. “The rupee weakened against the dollar on Wednesday because Brent crude moved near three-year highs, which prompted some banks to buy dollars on behalf of oil marketing companies. The dollar also rose against major currencies as investors turned their focus to non-farm payrolls report in the US for September, due on Friday, for cues on when the US. “Better than expected jobs data could pave the way for tapering of the Fed's asset purchases, which will weigh on the Indian rupee,’’ IFA Global said in a note. Meanwhile, yields on the benchmark 10-year bond came close to 6.29 per cent — a nearly 18 month high. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions. It later ended at 6.28 per cent against its previous close of 6.26 per cent. All eyes of the bond markets are now on the monetary policy due to be announced on Friday. Though the RBI is not expected to hike the policy repo rate and maintain its accommodative stance, it could take steps to mop up some of the surplus liquidity. The market is also expecting the central bank to come up with a roadmap on normalising the excess liquidity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
07-10-2021||Business||Union cabinet approves 78-day bonus pay to rail staff||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved a productivity-linked bonus equivalent to 78 days’ wage to eligible non-gazetted railway employees. The bonus for the financial year 2020-21 will benefit about 11.56 lakh employees. An expenditure of nearly Rs 1,985 crore will be incurred to pay the bonus. The bonus is usually announced ahead of Dussehra and Pujas. The wage calculation ceiling prescribed for the payment of the bonus is Rs 7,000 per month. The maximum amount payable per eligible railway employee is Rs. 17,951 for 78 days. Railway Board chairman and chief operating officer Suneet Sharma said that the bonus will be disbursed as usual before Dussehra. He said that the railways had also taken care of the kin of the personnel who had died from the coronavirus. Over 2,800 people have been given jobs on compassionate grounds, Sharma said. In case the children of those who have died are minors, they will be eligible to get a railway job once they turn 18. Around 3,256 rail officials have died due to Covid-19 since March 2020. The productivity-linked bonus covers all non-gazetted railway employees (excluding RPF/RPSF personnel). Last year, Indian Railways had also disbursed a bonus of 78 days’ wage after the cabinet had approved productivity and non-productivity-linked bonus for 2019-2020 to more than 30 lakh PSU staff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
07-10-2021||Business||Government to set up 7 integrated textile parks ||The government on Wednesday approved setting up of seven mega integrated textile regions and apparel parks (PM Mitra) for a total outlay of Rs 4,445 crore over five years. The project could potentially create 21 lakh jobs and boost production and export-led growth. “PM Mitra will offer an opportunity to create an integrated textiles value chain right from spinning, weaving, processing/dyeing and printing to garment manufacturing at one location,” textiles minister Piyush Goyal told reporters after the cabinet meeting. He added the park will reduce the logistics cost of industry as the entire value chain of textiles is scattered and fragmented in different parts of the country. While cotton is grown in Gujarat and Maharashtra, spinning takes place in Tamil Nadu and processing happens in Rajasthan and Gujarat and exports are done from Mumbai and Kandla. The minister added that PM Mitra parks would be set up at varied greenfield and brownfield sites in participating states. He said the participation of states would be voluntary. The government would be extending a development capital support of Rs 500 crore to all greenfield projects and Rs 200 crore to brownfield projects under the scheme. The idea here is to facilitate the common infrastructure of the park which has been pegged at 30 percent of the total project cost. Further, Rs 300 crore would be extended as competitiveness incentive support. “For a Greenfield PM MITRA park, the GOI Development Capital Support will be 30% of the Project Cost, with a cap of 500 crore. For Brownfield sites, after assessment, Development Capital Support 30% of project cost of balance infrastructure and other support facilities to be developed and restricted to a limit of Rs. 200 Crore,” he stated. The idea behind these investments is to make the projects viable and attractive for private sector participation. The parks would have to allocate 50 per cent area for pure manufacturing activity, 20 per cent for utilities and 10 per cent for commercial development. Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) Chairman Dr A Sakthivel said the scheme will help India regain its global leadership position in the textile industry. “It will attract massive foreign and domestic investment in the sector making it globally competitive while helping create lakhs of jobs….will increase its annual exports to over $100 billion in the next few years. The sector, which is the second largest employment generator in the country, alone will play a major role in realizing Aatma nirbhar Bharat,” he said. The parks would be collectively owned by the state and central governments in a Public-private partnership (PPP) model. The master developer would also be responsible for maintaining the park during the construction period. The selection of the developer would be based on criteria that would be jointly laid out by state and central governments. It was pointed out that Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Assam Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana have expressed their interest in setting up such parks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
07-10-2021||Business||Inflation cloud over RBI bi-monthly monetary policy rate meet ||The RBI’s rate-setting panel started its three-day deliberations on the next bi-monthly monetary policy on Wednesday amid rising global commodity prices and the need to contain inflation at home. The decision of the six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) would be announced on Friday by RBI governor Shaktikanta Das. Experts are of the view that the central bank will maintain the status quo on policy rates for the eighth time in a row. The policy repo rate or the short-term lending rate is at 4 per cent, and the reverse repo rate is 3.35 per cent. Ranen Banerjee, leader (public finance and economics) at PwC India, said the latest statements by the US Fed Chair on possible actions if inflation does not wear off by the first half of 2022 is a clear commencement of chatter around rate action after the clarity on taper timing. “This will have a bearing on the stance of the MPC as it will also be worried on the inflation front given that oil, natural gas and coal prices show no signs of abetting and rather have an upward bias,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
07-10-2021||India||Watch out in Oct, Nov, Dec: Health Ministry's warning over Covid-19||A senior Health Ministry official on Friday warned citizens about the threat of a resurgence in Covid-19 cases during the upcoming festival and wedding season, and advised them to avoid crowded places and celebrate festivals virtually. He cautioned people by saying, “Please watch your October, November, December”. Asserting repeatedly that the second wave of the pandemic is not over yet, the government said that though the situation is plateauing, the country is still reporting as high as 20,000-odd new infections every day. “We cannot take the current stable situation for granted. We have to be mindful of the fact that the pandemic is going on and can take an untoward turn if we are not careful,” an official said at a joint media briefing. Warning people about the threat of Covid -19 resurgence during the coming festival and wedding season, Health Ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said, “Please watch your October, November, December.” He advised people to avoid crowded places and unnecessary travel and to stay home, celebrate festivals virtually and explore online modes of shopping. The government said that Kerala recorded 50 per cent of the total coronavirus cases in the country last week. Kerala has over lakh active cases currently and the figure in four other states is ranging between 10,000 and 50,000. It said five states — Mizoram, Kerala, Sikkim, Manipur and Meghalaya — are reporting a weekly positivity rate of over five per cent. Thirty-four districts across nine states and union territories are reporting a weekly positivity rate of more than 10 per cent, according to the government. Twenty-eight districts across 12 states and UTs are reporting a weekly positivity rate between 5 and 10 per cent. The government said 71 per cent of India's adult population have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, while 27 per cent have got both doses. Listing its preparations to tackle any surge in coronavirus infections, the government said 8.36 lakh hospital beds are currently available in the country for Covid-19 patients, in addition to nearly one million isolation beds in dedicated care centres. It said 4.86 oxygen-supported beds and 1.35 lakh ICU beds are available. “We are prepared to face a daily surge of 4.5-5 lakh Covid-19 cases,” an official said. The official said there is no issue of vaccine availability in the country now. With 22,431 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India’s total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,38,94,312, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Thursday. The number of deaths climbed to 4,49,856 with 318 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
07-10-2021||India||Science relating to booster doses of Covid vaccines still evolving: Centre||The science relating to the use of booster doses of COVID-19 vaccines is still evolving and the developments are being closely watched, the government said on Thursday.  NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said there are several studies that are looking into the subject of booster doses.  "This is an evolving science and a paradigm of information...that data is still emerging. We are watching this science very very carefully through our NTAGI system. We know that COVAXIN has done a study on booster doses and those results can be available anytime. We are also aware that although the antibody can disappear, the presence of T-cell immunity is a huge protection that also has to be accounted for," he said.  "We also know that WHO has not given a clear-cut recommendation on the matter. The situation is that it is an evolving, learning phase and we are watching science as it emanates and in India also, there are studies which are looking at this aspect," Paul told reporters at a press briefing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
07-10-2021||India||Not attended in 5 years, says Varun Gandhi, dropped from top BJP body||BJP MP Varun Gandhi — who had made headlines with his sharply critical  tweets about the death of farmers in UP’s Lakhimpur Khiri — on Thursday brushed off his exclusion from the BJP’s 80-member national executive. “I have not attended a single NEC for the last five years. I do not think I was on it,” the 41-year-old who has been with the party for 17 years, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The names of Gandhi and his mother Maneka Gandhi did not feature in the list made public by the BJP on Thursday. There were two other omissions — Subramanian Swamy, who was seen as being critical of the party of late and former Union minister Birender Singh, who was also seen as sympathetic towards the farmers' protests against the Centre's farm laws. Many Union ministers and veteran leaders like LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi have made It to the list. Varun Gandhi was the only BJP leader to speak up on the Lakhimpur Kheri issue, in which the son of a BJP Union minister has been accused of murder. Ashish Mishra, the son of BJP's junior home minister Ajay Mishra, has not been arrested.  Earlier today, the Uttar Pradesh police summoned him for questioning. Gandhi not only demanded "accountability" in the issue, he also wrote to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath,  seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation and  ₹ 1 crore compensation for the families of the farmers who died. “Protestors cannot be silenced through murder. There has to be accountability for the innocent blood of farmers that has been spilled and justice must be delivered before a message of arrogance and cruelty enters the minds of every farmer,” he tweeted, posting a video of the horrific moment an SUV, coming from behind at a high speed, ploughed through farmers holding a peaceful protest. While a section of BJP leaders called the omission of him and Maneka Gandhi a "routine rejig", others admitted that he had upset the senior leadership of the party with his criticism. "He projected as if the entire fault lies at the doorsteps of the leaders. We are awaiting the investigation report and believe that incident was unfortunate. He should have been patient at a time when the entire opposition is targeting the party," ANI quoted a senior BJP leader as saying. "There are other senior leaders from UP who have become part of the council in their place. There are at least ten. They must have lost their utility or relevance. We have seen the statements of the son on various occasions. It is after all the party's decision," ANI quoted another leader from Uttar Pradesh as saying. Both Ajay Mishra and his son have denied that they were present at the spot, though the minister told NDTV that the SUV belonged to his family. Amid opposition demands that he step down, Mishra met his boss, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday. Government sources have ruled out any resignation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
07-10-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu and several other Punjab Congress leaders detained at UP police station||Several Punjab Congress leaders, including Navjot Singh Sidhu, were on Thursday prevented from heading to Lakhimpur Kheri and were detained at a police station in Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh.  Earlier in the day, a large number of party workers, leaders, including several ministers and legislators assembled in Mohali here and headed towards Lakhimpur Kheri in their vehicles to protest against the killing of farmers during violence in the UP district. The protestors led by Sidhu were stopped at the Haryana-Uttar Pradesh border where UP police had put up barricades.  Several party leaders Sidhu and ministers Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Vijay Inder Singla, among others were arguing with senior police officials for not letting them proceed.  Sidhu asked police officials to take action against perpetrators of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident rather than stopping public representatives.  He slammed UP police for not arresting the son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra.  According to the protesting Congress leaders, UP police officials told them that they could allow only five persons to Lakhimpur Kheri. But the party leaders insisted on allowing ministers and MLAs from Punjab.  Later, UP police took Sidhu; ministers Vijay Inder Singla, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Pargat Singh; several MLAs, including Madan Lal Jalalpur, Fateh Jang Bajwa, Raj Kumar Chhabbewal, Harjot Kamal, Rajinder Singh; and Punjab Congress working presidents Kuljit Nagra and Pawan Goel to Sarsawa police station, Saharanpur in a bus, said an official.  Punjab Congress working president Sukhwinder Singh Danny had earlier said they would stage a sit-in wherever they were stopped from heading towards Lakhimpur Kheri.  Congress legislator Sunder Sham Arora had said they were ready for courting arrest if prevented from going to UP.  Before the protest march, a group of farmers showed black flags to Sidhu's cavalcade when it was on its way from Patiala to Mohali.  Sidhu has demanded the arrest of MoS Home Mishra's son in connection with the death of farmers during violence in UP, saying he would go on hunger strike if action is not taken against him by Friday.  Mishra's son has been booked for allegedly mowing down four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. However, the union minister has denied allegations about his son's involvement in the case.  Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi also joined Sidhu for a brief period when the march was about to start.  Before the protest march Thursday, Sidhu, who was holding a farmers' flag, slammed the BJP-led government in UP over violence in Lakhimpur Kheri that took lives of eight people.  Sidhu said Punjab Congress and party MLAs are standing firmly with the farmers.  He asked why UP authorities hadn't taken action against Mishra's son even after an FIR was lodged in the matter.  Are union minister and his son above the law and constitution? he asked.  This fight is for our farmers, he said, adding: If UP police do not arrest the union minister's son, I will go on hunger strike. It is my 'vachan' (promise)."  Later, he said, If the arrest is not made by tomorrow (Friday), or he does not join the investigation, I will go on a hunger strike."  Sidhu described Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi as saviours of democracy. Meanwhile, Haryana Congress leaders, including Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Kiran Chaudhary, who started their march from Panipat were also not allowed to move ahead from the Haryana-UP border. They were led by Kumari Selja.  Four of the eight people who died in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area.  Two BJP workers, Mishra's driver, and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel, were also killed in the incident.  While the first three were allegedly lynched by agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering farmers' protest against Maurya's visit to Mishra's native place.  No arrests have been made in connection with the case so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
07-10-2021||India||SC asks Centre reason behind fixing limit to determine economic category for NEET||The Supreme Court on Thursday posed searching questions to the Centre on its decision to fix a limit of rupees eight lakh annual income for determining Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) category for reservation in NEET admissions for medical courses. The top court allowed the impleadment of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment and Department of Personnel and Training and asked them to file an affidavit as on what was the basis for fixing the limit of Rs eight lakh annual income to determine the EWS category. The Centre said fixing a limit of Rs 8 lakh annual income for the EWS category is a matter of policy based on the National Cost of Living Index. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, Vikram Nath, and BV Nagarathna asked the Centre to specify what was the basis and parameters for fixing the limit and whether any deliberation has taken place on the issue or simply the figure of Rs eight lakh income was picked up from the limit of determining the creamy layer in the Other Backward Classes (OBC) category. The top court was hearing a batch of pleas challenging the Centre and Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) July 29 notice providing 27 per cent reservation for Other Backward Class (OBC) and 10 per cent for EWS category in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) admissions for medical courses. "We want to know what the basis for Rs 8 lakh annual income is. What was the study behind this? Was there any deliberation? Can you say the Rs eight lakh limit is for all over the country? Every state and every state has a different cost of living. Cosmopolitan cities like Mumbai, Bangalore, and Chennai have different costs of living than cities in Uttar Pradesh or any other smaller city. How can the limit of Rs eight lakh be the same for every place in the country," the bench said. It asked whether the government has undertaken the study of the Gross Domestic Product of every household in a State and whether it has ascertained the criteria for economic backwardness and what its methodology was. "Even for House Rent Allowance, you have a concept of Class-1 and Class-2 cities. How can you say Rs 8 lakh will be applied for everywhere in the country. You cannot just say it is a matter of policy and get away with it," the bench said. The top court asked Additional Solicitor General KM Nataraj to reflect on the issue and to file an affidavit with regard to the questions asked by it and clarified that these questions are only its prima facie views. "Economic Backwardness is a realistic thing. There is no doubt about it as people don't have money to purchase books, to even have food. But as far as the EWS is concerned, they are forward class and there is no social or educational backwardness among them. So can you apply the same yardstick of Rs eight lakh limit for the creamy layer to the EWS? Please remember, with regard to the EWS we are not dealing with social and educational backwardness. What was the basis of fixing the limit or have you simply lifted the criteria for the creamy layer and put it for EWS ," the bench said. The top court said that it wants to know what exercise was undertaken to arrive at these indicia for EWS as it cannot apply the same indicia which have been applied for Social and Economically Backward Classes (SEBC). "The case of a creamy layer is that due to economic advancement they have crossed the threshold and the indicia of backwardness with regard to them have been completely obliterated. But in regard to EWS, there is no concept of obliteration of social backwardness," the bench said. Nataraj said that though he does not have any instruction from DoPT and the Ministry of Social Justice, as they were not the party to the case, these are larger issues that will be deliberated before a five-judge Constitution bench where the validity of the 103rd amendment is pending. The bench in its over three and half hour hearing said that the court at present was not concerned with the validity of the amendment but is dealing with the implementation of the amendment. At the outset, the ASG said that if the court is to deal with the applicability of the EWS category quota, then it would be desirable that States are also made a party to the case. He countered the claim of petitioner students that rules of the game were changed after the game had begun saying that the question of quota comes at the time of counselling for admissions and not during the notification of examination. He said that at the time of counselling, the roster/reservation pattern will be declared as to how many seats will go to whom (SC/ST/OBC and EWS). "The Government has increased the seats to accommodate EWS category students in 2019, but Centre was not able to implement the quota last year. The benefit of the increase in seats has gone to the students last year. Now, we have decided to implement it from this year," he said. Senior advocates Arvind Datar and Shyam Divan, appearing for students have claimed that Rs eight lakh limit has been fixed arbitrarily without showing any methodology to determine the criteria and around 2500 seats will go to the EWS category, which would affect the prospects of other students. On September 17, the top court has agreed to hear a batch of pleas of students against the July 29 notice providing 27 per cent reservation for OBC and 10 per cent for EWS category in 15 per cent UG and 50 per cent PG All India Quota seats (MBBS/BDS and MD/MS/MDS) with effect from the current academic session 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
07-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan, seven others, sent to 14-day judicial custody||A court here on Thursday sent Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, and seven others in 14-day judicial custody in connection with the alleged seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Their bail applications will be heard on Friday, the court said. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had sought an extension of their NCB custody, but the request was not granted. Aryan Khan, Munmun Dhamecha and Arbaaz Merchant were arrested by the NCB on October 3 following a raid on a Goa-bound ship, while the other five were arrested the next day. They were produced before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate R M Nerlikar at the end of their earlier remand. The court sent them in judicial custody even as the probe agency sought extension of remand till October 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
07-10-2021||India||SC permits girls to take entrance exams at Rashtriya Indian Military College ||Days after induction of girls in NDA, the Supreme Court on Thursday permitted female candidates to appear in the examination for Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC) in Dehradun, scheduled to be held on December 18, saying the Centre has walked a mile and should walk a step ahead. A bench headed by Justice S K Kaul directed the Centre to issue necessary modified advertisement in this regard within two days without changing the schedule. "We put to the Additional Solicitor General that the respondent has walked a mile and should walk a step ahead. We do believe that six months is more than enough for a disciplined organisation like the respondent to arrange their affairs. The apex court made it clear that this would be applicable insofar as the is concerned. However, with regard to the Rashtriya Military Schools, the process will begin with the academic session 2022-2023. The top court perused the affidavit filed on behalf of the Union of India in pursuance of its order dated September 22, 2021 and said, "Dehors the niceties, the fact is that all boys schools were going to turn into co- education institutions, is something the respondent has accepted." It will have its own ramifications in terms of infrastructure and personal requirements, the court said. "The one caveat we have is that what is being proposed is that the entrance examination scheduled in June, 2022 will be permitted to be taken by the girls resulting in their entry in January 2023 and periodically the strength would increase with a schedule given up to January, 2028," the bench said. The bench said the manner and how it has to be implemented, "we leave to the respondent". The matter is now listed for next hearing on January 18, 2022. At the outset, Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati informed the bench comprising Justice M M Sundresh that preparations for the December 18, 2021 exam were already at an advanced stage. Bhati sought the nod from the bench to allow entry of girls into the RIMC and Rashtriya Military School for the year beginning from January 2023 and not June 2022. The bench, however, refused to accept the submission and said that six months time was more than enough for preparations to be made for the induction of girls for the June 2022 session. "You are effectively postponing everything, why do you want to postpone for a year? You will have six months", the bench said. The ASG told the bench that October 30, 2021 is the last date for submission of applications and the exam is scheduled for December 18, 2021. The apex court , however, said "we are not saying that there are no difficulties". The top court had earlier directed the Centre to file an affidavit within two weeks on the issue of induction of girls to RIMC in Dehradun saying the issue cannot be delayed further. The apex court was hearing a plea filed by advocate Kailas Udhavrao More who has raised the issue of entry of girls to the RIMC Dehradun. Earlier in July, the apex court had said as far as RIMC is concerned, it is stated that it is a 99 years old institution which will complete 100 years next year. "The question is whether it completes its 100 years with gender neutrality or not!" the top court had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
07-10-2021||India||India to allow all foreign tourists in country from October 15 by chartered flights||India has decided to allow foreign tourists into the country, beginning with granting tourist visas to those travelling by chartered flights from October 15 and those by regular planes from November 15. The Union Home Ministry on Thursday announced that with this, the restrictions placed on visa and international travel since March 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic stand further eased given the present overall pandemic situation. After considering various inputs, the ministry has decided to begin granting of fresh tourist visas for foreigners coming to India through chartered flights with effect from October 15, 2021, a home ministry statement said. Foreign tourists entering into India by flights other than chartered aircraft would be able to do so only with effect from November 15, 2021 on fresh tourist visas. All due protocols and norms relating to COVID-19 as notified by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare from time to time shall be adhered to by the foreign tourists, carriers bringing them to India and all other stakeholders at landing stations, the statement said. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, all visas granted to foreigners were suspended last year. Various other restrictions were also imposed on international travel by the central government to arrest the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. After considering the evolving Covid-19 situation, foreigners were later on allowed to avail any kind of Indian visa other than tourist visa for entry and stay in India. However, the Home Ministry had been receiving representations from several state governments as well as various stakeholders in the tourism sector to start tourist visas also to allow foreign tourists to come to India. Therefore, the Home Ministry consulted all major stakeholders like the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Ministry of External Affairs, Ministry of Civil Aviation, Ministry of Tourism and various state governments where foreign tourists are expected to arrive and took the decision, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
07-10-2021||India||Health ministry warns Indians over Covid surge in festive & wedding seasons||"Please watch your October, November, December," a senior Health Ministry official warned people on Thursday about the threat of COVID-19 resurgence during the coming festival and wedding season, and advised them to avoid crowded places and celebrate festivals virtually. Asserting repeatedly that the second wave of the pandemic is not over, the government said that though the situation is plateauing, the country is still reporting as high as 20,000-odd new infections every day. "We cannot take the current stable situation for granted. We have to be mindful of the fact that the pandemic is going on and can take an untoward turn if we are not careful," an official said at a joint media briefing. Warning people about the threat of COVID-19 resurgence during the coming festival and wedding season, Health Ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said, "Please watch your October, November, December." He advised people to avoid crowded places and unnecessary travel and to stay home, celebrate festivals virtually and explore online modes of shopping. The government said that Kerala recorded 50 per cent of the total coronavirus cases in the country last week. Kerala has over over lakh active cases currently and the figure in four other states is ranging between 10,000 and 50,000. It said five states -- Mizoram, Kerala, Sikkim, Manipur and Meghalaya -- are reporting a weekly positivity rate of over five per cent. Thirty-four districts across nine states and union territories are reporting a weekly positivity rate of more than 10 per cent, according to the government. Twenty-eight districts across 12 states and UTs are reporting a weekly positivity rate between 5 and 10 per cent. The government said 71 per cent of India's adult population have received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine, while 27 per cent have got both doses. Listing its preparations to tackle any surge in coronavirus infections, the government said 8.36 lakh hospital beds are currently available in the country for COVID-19 patients, in addition to nearly one million isolation beds in dedicated care centres. It said 4.86 oxygen-supported beds and 1.35 lakh ICU beds are available. "We are prepared to face a daily surge of 4.5-5 lakh COVID-19 cases," an official said. The official said there is no issue of vaccine availability in the country now. With 22,431 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,38,94,312, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,49,856 with 318 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
07-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: UP Police paste summons notice at Ajay Mishra's house for son Ashish||Two men were arrested on Thursday and Union minister Ajay Mishra's son asked to appear before police in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence that killed eight people. Ashish Mishra, the son of Union Minister of State for Home, has been asked to come to the police lines at 10am Friday, a notice said. The Lakhimpur police late on Thursday evening pasted the notice at the Union minister’s residence. The notice, issued under Section 160 of the criminal procedure code that relates to summons to witnesses, said Ashish Mishra must appear in person and present evidences that he is aware of the incident. “If Ashish Mishra does not abide by the summons, legal procedure will be adopted,” said Lucknow range Inspector General (IG) of police Laxmi Singh. Two empty cartridges were found at the site of the violence near Tikonia village, police said. They identified the arrested men as Luvkush of Banbirpur village and Ashish Pandey of Nighasan tehsil, two of the seven people mentioned in an FIR lodged by police. They were earlier being questioned by police. Four of the eight people who died on Sunday were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. Police said they have formed a nine-member team headed by Deputy Inspector General (Headquarters) Upendra Agarwal to investigate into the FIR lodged against the minister's son and the others. The arrests came on a day when the Supreme Court termed the Lakhimpur Kheri incident "unfortunate" and sought a status report by Friday from the Uttar Pradesh police. The court specifically asked the UP Police to specify whether the accused named in the FIR have been arrested. Within hours, the UP Police announced the arrests. A notice has been pasted at the Union minister's house in Lakhimpur city under section 160 of the CrPC, seeking the presence of his son at the police lines in Lakhimpur to present any oral, written or digital evidence. According to police, the investigations so far had named an accused and mentioned six unnamed accused. Three of them had died at the spot. Out of the remaining four, two were arrested on Thursday, a police statement said. A forensic team went to the site on Wednesday and found two empty .315 bore cartridges. "In the light of this, the incident site was meticulously probed by a metal detector today," the statement said. During the day, Inspector General (Lucknow) Laxmi Singh and Additional Director General of Police (Lucknow zone) S N Sabat visited the police lines where the two were being quizzed. Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel, was among the eight people who died on Sunday. Three people are alleged to have been lynched after an SUV ran into a group of farmers during a protest over a visit by UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. IG Laxmi Singh said the role of these three was not clear earlier, but "things are becoming clear now". She refused to divulge anything more. Asked if the three people who died were the instigators of the violence, the ADG Sabot said events unfolded only after the "accident". Anyone behind the steering wheel has complete control over the vehicle and is 100 per cent responsible for it, he said. He suggested that other people in the vehicle could have a reason to instigate or abet whatever happened.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
07-10-2021||India||Suraj Beera :The Entrepreneur Digital Creator paving a new path of Travel & Wellness||Suraj Beera is an internationally acclaimed entrepreneur and digital creator best known for his incredible travel cinematography and, more notably, his two highly successful travel health and diet management startups. He's worked on projects and commercials for a variety of brands, and he's now striving to bring people together through.He believes in the power of positive storytelling and the development of ideas that affect individuals, communities, brands, and the environment. Suraj Beera is a well-known persona on social media for his one-of-a-kind travel film creations with his travel brand "aliveisawesome" as well as his social endeavours for a better life in his home country of India. He has also documented and launched an awareness campaign about the recent wildfires in Turkey and Greece, as well as assisting people through crowdfunding and travel supplies. On Instagram, he has developed many remarkable and unique verified ad clips for Mercedes Benz, Audi Germany, BMW, Fossil, and Pepsi Global as part of paid agreements. Suraj Beera was in charge of a Pepsi Global commercial featuring Leo Messi.He considers travel to be a positive influence in the globe. He claims that it broadens your horizons, promotes cultural understanding, and builds a sense of community. It boosts economies, provides jobs, and lifts communities. As a result, he believes that travel has the potential to transform destinations, provide economic effect, and enhance people's lives. He was successful in gathering 2,53,000 signatures for a new rule prohibiting dangerous chemical production near human regions in India on Change.org in response to the Vishakhapatnam gas tragedy. With a worldwide following of 35,000 people on Instagram, YouTube, and Discord, he established the travel community “ALIVE IS AWESOME” with top producers from all over the globe and engaging advertising, photography, and travel content. We are not taking care of our food intake due to proper lack and suggestions of dieticians in this modern world where we have very limited time and a lot of health problems have been identified for various age groups and proper intake of food is very important, and “ALIVE IS AWESOME” a travel and digital creator Instagram brand which is popular across the world for its mind blowing and unique travel photography and videos which is inspiring people to connect and make a positive impact through travel. Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/aliveisawesome/?hl=en Twitter: https://twitter.com/SurajBeera Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/andrew.suraj.7||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
07-10-2021||India||Prateek Shukla: A Multi-talented Entrepreneur ||Internet of Things (IoT) is a new-age innovation that allows multiple devices to communicate and exchange data with each other to enhance their overall functionality. In fact, IoT uses the internet to create, analyze and make decisions based on data. It helps industries all around the world to work smartly and more effectively by automating processes. This essential piece of technology allows businesses to keep track of and have a glimpse into the productivity of the company assets. Using the real-time insights it provides, the companies can reduce their wastage, improve their work capacity, and enhance their safety quality all at once. Considering its advantageous imprint on business operations, IoT has become a significant growth factor for industrial ventures. Prateek Shukla, a market expert, and young entrepreneur made no mistake to identify the growth opportunity in the IoT industry and launched his IoT solution firm – Altorum Leren – to provide companies with effective IoT products and services. His Initial Journey into the Realm of Cyber Security Expert Even before entering the domain of IoT, Prateek gained quite a lot of success in cyber security and internet safety. As the world around us is getting more dependent on the internet, the relevance and importance of cyber security are also becoming paramount. As most modern businesses store valuable business and customer data in cloud services, they must put serious effort into protecting that data from theft. Poor configuration can make any business vulnerable to cyber-attacks while damaging its credibility as a service. Prateek, at the age of 18, took the challenge to make people aware of the urgency of cyber security with his highly insightful book “The Unrevealed Secrets of Hacking and Cracking.” He even ended up developing an app called Casa Curo to allow the housing complexes to track their security measures. Building a Revolutionary IoT Solution Firm from Scratch Prateek’s entrepreneurial journey was never a cakewalk. He initially faced quite a few setbacks before locating a future in a potential domain like IoT. This visionary individual invested himself in serious market research and knowledge hunting to emerge as a successful business. Finally, riding on his market knowledge and in collaboration with his current business partner Sandeep Parira, Prateek bootstrapped his start-up venture Altorum Leren. They have even launched their first product Alfiniy, a SaaS platform for IoT that will offer businesses guidance for preventive and predictive maintenance. Using Edge Computing and Artificial Intelligence (AI), the innovative product helps industries minimize both asset failure and resource wastage. Altroum Leren has also been honored with the prestigious title of ‘Automation Technology Provider of the Year’ by NITI Aayog (Government of India) during the Global Artificial Intelligence Summit held on September 29th. The Summit was attended by well-known global industry leaders, data experts, and AI and IoT pioneers and the focus of the Summit was to highlight the prominence and roles of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Internet of Things (IoT) in human lives and business industries. Sharing his journey as a budding businessman, Prateek Shukla says, “Carrying a dream to build my own business, I moved to Bangalore when I was just 22. I quickly realized that I required more knowledge and experience to thrive in a marketplace that is exceptionally competitive. So, I started to spend hours in intensive market study and, eventually, kicked start Altorum Leren with an aim to reform the IoT domain using my innovative business model.” “Automation is the future, and our Vision is to accelerate the future of IoT industries by exploring and addressing the possible future challenges today. The subscription-based model of our product Alfinity has proved its merit and has been widely accepted by the manufacturing, transport, and agricultural industry. We are here to stay and grow to leave our competitors behind,” comments Prateek talking about his company’s vision. The IoT start-up has already served several private and Government ventures successfully and is looking forward to expanding its clientele to a total of 40+. Prateek even has set a goal of generating a turnover of 15 crores in the next three years. This talented individual knows what it takes to be a successful entrepreneur and never shies away putting all of his dedication and hard work which keeps him ahead of his industry peers. LinkedIn URL - https://www.linkedin.com/in/prateek-shukla-4003149a/||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
07-10-2021||India||Yash Vashishtha Is All Set To Bring Revolution In Advertising & Marketing Industry With Social Matte Media ||They say that it requires a whole lot of determination and courage in ensuring that you live the life of your dreams and Yash Vashishtha is a living example of it. Hailing from Mumbai, the passionate guy has uplifted the market with his immense knowledge and passion. Currently, he is the owner of the leading social media marketing agency named Social Matte Media which is known for its innovative ideas to increase the reach of the brand. With time, Yash has built a great team of experts who work diligently to help their clients in their businesses. The covid period has been a curse to every business including the advertising industry. Yash believes that Entrepreneurship is all about solving people's problems. Hence to tackle this problem, Yash came up with the startup which is Social Matte Media. It resolved the sudden pause in the advertising industry. By converting the online information portals to marketing portals, Yash and his team took the initiative to be the change in the marketing and advertising industry. By creating media portals across several social media platforms including YouTube, Instagram, and Facebook, they ensure a wider reach of the client's project to the audience via a click. When Yash was asked about how his solutions are going to benefit people in their businesses, he said, "Currently we have a network of more than 1000 media portals with an audience network of more than 800 Million. Our team has revolutionized the online advertising medium and has collaborated with brands through these media pages." Adding to this, the owner also claims to have monetized the existing media portals and has taken the initiative to provide businesses to all the existing and new clients. When it comes to revenue generation, Yash revealed that Social Matte Media connects brands with the media portals that are willing to advertise their products via social media marketing at a nominal cost. With each deal, they cut out a certain percentage which they keep as their revenue. Yash's startup is more than welcoming for the young talents across the globe. The owner claims that any number of people can join the firm to work online and earn money. Interested people can start working with them and they will guide you in your professional development. Social Matte Media is all set to bring revolution in the advertising and marketing industry and we all know that Yash won't stop till he takes the company to new heights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
07-10-2021||India||Influencer and entrepreneur, Prasad Nagarkar deems social media as a boon||Man has been evolving and upgrading since its inception. From inventions of stone tools to artificial intelligence, humans have come a long way. But, the advent of the internet has changed the world from pin to plane.   We all are well aware of the fact that the internet has opened the door to a hundred or more inventions and the formation of social media platforms is of them.   Facebooks, Instagram, Twitter, etc. have made our lives easy and convenient. Isn't the idea of being mentally present everywhere cool? We can't even think of the ways that these applications have changed our lives.   Instagram, in particular, has helped many people to get all the fame and name that they have today. Prasad Nagarkar is one of them. He is a burgeoning social media influencer and a successful entrepreneur.   Mr. Nagarkar believes that social media is a boon to humankind. He says, "Social media has fetched the world closer, it has altered the geographical margins by making its reach vast. People are now updated about every corner of the earth, it is just a matter of few clicks, isn't it?   We all will agree to Mr. Nagarkar's these words. This application has reformed our ways of living. Many people use social media as a way out of their regular lives and relax their minds.   It is because of social media that influencer is now considered as a new job title. Mr. Nagarkar is a perfect example of a successful influencer who never flops in showing his amazing fashion and fitness life to the world.   He is prominent at handling his personal life, public life and entrepreneur life flawlessly. This zeal of his has inspired millions of people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
07-10-2021||India||Niraj Kanjani Talks About Taking The Risk Of Quitting Part-Time Job & Working Independently!||It is critical to be focused and disciplined in life to achieve success. To obtain all of one's main goals, one must maintain a clear head in all of their endeavours. Niraj Kanjani, an entrepreneur from Ahmedabad, has made a better life for himself by following this way of life. He is an IT specialist who has carved out a niche for himself. By becoming self-employed and going on the entrepreneurial path, Niraj Kanjani took a big risk. He stopped working part-time and started outsourcing his IT services. Over the last five years, Niraj has helped a number of software companies with various apps, which has benefited him. With each subsequent project, Niraj gained a deeper understanding of app development and social media marketing. In the year 2020, entrepreneur Niraj Kanjani discovered the value of discipline. He shares, "In school, I never took anything seriously. In the year 2020, however, I have realised the value of discipline. Because I was at home, I realised how important it was to set a time restriction and finish the project within that time range." Niraj was doing quite well when he was a part-time worker. But he wasn't feeling the creative satisfaction. It takes courage to start working independently without having help from anyone. So was there any time Niraj was worried? He says, "Sometimes, yes. But I know what I was doing and what I wanted. I trusted by skills and I know I am a good engineer, I am good with web and app development. So I was sure that the result will be in my favour." Niraj Kanjani says that he is quite content with the way his career has been shaped. But he wants to expand his business overall in India and more at the international level. He hopes to make an even better income in the coming months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
07-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur: Sidhu marches to UP, demands union minister's son's arrest||Punjab Congress Chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has demanded the arrest of Union Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra's son in connection with the death of farmers during violence in Uttar Pradesh, saying he would go on hunger strike if action is not taken against him by Friday. Union Minister of State for Home Mishra's son has been booked for allegedly mowing down four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. However, Mishra has denied allegations about his son's involvement in the case. Sidhu on Thursday led a protest march from Punjab to Lakhimpur Kheri in protest against the killing of farmers. A large number of party leaders including ministers, legislators and workers first assembled at Mohali here and then headed towards Lakhimpur Kheri in their vehicles. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi also joined Sidhu for a brief period when the march was about to start. Sidhu had resigned from the post of Punjab Congress chief on September 28 but it wasn't immediately clear if the resignation was withdrawn. Before the protest march Thursday, Sidhu slammed the BJP-led government in UP over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. He said Punjab Congress and party MLAs are standing firmly with the farmers. He asked why UP authorities hadn't taken action against Mishra's son even after an FIR was lodged in the matter. Are union minister and his son above the law and constitution? he asked. This fight is for our farmers, he said, adding: If UP police do not arrest the union minister's son, I will go on hunger strike. It is my 'vachan' (promise)." Later, he said, If the arrest is not made till tomorrow (Friday), or he does not join investigation, I will go on a hunger strike." Sidhu called Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi saviours of democracy. Earlier, Punjab Congress working president Sukhwinder Singh Danny said they would stage a sit-in wherever they were stopped from heading towards Lakhimpur Kheri. Congress legislator Sunder Sham Arora said they were ready for courting arrest if prevented from going to UP. Four of the eight people who died in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. Two BJP workers, Mishra's driver, and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel, were also killed in the incident. While the first three were allegedly lynched by agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering farmers' protest against Maurya's visit to Mishra's native place. No arrests have been made in connection with the case so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
07-10-2021||India||Work-life imbalance, insufficient incomes top causes of work stress in India, says survey||A significant percentage of employed professionals in India are feeling stressed at work, and work-life imbalance, insufficient incomes, and slow career progress are cited as the top three causes of work stress in India, says a survey. Leading online professional network LinkedIn has launched a special mental health' edition of the Workforce Confidence Index to address the prevalence of work stress in India, and how professionals expect greater flexibility to keep their mental health in check. Based on the survey responses of 3,881 professionals from July 31 to September 24, the findings reveal that more than half of India's (55 per cent) employed professionals are feeling stressed at work. The latest edition of the Workforce Confidence Index revealed that India's overall workforce confidence remained steady with a composite score of 55 from July 31 to September 24, 2021, despite drastic transformations in the world of work. When asked to share their primary reasons for work stress, employed professionals cited 'balancing work with personal needs' (34 per cent), 'not making enough money' (32 per cent), and 'slow career advancement' (25 per cent) as the top three stressors at work today. "These stressful times of change have impelled the need for greater flexibility and work-life balance among professionals. But our survey reveals a wide gap between what employees need and what employers are offering to cope with stress," said Ashutosh Gupta, India Country Manager, LinkedIn. Gupta further said that while nearly half of (47 per cent) employed professionals wish to end work at reasonable hours, only about one-thirds (36 per cent) were actually able to do so. And while 41 per cent planned for time-off, only 30 per cent could take time off in the past two months. "These alarming statistics reflect the urgency for companies to understand how creating a culture that encourages work-life balance and prioritises well-being is critical moving forward," Gupta said. Amid such stressful times, 1 in 3 professionals are also seen drawing optimism from the availability of jobs (36 per cent) and improved control over expenses (30 per cent) in today's recovering, yet competitive jobs marketplace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
07-10-2021||India||British diplomat molested in Chandigarh||A woman diplomat posted at the British Deputy High Commission here was allegedly molested by an unidentified motorcycle-borne miscreant, police said on Thursday. The 60-year-old diplomat was walking towards the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association in Sector 10 from her house in Sector 9 around 6:30 am on Wednesday when a man on a motorcycle approached from behind and hit her on her back inappropriately, they said. In her complaint, the diplomat said she raised an alarm and even ran after him, but the man sped away, the police added. After receiving the complaint, the Chandigarh Police registered a case under section 354-A (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 3 police station. The police said they were scanning footage from close circuit television cameras installed in the area to trace the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
07-10-2021||India||Varun Gandhi, Maneka Gandhi's names from top BJP list after tweets on Lakhimpur Kheri||BJP president J P Nadda announced the 80-member National Executive of the party on Thursday, with the names of its top brass, ranging from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to many Union ministers, several state leaders and veterans like L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi figuring on the list. BJP MP Varun Gandhi, who has been speaking in support of farmers during their ongoing stir against the three agri laws, his MP mother Maneka Gandhi and former Union minister Birender Singh, who has also been sympathetic to the farmers' cause, have been dropped as executive members. Besides 80 regular members, the executive will also have 50 special invitees and 179 permanent invitees. The executive is a key deliberative body of the party which meets to discuss key issues facing the government and shapes the organisation's agenda. The disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic has prevented its meeting for a long time. Many Union ministers, including Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, are expectedly on the list with recently inducted minister Ashwini Vaishnaw also being included. Former Union ministers like Harsh Vardhan, Ravi Shankar Prasad and Prakash Javadekar also remain the members of the national executive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
07-10-2021||India||Two teachers shot dead in Srinagar in latest attack on civilians||Two government school teachers, including a woman, were shot dead by militants in Eidgah area of the city amid increasing attacks on civilians in Jammu and Kashmir, police said. The killing of the teachers, which drew widespread condemnation, took the number of civilians killed in the last five days in Kashmir valley to seven, including four from the minorities. "At about 11.15 am, terrorists shot dead two school teachers at Sangam Eidgah in Srinagar district," a police official said. He said one of the two slain persons is a woman. The deceased have been identified as Supinder Kour, a resident of Alochi Bagh area of the city here, and Deepak Chand, a resident of Jammu. They were working as teachers at Government Boys School, Sangam. The latest killing has taken the number of civilians shot dead in the valley to seven, including six in the city, over the past five days. On Saturday, militants shot dead Majid Ahmad Gojri, a resident of Chattabal Srinagar, at Karan Nagar. Later that night, another civilian Mohammad Shafi Dar, resident of Batamaloo, was shot at and injured at SD Colony Batamaloo. He succumbed to injuries a few hours later. On Tuesday, three civilians including Makhan Lal Bindroo, owner of Srinagar's most famous pharmacy, were shot dead by militants within two hours in separate incidents in Srinagar and Bandipora districts of Jammu and Kashmir. Bindroo, owner of Bindroo Medicate, was shot dead by the assailants from point blank range while he was at his pharmacy. Within an hour, militants struck in Hawal area of the city, killing a non-local street vendor. The vendor, who used to sell bhelpuri, was shot at point-blank range and died on the spot. The victim was identified as Virender. Within minutes of the second killing, militants shot dead Mohammad Shafi Lone at Naidkhai in Bandipora district in north Kashmir. Meanwhile, political parties have condemned the killing of the two teachers. Shocking news coming in again from Srinagar. Another set of targeted killings, this time of two teachers in a Govt school in Idgah area of the city. Words of condemnation are not enough for this inhuman act of terror but I pray for the souls of the deceased to rest in peace, National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah said on Twitter. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Mehbooba Mufti said the Centre's claims of building a 'Naya Kashmir' has actually turned it into a hellhole. Disturbing to see the deteriorating situation in Kashmir where a minuscule minority is the latest target. GOI's claims of building a Naya Kashmir has actually turned it into a hellhole. It's sole interest is to use Kashmir as a milch cow for its electoral interests, she wrote on Twitter. Peoples Conference chairman Sajad Lone said it is important to understand that terrorists have no religion. Reports of cowardice emerging. Two teachers shot dead. It is important to understand that terrorists have no religion. Muslims have been killed too. I personally had a killing in my family. This is a lunatic fringe which is a curse for Kashmir. May Allah rid us of this curse, Lone said in a tweet. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) J&K spokesman Altaf Thakur also condemned the killings, saying the killing of unarmed teachers, who have nothing to do with politics, is nothing but purely inhuman act and frustration. Those who killed the two teachers have no religion. These teachers were teaching students, what was their fault, Thakur said. He said the cowardly act deserves the highest form of condemnation. The killing of unarmed civilians can never be justified as no religion allows to kill innocents, the BJP spokesman said, as he expressed sympathies with the families of the slain teachers. He urged police to arrest the group who are killing innocent civilians, including teachers, in Srinagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
07-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: SC asks UP about persons named in FIR, their arrest||Terming "unfortunate" the killing of eight people including four farmers in the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri incident, the Supreme Court on Thursday sought a status report by Friday from the Uttar Pradesh government on the accused named by the police in FIR and whether they have been arrested. The apex court has also sought details of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) and the judicial enquiry commission, reportedly set up by the state government. The incident, which triggered a major political storm with the opposition parties accusing the BJP government in UP of shielding the culprits, was heard by a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana as a suo motu (on its own) case. "You yourself have pointed out, it has also been reported and it is in the letter petition, which we have received, that eight persons, some of them are farmers and one is a journalist and there are other persons also who have been killed. These all are unfortunate incidents in which different persons have been murdered," the bench said. "We need to know who are the accused persons against whom you have registered the FIR and whether they have been arrested or not. Please explain this in your status report," it said and fixed the case for hearing on Friday. The bench, also comprising justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, started by saying, Grievance is that you are not looking into it (incident) properly and the FIR is not registered properly, Lawyer Garima Prasad, appearing for the state government, also termed the incident as unfortunate and said that an SIT and the judicial commission of inquiry have been set up by the government and she may provide the details in the status report. "I can get details by tomorrow... The judicial commission of inquiry is being led by a former judge of the Allahabad High Court judge," she said and sought a copy of the letter whose cognizance has been taken by the bench. "You also tell us about the status of the PIL before the Allahabad High Court in the case...tomorrow we are listing. Get all the instructions," the bench observed orally. During the brief hearing, the CJI referred to a message to the court. "We have received one message when the hearing is going on from one Amrti Pal Singh Khalsa that the mother of the deceased Lovepreet Singh is in critical condition due to shock of loss of her son. She needs immediate medical assistance. This says that the court may direct the state of UP to grant medical facilities to her... "You (state lawyer) please, immediately tell your state government so that it can take care of the mother of the deceased...extend all medical facilities. You can get her admitted in a nearest government medical college," the bench observed. Earlier in the day, the top court said it would like to hear the two lawyers who had written a letter seeking a high-level judicial inquiry, also involving the CBI, into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which eight people were killed in violence during a farmers' protest. The bench said that the letter was to be registered as a PIL and due to some miscommunication it was listed as the suo motu (on its own) case. "Does not matter, we will hear it nonetheless, said the bench, also comprising justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. The bench asked the court officials to intimate the two lawyers - Shiv Kumar Tripathi and C S Panda to appear and passed over the case. This letter is addressed by two lawyers. We directed the Registry to register this as a PIL but due to some miscommunication, it was listed as a suo motu.. . Inform both the lawyers who wrote the letter to be present, the CJI said. The matter was again taken up and adjourned to tomorrow after the oral directions to the state government. Four farmers were mowed down by an SUV in Lakhimpur Kheri when a group agitating against the Centre's three new farm laws was holding a demonstration against the visit of UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on October 3. Two BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death allegedly by the angry protesters, while a local journalist was also killed in the violence. An FIR under section 302 of IPC (murder) has been registered against the Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra and others in the incident in Tikonia police station but no arrest has been made so far. Farmer leaders have claimed that Ashish was in one of the cars that allegedly knocked down the protesters but the minister has denied the allegations. Several farmer organisations are protesting against the passage of three laws -- The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 since last November. The apex court had stayed the implementation of these laws in January. Initially, the protests started from Punjab in November last year and later spread to Delhi, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
07-10-2021||India||Modi inaugurates 35 PSA oxygen plants under PM CARES fund||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday inaugurated 35 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants established under the PM CARES fund across 35 states and union territories in an event at AIIMS Rishikesh in Uttarakhand. With this, all districts of the country will now have commissioned PSA oxygen plants, the PMO has said. Till now a total of 1,224 PSA oxygen plants have been funded under the PM CARES fund across the country, it added, noting that of these, more than 1,100 plants have been commissioned providing an output of over 1,750 MT oxygen per day. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya were also present on the occasion and hailed Modi's efforts in boosting health infrastructure across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
07-10-2021||India||Protesters cannot be silenced through murder, says BJP MP||BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Thursday posted a video purportedly of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and said the protesters cannot be silenced through murder asking for accountability for the farmers. "The video is crystal clear. Protestors cannot be silenced through murder. There has to be accountability for the innocent blood of farmers that has been spilled and justice must be delivered before a message of arrogance and cruelty enters the minds of every farmer," the Pilibhit MP said in a tweet. He posted a 37-second video in which a speeding Mahindra Thar jeep is seen running over people. Two SUVs -- one black and another white -- was seen following the jeep while there is a commotion of people shouting and crying in the video. The video, which has gone viral on social medial, is said to have been taken on October 3, the day on which violence took place in Lakhimpur Kheri. Eight people were killed in the violence on Sunday. Of the eight killed, four were farmers, who were allegedly mowed down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The other four were two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra and a journalist working for a private television channel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
07-10-2021||India||India logs over 22,000 fresh Covid cases, 318 casualties in a day||With 22,431 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,38,94,312, while the active cases declined to 2,44,198, the lowest in 204 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,32,00,258, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The death toll climbed to 4,49,856 with 318 fresh fatalities that include 134 from Kerala and 90 from Maharashtra, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 13 straight days. The active cases comprise 0.72 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.95 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 2,489 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 14,09,825 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 57,68,03,867. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.57 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 38 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.68 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 104 days, according to the ministry. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 92.63 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. A total of 4,49,856 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,362 from Maharashtra, 37,854 from Karnataka, 35,707 from Tamil Nadu, 25,811 from Kerala, 25,088 from Delhi, 22,896 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,863 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
07-10-2021||India||UP govt sets up Commission to probe Lakhimpur Kheri incident||The Uttar Pradesh government has constituted a one-member Commission to probe the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which eight people were killed, a senior Home Department official said on Thursday. "A notification for the constitution of the Commission has been issued. The commission has been given two months time to probe the matter," the official said. "In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Commissions of Enquiry Act, 1952 (Act no. 60 of 1952), the Governor is pleased to appoint Justice High Court, Allahabad (retd) Pradeep Kumar Srivastava as a single-member Commission of enquiry with Headquarters at Lakhimpur Kheri," the notification dated October 6 said. "The Commission shall complete the enquiry within a period of two months from the date of the issue of this notification. Any change in its tenure shall be at the behest of the Government," it added. Eight people were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Sunday. Of the eight killed, four were farmers, who were allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The other four were two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra and a journalist working for a private television channel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
07-10-2021||India||India slams Pakistan for bringing up Kashmir issue at UN||Pakistan is the biggest perpetrator and supporter of terrorism and masquerades as its victim and should stop cleansing its own minorities including Hindus, Christians, Sikhs, and Buddhists, India has said in a strong response slamming Islamabad for again raking up the Kashmir issue at the UN. Emphasising that the fight against terrorism has to be unrelenting and across all fronts, Counsellor/Legal Adviser at India's Permanent Mission to the UN Dr Kajal Bhat said that all member states must fulfil their obligations enshrined in international counter-terrorism instruments and conventions. "Let me express my dismay that Pakistan has once again misused this august forum to repeat at adnauseam their litany of lies, Bhat said at the General Assembly 6th committee (Legal) meeting on Measures to eliminate international terrorism'. "Here is the biggest perpetrator and supporter of terrorism masquerading as its victim. We condemn their Pavlovian response wherever the name of India is mentioned and reject all their allegations and insinuations," she said on Wednesday. India's strong response came after Pakistan's UN envoy Munir Akram again raked up the issue of Kashmir at the Sixth Committee meeting and made baseless allegations against India in his remarks. "Jammu and Kashmir is, and will always be a part of India," she said. "We call on Pakistan to stop cleansing their own minorities including Hindus, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and others, Bhat said. While some states lack the legal-operational frameworks and necessary Combating of Financing of Terrorism (CFT) capacities, others are "clearly guilty of aiding and supporting terrorism by providing financial assistance and safe havens to terrorists," Bhat said, in a veiled reference to Pakistan. "We must enhance capacities of the former, but must collectively call out the latter and hold them accountable, she said. Bhat said terrorism continues to persist globally, spreading into new areas, with terrorists having significantly enhanced their capabilities by gaining access to new and emerging technologies like drones, virtual currencies and encrypted communications for furthering their objectives and accomplishing their evil acts. COVID-19 pandemic has further aggravated the situation. Isolation due to lockdown, distress and economic uncertainty has made the world more susceptible to radicalizing narratives and violent extremist propaganda, she said. Asserting that terrorists at one place are a threat" to the whole world, Bhat said fighting terrorism collectively requires action from all of us, without any exception. She underscored India's condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and firm belief that there cannot be any exception or justification for any act of terrorism, regardless of motivations behind such acts, and wherever, whenever and by whomsoever, they are committed. There cannot be bad terrorists or good terrorists based on their intensions or objectives. A member of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), India is already in the process of upgrading its Financial Intelligence Network to ensure quicker referral of terror-financing cases to law enforcement agencies, she said. India reiterated the need for early finalisation of the Draft Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism, saying the UN needs to do more in this direction. "We believe that when right action is not taken at the right time, then it is time itself that causes the action to fail, Bhat said, strongly calling on states to unite in efforts and end the stalemate preventing the adoption of the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism (CCIT). We all need CCIT as a law enforcement instrument that should strengthen the existing framework of global anti-terrorism conventions, she said. India expressed hope that the UNGA Resolution of December 2020 that recommends to Sixth Committee to establish the Working Group with a view to finalising the process on the draft comprehensive convention on international terrorism will bring finality to the most important task in hand before the international community. Welcoming the adoption of the 7th review resolution of the Global Counter Terrorism Strategy (GCTS) by the General Assembly by consensus in June 2021, Bhat expressed hope that the member states will walk the talk and implement the strategy by taking effective measures. India had contributed constructively to the GCTS negotiations, especially to strengthen the language on countering the financing of terrorism, prevention of misuse of emerging technologies, strengthen the rights of victims of terrorism, providing greater financial resources to the UN counter-terrorism architecture and obligations of member states to take effective measures to prevent terrorist activities. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
07-10-2021||India||BJP ‘link’ to SRK  son’s case witness||The National Investigation Agency has formally taken over the investigation of the seizure of nearly 3,000kg of heroin from the Adani-operated Mundra port in Gujarat on September 16. The Congress had asked that a sitting Supreme Court judge probe the drug haul, said to be the largest anywhere in the world in recent memory. “The case relates to seizure of 2988.21 Kgs of Narcotics substance (heroin) seized at Mundra Port, Gujarat disguised as consignment of ‘Semi-processed Talc stones’ originating from Afghanistan which had arrived from Bandar Abbas Port, Iran,” an NIA statement said on Wednesday night. Last week, Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh had demanded a judicial inquiry, saying he had no faith in the NIA. He had alleged that some BJP leaders were involved in drug smuggling. The Congress has alleged that Saturday night’s Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) raid on a cruise ship in Mumbai and the subsequent arrests, including that of actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan, were an attempt to deflect attention from the Mundra seizure. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) spokesperson Nawab Malik on Wednesday alleged that BJP members were involved in the NCB raid and named Manish Bhanushali, who he said was “vice-president of some wing of the BJP”. Malik said Bhanushali was the man shown in a video escorting Arbaaz Merchant, a friend of Aryan who too has been arrested, to the NCB office in Mumbai. Malik showed photos of Bhanushali with senior BJP leaders. Malik said that another outsider, a man named K.P. Gosavi, had escorted Aryan to the NCB office and clicked a selfie with him. After the selfie went viral, the NCB issued a clarification saying the person (Gosavi) had nothing to do with the agency. Malik on Wednesday shared a screen shot of Gosavi’s Facebook profile where the latter claims to be a “private detective agent”. NCB deputy director-general Gyaneshwar Singh said the two men named by Malik were independent witnesses. “Some allegations levelled against the organisation are baseless and seem to have been done with malice,” he said.He denied that people with BJP links were part of the raid. “Independent witnesses were part of the probe, and Gosavi was one of them,” All panchnamas have been made as per the process of law, which allows you to include independent witnesses,” Singh said. News agency ANI quoted Bhanushali as saying: “Malik has put wrong allegations against me. BJP has nothing to do with it (the arrests)…. I received information on Oct 1 that a drugs party was to be held. I was with NCB officers (at the ship) for updated info.” ANI identified Bhanushali as a BJP worker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
07-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Rahul, Priyanka visit kin of deceased farmers||The father of 20-year-old Luv Preet Singh who was mowed down by a Union minister’s SUV, allegedly driven by the minister’s son, in Lakhimpur Kheri told Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday that he wanted justice, not compensation. “I am not happy with the police and the government. They came and gave us money. I told Rahul that whoever is with us should fight to ensure that the killer son of the Union minister is arrested. The goonda is still out and his father is still a minister. The home minister can easily influence the investigation,” Satnam Singh told Rahul when he, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other Congress leaders met their family around 9.30pm. “The government gave us money but he has to be arrested. We all can see that the governments are protecting the killer. Even if crores of rupees are given, how can we be happy? Even if you weigh our son in rupees, you cannot return him to us,” Satnam told reporters afterwards. “This is all we spoke to Rahul about. He said he will stand with us always,” the father said. Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni accepts that the SUV that crushed to death the farmers returning from a protest was his, but denies his son Ashis was driving it. Before a video emerged clearly showing the SUV hitting farmers from behind, ploughing through them and speeding away, Teni had claimed that the farmers threw stones that caused an accident in which several of them got run over. Eyewitnesses have said Ashis, who is also known as Monu, was at the wheel. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is yet to utter words of condolence or condemnation on the horror. Modi visited Lucknow on Tuesday, but did not care to travel 129km more to Lakhimpur Kheri where innocent farmers and a journalist were murdered in cold blood. The spine-chilling incident happened days after Teni had warned from a public stage that he would fix the protesting farmers in two minutes if they did not mend their ways. Congress leaders had been trying to reach Lakhimpur Kheri since Sunday night, but were blocked by the Yogi Adityanath government that put Priyanka Gandhi under detention at Sitapur, 40km from the district, at 4.30am on Monday. A Congress chief minister was not allowed to step out of Lucknow airport and a deputy chief minister was detained by police at the state’s border with Haryana. On Tuesday night, the party announced that Rahul would travel to Lakhimpur Kheri. Finally, on Wednesday, the government yielded and gave permission for the visit. But when Rahul, accompanied by two Congress chief ministers and party leaders, landed at Lucknow airport at 1pm, he had to sit on dharna twice before he was allowed to reach his vehicle. The police were insisting he follow their route and that they escort him, which the Congress leader refused to do. “Which rule is there in the country that decides which vehicle and route a citizen will take?” Rahul asked a police officer, who was heard replying: “We have orders from above.” “They are creating a trap for me to stop here. First they said I can go on my own and then said they will take me in their vehicle through a route they have decided. Matlab kuchh na kuchh badmashi kar rahe hai,” the former Congress president said. Eventually, the Adityanath government had to give in. Earlier in Delhi, Rahul had at a news conference explained why it was important that Opposition leaders visit the spot. “The Opposition’s responsibility is to create pressure. When we create pressure, action is taken. In Hathras, action was taken after we built pressure. The government wants that we don’t raise this issue, don’t create pressure, so that the murderer escapes. Had we not gone to Hathras, the rapist would have escaped. So we are creating pressure,” the Congress leader said. “When we go, when the chief ministers, myself, others go to visit the families, we are trying to give them confidence that in this country, you cannot be run over by a criminal who calls himself the home minister’s son and then nothing happens. We are not going to allow that. That is the message we are trying to give them. It is a message of hope,” he added. Rahul’s convoy left Lucknow airport at 3pm and travelled the 85km to Sitapur in two hours. Rahul and Priyanka, who was freed after two days, started from there at 6.30pm and reached Lakhimpur Kheri at 8pm. A Congress leader alleged that the government had tried to slow their movement by parking vehicles on both sides of the road. Luv Preet’s home was the first they visited, from where they travelled to the residence of journalist Raman Kashyap at Nighasan, reaching around 11pm. Raman’s father Ram Dulare Kashyap told reporters: “We want the killer Monu to be arrested and hanged for committing mass murder. We are farmers and my son had joined journalism only a year ago because he wanted a respectable life. He got death instead at the hands of those who should have been behind bars years ago.” Teni, a strongman, had at the public platform from where he threatened farmers asked people to recall who he was before he became a legislator and minister. Rahul spoke to journalists briefly after visiting the two homes. “Both the families want justice. They are saying that the entire country knows who did this but the government is not arresting them. The father of the killer is (junior) home minister and this is the reason he is still free,” he said. “I’m here to help the families and mount pressure on the government so that the families get justice.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
07-10-2021||India||UP home minister meets Amit Shah, says he was not called||Junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni met his boss and Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday as the Opposition and farmer organisations intensified their demand for his sacking. The protesting farmers have alleged that Teni’s son Ashis Mishra ran over and killed farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. The minister himself has been accused of delivering a provocative speech against the farmers. Teni, who had been camping in his constituency of Lakhimpur Kheri since the incident on Sunday, arrived in Delhi on Wednesday and called on Shah. Asked by reporters whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi had summoned him to Delhi, Teni said: “Nobody has asked me to reach Delhi. I have some personal work here.” BJP sources played down the meeting and ruled out the possibility of his resignation. The BJP sources said Teni was not involved in the incident. “A junior minister meeting his senior is a normal affair.… Why should he resign? How is he involved in the incident?” a BJP leader asked, terming the Opposition’s demand “totally unfair”. On the minister’s son, this leader said the law would take its course if it was established that he was in the car that mowed down the farmers. An FIR has been lodged against Ashis but so far the police haven’t arrested him. Teni has claimed that neither he nor his son was present at the place of violence and ruled out any pressure on him to step down. The minister has said the vehicle shown in the video ploughing through the farmers is his but denied he or his son was in the car. “Why would I resign? There is no pressure on us,” he had told reporters on Tuesday. BJP insiders underlined that in the past seven years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had never buckled under Opposition pressure to sack any minister. “In the Modi government, a minister will not resign just because the Opposition wants it. Action will be taken only if a probe shows the minister is guilty,” another BJP leader said. The BJP leadership has so far not spoken out on the horrific incident, and party spokespersons have focused on slamming the Opposition. The lone BJP leader to have taken a strong stand over the incident has been Varun Gandhi, MP from Pilibhit. He has sympathised with the protesting farmers and called for the arrest of the culprits and a Supreme Court-monitored CBI probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
07-10-2021||India||Centre assures SC of implementing amended NEET syllabus next year||The Centre on Wednesday assured the Supreme Court that the amended syllabus pattern for the NEET Super Speciality Examination 2021 would be implemented from next year to mitigate the hardship for doctors seeking to study post-graduate courses. The assurance was given by additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati in the backdrop of the dressing down the Centre received from the top court during the last few days on the issue. Bhati assured a bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and B.V. Nagarathna that the modified syllabus would not apply for this year’s examination scheduled for next month. The bench then passed the following order: “Aishwarya Bhati, additional solicitor-general appearing on behalf of the Union of India in the ministry of health and family welfare, states that having regard to the interest of the body of students who would have commenced preparations for the ensuing NEET-SS examination before the change in the pattern was notified, a decision has been taken by the Union government in consultation with the National Medical Commission and the National Board of Examinations to the effect that the modified pattern shall be given effect to only from the academic year 2022-2023. “Since the Union government and the expert bodies have taken a decision to hold the ensuing NEET–SS examinations for 2021-2022 on the basis of the pattern which held the field until academic year 2020-2021, it is not necessary for this Court to adjudicate upon the validity of the modified pattern proposed for 2022-2023. That issue is kept open. In the circumstances, the petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution are disposed of. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of.” The bench passed the order while dealing with a joint petition filed by 41 doctors challenging the abrupt move of the medical authorities to change this year’s entrance examination pattern. According to the petitioners, the government had suddenly on August 31 issued a notification announcing that all the questions for the exam this year would come from the general medicine stream and not super-speciality courses. This was contrary to the existing pattern of 60 per cent questions being asked from the super-speciality courses and 40 per cent from general medicine. The circular was issued despite the earlier examination notification issued in July this year mandating that the exams would be held under the existing pattern. The petitioners had argued that the rules cannot be changed once the game had commenced. The bench had on Tuesday observed that doctors can’t be treated as “footballs” and the government had apparently made the controversial move to favour private medical colleges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
07-10-2021||India||Supreme court sets aside cop's CISF appointment||The Supreme Court on Wednesday set aside the appointment of a man to the post of constable in the Central Industrial Security Force while observing that an individual who wishes to join the police force must be a person of utmost rectitude with impeccable character and integrity while those with criminal antecedents are unfit for it. The bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and J.K. Maheshwari passed the order after the Centre had challenged a ruling of Madhya Pradesh High Court which granted permission to him to join training after taking note that he was acquitted in a kidnapping case. The bench noted that the ministry of home affairs issued the guidelines in February 2012 for consideration of the cases of the candidates against whom criminal cases were registered or tried by the courts. In furtherance to the said guidelines, the case of the respondent was referred to CISF headquarters, New Delhi, in which the standing screening committee assembled and examined the cases of 89 candidates, including the respondent, and passed an order that the respondent was not eligible for appointment. This decision was challenged before a single bench of the high court which allowed his appointment. The division bench also upheld the decision. Allowing the appeal against the high court’s decision, the apex court said that “it appears that the Committee was of the view that acquittal of the respondent, in the facts of the present case, cannot be termed as ‘honourable acquittal’ and the said acquittal may be treated by giving the benefit of the doubt”. “The respondent who wishes to join the police force must be a person of utmost rectitude and have impeccable character and integrity. A person having criminal antecedents would not be fit in this category. The employer is having the right to consider the nature of acquittal or decide until he is completely exonerated because even a possibility of his taking to the life of crimes poses a threat to the discipline of the police force,” the bench said. The apex court also said the employer is having the right to consider the suitability of the candidate according to government orders/instructions/rules at the time of taking the decision or induction of the candidate in employment. “Acquittal on the technical ground in respect of the offences of heinous/serious nature, which is not a clean acquittal, the employer may have a right to consider all relevant facts available as to the antecedents, and may take an appropriate decision as to the continuance of the employee,” the bench said. Even in this case, a truthful declaration regarding concluded trial has been made by the employee, still, the employer has the right to consider antecedents and cannot be compelled to appoint the candidate, the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
07-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri:  Cong govts step up aid to deceased farmers’ kin||Bhupesh Baghel and Charanjit Singh Channi, chief ministers of Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh and Punjab, on Wednesday declared their governments would provide compensation of Rs 50 lakh each to the families of the four farmers and a journalist allegedly run over by a Union minister’s car in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. The announcement came after the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government of Uttar Pradesh, where the incident took place, said it would provide Rs 45 lakh each and a job to the victims’ families. On Wednesday, Baghel and Channi accompanied Rahul Gandhi to Lucknow and then to Lakhimpur Kheri “I am a farmer and Punjab is a state of farmers. The UP government’s people have killed the farmers. The Punjab government will give Rs 50 lakh to the families of the murdered farmers and the journalist,” Channi told reporters at Lucknow airport. Baghel said: “Chhattisgarh is known as a rice bowl. I know the pain of the farmers. As the Punjab government has announced, the Chhattisgarh government will also give Rs 50 lakh to each deceased farmer’s and the journalist’s families who were crushed by the son of a Union minister in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday.” On Monday afternoon, additional director-general of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar had held a news conference with Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait by his side and said the Adityanath government would give Rs 45 lakh each to the family of the deceased and a job to a family member. On Monday morning, Tikait was the only leader allowed to reach the incident site in Tikunia, where a large-scale protest was going on against the incident. Tikait had tried to broker peace by holding four rounds of meetings with Kumar and the agitated farmer leaders. Kumar had said the situation was returning to normal after his meeting with Tikait. Aman Deep Singh Sandhu, a farmer leader of Lakhimpur Kheri, said: “We are happy that the Congress is giving more money than the state government to the deceased poor farmers’ and reporter’s families. Those whom Monu (Union minister Ajay Misra Teni’s son Ashis “Monu” Mishra) killed are extremely poor and need help.” Keval Singh, uncle of Luv Preet Singh, who was allegedly crushed under the wheels of Ashis’s jeep, said: “Teni and his son are goondas. The state government wants to buy us by giving us a few lakhs and at the same time standing by the goondas. Modi is supporting a goonda minister and Yogi is protecting the goonda son of a goonda minister.” Pawan Kashyap, younger brother of deceased journalist Raman Kashyap, said: “Come and see our financial condition. Our sole breadwinner was killed by the Union minister’s son. We thank the two chief ministers for feeling our pain and request them to take forward our battle for the arrest and punishment to Teni and Monu.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
07-10-2021||India||Kashmiri pandit businessman's daughter dares his killers||The daughter of prominent Kashmiri Pandit businessman Makhan Lal Bindroo, who was killed by militants on Tuesday evening, has vowed to follow in her “fighter” father’s footsteps and dared the killers to have a debate with her and prove that they are right. In a string of attacks, Bindroo, 68, a pharmacist, and Virendra Paswan, a non-local vendor, were gunned down on Tuesday. Militants have carried out several attacks targeting BJP men, non-locals and Kashmiri Pandits since the 2019 scrapping of the state’s status. “I don’t have a single tear in my eyes. Because he (Bindroo) is (was) a fighter. He died like a fighter. He always said I will die with my shoes on,” Smriddi Bindroo, an academic, said at her residence in Srinagar’s Indra Nagar locality. “Whoever is the person who shot my father dead, mister, come in front of me, if you have any education. My father gave me education and politicians gave you guns and stones, you want to fight with guns and stones, that is cowardice.” Bindroo and his family never migrated from Kashmir even during the peak of militancy in the 1990s. In the last 30 years of militancy, Bindroo was joined by his wife at the pharmacy daily where they dispensed medicines during the day and returned home late in the evening. Bindroo’s death is being seen as a setback to the process of bringing back migrant Kashmiri Pandits. Among many who visited Bindroo’s Indra Nagar residence was former chief minister Farooq Abdullah. Smriddi proudly recalled her father’s contribution in giving them the best education. “I am an associate professor, I started from zero. My father started with a bicycle. My brother is a famous diabetologist today. My mother sits in a shop. This is what Makhan Lal Bindroo made us. A Kashmiri Pandit, he will never die. You can just kill the body,” she said. She challenged the militants to a “face to face debate” if they had “guts and courage”. “Then we will see what you are. When you can’t utter a word, then you will understand that you can only throw stones and open fire from behind,” she said. Smriddi appeared to be arguing that the gun-wielding militants lacked education and were being misused by politicians, in line with the dominant narrative in the country. However, many in Kashmir argue that militancy has attracted many educated youth, who have taken up arms after all peaceful means to achieve their goal failed. “You have killed a body, but what that body produced is me. This is what I am, my father’s daughter,” the young academic, in her 30s, thundered. “I being a Hindu (but) have read the Quran and the Quran says that the body will die but his spirit stays. Makhan Lal Bindroo will be alive in spirit.” Smriddi said she used to ask her father if he was scared. “He would say: ‘If I live in fear, then every day will become difficult to live. If I die, it will only be once,’” she quoted her father as saying. Siddarth, Bindroo’s diabetologist son, said he had expected his father to die a natural death. “That is because he lived a natural life, an extraordinary life. He made a name for himself as a pharmacist, became famous because he was a man of principles. He sold genuine medicines. All, young and old, loved him,” he said. The doctor said he had moved out of Kashmir for work, but his father encouraged him to come back. Siddarth said they had no information about any threats received by his father, adding that he would have continued going to the shop even if he had.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
07-10-2021||India||Kerala government yet to withdraw cases against anti-CAA protesters||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday confirmed that his government had yet to implement its decision to withdraw cases against those who protested against the citizenship matrix and participated in the Sabarimala agitation. The chief minister informed P.T.A. Rahim, a Left-backed Independent MLA, in a written reply in the Assembly that the cases were still being examined by a committee headed by the inspector-general of police (crime branch) that would take further action. The LDF government had in February this year, ahead of the state polls, decided to withdraw all “non-serious” cases following a huge uproar by the Opposition and civil society. The chief minister informed Rahim that 2,636 cases had been booked against those who unleashed violence after the government decided to implement a September 2019 Supreme Court order to permit women of childbearing age to enter the Sabarimala temple. Another 836 cases were booked against anti-CAA protesters, an act that faced a lot of flak from progressive and secular forces as the LDF government had taken the lead to pass a unanimous resolution against the citizenship matrix and promised never to implement it in the state. The DMK government in Tamil Nadu had in September withdrawn 5,570 cases registered against the protesters of the citizenship matrix and the farm laws during the tenure of its predecessor AIADMK, a BJP ally. On Wednesday, proceedings began at a court in Thamarassery in Kozhikode against 11 workers of Youth League, the youth wing of Indian Union Muslim League, who had protested against the citizenship matrix in December 2019. “We had peacefully protested outside post offices on December 19, 2019. The police arrested and released us on station bail. But today, we had to appear before the court fearing arrest since we did not respond to the previous summons assuming the government was anyway withdrawing the cases,” local Youth League leader Mujeeb Rahman, one of the 11 accused, told The Telegraph on Wednesday. Vijayan’s reply triggered widespread condemnation. “I did sense something was wrong when the local police station sent me a notice to appear last week,” Hameed Vaniyambalam, president of the Welfare Party of India, told this newspaper. He was among those booked for protesting against the citizenship matrix without police permission in Kozhikode. “This is a government that moved a resolution in the Assembly against the CAA,” he noted. Dalit activist K.K. Baburaj, writer T.T. Sreekumar, scholar J. Devika, Sunni Muslim leader Nasar Faizi Koodathayi, rights activists Gro Vasu and C.R. Neelakandan were among the hundreds booked for protesting against the citizenship matrix. They were booked under IPC Sections 109 (abetment), 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), and 283 (obstruction in public way or line of navigation), which can entail a maximum punishment of two years. Baburaj, who was named in an FIR for protesting against the citizenship matrix in Kannur, said he never trusted the LDF government. “They will withdraw cases only against Leftists,” said Baburaj, who subscribes to the Communist ideology but not its politics. “I am ready to face any consequence for protesting. But that may not be the case with everyone as these cases are like the sword of Damocles that any government would happily use,” he said. Sunni leader Koodathayi voiced similar sentiments. “I had received summons after the case was booked. But I had doubted the sincerity of the government (in withdrawing the cases),” he told this newspaper. Neelakandan, who faced two cases, accused Vijayan of trying to please Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Pinarayi (Vijayan) is trying to please Modi with whom he has a good understanding. That’s why he is not willing to withdraw these cases,” he alleged. “Such cases are a stumbling block for youths who won’t get police clearance for passports or even government jobs that need background checks,” Neelakandan added, urging the government to keep its word.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
07-10-2021||India||Unesco report bares job insecurity in schools ||Short-term contracts, part-time jobs and outsourced hiring have become commonplace in teacher recruitment at India’s schools, with teachers at private schools worse off in terms of social-sector benefits, a report by the UN’s education arm Unesco shows. The State of Education in India Report 2021, prepared with data from government agencies and independent research publications, said over two-thirds of teachers at private schools did not even have a contract, leaving them vulnerable. (See chart) Most of the contract-less are guest teachers, part-time teachers and those whose hiring had been outsourced. They tend to lose out more on benefits like annual increments, pension, provident fund, health insurance, leave entitlements and legal protection against arbitrary employer action. In contrast, two-thirds of government school teachers at all levels have contracts of more than three years, the report says citing the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) 2018-19, a survey of the job situation in the country. This segment may be considered equivalent to regular teachers, the report adds. It does not explain why the government school teachers who have no contract — making up 28 per cent of the total — have average salaries higher than their peers with contracts of three years or less. The Unesco report quotes PLFS data to say that 59 per cent of schoolteachers in the private sector are ineligible for any benefits, and only 11 per cent receive the maximum benefits. At government schools, 19 per cent of teachers were found ineligible for benefits while 41 per cent received the maximum benefits. In the early childhood education centres like the Anganwadis, 35 per cent of the instructors and workers have no contracts. In the government sector, special education teachers (who teach subjects like sports or music) and vocational education teachers (carpentry, metal work) have a heavy presence among those without contracts. “The government sector has also adopted an ‘outsourcing model’ for assigning computer teachers in schools, where an agency is contracted to provide teachers. These teachers are on the rolls of the agency, and the government pays the agency for their service,” the report says. “This model is also followed in private schools who may use intermediary agencies through which teachers are provided, or they may contract a private firm to provide a complete curricular component, such as art education or physical education programmes. The models of teaching are undergoing change, driven by private sector enterprise.” The 2018 Global Teacher Status Index had said that schoolteachers in India are seen both by themselves and the public as having a status equivalent to that of librarians, lower than in China or Russia where teachers are deemed equivalent in status to doctors. The Unesco report says India’s teachers need to be better recognised and valued. Covid blow The pandemic and the subsequent school closures, still continuing in most states, has exposed teachers to job loss, pay cuts and salary delays while also increasing their workload, the report says. Government school teachers have been assigned tasks like conducting Covid surveys, facilitating vaccination, and distributing midday meal rations and learning materials at students’ doorsteps. They have had to join election duty, with over 1,500 primary teachers in Uttar Pradesh believed to have died of the virus after catching the infection during panchayat poll duty this year. Despite these assignments putting them at high risk, teachers are yet to be counted as frontline workers. With schools offering online education, most teachers have seen extended work timings that have blurred the boundary between work and home. Citing data in the media, the Unesco report says the state-wise job losses for teachers varied between 40,000 and a few hundred thousand in the aftermath of the Covid outbreak. There were reports of up to 65 per cent teachers having their salaries put on hold in private schools and instances of teachers being paid on an hourly basis. All this has taken a psychological toll. The report quotes a study to say about a fifth of teachers reported an inability to concentrate or work according to a plan, and 27 per cent reported anxiety over the stability of their jobs. Pranati Panda from the National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration said teachers’ motivation was linked directly to service conditions and avenues of promotion. “For quality education, the government should ensure that teachers get recruited with clear service conditions and promotional avenues. This has been highlighted in the NEP (National Education Policy) too,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
07-10-2021||India||Rahul warns Centre to not interfere with processes of healing and hope||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday warned the government against interfering with the democratic processes of healing and hope, contending that there could be explosive consequences if people were convinced that getting justice against the powerful was impossible. Rahul expressed outrage that the issue of removal of a central minister whose son was accused of running over farmers was being debated. “Such questions shouldn’t arise in democracy. Somebody mowed down six persons and you are asking if action will happen or not. This question should be asked in dictatorship, not democracy.” What he meant is that accountability is inevitable in a democracy and explained how dangerous was the idea of demolishing this democratic tradition of political morality. He said: “We see a systematic attack on the farmers of this country and it is arrogance, because the government does not understand the power of the farmers and they are provoking the farmers, they are insulting the farmers, they are killing the farmers. This is a very dangerous and bad idea.” Rahul added: “No action is taken against the minister whose son kills farmers. There has been a systematic attack on farmers. We see what happens in Hathras. Before that, their MLA raped a girl (in Unnao). This is a new kind of politics. Whatever criminals want to do, they can do. Whether it is rape, murder of farmers… those who kill, who rape roam free and the victims are targeted. Then a narrative is built using institutions, which are under the control of the RSS-BJP, using the police and different structures, but, what you will find is that there is a limit to this narrative.” Explaining the importance of healing and delivery of justice, he added: “You will find sooner rather than later, there will be an explosion, the size of which people are not understanding. We are trying to tell the government, let the democratic process work. This is what the country is about; do not interfere with the democratic process, because it is a safety valve. If you shut the safety valve, other types of problems will come.” He added: “So, we are pushing for maintaining the democratic process. When we go, when the chief ministers, myself, others go to visit this family, we are trying to give them confidence that in this country, you cannot be run over by a criminal, who calls himself the (junior) home minister’s son and then nothing happens, we are not going to allow that. That is the message; we are trying to give them. It is a message of hope. Today, those families don’t have hope. Today, the farmer doesn’t have hope.” The Congress leader further said: “Our job is to create pressure. There is punitive action till we build pressure. We built pressure in Hathras and then only action started. Now the government doesn’t want us to raise this issue. If there is no pressure, the criminals can escape. Had we not gone to Hathras, the rapists would have gone scot-free. Had we not mounted pressure on their MLA (in Unnao rape and murder), he would have come out. That’s why we are at it. The truth is that it is the media’s job. You have forgotten your responsibility and you ask us why we are doing politics.” Inaugurating a statue of former Congress chief minister of Haryana Bhajan Lal through videoconference, Rahul reiterated the point saying: “The BJP leaders malign, abuse and threaten farmers for months but no action is taken. Now they start killing the farmers and no action is taken.” The Congress stressed the importance of healing touch with chief ministers of Punjab and Chhattisgarh announcing Rs 50 lakh each to the families of the victims of Lakhimpur. What Rahul said had greater significance as Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah had shown the tendency of not speaking up on such issues. There is no indication that they plan to remove minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni despite incriminating evidence against his son. Modi, as chief minister of Gujarat, has the track record of not removing tainted ministers from his government. Even as Prime Minister, he refused to drop ministers despite corruption charges against the likes of Nitin Gadkari and Piyush Goyal. In the Congress-led UPA, railway minister Pawan Bansal was removed from the cabinet because his nephew was found discussing transfer-posting with an officer. Law minister Ashwini Kumar was sacked because the BJP created an uproar against his presence at a meeting of the CBI. Even Shashi Tharoor was dropped as minister of state for external affairs in a controversy related to the IPL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
07-10-2021||India||Python hurt in fight with tigress at Nandankanan||Rupa, a white royal Bengal tigress, attacked and injured an 11ft-long Indian python on Tuesday when it tried to enter into her enclosure at the Nandankanan Zoo on the outskirts of the city. The fight between the two was witnessed by some visitors and they immediately alerted the zoo officials. The python, which sustained injuries to its abdomen and other parts, is reported to be stable following a two-hour-long operation by the veterinary doctors at the Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT). This is the first such battle between a tigress and a python in the zoo considered to be one of the major tourist attractions of the state. Dr Indramani Nath, head of the department of surgery and radiology at OUAT, told The Telegraph: “The python, an ambush hunter, is around five to six years old and grey in colour. It had sneaked into the zoo from the nearby Chandaka forest on Tuesday around 10.30am. When the tigress noticed the snake, she pounced upon it. A battle ensued and the tigress managed to overpower the snake using her paws as a weapon.” Zoo sources said after being injured by the tigress, the python got terrified and curled up in a corner of the enclosure to protect itself. Though it tried to slither out of the enclosure, it was unable to do so due to the injuries it had sustained. “As the snake was non-poisonous, the tigress suffered no harm. However, the python sustained multiple injuries to muscles on various parts of its body,” Dr Nath said. While the tigress was confined to her enclosure, the python was rushed to the OUAT for treatment. “When we saw the condition of the python, we immediately formed a seven-member team. After X-ray, we started the treatment including surgery on its muscles. However, there was no skeletal injury. We had to put a tube in its intestine through its mouth to find out if there were any major ruptures inside the body. Thankfully, there were none. The injuries were in the lower part of the abdomen, soft tissues and skins. The operation went on from 1pm to 3pm. The python is stable and under observation,” Dr Nath said. He added: “No food will be given to the snake for at least seven days.“ A python can survive without food even for a month. After seven days, we will give her egg albumin and yolk. Once its condition improves, we will release rats near it to see whether it’s able to get back its hunting skills. Once it shows signs of complete recovery, it will be released into the wild.” Zoo veterinary doctor Sarat Sahu told this newspaper: “The tigress is in a good condition. No injury marks were found on her.” Nandankanan has 27 tigers, including six white ones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
07-10-2021||India||Axe-wielding sadhu panic in Bihar villages||Residents of Lakshmipur and neighbouring villages in West Champaran district of Bihar are spending sleepless nights in fear of an axe-wielding sadhu. Motilal Sadhu allegedly beheaded a woman last month when she resisted his attempts to molest her. He is said to hide in vast sugarcane fields, bushes or along riverbanks in the area during the day, but emerges wielding an axe at night to roam the deserted village streets, shouting expletives and threatening to kill nine more people. The threats are enough to terrorise the villagers who scamper to their homes as dusk falls or gather in groups to mount a vigil to ward off any possible untoward incident. “We carry torches, sticks, spears and mobile phones with us and patrol the streets because the sadhu has been threatening to kill nine people in our village. He has already killed one and we do not want to take any chances,” said Sunny Kumar, a resident of Lakshmipur village, around 250km northwest of Patna. According to Kumar, the hermit also screams out the names of the people he is going to kill, but often keeps changing them. Motilal had allegedly tried to molest a woman in Lakshmipur on September 23 while she was cutting grass in a field for her cattle. She resisted and her children playing nearby raised an alarm, following which he beheaded her with the axe and fled away. The villagers alleged that Motilal was besotted with her. An FIR has been registered at Chautarwa police station in connection with the killing of the woman. Motilal had earlier tried to sexually assault another woman while she had gone to work at her farm. He had cut the nose of her father-in-law when he tried to save her, villager said. Motilal has become a headache for the police, who have labelled him a “psycho”, clever enough to thwart all attempts to nab him for the last two weeks. “We are not sitting idle. We have been conducting raids to arrest the sadhu, but he takes advantage of the topography of the area to escape. We spotted him once in a sugarcane field and tried to surround him, but he fled using the cover of the tall plants,” Chautarwa station house officer (SHO) Shambhu Sharan Gupta told The Telegraph. “Another time we tried to corner him, he jumped into a local river. Some policemen also jumped after him, but could not catch him. We will nab him soon,” Gupta added. The SHO also said Motilal had now tonsured his head and shaved his beard since the police spotted him last.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
07-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP leader Sabyasachi Dutta comes back to TMC||BJP state secretary and the former mayor of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC), Sabyasachi Dutta, who had quit the TMC to join the saffron camp two years ago, returned to the Mamata Banerjee-led party on Thursday. He joined the state's ruling party at TMC secretary-general and cabinet minister Partha Chatterjee's room in the Assembly, in the presence of other leaders. "We inducted Dutta in the party, as per his request, on the very day our leader Mamata Banerjee took oath as an MLA. She has approved Dutta's induction into the party," Chatterjee said. Dutta, on his part, claimed that some misunderstanding had prompted his exit from the TMC, but that has now been resolved. He asserted that he would humbly take up any role offered to him by the TMC. "From 2011 to 2021, I was an MLA. I held the post of BMC mayor for several terms. There was some misunderstanding within the party. But that has been cleared. My new journey with the TMC begins from today," he added. Dutta lost the Bidhannagar seat to TMC's Sujit Bose in the April-May Assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee, two other MLAs take oath as members of Bengal Assembly||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was on Thursday administered the oath as a member of the state assembly by Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. Mamata, who won the Bhowanipore by-poll by a margin of 58,835 votes, a record for the seat, took the oath in Bengali. She needed to win the election to retain the chief minister's chair after her defeat at the hands of protege-turned-rival BJP's Suvendu Adhikari in the March-April assembly elections. Two other newly elected TMC legislators Jakir Hossain and Amirul Islam also took oath soon afterward. Jakir Hossain was declared victorious by a huge margin of 92,480 votes from Jangipur, Amirul Islam won from Samserganj by 26,379 votes. Dhankhar had on Tuesday said he will administer the oath to Mamata and others, in a departure from the practice of the governor authorising the speaker of the assembly to conduct the exercise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee government to focus on jobs in shut tea estates of north Bengal districts||The Mamata Banerjee government has instructed the administrations of tea districts of north Bengal, especially Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar that have shut tea estates, to explore options for creating employment for the jobless workers of these gardens as well as hundreds of migrant workers from these tea estates. Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, said they have taken up the task to create additional employment opportunities for workers of closed gardens. Also, those who had migrated from these closed gardens earlier for jobs elsewhere but had to return during the pandemic, would be considered as prospective beneficiaries of the employment plan so that they too can earn. “Instructions have been given to increase the scale of work under the 100-days work scheme. Also, projects like pisciculture, horticulture and floriculture would be promoted in these tea estates for the local population. The idea is to create avenues for people to earn from alternative sources,” she said. As of now, at least 13 tea estates are closed in these three districts. Administrative officials said along with these, some more tea estates are considered “sick”. People in the latter could also gain from the alternative options of employment. “In sick gardens, hardly any casual worker lands a job. They are in dire straits. We feel it is important to extend the opportunity of an alternative income to workers of sick tea estates as well,” said an official. For now, officials in the blocks concerned have been asked to find out the number of unemployed youths in each of these closed and sick tea gardens. “We also want feedback from these youths on whether they have a plan of their own on how earn. If required, arrangements to train them  in  skills will be made in consultation with the department concerned under the state’s Utkarsha Bangla scheme,” the official added. The administration, sources said, will also see if any youth intends to open a shop or any other trade facility in the tea estate or nearby. “In such cases, arrangements will be made so that he can avail finance under the various state-run schemes. For women in these tea estates, emphasis would be put on forming self-help groups which can collectively get into different activities and earn money,” said an official of Alipurduar district. In the Dooars, a number of women’s self-help groups based in the tea estates are making items such as detergent, sanitiser, masks, brooms as well as decorative products. The initiative, political observers said, is yet another move by Trinamul to revive its support base in the tea belt. Over the past few years, Bengal’s ruling party has lagged behind the BJP in the tea estates, both in the hills and the plains, despite performing well in other parts of the state. “So far, BJP leaders and central ministers have made tall talks on reopening tea estates and creating employment opportunities in the tea estates. Now if the state government can create some opportunities for around 20,000-odd jobless workers of these gardens and for the local youths, it would create goodwill and will definitely help the ruling party in the upcoming rural elections as well as the 2024 Lok Sabha polls,” said a political observer. Health and PHE department officials have also been asked to work on some other issues. “The health department has been asked to ensure that no child or woman suffers from malnourishment. If required, screening camps will be set up in these gardens. Also, the PHE department has been asked to expedite the process of setting up drinking water supply in all these gardens,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
07-10-2021||West Bengal||3 killed as bus rams into standing truck in Murshidabad||Three persons were killed and 10 injured in Murshidabad’s Sagardighi around 3am on Wednesday, when an NBSTC bus from Calcutta to Cooch Behar rammed into a stationary truck that had broken down a little while before. The accident occurred on an active flank of NH12 near Ratanpur village. The truck, which had been standing on the highway after its brakes failed, had no occupants when the accident occurred. Sagardighi police said their patrol team rushed to the spot on being informed about the accident. The patrol team had anyway been approaching the truck stranded on the highway, but the accident occurred before they could tow the truck away. “Our team had been approaching the area to respond to the safety hazard posed by the goods truck,” said district police chief Y. Raghuvamshi. The deceased were identified as bus driver Nandan Dey, 50, from Cooch Behar, conductor Krishanu Pal, 52, from Madhyamgram, and passenger Ashok Mandal, 51, from Assam. All the injured were either attendants or passengers of the bus. Police rushed them to Jangipur subdivisional hospital, where the three were declared dead on arrival. Five critically injured were referred to the Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital for intensive treatment. “We concur that the bus driver could not estimate that the truck was motionless and that caused the crash,” added SP Raghuvamshi. At 3am, visibility would have also been poor. Police have conducted post-mortems and handed over the three bodies to their respective families. Cases of unnatural death have been started.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
07-10-2021||West Bengal||More room for tourists as Bhorer Alo adds 18 cottages||Mamata Banerjee will on Thursday virtually inaugurate from Calcutta more cottages at tourism complex Bhorer Alo in Jalpaiguri’s Gajoldoba, which means rooms for those looking forward to a getaway at the birders’ paradise on the Teesta’ banks. “The chief minister will inaugurate 18 new cottages at Bhorer Alo tomorrow (Thursday), along with a number of other projects in different districts,” said a source in the state tourism department. The tourism hub so far had six cottages. But as the destination is gaining popularity, the tourism department decided to add more cottages. “We have come up with five two-storey cottages which have one double-bed room with a toilet and balcony on each floor (10 units). Also, eight new single-storey cottages, with one room in each, are ready,” the source added. In all, Bhorer Alo will now have 24 cottages, 18 new and six existing ones. “As of now, Rs 2,500 is the daily tariff for the six existing cottages with other charges. The tariff of the new cottages will be fixed soon. For reservations, go to the official of West Bengal Tourism Development Corporation,” said an official of state tourism. “Bhorer Alo is becoming one of the most sought-after destinations in this region, so we are happy that more cottages are ready,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network. For the inauguration programme, decorations have started at the hub. On Wednesday, a team of government officials, along with some representatives of the Gajoldoba Development Authority, visited the new cottages. “A small event will be held here on Thursday during the inauguration,” said Khageswar Roy, local MLA and vice-chairman of the Gajoldoba Development Authority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 786 Covid cases and 15 deaths||Bengal’s active Covid-19 cases rose by 16 to reach 7,591 as the state on Wednesday recorded 786 infections, besides 755 recoveries and 15 deaths. This is for the seventh day in the past 11 days that the number of total patients under treatment rose. Calcutta logged 159 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 134. These are the two districts which logged three-digit figures of new infections in the state on Wednesday. Eight districts reported single-digit figures. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas logged four each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.73 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes close to 15.47 lakh recoveries and 18,863 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Governor to administer MLA oath to Mamata Banerjee on Thursday||Mamata Banerjee will take oath as MLA at the Assembly at 2pm on Thursday. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will administer the oath to Mamata and two other newly elected MLAs, Jakir Hossain and Amirul Islam. Rules mandate that governors administer oath to MLAs, but the power is generally delegated to Speakers. This time, sources said, Dhankhar insisted on administering the oath to the chief minister and the other two MLAs. Mamata became an MLA after winning the Bhowanipore bypoll. Hossain and Amirul were elected from Jangipur and Samserganj, respectively. The chief minister had been defeated by Suvendu Adhikari — the one-time protege of Mamata who had defected to the BJP just before the Assembly elections — in Nandigram. However, the Trinamul Congress swept the Assembly polls and Mamata became the chief minister. Mamata had till November 5 to be elected to the 294-seat House. The Bhowanipore seat was vacated by agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who won with a margin of over 28,000 votes, on May 21 to enable Mamata to be elected to the Assembly. In the bypoll, the Trinamul supremo bagged 85,263 votes or 71.9 per cent of the votes polled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Fields and fisheries flooded in south Bengal, prices rise ahead of Durga puja||Inundation of vast swathes of south Bengal has led to a shortage in the supply of vegetables and fish in the market and the resultant price rise ahead of Durga puja. Sources said more than 1 lakh hectares, where seasonal vegetables were cultivated, got submerged because of the record rain last week and subsequently, the release of water from the Damodar Valley Corporation’s dams in Jharkhand worsened the situation. Fish were also swept away from overflowing ponds and fisheries in East Midnapore and North and South 24-Parganas. “Rohu fish, which is a common item on the Bengali platter, is now sold at around Rs 350-Rs 400 per kilo, almost double the regular price,” said Gopal Das, a fish trader in Durgapur. One kilogram of brinjal, which was sold at Rs 40 before the flood, costs Rs 80 per kilo now in the state. Similarly, okra, which was earlier Rs 20 per kilo, is now sold at Rs 60. Many people are already struggling over the loss of income and jobs because of the Covid-19 pandemic, and now the price pinch of the daily need has made the situation worse. In West Burdwan, which is known as an industrial hub, a major portion of vegetables like pumpkin, cabbage, brinjal, and ridge gourd is supplied from neighbouring Bankura and West Midnapore districts. Low-lying areas along the Damodar and Gandheswari rivers in Bankura’s Mejia, Borjora, Sonakukhi, Onda, Indus and Patrashayar blocks are known for vegetable growers. West Midnapore’s Ghatal and a large part of Hooghly – also a major producer of vegetables – feed many south Bengal districts as well as Calcutta and have been severely affected by the flood. “Most of the fields where we grew vegetables were submerged. All our crops were destroyed in the water,” said a farmer in Bankura’s Onda. The area was inundated because of the overflowing of the Damodar, Gandheswari and Dwarakeswar rivers. “I have cultivated bitter gourd and pumpkin on my one bigha plot but the inundation has ruined everything,” said Bholanath Gorai, a farmer at Patrashayar. A stockist of cabbage and pumpkin in Durgapur said he had not been receiving vegetables for the past three days. “I supply cabbage and pumpkin on four trucks to Durgapur, Asansol and Burdwan retail markets, but I have not been able to send a single truck for the past two days. The supply of vegetables from Bankura has stopped because of the flood,” said the stockist. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar in TamlukFields & fisheries flooded, prices rise||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee urges Narendra Modi to end deluge woes||Mamata Banerjee has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging his immediate intervention to find out a permanent solution to the problem of regular deluge in Bengal because of “uncontrolled and unplanned” discharge of water from the dams of the Damodar Valley Corporation in Jharkhand. “The crux of the matter is that, yet again on 30 th September, 2021, there was uncontrolled and unplanned discharge of water from DVC dams at Panchet and Maithan which led to unprecedented deluge in many districts of the state. The quantum of release during 30 th September, 2021 to 2nd Oct. 2021 will bring out the scale and enormity of discharge into Damodar and Ajoy rivers and the resultant devastation and havoc it brought in its wake,” the chief minister wrote in her letter dated October 5. Mamata described in detail how water released by the DVC had led to deluge in large parts of Bengal. The letter categorically explained the reasons why she was terming the heavy release of water as “uncontrolled and unplanned”. The chief minister said Bengal was forced to bear the brunt of the unplanned water discharge by the DVC and pay for the inefficiency of the DVC management. Sources at Nabanna said Mamata had written a series of letters in the past pointing out the need to enhance structural ability of the DVC dams by way of desilting and dredging the dams, but no initiative was taken by the Centre so far. The chief minister urged Modi to intervene and bring together the governments of Bengal and Jharkhand and the DVC to get a permanent solution in this regard. “I seek your kind immediate intervention so that the concerned ministry of the Government of India is requested to engage with governments of West Bengal and Jharkhand and the authorities of DVC, to help in arriving at a permanent solution to this problem,” the chief minister wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Malda lotus to brighten Durga Puja in Bangladesh||A consignment of lotus will be exported to Bangladesh from Malda ahead of Durga Puja for the first time. Preparations are on to pack the lotuses in specially designed containers so that the flowers remain fresh. Every year, hundreds of Durga Pujas are held in Bangladesh. In capital Dhaka alone, over 200 Durga Pujas are organised, said sources. Although this export is being made privately, officials of the state horticulture department have hailed it and said it would boost floriculture in Malda and nearby districts. Uzzal Saha, convener of Malda Cold Storage Owners’ Association and general secretary of a state-level exporters’ association, said some importers from Dhaka expressed interest in high quality lotus flowers for Durga Puja. “We received an export order of around 4 lakhs lotuses for now,” Saha said. Sources said the lotuses will be sent to Bangladesh by road via Malda’s Mahadipur land port. “The consignment will be sent to Dhaka and from there to other places,” an exporter said. Hundreds of people have been engaged to pack the lotus in special containers. “These containers will be preserved at cold storages till October 10, then loaded in trucks that will head for Bangladesh the next day,” Saha said. The lotuses, he said, are being sold at Rs 20 apiece to Bangladesh importers. The flower grows in Bangladesh but this time its production was low there, necessitating their import from Bengal ahead of Durga Puja. Krishnendu Nandan, a deputy director of the state horticulture department, said so far Malda mangoes were exported to Bangladesh, but now flowers can also be exported. “So far, the most prominent product of Malda that was exported to Bangladesh was the mango. Now it seems that flowers can be exported too,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Border Security Force nabs 3 suspected smugglers ||The Border Security Force (BSF) has arrested three suspected smugglers, including a Bangladeshi, from different parts of north Bengal in the past four days. Also from October 4 to October 6, the BSF seized a number of items, including cattle, cough syrup and other contraband items worth over Rs 9 lakh, said sources. On Wednesday, the BSF arrested one Mominul Haque, a resident of Haldibari in Cooch Behar district, at the Indo-Bangla border of the district. On Tuesday, the 61 battalion intercepted Mohammad Rashid, resident of Hasimara in Alipurduar district, at Hilli in South Dinajpur district. On Sunday, the 72 battalion of the BSF posted at Kadirganj in North District apprehended Sobur, a resident of Thakurgaon district in Bangladesh, while he was allegedly trying to cross the International boundary illegally. In another incident, three youths were held from Kaliachak in Malda district on Tuesday night after 20 stolen smartphones and a stolen two-wheeler were allegedly seized from their possession. “Mohammad Israil Sheikh, Mohammad Golam Mostafa and Mohammad Hasem Sheikh were sent to police custody by a local court on Wednesday. We will interrogate them for more information,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
07-10-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal State Transport Corporation introduces double-decker bus in Cooch Behar||The North Bengal State Transport Corporation (NBSTC) introduced the double-decker bus in Cooch Behar town on Wednesday after a gap of six years. Sources in NBSTC said it has been decided at the board meeting of the state-run transport corporation that the double-decker service would be launched for tourists and residents interested in visiting prominent attractions of the town with a royal heritage. “The fare is Rs 25. The 80-seater bus will move through a specific route and will cover 14km,” said an official, adding that an organisation can book the bus for Rs 2,000. On Wednesday, Cooch Behar Sanskritik Mancha, a local cultural group, booked the bus, which attracted curious onlookers on the way. “From now on, the double-decker bus will run on holidays when people can enjoy a ride,” said Partha Pratim Roy, the chairman of NBSTC. Around 35 years back, the NBSTC had launched three double-decker buses in Cooch Behar. Among these, one got damaged around 21 years back, one was auctioned in 2015 and the third, introduced for tourists, stopped running owing to paucity of passengers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Gorkhaland Territorial Administration dithers on use of funds for tea hands||A sum of more than Rs 2 crore is lying in the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration’s kitty but the hill body is hard-pressed to decide on its utilisation as different opinions have cropped up on the fund. The GTA chairman relief fund had been set up on March 24, 2020, purportedly to take up the gigantic task of “paying tea garden workers during the lockdown”. Anit Thapa was the chairman then. The 87 tea gardens in the hills have together around 55,000 permanent workers and 15,000 temporary labourers. However, unlike other sectors in the country, the tea industry remained closed only from March 25 to April 9 in 2020. Contributions to the relief fund continued to pour in and over 11,000 people donated a sum of Rs 2.12 crore. Thapa had announced that the GTA would contribute a matching amount to the relief fund. With the tea gardens operating during the Covid-19 pandemic, the fund’s express purpose was defeated leading to a tug-of-war over its utilisation. As the chairman of the GTA, Thapa constituted a 15-member committee comprising trade union leaders of different political parties among others. The committee did sit for a meeting on January 28, 2021, but consensus eluded the panel. “Some wanted the GTA to distribute cash to the workers, while others wanted to utilise the fund for infrastructure development. There was also a demand to set up a bhavan (guesthouse) in Siliguri with the fund so that tea garden workers can utilise the place when they go down for medical emergencies,” said a GTA source. During this Puja period and at a time when annual bonus to the tea estate workers is being paid in two instalments of 15 per cent and 5 per cent, the demand for the utilisation of the fund has been raised from different quarters in the hills. “I, too, have contributed to the fund. As a contributor, I demand that the workers be paid in cash before Pujas,” said Binay Tamang, former GTA chairman who recently quit as the head of a Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction he had helmed since 2017. A senior GTA official said the hill body would “soon convene a meeting” to decide on the fund utilisation. “However, given the sensitivity and complexity surrounding the fund because of the involvement of so many leaders from different political parties, it would be tough a task to come up with a decision that would satisfy all,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Duo held for ‘paying’ fake court employees in Bankura||Bankura police on Wednesday arrested two persons, including a former accountant of the office of the district’s chief judicial magistrate, for allegedly embezzling government funds worth Rs 2.33 crore. The money was withdrawn to pay the salaries or bills of at least 20 fictitious staff and judicial magistrates for a year. “We have arrested the two persons following a complaint lodged by the chief judicial magistrate. We have taken them in custody for interrogation to know their modus operandi. We will also arrest others if we find more involved,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, Bankura SP. Police said arrested were former CJM court accountant Pritam Bhakat and his associate Avik Mitra. The duo were produced before Bankura court on Wednesday that remanded them to five days of police custody. They were arrested after the CJM of Bankura Mayukh Mukherjee lodged a complaint with Bankura police on Tuesday, accusing Bhakat of misappropriating government money. The duo have been charged with cheating, misappropriation of government money and under sections of the Information Technology Act. Sources said the present accountant of the CJM office, Giridhari Karmakar, while reviewing bills found some payments under the head of salaries of fictitious employees between April 2019 and September 2020. It was also found that the money had been routed to fictitious bank accounts. Court sources alleged Bhakat, between April 2019 and September 2020, registered these fake employees to make the dubious payments. “So far, we have received names of around 20 such fictitious employees. There may be more. The total amount of fraud is over Rs 2.33 crore and it was done by manipulating the human resource management system (HRMS). As the accountant (Bhakat) had access to the HRMS portal in his capacity of a senior judicial officer, he apparently misused it,” said a senior police officer. Police officers said the way Bhakat operated the scam raises suspicion that more people are involved. “We will interrogate him in police custody to get to the bottom of the fraud,” the office said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Purulia’s Mahalaya gift to Covid orphans: Long-term aid||Purulia district administration, with help from the state government, on Wednesday pledged long-term social and economic support to 46 minors who lost both parents to the pandemic, and to six other children who lost one parent each but were extremely needy, at an event at the district headquarters. All the 52 children received a festive kit of new clothes, shoes, books, colouring materials and stationery at the Rabindra Bhavana auditorium of Purulia on Wednesday afternoon, as Durga Puja gifts on the day of Mahalaya. A cultural programme was also held for them. “After a vast survey and virtual interviews of around 1,800 children, we chose these 52 children who are helpless and have no support system. The child welfare department has already granted funds of Rs 2,000 per month to each. We have formed several committees to look after health, education, nutrition and other needs of these children,” said Rahul Majumdar, Purulia district magistrate. “It is Mahalaya after all, and we have vowed to take care of all 52 children till they become self-reliant,” the district magistrate said. Majumdar added that they hosted a cultural programme for the children and gave them gifts as they had nobody left to wish them joy during the upcoming festival. Purulia, one of the remotest districts in Bengal, is part of the Jungle Mahal belt. Sources said all the districts of the state started a survey in their respective areas, to find out children who had lost both or either of their parents to Covid-19 since the pandemic was first reported in Bengal in March last year. Sources in the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights have said that according to the survey over 3,000 such children were found. Ananya Chakraborti, chairperson of the Commission, on Wednesday welcomed the gesture by the Purulia administration. “It is our duty to keep these children happy during festivals. It is very good that the administration has decided to take care of all of such children on a long-term basis,” she said. Officials in Purulia said after the state government directed them to identify the children who lost their parents, the district administration asked panchayats and collected names of around 1,800 such children. “Our district child protection officers did a videoconference with help of local block officials and found out these 52 need the most support,” said an official. According to government norms, these are entitled to Rs 2,000 a month for three years. But the district magistrate can extend the period on a need-based assessment. In Santuri of Purulia, three siblings aged between 12 and 16 years lost both parents during the first wave of Covid-19 and have been living in a room of a local club in the village. “There was no place for those three to go. Their relatives stay in Madhya Pradesh as migrant workers. Their father, a migrant worker, and mother died of Covid-19 last year. We sheltered them at our club,” said Padma Lochan Show, a trader who is their current guardian. “I took the trio to Purulia town for the government event today (Wednesday), where they got Puja gifts. Their bank accounts have been opened and they will get money for their survival every month. All three are very studious, good students,” he added. The Purulia administration has also assigned a self-help group for each such orphaned child to see to it that they are doing well and getting government benefits. “This surveillance will be on, to see whether the money or other support from the government is being used only for the child, as we have to deposit the money in accounts of their immediate kin. If any irregularity is found, women of the self-help group will report to us,” said district magistrate Majumdar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
07-10-2021||West Bengal||Kalimpong MLA not invited to talks to be held for ‘resolution of issues related to Gorkhas’||The fledgling Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM) has demanded that its MLA from Kalimpong be invited to the October 12 talks convened by the Centre for “resolution of issues related to Gorkhas”. The demand comes in the wake of allegations levelled by some hill parties that the list of “stakeholders” prepared by the Union home ministry for the talks is tilted towards the BJP. Amar Lama, the general secretary of the BGPM, said: “We demand that our Kalimpong MLA Ruden Sada Lepcha be invited to the meeting as he is an elected public representative. So far, he has not received the invitation.” Invitation letters were issued by Paritosh Yadav, assistant section office, Union home ministry (Centre-State division), on Tuesday evening. The invitation has been sent to personal emails of various leaders and according to information received from multiple sources, the invitees are mostly public representatives from the BJP and its allies in the Darjeeling hills. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, Alipurduar MP John Barla and MLAs of Darjeeling, Kurseong and Kalchini, Neeraj Zimba, B.P. Bajgain and Bishal Lama, respectively, have been invited to the meeting in New Delhi. All the invitees belong to the BJP. Among political leaders called to the talks to be chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah are Gorkha National Liberation Front president Mann Ghisingh and Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists president R.B. Rai. The GNLF and the CPRM are allies of the BJP in the hills. The omission of Lepcha from the list of the invitees has surprised the BGPM. “How can the Centre call their two MLAs from the hills and ignore our MLA? It is absolutely unfair,” said Lama. “We demand that talks be on Gorkhaland and nothing else,” said Lama, whose party is in alliance with the Trinamul Congress which is opposed to the statehood demand. The BJP has not categorically stated either that it supports Gorkhaland. The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha hasn’t been invited to the talks either. Its president Bimal Gurung said: “We have no faith on the Delhi meeting. The BJP has ditched the people of the hills repeatedly. Even if we are invited, we won’t attend the talks.” The Morcha is an ally of Trinamul. The Centre had called a tripartite meeting on August 7, 2020, on “issues related to Gorkhaland” but within days, the agenda was changed to "issues pertaining to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration". Adivasi-Gorkha Sanyukta Samity (Dooars) president Sagan Moktan on Wednesday said people of the Dooars would keenly follow the talks. “If the talks are fruitful, we will welcome them. But if the meeting fails to fulfil our hopes, we will hit the streets against the participants in the meeting,” said Moktan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
07-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Choked||Death is in the air. According to a recent study by the network, C40, among 61 global megacities, Calcutta recorded the highest number of premature deaths on account of air pollution caused by coal-fired thermal power plants in 2019. It is also projected to witness 10,000 premature deaths by 2030. Among Indian cities, it is followed by Mumbai. This is not surprising. In spite of much-lauded efforts in clean energy, the carbon footprint of India’s coal-processing industry remains stark. The country has the world’s second highest number of operating coal power plants, none of which is scheduled to be phased out by 2030. In fact, a draft of the National Electricity Policy 2021 revealed plans to continue building coal-fired plants as they provide a cheap source of power. The rampant use of dirty coal in existing plants only compounds the problem — 84 per cent of the power stations supplying electricity to Bengal do not comply with official regulations for sulphur dioxide emissions. ‘Clean coal’ alternatives are not viable solutions either, since their contributions to greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution are high. Clearly, a move away from coal as a whole is necessary. Policies, however, continue to be guided by false assumptions. While rural households are believed to contribute majorly to coal consumption, coal accounts for about 70 per cent of India’s electricity generation, consumed at a much higher rate in urban centres. What available data suggest is a worrying gap between India’s commitment to adopt clean energy sources and the reality on the ground. To meet the 2030 emissions goal committed at the Paris Pact, India would need to reduce coal capacity in and around its C40 cities by about 22 per cent. Yet, going by the current coal plans, it is expected to increase by 20 per cent instead. To bridge this gap, policymakers need to look beyond populist steps. While the Ujjwala scheme promises free liquefied petroleum gas — an environment-friendly alternative to coal — to poor households, the government seems oblivious to the plight of the Indian middle class, struggling to afford LPG because of soaring prices. Investments in renewable energy need to be increased manifold — it constitutes just 33 per cent of the country’s recent spending on energy infrastructure. There is an additional incentive to go green. A transition to 100 per cent renewable energy could generate 18-27 per cent more jobs across India. Populism must be junked and changes in public lifestyle encouraged in policy for India to cleanse the air.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
07-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Calls for a female Bond||Time’s up Sir — As Daniel Craig hangs up his boots as the British super-spy, James Bond, there have been calls for casting a female in the iconic role. In fact, the most recent Bond film, No Time to Die, has cast a black woman in the role of 007 — Bond’s code number before he retired from MI6. But is there truly any space for Bond, a misogynistic relic of a bygone era, in contemporary cinema? Rather than trying to ‘rewrite’ a role in a more palatable light, screenwriters should put in the effort to create better roles for women. It is time for James Bond to put the gun down once and for all. Neha Chatterjee,Calcutta Pandora’s box Sir — An investigation by the International Consortium of Investigative journalists — this included more than 600 journalists from 117 countries working in more than 140 media organizations — has exposed financial frauds conducted by several well-known people around the world (“Indian names in Pandora Papers”, Oct 4). As usual, many prominent names from India feature on this list — Sachin Tendulkar, Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, Anil Ambani are some of them. Although the government has directed a multi-agency probe into the Pandora Papers, nothing significant is expected to come of it. The government’s claims of bringing back kala dhan have been belied time and again while the poor in the country get poorer and one leak after another continues to implicate the rich and famous in India. Why else are those named in the Panama Papers and the HSBC leak yet to be punished? Abhay Gupta,Mumbai Sir — It has become common practice for the wealthy to stash away a part of their fortune in offshore accounts. There have been numerous data leaks about tax evasion — the HSBC data leak in 2015, Panama Papers in 2016, Paradise Papers in 2017 — but no government has been able to bring this menace under control. The common people are increasingly coming to terms with such criminal activity going unpunished. It is unfortunate that we can no longer trust the government to hold the guilty accountable. Yash Pal Ralhan, Jalandhar Lost treasures Sir — It is heartening that the United States of America has returned over 157 stolen artefacts and antiquities to India (“Easy pickings”, Oct 1). In spite of strict domestic and international regulations, art theft continues to be a booming business — it is estimated to be the third-largest international criminal activity after drugs and arms trafficking. There is an immediate need to catalogue our treasures and train specialists to protect museums and archaeological sites. The government of India must do all it can to put an immediate stop to the drainage of our cultural heritage. H.N. Ramakrishna,Bangalore Sir — Several Western nations have filled their museums with loot from former colonies. Many such ‘stolen’ items are still exhibited at some of the foremost institutions in the world; their repatriation remains a distant dream. While Joe Biden must be lauded for returning smuggled cultural artefacts to India, there is an urgent need to initiate a broader discussion on art repatriation that would include artefacts acquired by colonial rulers. The international community must address this historical injustice. Minakshi Sharma,Gwalior Wasted funds Sir — The Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission, which aims to digitize personal medical records using a unique health identification number and create national registries for doctors and health facilities across the country, is a step in the wrong direction (“Beyond digital”, Oct 4). Millions of Indians have poor or no access to the internet. In such circumstances, any drive towards digitization is bound to benefit only a small section of the urban population. The government must address the digital divide before implementing such programmes. There is also a need to train people on data management for such measures to be useful. Brij B. Goyal,Ludhiana Sir — The funds that have been allocated to the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission would have been better utilized in beefing up India’s primary health sector, which suffers from a paucity of personnel, equipment and medicines. This initiative would have been laudable had the health budget been increased. At present, it is a waste of meagre resources. Ishita Sanyal,Pune||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
07-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: No noise||The prime minister is worried. There are very few critics left in India, he said recently in a rare interview. Could the paucity of critics in India, a nation of, ostensibly, voluble, argumentative citizens, have something to do with how Narendra Modi and his government view criticism? The crackdown on dissenters — political opponents, journalists, activists, farmers — has been explicit. Many of them continue to be incarcerated for expressing or disseminating contrarian opinion. This is because any narrative or public campaign that seeks to challenge or be critical of the regime is deemed injurious to the health of the nation. A nation of ‘anti-nationals’, by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s logic, is bound to be short on critics and criticism. There is credible evidence of this intimidation that has now been institutionalized. India — the mother of democracies, according to Mr Modi — has had to suffer the ignominy of being downgraded to an electoral autocracy by a premier research institution. The country’s performance on other registers of the democratic ethos — the international press freedom index, for instance — has been equally dismal during the years of Mr Modi’s rule. Yet, there is no shaking the prime minister’s faith in his receptivity to criticism. For instance, Mr Modi lauded the importance of constructive criticism in a democracy. He implied, and quite rightly too, that the quality of criticism is intrinsic to the health of a robust democracy. But the shadow, once again, has fallen between the prime minister’s words and deeds. If Mr Modi’s love and respect for the difference of opinion is so profound, why were legislations — the farm laws and the abrogation of Article 370 are examples — pushed without holding exhaustive consultations with the principal stakeholders? Why have visitations from income tax authorities become par for the course for the handful of media organizations that remain steadfast on their mission to speak truth to power? Why is the prime minister of democratic India on record attempting to tether fundamental rights and freedoms to the ‘duties’ of citizens? The answers to these queries are obvious. Mr Modi is an elected leader but of an authoritarian mould who appreciates conformity and obedience — not dissent. But then the democratic project is incomplete without critics. What does the near-absence of critics on Mr Modi’s watch then imply for the mother of democracies?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
07-10-2021||Opinion||Forgotten gold mine||India has not forgotten a social category called ‘caste’. This reality has been used relentlessly by various interest-groups, but with different degrees of seriousness. Counting the number of individuals within caste categories got fresh attention recently with a delegation of prominent politicians meeting the prime minister. Mainstream media as well as social media started covering events and vigorously debating related issues. Surprisingly, all these demands for caste census/survey have forgotten or ignored the ready-made database of the Socio-Economic and Caste Census 2011. The Centre recently informed the Supreme Court that the caste data collected in SECC-2011 suffer with respect to “completeness and accuracy”, are “replete with technical flaws”, and are “unusable”. One can say that the database is outdated. But if the objective is to know the strength of a caste, its representation in overall numbers is important. In simple terms, what is required is the ‘ratio’ or ‘proportion’. Demographic ratios do not change within a decade. For example, the proportion of the scheduled caste population was 16.48 per cent in 1991, 16.2 per cent in 2001, and 16.6 per cent in 2011. Similarly, the proportion for the scheduled tribes was 8.1 per cent, 8.2 per cent, and 8.6 per cent in these census years. The variation may be due to inclusion or deletions in the list in the schedule as per the provisions of Articles 341 and 342 of the Constitution rather than on account of demographic dynamics. By this logic, the SECC-2011 data are not old enough to be discarded. The SECC process was conducted under the direct supervision of the Office of the Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India. A scrutiny of vernacular and local newspapers showed that public interest was at its peak at the time of enumeration. Even organized caste societies, including khap panchayats, were keeping a close watch on the process and had educated their members on how to provide correct information to the enumerators. The credibility of the exercise was assured given the monitoring. Unlike the enumeration of SCs and STs, caste categories outside these groups are not listed formally by any authentic agency. A total of 1,646 castes were identified in the 1901 Census and 4,147 distinct categories in the 1931 Census — the last census that ventured into collecting data on caste. The People of India Project of the Anthropological Survey of India recorded 4,635 castes within 4,694 communities in and around 1992. It was decided that the names of castes would be recorded and that respondents were free to indicate their caste names. But there was a problem. The spelling of the name of a caste may take multiple forms in English, the language of recording. But this problem was resolved to a large extent and only about 1 per cent of caste names given by respondents could not be traced to a distinct category. This figure is insignificant. The SECC-2011 database can be used to find answers to the questions associated with caste-enumeration. Government schemes are implemented with the help of SECC data, directly or with modifications and assistance from other databases; why should the data not be fit for the counting? Perhaps the misgivings stem from political parties. They know the ground reality better because of their proximity to and interaction with people and fear that their claims of affirmative actions based on reservation have not delivered the expected benefits to targeted caste-groups. Their estimates and those based on past studies may even fall short of the real numbers/ratios thrown up by the SECC-2011 data. Even the proportion of the other backward classes may be restricted to lower than 40 per cent. Within the OBC group, the domination by a single caste may not go down well with other caste leaders and lobbyists. Secondly, the coupling of socioeconomic data with caste census data in SECC-2011 may pose problems. The quantum of deprived and vulnerable groups within OBC may tilt. Deprivation indicators, such as the absence or inadequate ownership of dwelling units, modern household appliances and assets like agricultural land, and vulnerability indicators like nature and source of wage/income are available in both rural and urban areas, and these can be linked easily to the caste status of households and individuals. The Supreme Court, referring to the Indra Sawhney verdict of 1992, has opined that economic criterion is not the sole basis for the creamy layer, and this may open the gate to using the SECC-2011 data. Thirdly, the timing of the demands for a caste census has created doubts about the seriousness of the political parties and caste lobbyists. Such demands are mostly raised before the launch of the census operation. The 2011 Census could not collect caste data as it was already in an advanced stage of preparation; the same now appears to be the case with the forthcoming 2021 Census. N.K. Sahu is a former economic adviser in the ministry of rural development, the nodal ministry to conduct the SECC-2011||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
07-10-2021||Opinion||A Promethean moment||Real life has a way of surprising theory. One of the most intensely discussed theoretical questions on the Left has been how to bring agricultural labourers and peasants, including well-to-do peasants, together in a common struggle against landlord domination in India’s countryside. Numerous Marxist gatherings have for years discussed the contradiction between peasants and labourers holding up a decisive resolution of the contradiction between the landlords and the rest of the village.Whenever Left peasant organizations have participated in joint struggles with other, non-Left, peasant organizations, they have insisted on incorporating some demands of agricultural labourers to bring the latter into the fold; but it has not worked. The contradiction between peasants and labourers is not just economic — with the labourers’ desire for higher wages directly affecting the peasantry — it also has a caste dimension. The labourers belong mainly, though not exclusively, to the Dalit castes, while the peasants are typically non-Dalit; in fact, over large swathes of India, especially the North, Dalits were traditionally not allowed to own any land. In the surroundings of Delhi, this contradiction took the form of an acute Jat-Dalit contradiction. In fact, a village called Kanjhawala near Delhi had witnessed in the 1970s a prolonged face-off between the Jat peasantry and the Dalit agricultural labourers organized by the Communist Party of India over wage demands. This confrontation had been an object lesson on the problems confronting the Indian revolution. The current struggle of the peasants against the three farm laws enacted by the Narendra Modi government, however, has done the seemingly impossible; it has brought together peasants and agricultural labourers on a common platform. In fact, the organizers of the kisan mahapanchayat held in Muzaffarnagar on September 5 claimed with pride that the attendance at the venue showed the agitation enjoying the support of ‘all classes’, ‘all castes’ and ‘all religions’. The Bharat Bandh on September 27 received support from the Bahujan Samaj Party despite that party’s going-it-alone proclivity which indicates massive churning at the ground level. This churning is not confined only to relations between peasants and labourers, or Jats and Dalits. It is visible in at least two other ways. One is the mass participation of women in the struggle. Jat peasant women, though proverbially feisty individually, are also, traditionally, victims of patriarchal attitudes; their participating on a large-scale in mass gatherings and mass meetings constitutes a novel and unprecedented phenomenon. The other is the relation between Jats and Muslims of the region. This had been relatively cordial in the past, but had soured allegedly at the behest of the current ruling party in the run-up to the parliamentary elections in 2014. A mahapanchayat had been held in Muzaffarnagar in August 2013 over some communal incident that had an unfortunate fall-out in the form of large-scale riots. This polarized the population along communal lines and not only made the Bharatiya Janata Party the single largest party but also gave it an absolute majority. The peasant struggle has brought the two communities together, each promising not to repeat the mistake of the last seven years. Quite apart from its effect on caste, community and gender relations, the peasant struggle has been remarkable for lending support to a range of pressing democratic issues not directly connected with the peasants’ own demands. Thus, opposing the government’s proposed ‘monetization’ drive, the privatization of public sector assets, the attack on civil liberties, the use of State agencies like the Enforcement Directorate and the Central Bureau of Investigation to intimidate opponents and critics and the continued incarceration without trial of a large number of people, including the Bhima-Koregaon accused, the kisan movement has broken completely new ground. No kisan struggle in the past had been as comprehensive as the current one as regards to the democratic issues it has taken up for the country as a whole. This sort of Promethean role, according to Marxist theory, is supposed to be played by the working class, with the peasantry remaining, at best, an ally of the workers, but never by the peasantry on its own. It is often argued that when the peasantry leads the anti-colonial struggle, it lacks any clear idea of the society that should be built after the end of colonial rule; but here we have the peasantry defending secularism, democracy and the Constitution against attempts to subvert them. In these attempts, segments of the urban middle class, whom John Maynard Keynes had called the “educated bourgeoisie” and placed great faith in as the element that would make the State an embodiment of reason, are ironically complicit. How is it that a class often dismissed as embodying the “idiocy of rural life” suddenly finds itself ahead of more ‘progressive’ social classes in defending democracy and constitutional values? A part of the answer lies no doubt in the changed circumstances in which this class finds itself. In the era of monopoly capitalism, there is an assault by monopoly capital on petty production, including peasant agriculture, so that the peasants have to fight not just landlordism as before but also the monopoly capitalists, the most ‘advanced’ section of society. In India, this exposure of peasant agriculture to encroachment by monopoly capital acquired momentum with the introduction of neoliberal policies. Earlier, under the dirigiste regime, the State had protected peasant agriculture from encroachment by monopoly capital. But this protection ended with neoliberalism: agricultural input subsidies were cut, price support withdrawn on cash crops, and institutional credit denied. The consequent decline in profitability and growth of indebtedness drove lakhs of peasants to suicide. Whatever residual protection is still offered by the State, through price-support for foodgrains, is now being denied through the three farm laws. The peasants are forced to rise above themselves to fight their new, ‘sophisticated’ enemy, consisting of domestic monopolists and international agri-business. The other part of the answer lies in the struggle itself, which revolutionizes peasants’ attitudes, getting rid of old casteist, communal and patriarchal prejudices. And what a struggle it has been! Prabhat Patnaik is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
07-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: PSA oxygen plant inaugurated in Jamshedpur hospital||Jamshedpur: A PSA oxygen plant was inaugurated at Sadar Hospital in Khasmahal locality of the steel city on Thursday, giving a boost in this government-run health hub. With a production capacity of 1,000 litres per minute, the oxygen plant was inaugurated online by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at 11 am today in presence of Jamshedpur MP, Vidyut Varan Mahto, East Singhbhum deputy commissioner, Suraj Kumar, district civil surgeon, AK Lal and doctors fraternity of the Sadar Hospital. "The oxygen plant that was inaugurated today is the first in its kind across Jharkhand. Work is on for another PSA oxygen to on the premises of the Sadar Hospital and it will also start functioning by the ending of October, " said Kumar. He pointed to apart from this, three PSA oxygen plants, capacity of 250 litres each are being set up at Ghatsila sub-divisional Hospital, at Chakulia, both in the rural belt and one at Mercy Hospital in Baridih. (Kumud Jenamani) Rare bird sighted at Canary Hill in Hazaribagh Hazaribagh: A rare bird sighted twice at Palamu Tiger Reserve before now spotted at picturesque Canary Hill in town through the lens of a young photographer and wild life enthusiast Amit Jain. The migratory bird which is identified as the chestnut winged cuckoo was the first rare bird spotted in the hill known for its abundance of butterflies and moths. State coordinator of the Indian Bird Conservation Network(IBCN), Satya Prakash confirmed the bird as chestnut winged cuckoo, and said this bird found is in southeast Asia and during winter migrates from Kerela to Sri Lanka. Canary always surprise researchers by having a variety of birds, moths and butterflies. This hill is a place for the world's most beautiful butterfly named peacock pansy. Independent researcher Mritunjay Sharma had discovered India's tallest anthill here getting place in Limca book. IBCN activist Murari Singh said the sighting of such birds confirm that Hazaribagh is a favourite place for migratory birds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
07-10-2021||Jharkhand||Bharat Coking Coal, Central Coalfields ramp up production to meet demands||Jharkhand based subsidiaries of coal India limited, including  Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL),  Central Coalfields Limited (CCL) and Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) have increased production and simultaneously augmented the supply of coal to power plants in order to tackle the crisis generated due to the depleting coal stock of power companies. The coal company is taking all sorts of measures, including insisting on its contractors to restrict the leave of employees during Durga Puja from two days to one day in order to ensure uninterrupted production. Notably,  the incessant rains during and after cyclone Gulab and heavy rains during monsoon have led to the decline in coal production and consequent lesser supply of coal to power plants. This crisis has been coupled with other factors like increased demand for power during October which in turn generated a coal stock crisis for power plants as a major source of power in the country. The situation is such that only four days of coal stock are left with all the power plants. Talking to The Telegraph Online,  PM Prasad, Chairman cum Managing Director of Central Coalfields Limited said, “We are taking all sorts of steps to increase production and ensure enhanced supply of coal to power companies as the situation is being monitored at government level” “We have increased the production of coal in CCL from 1.4 lakh tonnes per day to around 1.7 lakh tonnes to meet the power crisis and simultaneously ramped up the production at BCCL to 74-75 thousand tonnes per day”, said Prasad. “We supplied 18.5 rakes of coal yesterday via BCCL, increasing it from 12 rakes, and similarly the supply of coal through CCL has also been increased to 39 rakes yesterday from 14 rakes of the day before yesterday,” said Prasad and added that cyclonic rain has aggravated the crisis situation. “The situation was such that more than 270 mm rainfall was recorded in Dhanbad, which adversely affected coal production as well as supply of coal to power companies,” said Prasad. “Everyone is concerned about the situation, which is being monitored at Coal Ministry and Power Ministry level,” said Prasad. “If we are able to maintain the production flow at present then we will be able to tide over the crisis phase,” said Prasad.. Notably, BCCL has completely banned the entry of workers in the underground mines during heavy rains caused due to cyclone,s and production in open cast mines has also been affected due to rains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
07-10-2021||Jharkhand||Baidyanathdham Temple in Deoghar opens main gate for devotees||With the beginning of the nine- day Navratri festival, the district administration of Deoghar on Thursday opened one of the four main gates of Baidyanathdham temple of Deoghar for the convenience of the devotees visiting the temple from different parts of the country. So far the entry of the devotees in the temple was being allowed only through the VIP gate to ensure observance of Covid protocol in better manner ever since the temple was opened on  September 18 after remaining closed for more than 148 days following the second wave of pandemic. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Sanjay Mishra, Vice President of Shrine board Panda Dharmrakshini Sabha said, “The Singh Dwar situated on the north side of the temple was opened this morning at around 11 am marking the normalisation of the situation. We expect that the other two gates of the temple situated on the east and west sides would also be opened  gradually.” “Though, even after the opening of Singh Dwar from today the devotees would have to follow the same stricter  Covid norms as was in place ever since the reopening of temple on September 18 but it would add to the look of the temple,” said Mishra and added that entry at present in temple is provided only through advance booking through the online portal of the portal. Echoing sentiments, Alok Mallik, President of Santhal Pargana Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “The opening of the one of gate of the temple marks the gradual normalisation of the situation and as  trader we welcome the development as being a religious pilgrimage centre the trade of Deoghar largely depends of the flow of devotees from the different parts of the country and abroad to the Deoghar” In a related development possibilities of developing a corridor around the Baidyadham temple on the line of corridor situated around the Kashi Vishwanath Temple have generated as initial discussion in this regard was held between Nishikant Dubey, M. Godda MP and Arbind Singh secretary of the union ministry of Tourism was held last week. Talking to media, Dubey said, “The corridor that would be developed from Mansarovar pond near the Baidyanathdham temple and  would extend towards the BN Jhar road would help the devotees to  have the magnificent view of the temple even from some distance away and would be used only for footwalk of the devotees around the temple. “If the state government allots land for the development of the corridor its development can be initiated within one year,” said Dubey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
07-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi only district in the state with active mucormycosis cases||Ranchi is the only Jharkhand district left with active cases of mucormycosis, a disease that spread to at least 18 of 24 districts in the state in the past eight months and claimed 31 lives, latest data released by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) highlighted on Thursday. According to the IDSP, there were only three patients of Covid-induced mucormycosis in Jharkhand on Thursday, and all three of them were undergoing treatment in Ranchi, a district that accounts for 66 of the 168 mucormycosis cases and 11 of 31 casualties reported in the state so far. While the cases of mucormycosis have dropped significantly in the state, doctors have warned against complacency, citing the high fatality rate of the disease and poor immune response in Covid survivors with comorbid conditions. Dr. Pradip Bhattacharya, the in-charge of the new trauma centre at RIMS, where mucormycosis patients have undergone treatment, said that even though cases of this fungal infection have reduced, it was best to seek medical attention at an early stage if symptoms of the disease occur. “Symptoms can escalate in a short period of time, so it is best to seek medical attention at the earliest,” said Dr. Bhattacharya, adding that neglect of initial symptoms may lead to loss of vision or brain damage in patients. Mucormycosis or black fungus is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. The disease has a fatality rate of 50 per cent and the line of treatment includes surgery or administering anti-fungal drugs. Jharkhand notified black fungus as an epidemic earlier this year following directions from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Doctors say that Covid survivors should consult ENT specialists if they feel discomfort in their nose, swelling on one side of the face or pain. Black fungus is usually tested by endoscopy followed by a biopsy of samples collected from the patient. As per IDSP data, East Singhbhum has reported 25 cases of mucormycosis, the second highest among districts in the state, while 11 people were found infected by black fungus in Hazaribag. Among other affected districts, Bokaro reported nine cases, Dhanbad and Giridih reported eight cases each, while seven people were found infected in Ramgarh and six in Palamu. Among the 31 fatalities reported in the state, 11 deaths occurred in Ranchi, five in East Singhbhum, three in Ramgarh, two each in Dhanbad and Godda, and one death each in Bokaro, Chatra, Deoghar, Dumka, Garhwa, Giridih, Hazaribag and Koderma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
07-10-2021||Jharkhand||Tourists visiting Dalma wildlife sanctuary rues absence of elephants uphill||Tourists visiting the scenic wildlife sanctuary are missing the elephants, the main attraction at the sprawling 192 sq km reserve. All the jumbos have presently come downhill for their annual sojourn to the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in neighbouring Bengal. Some elephants have already slipped into Bengal while most are at the Jharkhand-Bengal border. A few jumbos are scattered in the jungles in the foothills of the Dalma sanctuary. Around 25 elephants, who don't migrate to Bengal, are also positioned in the foothills. Tourists from Jharkhand, Bengal, Odisha, Bihar and Chhattisgarh visit the sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur, to spend quality time amidst nature. Tourists prefer to stay at the accommodations (staff quarters) at Pinderabera, located 14 km from the main entrance at Makulakocha. Tourists also get accommodations at plush air-conditioned cottages, non-AC rooms and bamboo hut at Makulakocha. They take an uphill tour of the sanctuary to watch elephants at their playful best near watering holes and also visit the ancient Shiva temple located uphill. However, the uphill is presently sans the Asiatic elephants much to the disappointment of the tourists. "I went to Dalma hilltop with my family a couple of days back but we did not come across a single elephant. We also went to the Badka Bandh, Majhla Bandh, Neechla Bandh and Bijli Ghati but could not find the jumbos," said Mohit Jha, a businessman in Jamshedpur. Ravi Singh, another tourist from Jamshedpur, echoed Jha and said elephants are not present uphill and he missed the main attraction. "I thought of watching the jumbos but came back disappointed. Forest staff said the elephants have embarked on their migration to Bengal," Singh, who runs a homeopathy shop in Jamshedpur, said. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said elephants were in the foothills. "Some jumbos who were present uphill have moved downhill on their way to Bengal," he added. According to him, tourists would be able to watch the elephants if the jumbos, who stay at the sanctuary throughout the year, move uphill."However, this depends on the mood of the elephants. After all jumbos are moving animals," he added. The elephants migrate to Bengal via two designated corridors -- one from Jhunjka leading to Nutandih and the other from Burudih, passing through Narsingpur, Dalapani, Suklara and Aamdapahari. The jumbos will amble back to their Dalma home in February-March next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
07-10-2021||Jharkhand||State inaugurates health projects, including oxygen plants||The Jharkhand government inaugurated a slew of health infrastructure projects across the state, including 27 pressure swing adsorption oxygen plants established under the PM Cares Fund, a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to inaugurate the plants across the country at a virtual programme in AIIMS Rishikesh. The inauguration drew sharp criticism from Ranchi BJP MP Sanjay Seth who termed it as an insult to the Prime Minister. “The PSA plants were constructed under the PM Cares Fund as part of the Central government efforts to battle Covid pandemic. The inauguration of the PSA plants in Jharkhand by the state government a day before the PM inauguration schedule defies logic. It is an insult to the Prime Minister,” said Seth. Kanke’s BJP MP Samri Lal boycotted the inauguration programme held at RIMS Trauma Centre Auditorium in Ranchi on Wednesday afternoon, in protest against the state government’s decision. Chief minister Hemant Soren undeterred by the controversy went ahead with the inauguration of PSA oxygen plant at Sadar Hospital in Ranchi and also inaugurated central pathology lab, 256 slice CT-Scan, Cobas 6800 machines at the RIMS Ranchi which were built with state government funding. “It is part of the state government’s effort to upgrade health infrastructure in the state and be prepared for Covid pandemic in future. The pathology lab would remain functional round the clock and provide free of cost testing at par with international standards,” said Hemant Soren. Incidentally, the Cobas 6800 testing machine is the first such machine to be installed anywhere in Jharkhand. “Cobas 6800, a fully automated, high end machine for performing real time PCR testing Covid-19 in the service of the nation. COBAS 6800 will provide quality, high-volume testing with a high throughput of around 1200 samples in 24 hours. It will largely increase the testing capacity with reduction in pendency,” said health minister Banna Gupta. Significantly, Cobas 6800 is a sophisticated machine enabled with robotics that minimises the chance of contamination as well as the risk of infection to the health care workers since it can be operated remotely with limited human intervention The chief minister, however, left the inauguration of the PSA plants in 19 districts to state health minister Banna Gupta. The health minister also flagged off 10 ambulances for community health centres at Tamar and Lapung in the outskirts of Ranchi. The newly inaugurated PSA oxygen plants are at RIMS Ranchi, SNMMCH Dhanbad, MGM Jamshedpur and Sadar Hospitals at Garhwa, Giridih, Godda, Gumla, Hazaribagh, Khunti, Latehar, Lohardaga, Pakur, Ramgarh, Sahebganj, Seraikela and Chaibasa and medical college in Palamau. Though the chief minister’s office refused to give any comment on the controversy over inauguration of the PSA plants. But JMM central general secretary and spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya said: “Oxygen plants come under essential commodities and the government need not wait for a suitable time to inaugurate it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
