08-10-2021||Business||Chief Economic Adviser KV Subramanian quits, says he will return to academia||Chief Economic Adviser (CEA) K V Subramanian on Friday said he has decided to return to academia after completion of his three-year term in the finance ministry. In a statement, Subramanian thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for their support and inspiring leadership. "I have decided to return back to academia following the completion of my 3-year fulfilling tenure," he said. Serving the nation has been an absolute privilege. I have wonderful support and encouragement," Subramanian tweeted. "To get an opportunity to serve one's nation is an absolute privilege. Each day that I have walked into North Block I have reminded myself of this privilege while endeavouring my best to do justice to the responsibility that comes with the privilege," he said in a statement. "I have received tremendous encouragement and support from within the government and have been fortunate to enjoy a warm relationship with senior functionaries. In close to three decades of my professional life, I am yet to encounter a more inspiring leader than the Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modiji," Subramanian said. "His intuitive understanding of economic policy combines with an unmistakable determination to use the same to elevate the lives of common citizens," he added. "India is witnessing dramatic change. After all, as my late father had dreamt and worked so hard for, a person who was the first ever in his entire clan to step into the hallowed portals of a university gets the honour to serve the nation. Such an opportunity to 'Live the Indian Dream' manifests under a leader who takes equal pride in his humble origins. That such a savant comes away genuinely admiring the leader symbolises an India where meritocracy is in and entitlement is out. To be at the helm during such a time of spectacular change is an incredible honour that I will cherish forever," he further said in his statement. The government had appointed Subramanian, a ISB Hyderabad professor, as the CEA in December 2018. He had succeeded Arvind Subramanian.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
08-10-2021||Business||Tatas get the pilot seat at Air India after decades||They say better late than never. For the Tatas, the original owners of Air India, bringing back the airline to its fold is worth the wait even if the attempt to privatise the bleeding national carrier by successive governments has taken over two decades. While many airlines have come and gone from the Indian skies since the time when the first move was made to privatise Air India to date, the salt-to-software conglomerate has never let the love affair with aviation, more so with Air India that its former Chairman Jehangir Ratanji Dadabhoy Tata (JRD) had, to go off the radar. It is said that Tata group executives used to complain in private that JRD -- the pioneer of the Indian aviation industry -- spent more time worrying about Air India than the Tata group when he was heading both the entities. Nevertheless, they also knew heading Air India as Chairman was never just a job but was a labour of love to him. Considering the respect for legacy that the group has, it is therefore not a surprise that the Tatas shelled out so much (Rs 18,000 crore) to take back Air India. This is a group that didn't mind investing Rs 2 lakh back then in 1932 to start Tata Aviation Service, the precursor of Tata Airlines and Air India. From the first airmail service flight from Karachi to Bombay in October 1932 with JRD steering a Puss Moth aircraft to wresting control of Air India 89 years later, the conglomerate has had a roller coaster ride in the Indian civil aviation history. Tata Airlines going public in 1946 as a 'joint stock company' named Air India and the maiden flight on June 8, 1948 of Air-India International -- the first public-private enterprise of independent India -- with its iconic mascot Maharaja to Europe, remain the breakout landmarks in the skies of the group. Air-India International became one of the best airlines in the world with staff, maintenance and services provided by Tatas' domestic airline Air India. Contrary to the time taken to privatise the current Air India, it is said that JRD was surprised when the group's proposal made in October 1947 to float Air-India International with the government holding 49 per cent, Tatas 25 per cent and the rest by public was accepted "within weeks", at a time when it took at least two years "not to make a decision". However, the flights have not been without headwinds. In 1953 when the then government of Jawaharlal Nehru nationalised Air India, JRD fought vehemently against it. There was very little the group could do when the government decided to nationalise 11 airlines, all of which except Air India were making heavy losses and merge them into a single state corporation. After the nationalisation of Air India, the group's link with civil aviation was through JRD who served as the state carrier's Chairman for 25 years. Yet, the group kept the fire of re-entering the aviation sector burning. In the 90s, when India's civil aviation sector was opened up to private players, the group's attempt to float a domestic airline in partnership with Singapore Airlines ended in disappointment with the government rejecting the proposal. In 1994, the Tata group under Ratan Tata's stewardship, had set up a joint venture with Singapore Airlines to start a domestic airline in India but it didn't take off as the then regulations did not permit foreign carriers to hold stake in domestic airlines. Also, in 2000 the two partners teamed up to purchase stakes in Air India without success. Still, the group never gave up on its hopes to fly again. In 2012 when India removed foreign investment restrictions, it came together yet again with Singapore Airlines to form a joint venture -- TATA SIA Airlines Ltd, which was incorporated on November 5, 2013, to operate a full service domestic airline under the Vistara brand. The airlines in which Tata group promoter firm Tata Sons holds 51 per cent stake and Singapore Airlines 49 per cent, had its maiden flight from Delhi to Mumbai on January 9, 2015. Since then it has spread its wings, serving 40 destinations with over 200 flights daily with a fleet of 47 aircraft. A year before Vistara took off, Tatas had entered the low-cost, no frills flying segment through a joint venture with Malaysia's AirAsia to fly under the brand AirAsia India, which had its first flight from Bengaluru to Goa in June 2014. It connects 17 destinations in the country at present. However, AirAsia India, in which the Tatas held 51 per cent stake and Air Asia 49 per cent initially, ran into losses with the COVID-19 pandemic adding to the woes. Last December, Tata Sons agreed to increase its stake in the budget carrier to 83.67 per cent by acquiring an additional 32.67 per cent for USD 37.66 million from AirAsia Investment Ltd (AAIL). The Malaysian partner had said its business in Japan and India were draining cash, causing the Air Asia Group much financial stress and therefore it was reconsidering its investments in India. While the homecoming of sorts of Air India will be a joyous moment for the 153-year-old conglomerate, it remains to be seen how would it map the future of its airlines business, considering the fact that the aviation industry crippled by the pandemic is yet to recover from the deadly blows.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
08-10-2021||Business||Tata Sons wins bid to acquire 100 per cent stake of Air India||Tata Sons will retake Air India - the airline it founded nearly 90 years back - as the government accepted its winning bid of Rs 18,000 crore to acquire 100 per cent of the debt-laden state-run carrier. Talace Pvt Ltd, a unit of the holding company of salt-to-software conglomerate, made the winning bid of Rs 2,700 crore cash and Rs 15,300 crore debt takeover, Tuhin Kanta Pandey, Secretary in the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management, said at a briefing on Friday. Tatas beat the Rs 15,100-crore offer by a consortium led by SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh and the reserve price of Rs 12,906 crore set by the government for the sale of its 100 per cent stake in the loss-making carrier. The transaction is targeted to be closed by December, Pandey said. While this will be the first privatisation since 2003-04, Air India will be the third airline brand in the Tatas' stable and will give it access to more than a hundred planes, thousands of trained pilots and crew, and lucrative landing and parking slots all around the world. The transaction does not include non-core assets including land and building, valued at Rs 14,718 crore, which are to be transferred to government's Air India Asset Holding Limited (AIAHL). Jehangir Ratanji Dadabhoy (JRD) Tata founded the airline in 1932. It was called Tata Airlines then. In 1946, the aviation division of Tata Sons was listed as Air India and in 1948, Air India International was launched with flights to Europe. The international service was among the first public-private partnerships in India, with the government holding 49 per cent, the Tatas keeping 25 per cent and the public owning the rest. In 1953, Air India was nationalised. This was the third attempt to privatise Air India. With previous attempts since 2017 failing to get any significant interest and after receiving feedback from potential investors, the government in October last year sweetened the bid clause relating to the transfer of Air India's debt to the new investor, giving bidders flexibility to decide on the quantum of humongous debt they want to absorb. The bids that came in were made up of 85:15 ratio of debt takeover and upfront cash. Air India has been in losses ever since its merger with domestic operator Indian Airlines in 2007. The airline will give the successful bidder control of 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots at domestic airports, as well as 900 slots at airports overseas. Besides, the bidder would get 100 per cent of the low-cost arm Air India Express and 50 per cent of AISATS, which provides cargo and ground handling services at major Indian airports. Tata Sons chairman emeritus Ratan Tata tweeted an old photograph of the company's former chairman JRD Tata getting down from an Air India aircraft, minutes after Tata Sons regained control of the government airline - nearly 70 years after its nationalisation. "Welcome Back, Air India," he said. "The Tata Group winning the bid for Air India is great news. While admittedly it will take considerable effort to rebuild Air India, it will hopefully provide a very strong market opportunity to the Tata Group's presence in the aviation industry." Tatas, he said, will have the opportunity of regaining the image and reputation it enjoyed in earlier years. "On an emotional note, Air India, under the leadership of Mr J R D Tata had at one time gained the reputation of being one of the most prestigious airlines in the world," Tata said. "Mr J R D Tata would have been overjoyed if he was in our midst today," he said thanking the government for its opening of select industries to the private sector. Pandey said seven initial expressions of interest (EoI) were received in December 2020 for buying the Maharaja but only two met the qualifying criteria. Air India and its affiliate companies had a combined debt of Rs 61,562 crore as of August 31. Out of this, Tatas will take over Rs 15,300 crore debt. The remaining Rs 46,262 crore debt will go to Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL), a special purpose vehicle. Civil Aviation Secretary Rajiv Bansal said the bidding conditions provide for Tatas to retain all employees of Air India for one year from the close of the transaction and can offer VRS in the second year. Air India has 12,085 employees - 8,084 permanent and 4,001 contractual. Besides, Air India Express has 1,434. In the next five years, about 5,000 permanent employees will be retiring, he said. Tatas cannot transfer Air India India brand or logo for five years and thereafter can do so only to an Indian entity. Pandey said the group of ministers, called Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism (AISAM), headed by Home Minister Amit Shah and which included Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and Civil Aviation Minster Jyotiraditya Scindia, had approved the winning bid on October 4. He, however, did not give the reason for not disclosing the approval immediately after that. "The entire disinvestment process has been carried out in a transparent manner, with due regard to confidentiality of the bidders, through multi-layered decision making involving inter-ministerial group (IMG), core group of secretaries on disinvestment (CGD) and the empowered Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism (AISAM) at the apex ministerial level," Pandey said. The next step will be to issue the Letter of Intent (LoI) and then sign the Share Purchase Agreement following which, the conditions precedent would need to be satisfied by the successful bidder, the company and the Government. It is expected that the transaction will be completed by December 2021, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
08-10-2021||Business||Sensex reclaims 60,000 mark after RBI policy outcome||Equity benchmark Sensex surged 381 points on Friday to close above the 60,000-level as investors remained optimistic after the Reserve Bank maintained its accommodative stance and kept key interest rates unchanged in its bi-monthly monetary policy review. The 30-share BSE index jumped 381.23 points or 0.64 per cent to close at 60,059.06. Similarly, the NSE Nifty rose 104.85 points or 0.59 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 17,895.20. Reliance Industries was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying nearly 4 per cent, followed by Infosys, Tech Mahindra, HCL Tech, TCS and L&T. On the other hand, HUL, NTPC, Maruti, Dr Reddy's, Titan and Kotak Bank were among the laggards. Rate-sensitive banking and realty indices ended in the red, while auto closed with gains. The Reserve Bank of India expectedly kept interest rates unchanged at a record low but signalled the start of tapering pandemic-era stimulus measures on economic recovery taking root. The six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) kept the key lending rate or the repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent while the reverse repo rate or the borrowing rate was maintained at 3.35 per cent. It voted 5-1 to retain the accommodative stance, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said in an online broadcast. "With the RBI continuing with its accommodative policy, indices remained firmly bullish through the day led by the IT index as the street awaits TCS earnings and guidance, said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Reliance led from the front with the broader markets seeing action across pockets, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains, while Seoul was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading on a negative note in the afternoon session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.83 per cent to USD 82.63 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
08-10-2021||Business||RBI raises IMPS limit from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh to promote digital transactions||In a bid to promote digital transactions, the Reserve Bank on Friday proposed to increase the per transaction limit from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh through Immediate Payment Service (IMPS). IMPS managed by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) is an important payment system providing 24x7 instant domestic funds transfer facility and is accessible through various channels like internet banking, mobile banking apps, bank branches, ATMs, SMS and IVRS. With RTGS now operational round the clock, there has been a corresponding increase in settlement cycles of IMPS, thereby reducing the credit and settlement risks. "In view of the importance of the IMPS system and for enhanced consumer convenience, it is proposed to increase the per transaction limit from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh," RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said while announcing measures after the bi-monetary monetary policy review. This will lead to further increase in digital payments and will provide an additional facility to customers for making digital payments beyond Rs 2 lakh, he said, adding, necessary instructions in this regard would be issued separately. In addition, the Reserve Bank also proposed to introduce a framework for retail digital payments in offline mode across the country. The Statement on Developmental and Regulatory Policies dated August 6, 2020 had announced a scheme to conduct pilot tests of innovative technology that enables retail digital payments even in situations where internet connectivity is low or not available (offline mode). Three pilots were successfully conducted under the Scheme in different parts of the country during the period from September 2020 to June 2021 involving small-value transactions covering a volume of 2.41 lakh for value of Rs 1.16 crore. "Given the encouraging experience gained from the pilot tests, it is proposed to introduce a framework for retail digital payments in offline mode across the country. This will further expand the reach of digital payments and open up new opportunities for individuals and businesses," Das said. He further said, ensuring wider availability of payments acceptance (PA) infrastructure throughout the country has been one of the priority areas for financial inclusion. To target areas with deficient PA infrastructure, he said, it is proposed to introduce a framework for leveraging geo-tagging technology for capturing exact location information on all existing and new PA infrastructure viz., Point of Sale (PoS) terminals, Quick Response (QR) Codes, etc. This would complement the Payment Infrastructure Development Fund (PIDF) framework of the Reserve Bank in ensuring wider geographical deployment of PA infrastructure, he added. Das said the Reserve Bank's Regulatory Sandbox (RS) has so far introduced three cohorts on Retail Payments'; Cross Border Payments'; and MSME Lending'. With a view to provide further impetus to the fintech ecosystem, he said, a fourth cohort on Prevention and Mitigation of financial frauds' is being announced. In addition, he said, based on the experience gained and the feedback received from stakeholders, it is proposed to facilitate On Tap' application for earlier themes for participating in the Regulatory Sandbox. This measure is expected to ensure continuous innovation in the fintech ecosystem of our country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
08-10-2021||Business||RBI maintains status quo for 8th time||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday decided to keep benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4 per cent but maintained an accommodative stance even as the economy is showing signs of recovery after the second COVID-19 wave. This is the eighth time in a row that the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) headed by RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das has maintained status quo. RBI had last revised its policy repo rate or the short-term lending rate on May 22, 2020, in an off-policy cycle to perk up demand by cutting interest rate to a historic low. MPC decided to keep benchmark repurchase (repo) rate at 4 per cent, Das said while announcing the bi-monthly monetary policy review. Consequently, the reverse repo rate will also continue to earn 3.35 per cent for banks for their deposits kept with RBI. Das said MPC voted unanimously for keeping interest rate unchanged and decided to continue with its accommodative stance as long as necessary to support growth and keep inflation within the target. Amidst rising fuel prices, the retail inflation stood at 5.3 per cent in August. MPC has been given the mandate to maintain annual inflation at 4 per cent until March 31, 2026, with an upper tolerance of 6 per cent and a lower tolerance of 2 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
08-10-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 200 points ahead of RBI policy outcome||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in Infosys, Reliance Industries and TCS, ahead of the Reserve Bank's policy outcome. The 30-share Sensex was trading 223.79 points or 0.37 per cent higher at 59,901.62. Similarly, the Nifty rose 77.75 points or 0.44 per cent to 17,868.10. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by TCS, Dr Reddy's, L&T, Infosys and M&M. On the other hand, HUL, Asian Paints, HDFC, HCL Tech, SBI and Titan were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 488.10 points or 0.82 per cent higher at 59,677.83, while Nifty rose 144.35 points or 0.82 per cent to 17,790.35. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,764.25 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. "Investors would be keenly watching RBI monetary policy meeting outcome later in the day, especially with regard to commentary over inflation, economic growth and more importantly comments about likelihood of fiscal tightening in future," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, festive demand, recovery in rural demand, COVID-19 positivity rates, vaccination ramp-up and September quarter earnings will be in focus in the near-term, he added. US equities extended gains for the third consecutive day mainly on positive development with regard to debt ceiling. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.13 per cent to USD 82.88 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
08-10-2021||Business||Reliance Retail to launch 7-Eleven stores in India||Reliance Retail Ventures (RRVL) has signed a master franchise agreement with 7-Eleven Inc to introduce the well-known convenience store format in India. 7-Eleven had originally signed a deal with Biyani’s Future Retail which was torn up earlier this week. RRVL has signed the deal through 7-Eleven’s wholly-owned subsidiary 7-India Convenience Retail Ltd. The first store opens in Andheri East in Mumbai on Saturday and the format will be rolled out rapidly across Greater Mumbai before it is taken to other regions in the country. “We are proud to bring 7-Eleven, the globally trusted convenience store, to India,” said Isha Ambani, director, Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd. “7-Eleven is among the most iconic global brands in the convenience retail landscape. The new pathways we build together with them will offer Indian customers greater convenience and choices within their own neighbourhoods.” The Ambanis are locked in a bitter court battle with Amazon.com Inc for the assets of Future Retail. Reliance Retail did not provide financial details of the scheme. Earlier this week, troubled supermarket operator Future Retail announced the termination of an agreement with 7-Eleven Inc to develop and operate the US firm’s round-the-clock convenience stores in India. The February 2019 pact was terminated by mutual consent after indebted Future Retail was unable to open the brand’s stores or pay franchise fees. Future Group had last year agreed to sell its retail assets to Reliance but the deal has been legally challenged by Amazon. 7-Eleven will add to the expansion spree of Reliance, which already has about 13,000 stores across the country. “Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL), through its wholly-owned subsidiary, 7-India Convenience Retail Ltd, has entered into a master franchise agreement with 7-Eleven Inc (SEI) for the launch of 7-Eleven convenience stores in India,” the statement said. With the launch of the 7-Eleven stores, RRVL as the country’s largest retailer takes a step further in its journey of offering a superior shopping experience and compelling value proposition for Indian customers. “The 7-Eleven stores aim to provide shoppers with a unique style of convenience, offering a range of beverages, snacks and delicacies specifically curated to appeal to local tastes, along with a refill of daily essentials, having affordability and hygiene at its very core,” the RRVL said. A rapid expansion plan is on the anvil, and 7-Eleven will also support RRVL in implementing and localising the unique 7-Eleven convenience retail business model for India, including bringing best-in-class processes and practices. DePinto said, “Our strategic relationship with Reliance Retail Ventures will bring 7-Eleven's brand of convenient products and services to millions of Indian consumers starting in the city of Mumbai.” RRVL is a subsidiary of Reliance Industries Limited and the holding company of all the retail companies under the RIL Group. It had reported a consolidated turnover of Rs 1,57,629 crore for the year ended March 31, 2021. 7-Eleven, which is based in Irving, Texas, operates, franchises and/or licenses for more than 77,000 stores in 18 countries and regions, including 16,000 in North America. In addition to 7-Eleven stores, 7-Eleven operates and franchises Speedway, Stripes, Laredo Taco Company and Raise the Roost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
08-10-2021||Business||New shipping container terminal to be developed at Khidderpore ||A new shipping container terminal is coming up at Khidderpore to handle barges and small ships with an eye to connect with north east India via the Indo-Bangladesh Protocol river route. Six companies, including Adani, are in the fray to develop the terminal which may call for Rs 180 crore investment. Once the terminal is developed and the riverine stretch on the Yamuna is navigable up to Chilmari Port — in northern Bangladesh bordering Assam — Syama Prasad Mookherjee Port , Calcutta, may play an important role in connecting north eastern India by a river route. The port and the connectivity to the north east is in focus after Sarbananda Sonowal took over as the Union shipping minister. Sonowal, who hails from Assam, is now on a two-day trip to Calcutta and Haldia, his first after taking the ministerial portfolio. At present, barges and ships are going to Bangladesh with cargo. However, vessels are unable to reach Chilmari because of low river depth. The Indian government is now funding the dredging of a 110 km stretch between Sirajgunj to Chilmari to make it navigable. “Cargo will come from north and central India by railways, loaded to barges which will go all the way up to the Indo-Bangla border. There may be demand to send edible oil from here while tea could be return cargo from Assam,” Vinit Kumar, chairman of SMP, Calcutta, said. If successful, this river route could provide an alternative gateway to landlocked north eastern states to do business with the rest of India and the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
08-10-2021||Business||Emami Agrotech seeks to become food firm, targets Rs 25,000 crore topline||Emami Agrotech, India’s second largest edible oil company, expects to reach a topline of Rs 25,000 crore by 2025, buoyed by a pan India reach, extension of product range and soaring crude palm oil prices in the international market. The owner of Best Choice and Healthy & Tasty brands of palm, soya and mustard oils, had a turnover of Rs 12,000 crore in 2020-21, which is expected to reach Rs 20,000 crore this year alone. Even though the company, founded by promoters of FMCG major Emami Ltd, hopes to sell 25 per cent more than last fiscal, a higher crude palm oil price is likely to be more responsible for the 67 per cent jump in revenue. During the year, it commissioned a 3,000 tonne per day capacity refinery in Kandla to serve the north Indian market with a lower cost base. “Due to the distance and associated transportation cost, we were not competitive in the northern market, which was being fed from the east,” said Aditya Agarwal, director of Emami Agrotech. Emami, known to splurge on brand building with celebrities, hopes to spend onwards of Rs 200 crore annually from now on, to make its presence felt in the northern market. “We will truly be a pan India player,” Agarwal added. The company has 12,000 tonnes per day of installed refining capacity, the largest being at Haldia. It sold about 1.6 million tonnes  of oil last year and the plan is to take it up to 2 million tonnes this year. About 60 per cent of the sales is by brands to retail outlets while institutions buy the rest. On the roadmap for the future, Manish Goenka, director of Emami Agro, said it would hope to transform into a food company with many more branches of business. It launched spices in Bengal a couple of years back, and the products will now be rolled out nationally. On the soaring prices, Emami could not offer any immediate relief, except that mustard oil prices may soften when the new crop hits in February. “International market is very volatile. No one can say how the prices will move. As of now, it does not look like prices are coming down," Goenka added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
08-10-2021||Business||Centre releases Rs 40,000 crore to states as back-to-back loan for GST shortfall||The finance ministry on Thursday released Rs 40,000 crore to states and Union territories to compensate them for the shortfall in GST revenues, taking the total amount released as loan so far this fiscal year to Rs 1.15 lakh crore. The Centre had released Rs 75,000 crore on this count in July. A government release said the Centre has borrowed and loaned out 72 per cent of the planned amount of Rs 1.59 lakh crore for the fiscal to meet the shortfall in collections. The loans are in addition to the cess distributed to the states as compensation for the shortfall. The 43rd GST Council meeting on May 28, 2021 had decided that the central government would borrow Rs 1.59 lakh crore in 2021-22 and release it to states and Union territories as loans to meet the shortfall in collections. A sum of Rs 1.10 lakh crore was given to the states under a similar arrangement in the last fiscal. The government said besides the loan of Rs 1.59 lakh crore, the states would get cess of more than Rs 1 lakh crore. “The release of Rs 40,000 crore made today is funded from borrowings of GoI in 5-year securities, totalling Rs 23,500 crore and 2-year securities for Rs 16,500 crore issued in the current financial year, at a weighted average yield of 5.69 and 4.16 per cent per annum respectively.  No additional market borrowing by the central government is envisaged on account of this release,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
08-10-2021||Business||Bombay High Court junks plea challenging RBI move to supersede boards of 2 Srei group firms||The Bombay high court on Thursday dismissed a petition filed by a Srei entity challenging the Reserve Bank of India’s decision to supersede the board of two group companies — Srei Infrastructure Finance (SIFL) and Srei Equipment Finance (SEFL). The RBI on Monday moved to supersede the board of the two companies, announced an administrator and appointed a committee to assist the administrator with an eventual intent to initiate resolution under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Rules . Following the regulator’s move, Adisri Commercial, a holding company of Srei with a 60.36 per cent stake in Srei Infrastructure Finance Limited, moved the Bombay high Court seeking a stay on the RBI move initiating insolvency action. A two-member division bench after hearing both sides dismissed the petition and observed that the court is not inclined to entertain the writ petition. According to bankers, among the chief concerns that have been brought to the notice of the regulator, include income recognition, asset classification, provisioning, related party transactions, governance and compliance. The parent company SIFL and SEFL were advised by the regulator to reassess and re-evaluate the relationship with certain entities. “We deny all the allegations of diversion of funds against Srei companies, and with RBI’s action and now the Bombay high court’s decision we will explore various other legal options and solutions with the guidance and directions of the RBI,” Hemant Kanoria, founder Srei group, said. As per regulatory disclosure the total exposure (net of impairment) of SEFL towards such borrowers was Rs 7,961 crore as of June 30, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
08-10-2021||Business||Sufficient response time be given to Zee on Invesco plea: NCLAT||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) on Thursday cut some slack for Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd. The NCLAT directed the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to grant Zee “reasonable and sufficient time” to file a reply to the Invesco petition seeking an extraordinary general meeting of shareholders. Zee had moved the appellate tribunal after the NCLT, on October 5, directed the company to reply to Invesco’s petition by October 7. Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China, which together hold 17.8 per cent in Zee, have been demanding the EGM to move resolutions seeking the removal of Punit Goenka as MD of the company and the election of six new independent directors. Rule 37 of NCLT Rules, 2016 says the “tribunal shall issue notice to the respondent to show cause against the application or petition on a date of hearing to be specified in the notice. Such (a) notice... shall be accompanied by a copy of the application with supporting documents.” In its order on Thursday, Justices Jarat Kumar Jain and V.P. Singh said the company law tribunal had committed an error by failing to grant Zee reasonable and sufficient time to file its reply. The appellate tribunal also said Section 98 of the Companies Act does not prescribe any time limit or limitation on the NCLT to pass an order within that time limit. “Given that Section 98 does not prescribe any time limit, the learned NCLT ought to have granted reasonable time to the appellant to file a reply,” the bench said. Invesco had filed the petition in the NCLT under Section 98(1) and Section 100 of the Companies Act, 2013. Section 98 (1) empowers the tribunal to order such a meeting. “The decision of the NCLAT today justifies our complete faith in the judicial system. The company will continue to take all the necessary steps that are in the best interests of all its shareholders and as per the applicable law,” a Zee spokesperson said. Earlier in the day, the NCLT adjourned the hearing on Invesco’s petition saying that it would wait for the appellate tribunal’s order. The hearing was adjourned to Friday. The NCLT bench also remarked to Zee’s senior counsel Navroj Seervai that they had all the time to file an appeal before the appellate court, which would run into hundreds of pages, but did not have the time to submit a 3-4 page reply before the NCLT. On Wednesday, Subhash Chandra, the founder of Zee, had alleged in an interview to Zee News that Invesco was acting in a clandestine manner. Terming its requisition for the EGM as an “illegal step being taken by Invesco”, Chandra alleged that it is “insider trading, and a takeover… There has to be someone behind this. They don’t want to remove Punit or change the board, they want to take over the company illegally and unlawfully,” he said. The Zee board has already signed a non-binding agreement with Sony for a merger that will allow Punit Goenka to stay on as MD for a period of five years. Meanwhile, Zee chairman R. Gopalan has said in an interview with a news channel that the company was open to other offers. “This (the Sony offer) is the best deal for shareholders at this point in time,” he said, adding a new twist to the battle over Zee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
08-10-2021||Business||Paytm eyes sovereign wealth funds to become anchor investors in its IPO||One97 Communications, the parent of Paytm, is reportedly in talks with sovereign wealth funds and financial firms to become anchor investors in its initial public offering (IPO). In July, the company had filed draft papers with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) for the country’s biggest initial public offering (IPO) of Rs 16,600 crore. The issue comprises a fresh issue of equity shares aggregating to Rs 8,300 crore and offer for sale by the existing shareholders of up to Rs 8,300 crore. One97 Communications had said that it also retains the option to undertake a pre-IPO placement of Rs 2,000 crore, subject to relevant approvals. If this placement is completed, the fresh issue size will be reduced to that extent. The share float is awaiting nod from the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi). According to a report in Bloomberg, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and Singapore’s GIC Pte are among the firms that are looking to bid in the offering. It added that global financial firms such as BlackRock Inc and Nomura Holdings are also in discussions to bid for the IPO. Paytm was launched in 2009 as a mobile first digital payments platform to enable cashless payments. It began with assisting bill payments and mobile top ups and then set up the ‘Paytm Wallet’ in 2014. Subsequently, it has ventured into financial services such as mobile banking, lending, insurance and wealth management services. Paytm has reported the highest gross merchandise value of Rs 4.03 lakh crore in the payments industry. According to its draft papers, the company posted revenues of Rs 3,232 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 3,281 crore in 2019-20, which fell to Rs 2,802 crore in 2020-21. Though it is loss making, the net losses have come down from Rs 4,230 crore in 2018-19 to Rs 1,701 crore in 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
08-10-2021||Business||Countdown to Air India selloff, Tata Sons' bid frontrunner||The race to acquire Air India has entered the final stage with the government likely to announce the winning bid on Friday. The indications are that Tata Sons has outbid its competitor, a consortium led by SpiceJet chief Ajay Singh. The Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism  headed by home minister Amit Shah has been vetting the bids based on recommendations given by a panel of secretaries led by the cabinet secretary. The ministerial panel members include finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, commerce minister Piyush Goyal and aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia. Sources said Tata Group chairman emeritus Ratan N Tata and Tata Sons chairman Natarajan Chandrasekaran are expected to meet the Shah panel and provide the finer details of the deal such as debt restructuring, employee takeover, mode of payment and future plans. The core group of secretaries has held several rounds of discussions, and is learnt to have suggested Tata Sons as the most suitable candidate. However, Ajay Singh had placed a “competitive bid” for the airline, sources said. Valuation firm RBSA Advisors and EY — the consultants — had earlier this week given a presentation to the committee of secretaries. They had reportedly set the reserve price in the range of Rs 15,000-20,000 crore. The financial bids were opened after technical parameters and security clearance was obtained. Officials indicated the Tatas were said to have outbid the SpiceJet chairman and the ministerial panel nod seemed like a formality. The government plans to hand over the Air India to the winning bidder before the end of this calendar year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
08-10-2021||Business||Piramal Enterprises board approves demerger of pharma business||Piramal Enterprises Ltd is demerging its pharmaceutical business into a separately listed company. The process will see the pharma business being consolidated under Piramal Pharma Ltd which at present is a subsidiary of Piramal Enterprises. The shareholders of Piramal Enterprises will get four shares of Piramal Pharma for every share held by them. As part of the plan, two operating subsidiaries of Piramal Enterprise will be amalgamated with Piramal Pharma. Following the demerger, Piramal Enterprises will be a non-banking finance company (NBFC) offering solutions across both the retail and wholesale segments. The Piramal group had recently completed the acquisition of DHFL, with subsidiary Piramal Capital & Housing Finance Ltd being merged with DHFL. Piramal Enterprises will continue to own a 100 per cent stake in this housing finance company. The decision to segregate Piramal Enterprises’ pharmaceutical business was taken by its board of directors on Thursday. Piramal Enterprises said the move will simplify its corporate structure with two separate entities in different fields and unlock value for its shareholders. It will strengthen the governance architecture for the businesses with separate dedicated boards and management teams. The company expects the demerger will create an optimal capital structure for each business and enable their respective managements to independently pursue their plans . Piramal Enterprises after the demerger will become a financial services company with a consolidated loan book of Rs 65,000 crore. PHL Fininvest Pvt Ltd, the non-banking financial company of the group will be amalgamated with Piramal Enterprises. After the demerger, the promoters will hold 44 per cent in Piramal Enterprises with the rest held by the public. In Piramal Pharma, the promoters will hold 35 per cent and the public will hold 45 per cent. The rest will be with the Carlyle group, which had picked up a 20 per cent stake in Piramal Pharma a year ago for over Rs 3,500 crore. Shares of Piramal Enterprise ended with gains of almost two per cent on the news. At the BSE, the share ended at Rs 2,886.40 — a rise of 1.57 per cent over its last close. Piramal Enterprises posted consolidated revenues of around Rs 12,809 crore in 2020-21. The financial services business contributed 55 per cent with the remaining 45 per cent coming from pharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
08-10-2021||Business||DHFL case: Supreme Court grants interim bail for Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor’s wife and daughters||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted interim bail to Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor’s wife Bindu and daughters Roshini and Radha in the case for illegal transfer of money by the bank to Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL). A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M.M. Sundresh granted interim bail while directing the CBI and the ED to file their respective counter affidavits within four weeks. Senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi appeared for the accused. They argued that although the accused were granted interim bail in other grievance charges entailing life term, yet the high court chose not to grant them bail for lesser office. The court in its order said: “The petitioners are granted interim bail with no specific conditions at this stage as they were granted originally bail/interim bail subject to certain terms and conditions by the trial court which would naturally equally apply here.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
08-10-2021||India||Success Story of Shivam Bangwal, A serial Entrepreneur and founder of People News Chronicle||Born on 6 November 1999 in Srinagar, Uttarakhand Shivam started running behind the questions of technology and the world of internet from an early age. This pursuit helped him choose the right path and Shivam Bangwal became an innovator in the field of online world. Shivam Bangwal is a personality of devoting all his time and effort to his prosperous career while maintaining a good reputation. Somehow the man did it all, set temporary goals, and separated his attention between homework and his interests. Shivam is a founder of Branding Panther, People News Chronicle and Youthistaan. Branding Panther the result of his continuos effort on productivity. On top of this, his Digital Marketing career took a turn for the worse but initially, Shivam was downgraded due to a slow start and a bit of frustration, but things fly by due to his consistent effort and quality work. Now Branding Panther is considered as an top pr agency in india and is soon going to reveal the list of its top 30 influencers which they are managing exclusively. People News Chronicle is a global media and entertainment website which is seen at the top of the news website. While, Youthistaan is a Indian based media and entertainment website which mainly focuses on the quality content for youth. Shivam Bangwal loves to get around with entrepreneurs and business minds because owning a business was something he was born with. He then decided to excel in his work by performing many tasks such as the most sought-after in the Press Release, Influencer marketing, SEO, Web Developing for both ends (Front/Back) and Designing. Success comes to those who have a fire in their stomach and an attitude of not giving up hope. Simply put, success is a desire to achieve the impossible. Effective and efficient, the young man made a habit of devoting time to himself and his body. Commenting on mental health, he says, "I see mental health as a very important thing, and I am very happy that this generation is talking so much about it and all the different findings in this field. I think physical and mental health should be a priority in everyone's life, at least in your top three. "Every entrepreneur has an emotional problem, and each person has a different way of dealing with it. There are common ups and downs, but I have never fought emotionally about it."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
08-10-2021||India||Congress intensifies demand to dismiss Ajay Mishra, arrest his son in Lakhimpur case||The Congress on Friday demanded the immediate dismissal of Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, arrest of his son Ashish and setting up of a commission of two sitting judges so that farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence get justice within 30 days. It also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to follow 'raj dharma' by ensuring that all those accused in the killing of farmers during the violence on Sunday are arrested. Violence had broken out on Sunday after two SUVs allegedly ran over a group of anti-farm law protesters who were demonstrating against the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya at Tikonia-Banbirpur road in Lakhimpur Kheri. Eight people were killed in the violence which included four farmers. Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son has been accused of hitting farmers with his vehicle in Lakhimpur Kheri. The UP Police has lodged a case against Ajay Mishra's son Ashish but no arrest has been made so far. Ashish was asked by the police to appear before it at 10 am Friday, but he skipped the summons. The MoS Home has, however, claimed that neither his son nor he was present at the site when the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri erupted on Sunday that led to the death of eight people, including four farmers. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged that going by the Supreme Court's observations on Friday, "it has become clear that the (Narendra) Modi and Yogi (Adityanath) governments are standing with criminals who have kept the Consitution and law bound". "We have only one demand that Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni is dismissed immediately without any delay and all accused are arrested." Since the top court has expressed doubt over the police, CBI and the administration, "we want that a commission of two sitting judges be set up under whose supervision an SIT should be formed and the guilty be punished within 30 days," Surjewala said. Only then the Constitution and the law could be saved, else people will lose faith in them, he claimed. "Modi ji, you did not follow 'raj dharma' after Atal Bihari Vajpayee told you to do so earlier. But, this is a test for him (Modi) to follow 'raj dharma' now. No accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri killings have been arrested till now," the Congress chief spokesperson said. He also demanded the constitution of a special bench to hear the pending murder case against Ajay Mishra Teni and decide on it on its next date of hearing on October 20. A case of murder of one Prabhat Gupta was registered against Ajay Kumar Teni and the verdict of the revision petition filed in the Allahabad High Court is pending for three-and-half years. Surjewala said while taking up the Lakhimpur violence issue suo motu, the Supreme Court has said that they want a responsible government and asked whether the government sends a notice to every accused person or ordinary person. "Does this not prove that the Modi and Yogi governments are standing with criminals who tie the Constitution in bonds and those who trample upon and law?" he posed. The Supreme Court Friday said it is not satisfied with the steps taken by the Uttar Pradesh government in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case questioned it over not arresting the accused against whom FIR has been lodged. It asked the state whether the accused in other cases lodged under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code are treated the same way. "If you see the FIR, section 302 is there. Is it the same way you treat other accused," the bench asked while terming it as a "very serious charge". The top court has posted the matter for hearing on October 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
08-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan, two others denied bail in cruise ship drugs case||A metropolitan magistrate here on Friday denied bail to Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, and two others in a case pertaining to the alleged seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate R M Nerlikar rejected the bail pleas of Aryan Khan (23) and the other two accused. The court on Thursday sent Aryan Khan and seven others arrested in the case in 14-day judicial remand after their NCB custody ended. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the NCB, opposed the bail applications of the three accused. After hearing the arguments, the magistrate denied bail to Aryan Khan, Munmun Dhamecha and Arbaaz Merchant, saying their applications were not maintainable. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had arrested these three along with some others over the last weekend after raiding the Goa-bound Cordelia cruise ship on Saturday evening. The central agency had claimed to have recovered drugs from the ship. A total of 18 persons have been arrested so far in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
08-10-2021||India||SC glare on media tweet suggesting CJI met Lakhimpur Kheri violence victims||Expressing displeasure over a tweet posted by a media organisation which falsely claimed that Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana had met the kin of victims of Lakhmipur Kheri violence, the Supreme Court Friday said it respects the media and their independence but this is not at all fair . The apex court, which was hearing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence matter, termed the tweet very unfortunate and said the media should verify the facts. "We are sorry to observe that somebody is exceeding the limit of freedom of speech. They should verify the facts. These are all false representations which is being done," said a bench, comprising the CJI and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. The issue cropped up when an advocate told the bench that on Thursday, a media organisation had posted a tweet which said the CJI had met the kin of victims of Lakhimpur Kheri incident. "All of us are at the receiving end of irresponsible tweets. I have seen some about myself also," said senior advocate Harish Salve, who was appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government. CJI Ramana said, "They must have some sense because I was sitting in the court. How can I go to Lucknow and visit the family." "Leave it there. We should not bother about these things. In public life, we have to receive..," the CJI said. Justice Surya Kant said the court expects they should come out with a bona fide and voluntary report to say this is what we have done . "We respect the media and their independence but this is not the way to cross it. This is not at all fair," Justice Kohli said. "It is part and parcel of public life. Let it be," the CJI said. The top court said it is not satisfied with the steps taken by the Uttar Pradesh government in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case in which eight persons were killed on October 3. The bench told Salve to communicate to the top most police official that evidence and other relevant materials in the case are not destroyed. The court has posted the matter for hearing on October 20. Four farmers were mowed down by an SUV in Lakhimpur Kheri when a group agitating against the Centre's three new farm laws was holding a demonstration against the visit of UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on October 3. Two BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death allegedly by the angry protesters, while a local journalist was also killed in the violence. An FIR under section 302 of the IPC has been registered against the Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra and others in the incident in Tikonia police station but no arrest has been made so far. Farmer leaders have claimed that Ashish was in one of the cars that allegedly knocked down the protesters but the minister has denied the allegations. Several farmer organisations are protesting against the passage of three laws -- The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 since last November. The apex court had stayed the implementation of these laws in January. Initially, the protests started from Punjab in November last year and later spread to Delhi, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
08-10-2021||India||MoS Ajay Mishra says his son will appear before police on Saturday||Union minister Ajay Mishra, whose son faces a murder case in connection with the October 3 violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, Friday said his son was "innocent" and will appear before the Uttar Pradesh police Saturday to record his statement. He said Ashish missed the police summons for Friday 10 am as he was "not well". "We have full faith in law. My son is innocent. He got a notice on Thursday but he said he was not well. He will appear before the police tomorrow and give his statement and evidence as he is innocent," the Union minister of state for home told reporters at Chowdhury Charan Singh airport here. On Opposition relentless attack on him and demand for his resignation, the minister said, "Vipaksh to kuch bhi mangta hai (Opposition can demand anything)." "This is a BJP government which works in an unbiased manner. Action will be taken against those found guilty," he said. The minister's son is named in the FIR in the Lakhimpur violence that took place on October 3 in which eight persons including four farmers and a journalist were killed. Ashish was asked by the police to appear before it at 10 am Friday, but he skipped the summons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
08-10-2021||India||Gadkari asks Tesla to manufacture electric cars in India||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said he has asked US-based Tesla several times to manufacture its iconic electric vehicles in India while assuring that all support will be provided by the government to the company. Addressing 'India Today Conclave 2021', Gadkari further said electric cars manufactured by Tata Motors are not less good than electric cars manufactured by Tesla. "I have told Tesla that doesn't sell electric cars in India which your company has manufactured in China. You should manufacture electric cars in India, and also export cars from India," he said. Tesla has demanded a reduction in import duties on electric vehicles (EVs) in India. "Whatever support you (Tesla) want, will be provided by our government," Gadkari added. The road transport and highways minister said that he is still in dialogue with Tesla officials regarding the company's demand related to tax concessions. Last month, the heavy industries ministry had also asked Tesla to first start manufacturing its iconic electric vehicles in India before any tax concessions can be considered. At present, cars imported as completely built units (CBUs) attract customs duty ranging from 60-100 per cent, depending on engine size and cost, insurance and freight (CIF) value less or above USD 40,000. In a letter to the road ministry, the US firm had stated that the effective import tariff of 110 per cent on vehicles with customs value above USD 40,000 is "prohibitive" to zero-emission vehicles. It has requested the government to standardize the tariff on electric cars to 40 per cent irrespective of the customs value, and withdraw the social welfare surcharge of 10 per cent on electric cars. It has stated that these changes would boost the development of the Indian EV ecosystem and the company will make significant direct investments in sales, service, and charging infrastructure; and significantly increase procurement from India for its global operations. The company has argued that these proposals would not have any negative impact on the Indian automotive market as no Indian OEM currently produces a car (EV or ICE) with ex-factory price above USD 40,000 and only 1-2 per cent of cars sold in India (EV or ICE) have ex-factory/customs value above USD 40,000. Recently, Gadkari had said Tesla has a golden opportunity to set up its manufacturing facility in India given the country's thrust on e-vehicles. Tesla is already sourcing various auto components from Indian automakers and setting up base here would be economically viable for it, he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
08-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: No action will be taken under pressure, says Yogi ||There will be no injustice with anyone and no action will be taken under any pressure, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Friday, amid demands by the opposition to arrest Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son in the Lakhimpur-Kheri violence case. Describing the violence, which left eight people, including four farmers, dead, as unfortunate, he said the government is going deep into the details of the incident. "There is no place for violence in democracy, and when the law is giving guarantee to secure everyone, there is no need to take it into one's hands, whosoever they be," the chief minister said while speaking to a news channel. On allegations that attempts are being made to save the minister's son, Ashish Mishra, in the case, Adityanath said, "There is no such video. We have issued numbers, and if anyone has evidence, they can upload it. All will be crystal clear. There will be no injustice with anyone. No one will be allowed to take the law in his hand but no action will be taken under any pressure." "We will not arrest anyone on allegations. But yes, if someone is guilty, he will also not be spared irrespective of who he is," he said. Four of the eight people who died on Sunday were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. Asserting that action in Uttar Pradesh is take based on evidence, Adityanath said, "We did this all over the state. Action was taken against whosoever evidence was found." "Be it a BJP MLA or an opposition MLA and anyone in any post. We never hesitated in taking action. In Lakhimpur incident also, the government is doing the same thing," he said. On pasting of notice summoning Ashish Mishra and his arrest, the chief minister said, "A special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted by the government and a judicial commission has also be formed." The judicial commission will probe the entire case and officers in the SIT will delve into its details, he said. "The arrests of those whose videos have come and involvement was confirmed have started," Adityanath said. While Luvkush and Ashish Pandey have been arrested in the case, police have summoned the minister's son Ashish on Friday but he did not turn up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
08-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur: Fresh summons issued to minister's son for Saturday||The Uttar Pradesh Police issued a fresh notice to Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra asking him to appear before it by 11 am on Saturday in connection with the violence that killed eight people, including four farmers, after he missed his 10 am deadline on Friday. The latest notice, pasted on the wall of Mishra's house Friday afternoon, warned that legal action will be initiated against him if fails to appear before the investigators on Saturday. Deputy Inspector General (Headquarters) Upendra Agarwal who is heading the team probing Sunday's incident waited for him at the police lines but he didn't show up, after which the fresh notice was served. As Mishra did not show up, reports emerged that he may have fled to Nepal. Asked about it, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday said, "If this is true, the Centre should intervene and get the accused arrested from Nepal." In a statement issued here, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said, "...there is no trace of him (Ashish Mishra). News reports indicate that he is changing locations and is absconding, with several Uttar Pradesh Police teams searching for him." The morcha expressed its "serious concern and shock" at Mishra not yet being arrested. After two men were arrested on Thursday, the police pasted a notice outside Mishra's house asking him to appear before it at 10 am on Friday. The arrested men were identified as Luvkush of Banbirpur village and Ashish Pandey of Nighasan tehsil, two of the seven people mentioned in an FIR lodged by the police in connection with the violence. A nine-member team headed by DIG Upendra Agarwal has been formed to investigate the FIR lodged against the minister's son and others. Four of the eight people who died on Sunday were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. In its statement, the morcha alleged that two other men -- Sumit Jaiswal and Ankit Das -- were also involved in the violence, but they are not being arrested by the police. "There is only information on a notice issued to Ashish Mishra summoning him for questioning. The UP government and Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra are adopting protective tactics to ensure that Ashish Mishra roams free," it said. It alleged that Sumit Jaiswal was in the Thar vehicle that mowed down the farmers and was clearly seen escaping from the vehicle. Similarly, a video clip where a police official was seen questioning a person caught during the incident revealed that Ankit Das was in the Fortuner vehicle that was also involved in the violence, the morcha said. The morcha demanded immediate arrest of Ashish, Sumit and Ankit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
08-10-2021||India||Azad threatens to gherao PM's residence if Lakhimpur Kheri culprits not arrested in seven days||Azad Samaj Party chief and Dalit leader Chandrashekhar Azad on Friday said he and his supporters will gherao the residence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi here if the culprits of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident are not arrested within seven days. The prime minister should talk to farmers, go to Lakhimpur Kheri and meet family members of slain farmers, he demanded. "The prime minister tweets on every issue but he is yet to react on the killing of the farmers. The culprits are roaming free. We will gherao the PM's residence if the culprits are not arrested within seven days," Azad said at a press conference here. The Dalit leader compared the Lakhimpur Kheri incident to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, and asserted it will have huge repercussions in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly Elections next year. Azad alleged there is no law and order in Uttar Pradesh and demanded that the CM tender his resignation. He also supported the demand for a caste census, saying it will help ascertain the percentage of neglected sections of society. Eight people were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Sunday. Of the eight, four were farmers, who were allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The other four were two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private television channel. In FIR under section 302 of IPC (murder) has been registered against the Union minister's son, Ashish Mishra, and others in connection with the incident at the Tikonia police station but no arrest has been made so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
08-10-2021||India||SC not satisfied with steps taken by UP govt in Lakhimpur Kheri violence case||The Supreme Court Friday said it is not satisfied with the steps taken by the Uttar Pradesh government in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case in which eight persons were killed on October 3 and questioned it over not arresting the accused against whom FIR has been lodged. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana told senior advocate Harish Salve, representing the UP government, to communicate to the top most police official that evidence and other relevant materials in the case are not destroyed. "What is the message you (state) are sending? Even in normal circumstances... will the police not go immediately and arrest the accused. Things have not proceeded the way they should have. It appears to be only words and not actions,"  said the bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. It asked the state whether accused in other cases lodged under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code are treated the same way. If you see the FIR, section 302 is there. Is it the same way you treat other accused, the bench asked, while terming it as a very serious charge. The top court has posted the matter for hearing on October 20. Four farmers were mowed down by an SUV in Lakhimpur Kheri when a group agitating against the Centre's three new farm laws was holding a demonstration against the visit of UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on October 3. Two BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death allegedly by the angry protesters, while a local journalist was also killed in the violence. An FIR under section 302 of the IPC has been registered against the Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra and others in the incident in Tikonia police station but no arrest has been made so far. Farmer leaders have claimed that Ashish was in one of the cars that allegedly knocked down the protesters but the minister has denied the allegations. Several farmer organisations are protesting against the passage of three laws -- The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 since last November. The apex court had stayed the implementation of these laws in January. Initially, the protests started from Punjab in November last year and later spread to Delhi, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
08-10-2021||India||No quick fix solutions to party's deep-rooted problems, Prashant Kishor tells Congress||In a message for the Congress, poll strategist Prashant Kishor on Friday said those looking for a quick revival of the grand old party-led opposition following the Lakhimpur Kheri incident are in for a big disappointment as there are no quick fix solutions to the "deep-rooted problems" of the party. Kishor's tweet comes in the backdrop of days of speculation that he was in talks with the Gandhi family and was set to join the Congress. "People looking for a quick, spontaneous revival of GOP led opposition based on Lakhimpur Kheri incident are setting themselves up for a big disappointment," Kishor said on his Twitter handle. "Unfortunately there are no quick fix solutions to the deep-rooted problems and structural weakness of GOP," he said. Former Union minister and senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily had last month voiced strong support for Kishor's induction into the Congress and said those opposing his entry into the party were "anti-reform". Though there has been speculation both within and outside the Congress over Kishor's likely admission into the party, there has been no official word indicating his entry. Kishor's tweet is being viewed by many as an indication that things may not be working out between him and the party leadership. Four farmers were mowed down by an SUV in Lakhimpur Kheri when a group agitating against the Centre's three new farm laws was holding a demonstration against the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Two BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death allegedly by the angry protesters, while a local journalist was also killed in the violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
08-10-2021||India||IAF's prompt actions in eastern Ladakh testament to its combat readiness, says chief||The IAF's prompt actions in response to developments in eastern Ladakh last year were a testament to its combat readiness and its ongoing capability enhancement programme is aimed at achieving desired results "swiftly and decisively" across domains, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal V R Chaudhary said on Friday. In an address on the occasion of the 89th Air Force Day, he also strongly called for upgrading the training modules for air warriors and asked senior officials to invest time and efforts in "nurturing and empowering" their subordinates and young officers and to consider it as their primary task. Referring to the tri-services integration, Air Chief Marshal Chaudhary also "assured," the nation of the Indian Air Force's "unwavering commitment" towards delivering joint capability and generating integrated response options as a part of a coherent national strategy. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane and several top officials of the three services and the Defence Ministry were among those present at the event. The IAF also carried out a spectacular air display showcasing its vintage aircraft and modern fleet on the occasion. On the modernisation plans of the IAF, the chief of Air Staff pitched for "creative and skilful" employment of new-age capabilities through the development of unique tactics and "out-of-the-box" operational plans and training programmes to gain mastery over modern trends of aerial warfare. "As our challenges continue to rise, so does our strength and resolve to ensure best possible application of air power. When I look at the security scenario that we face today, I am acutely conscious that I have assumed the command at a crucial time," he said at the Air Force Day parade held at the Hindon airbase on the outskirts of Delhi. "We must demonstrate to the nation that external forces will not be allowed to violate our territory. I pledge to do all I can to provide you with clear direction, good leadership and the best of resources that I can muster," he said. Air Chief Marshal Chaudhary said the year gone by was "quite challenging yet extremely rewarding". "The prompt actions in response to developments in eastern Ladakh were a testament to the Indian Air Force's combat readiness. Our efforts in completing all Covid-related tasks was also a major achievement in support of national efforts," he said. Following the escalation in tension in eastern Ladakh in mid-June last year, the IAF deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft as well as its attack helicopters in the key air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the Line of Actual Control. In his address, the chief of Air Staff particularly focused on the need to devote attention to human resources. "It is my firm belief that when we continue to acquire the latest technologies, there is a much greater need to devote our attention to the people placed below us. As seniors, invest your time and efforts in nurturing and empowering your subordinates. I am confident that each one of you will treat this important task as your primary responsibility," he said. The IAF chief said that though the "targeted training programmes" are helping air warriors to develop the aptitude for mustering the modern trends of aerial warfare, acquiring the "right attitude" is equally important. "Our focus on grooming and mentoring them (young officials/air warriors) as leaders for shouldering tasks should be sustained," he said. "I am of the view that while we are actively pursuing self-reliance in hardware, innovative thought has historically been our core strength and I look forward to creative and skilful employment of these capabilities through the development of our own unique tactics and out of the box operational plans," he said. On the tri-services integration, Air Chief Marshal Chaudhary said the IAF remains steadfast in its view that integrated jointness is the way ahead. "It is also our belief that the core competence of each service, indeed of all organs of national power must be synergised to generate desired effect and capability. Here I wish to assure the nation of our unwavering commitment towards delivering joint capability and generating integrated response options as a part of a coherent national strategy," he said. The chief of Air Staff said the security environment in the region and beyond has been "impacted by a complex interplay of geopolitical forces". "Moreover, the advent of new domains over and above the traditional domains of land, sea and air has resulted in a paradigm shift in the way military operations will be conducted," he said. "In sync with the changing nature of war fighting, the ongoing capability enhancement in the IAF is aimed at providing the optimum means for employing air power and achieving desired effects across domains swiftly and decisively," the IAF chief said. He also asked air warriors to continue work with skills, courage, determination and hard work. "Remember that it is our sacred duty to protect the nation's sovereignty and integrity at any cost and you are to do what it takes to ensure that we do not let the nation down," he said. The chief of Air Staff said the IAF stands today on the threshold of an era that will define its stature as a "potent strategic aerospace power". "The need of the hour is to reassess and realign with emerging trends in order to gain from ongoing efforts towards greater self-reliance in high-tech items," he said. "I am happy to report that several projects are well underway for harnessing the potential of automation, data analytics and artificial intelligence in order to transform the way we fight future wars," he said. The IAF chief said young men and women who are joining the force are highly competent and aware of today's digital world. "We have to upgrade our training methodology so that these air warriors are equipped with the right skills and knowledge for confident and audacious use in battle," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
08-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Minister's son yet to appear before police||Union Minister of State for Home Kumar Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, who was asked to appear before the police at 10 am on Friday in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, did not reach the police lines till 11.30 am, sources said. Deputy Inspector General (Headquarters) Upendra Agarwal who is heading the probe team is present in the police lines for questioning him, they said. "Ashish Mishra has not turned up till now," an official source said around 11.30 am. In a statement issued here, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said, "...there is no trace of him (Ashish Mishra). News reports indicate that he is changing locations and is absconding, with several UP Police teams searching for him." The morcha expressed its "serious concern and shock" as Mishra was not arrested. As investigators waited for Mishra, reports emerged that he might have fled to Nepal. Asked about it, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday said, "If this is true, the Centre should intervene and get the accused arrested from Nepal." After two men were arrested on Thursday, the police pasted a notice outside his house asking him to appear before it in connection with the violence that claimed eight lives. Four of the eight people who died on Sunday were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. A nine-member team headed by DIG Upendra Agarwal has been formed to investigate the FIR lodged against the minister's son and others. The arrested men were identified as Luvkush of Banbirpur village and Ashish Pandey of Nighasan tehsil, two of the seven people mentioned in an FIR lodged by police. In its statement, the morcha alleged that Sumit Jaiswal, Ankit Das and some other persons were also involved in the violence, but they are not being arrested by the police. "There is only information on a notice issued to Ashish Mishra summoning him for questioning. The UP government and Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra are adopting protective tactics to ensure that Ashish Mishra roams free," it said. It alleged that Sumit Jaiswal was in the Thar vehicle that mowed down the farmers and was clearly seen escaping from the vehicle. Similarly, a video clip where a police official was seen questioning a person caught during the incident showed that Ankit Das was in the Fortuner vehicle that was also involved in the violence, the morcha said. The morcha demanded immediate arrest of Ashish, Sumit and Ankit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
08-10-2021||India||India logs over 21,000 fresh Covid cases, 271 casualties in a day||With 21,257 people testing positive for the coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of cases rose to 3,39,15,569, while the number of active cases declined to 2,40,221, the lowest in 205 days, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Friday. The death toll has climbed to 4,50,127 with 271 new fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 14 straight days. The number of active cases has declined to 2,40,221, accounting for 0.71 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.96 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 3,977 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 13,85,706 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total number of tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 58,00,43,190. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.53 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 39 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.64 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 105 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,32,25,221, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has crossed 93.17 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5; and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20; and the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore COVID-19 cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
08-10-2021||India||Indian, Chinese troops engaged in brief face-off in Tawang||Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a brief face-off near Yangtse in the Tawang sector of Arunachal Pradesh last week and it was resolved following talks between local commanders of the two sides as per established protocols, people familiar with the development said on Friday. It is learnt that the face-off took place after a Chinese patrol tried to enter Indian territory and the troops of China's People's Liberation Army were forced back. The incident came to light days before another round of high-level military talks between the two sides on the eastern Ladakh row. The Corps Commander level talks are likely to take place within the next three-four days, said one of the people cited above. About the fresh face-off, the people said both sides undertake patrolling activities up to their line of perception and whenever the troops come face-to-face, the situation is managed according to established protocols. "Physical engagement can last for a few hours prior to disengaging as per mutual understanding. However, there has been no damage to defences," said the person cited above. "The India-China border has not been formally demarcated and, hence, there is a difference in perception of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between the countries," the person said. The people said maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the areas of differing perceptions has been possible by adherence to existing agreements and protocols between the two countries. The incident took place in the midst of continuing stand-off between Indian and Chinese militaries in several areas along the LAC in eastern Ladakh for nearly 17 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
08-10-2021||India||Hate speech in India linked to RSS accounts: FB whistleblower||The disclosures of Frances Haugen, who hit the headlines across the world earlier this week as “the Facebook whistleblower”, include multiple references to the promotion of divisions and ethnic violence in India. Her main claims on Facebook’s work in India are that pages associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) promoted “fear mongering, anti-Muslim narratives”, that a lack of Indian language editors led to unchecked hate speech here on the platform, and that the BJP uses Single User Multiple Accounts for propaganda that affects neighbouring Bangladesh as well. Haugen, a former Facebook data scientist, recently told the US Congress and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that the global social media giant “promotes global division and ethnic violence”, including in India. A Facebook spokesperson told The Telegraph on Thursday that the company had made significant investments to detect hate speech, as a consequence of which its prevalence had come down drastically now. In May, Haugen, 37, had quit the social media giant, in which she had earlier been part of the “civic integrity tram” that monitored election interference across the world. The team was disbanded after the presidential polls in the US in 2020. Last month, she filed at least eight complaints with the SEC, the markets watchdog in the US, through lawyers at the NGO, Whistleblower Aid. She went public with her allegations on CBS News earlier this week and later testified to the US Congress. A leaked internal FB document, “Adversarial Harmful Networks – India Case Study”, is cited in one of the SEC complaints uploaded on CBS News’ website. An excerpt says: “RSS (Indian nationalist organization Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) Users, Groups, and Pages promote fear mongering, anti-Muslim narratives targeted pro-Hindu populations with V&I (violent and incendiary) intent…. There were a number of dehumanizing posts comparing Muslims to ‘pigs’ and ‘dogs’ and misinformation (claiming that men have been urged to rape their female family members). “Our lack of Hindi and Bengali classifiers means much of this (anti-Muslim) content is never flagged or actioned….” The RSS and the BJP are yet to respond to Haugen’s claims. Last year, The Wall Street Journal had quoted unnamed current and former Facebook staff who had claimed that the platform allowed posts by BJP legislators that incited violence, on the advice of Ankhi Das, its then public policy director for South and Central Asia, who was linked to the RSS. An undated internal survey by Facebook, cited by Haugen, revealed that the posts that got the most views were fake. “40% of Top VPV (View Port Views, or impressions) Civic Posters in West Bengal Were Fake/Inauthentic/fake. The highest-VPV user to be assessed as inauthentic had more than 30M accrued in the L28 (last 28 days),” she said in one of the complaints. Viral shares included an “out-of-context” video by an Indian politician to stir anti-Muslim and anti-Pakistan sentiments. Another leaked internal document titled “Lotus Mahal” was cited to suggest that the BJP encouraged its members to have multiple Facebook accounts, which is not illegal but is discouraged by the social media platform as the trend is linked to provocative content. The excerpt in the complaint says: “BJP IT Cell worker (shared) coordinated messaging instructions to supporters with a copypasta campaign... targeting politically-sensitive tags.… 103 suspicious entities across IN & BD (India and Bangladesh).” A Facebook spokesperson told this newspaper: “Over the years, we’ve invested significantly in technology that proactively detects hate speech even before people report it to us. We now use this technology to proactively detect violating content in Hindi and Bengali, alongside over 40 languages globally. As a result, we’ve reduced the prevalence of hate speech globally -– meaning the amount of the content people actually see -- on Facebook by almost 50 per cent in the last three quarters and it’s now down to 0.05 per cent of all content viewed.” She added: “In addition, we have a team of content reviewers covering 20 Indian languages. As hate speech against marginalised groups, including Muslims, continues to be on the rise globally, we continue to make progress on enforcement and are committed to updating our policies as hate speech evolves online.” Mark Zuckerberg wrote to employees earlier this week: “If we didn’t care about fighting harmful content, then why would we employ so many more people dedicated to this than any other company in our space --- even ones larger than us?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
08-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: SC seeks report, police summons Ajay Mishra's son ||Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashis Mishra has been summoned for questioning and two men arrested over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, police said on a day the Supreme Court sought a status report from the Uttar Pradesh government on the case. Ashis, booked for murder, has been asked to present himself before the police at 10am on Friday, a notice said. “If Ashis Mishra does not abide by the summons, legal procedure will be adopted,” inspector-general of police (Lucknow) Laxmi Singh said. Pawan Kashyap, brother of slain journalist Raman Kashyap, regretted that Ashis had not been arrested yet. “It’s strange that a police who arrest people for chanting anti-government slogans and put up their posters at street crossings are merely sending summons to a man accused of cold-blooded murder,” he said. The Yogi Adityanath government had put up posters of anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protesters at public places in November-December 2019. The police identified the two arrested men as Luvkush and Ashish Pandey. State government sources said the two were in the convoy of SUVs that crushed four protesting farmers and a TV journalist on Sunday. Farmers have alleged that Ashis, also known as Monu, was in a Thar jeep that led the convoy and deliberately ploughed into the farmers. The minister has denied his son was in any of the cars, but Ashis has been named in an FIR for murder the police have registered. The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday formed a single-member judicial commission under retired Allahabad High Court judge Pradeep Kumar Srivastava to probe the incident in two months. After five victims were run over, the farmers allegedly lynched three people — Hari Om, the driver of one of the cars, and two BJP workers. IG Singh said the role of these three had not been clear earlier but “things are becoming clear now”. She refused to say more. Asked whether these three were the instigators of the violence, additional director-general of police (Lucknow zone) S.N. Sabot said things had started only after the “accident” and that meant those behind the steering had complete control over the vehicles and were 100 per cent responsible for what happened. “Other people sitting close to that have a reason to instigate or abate the things,” he added. Sources said a police team had collected spent bullets from the spot. Asked, Singh said: “Some evidence has come and the forensic team is examining them.” A Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana asked Uttar Pradesh authorities to ensure the “best medical treatment” of the mother of one of slain farmers, 20-year-old Luv Preet Singh, at a government medical college. An advocate, Amritpal Singh Khalsa, had informed the court that Luv Preet’s mother was in critical condition from shock at the loss of her son. The bench, which included Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, sought a status report from the Uttar Pradesh government on the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, including the names mentioned in the FIR. The bench had earlier converted into a PIL a letter from two advocates, Shiv Kumar Tripathi and C.S. Panda, that had sought an independent probe. Justice Ramana said the petition would be heard again on Friday and clarified that the registry had wrongly said the court had taken suo motu cognisance of the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
08-10-2021||India||Modi anguished over road deaths in UP, but not death of farmers||And the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he hearkened not unto them… Exodus 9:12, King James Version Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday expressed anguish and condolences. It was not Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh the Prime Minister had on his mind. He was referring to a tragic incident of 15 road deaths at Barabanki in the same state. For the fifth day running, Modi continued to remain silent over the farmers run over and killed by a car owned by his junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni on Sunday. In another tweet, Modi expressed grief at deaths caused by a house collapse in Karnataka. “Anguished by the road accident in Barabanki, Uttar Pradesh. Condolences to the families of those who lost their lives,” a tweet from the Prime Minister’s official handle @PMOIndia said on Thursday morning. A bus had collided with a sand-laden truck near Baburi village in Barabanki on Thursday, leaving 15 people dead and 21 injured, a PTI report said. The PMO’s tweet announced Rs 2 lakh each for the families of those killed and Rs 50,000 for the injured from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund. Another comment by Modi on Thursday provoked relatives of the Lakhimpur Kheri victims to ask why he was “annoying” them “by making absurd statements while keeping mum on the bloodbath organised by the minister of state for home”. Modi had said his government “doesn’t wait for people to come to it” but “reaches the people”, prompting the Lakhimpur Kheri victims’ families to ask why he or his ministers had “not reached us”. The second tweet from Modi’s official handle said: “The loss of lives due to a house collapse in Belgavi, Karnataka, is saddening. My thoughts are with the bereaved kin in this hour of sadness.” It announced financial assistance for those killed and injured. On Sunday, four farmers and a journalist were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri and many others were injured when a car, which Teni has acknowledged belonged to him, appeared to deliberately plough through a group of protesting farmers from behind. The farmers say Teni’s son Ashis “Monu” Mishra was at the wheel but the minister denies this. While Modi spoke not a word on this, he seemed to strike a self-congratulatory note at an event in Rishikesh, Uttarakhand, referring to how Thursday marked 20 years in high office for him. “I had never imagined that I would rise from the post of chief minister to Prime Minister. But on this day, 20 years ago, I got a new responsibility to serve the people,” Modi said, adding that he had taken oath as Gujarat chief minister for the first time on October 7, 2001. Modi’s remarks were followed by BJP leaders tripping over themselves to heap praise on him. Teni, whose removal has been ruled out by BJP sources, participated as chief guest at a Bureau of Police Research and Development programme on Thursday with the media shut out of it. Ashok Kashyap, a relative of the wife of journalist Raman Kashyap, who had been run over with four farmers in Sunday’s incident, told The Telegraph on Thursday: “No Prime Minister, home minister, chief minister or any other minister has visited our homes to ask what we need and expect. “Summing up Modi’s attitude, I would say he is an empty conch shell (dhapor shankh) that produces an annoying sound.” Kewal Singh, uncle of 20-year-old Luv Preet Singh, one of the four slain farmers, said: “Modi or (chief minister) Yogi (Adityanath) have no feelings for people. They can say anything in their speeches but cannot stand with a victim of their own government.” 'Intimidation’ Kewal alleged the administration was trying to intimidate the farmers into remaining silent. He said “a subdivision-level officer” had used “harsh language” while visiting the family on Wednesday to hand over a cheque for Rs 45 lakh as compensation. “Some senior officers come here every now and then, sometimes to warn us to remain silent on the incident and at other times to request us to remain silent,” Kewal said. Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, who had on Monday brokered peace between the administration and the agitated farmers, said he had learnt that “officers are trying to bully the victims’ families”. “I want the officers to give us their bank account numbers and we will return the money they have given to the families of the slain farmers and the journalist,” he said. He stressed that he had “an agreement with the government that Monu would be arrested, the minister would be suspended and the inquiry would be completed within a few days”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
08-10-2021||India||BJP drops Varun & Maneka Gandhi from party executive list||BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi was on Thursday dropped from the party national executive committee along with mother Maneka Gandhi hours after he had tweeted that “protesters cannot be silenced through murder” and demanded “accountability for the innocent blood of farmers”. Varun has been the lone voice in the BJP demanding justice for the protesting farmers run over and killed in Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh, on Sunday by a car that Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni has accepted as belonging to him. On Thursday morning, Varun tweeted a longer and clearer version of a video showing people being run over by a car. “The video is crystal clear. Protesters cannot be silenced through murder,” the MP from Pilibhit, which adjoins Lakhimpur Kheri, said in his tweet. “There has to be accountability for the innocent blood of farmers that has been spilled and justice must be delivered before a message of arrogance and cruelty enters the minds of every farmer.” In the afternoon, the BJP released a reconstituted list of its national executive members, from which Varun and Maneka — MP from Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh — were missing. Maneka had been a cabinet minister in the first Narendra Modi government but did not make it to the second government in 2019. The BJP’s national executive committee has 80 members, 50 special invitees and 179 permanent invitees. Another key member dropped was Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy, who has been critical of the government over several issues such as the economy and the China border standoff. Officially, the BJP gave no reason for the changes. Party leaders dodged the question whether Varun had been punished for his tweets and claimed the changes were a routine matter. They said the list had been revised now because the party planned to hold a meeting of its office-bearers later this month. Varun has been tweeting regularly on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident as well as on the farmers’ 10-month-old protest against three central farm laws, and has been perceived as defying the party line on both issues. His tweet on Thursday has been the strongest so far, appearing to obliquely express his anger that no arrests had been made so far despite “crystal clear” evidence. Varun had on Monday written a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath — and also tweeted it — demanding a murder case be lodged and a Supreme Court-monitored CBI probe be instituted. On Tuesday, he tweeted a shorter and grainier version of the video that showed a black jeep ploughing through protesting farmers from behind, saying it was enough to “shake anybody’s soul”. He had demanded that those responsible be arrested. Varun had earlier said the farmers protesting the farm laws should be treated with sensitivity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
08-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur: Priyanka Gandhi calls on Narendra Modi to resign ||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has intensified her attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and demanded his resignation. “The Prime Minster should take moral responsibility for the incident of Lakhimpur Kheri and resign,” the Congress general secretary told reporters in Bahraich on Thursday, where she had gone to meet the family members of Gurvindar Singh and Daljeet Singh, two farmers who were among those crushed to death in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. “How can we expect a fair inquiry when a home minister and his son are behind the crime? The minister who is in charge of law and order in the country is father of the killer,” Priyanka added. She also expressed her dissatisfaction with a judicial probe into the incident by a retired judge and said: “This is not going to serve the purpose. We are demanding a probe by a sitting judge of the high court.” Priyanka first went to the home of Gurvindar Singh at Mohrania village in Nanpara. “I had met the families of three victims in Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday and I’m meeting two in Bahraich today. They all have said clearly that they don’t care about financial compensation. They want the arrest of the culprits and suspension of the minister. “It seems that Narendra Modi is trying to give a message to the people of the country that those in the government, the ministers and the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders can do anything against the common man, the farmers, the Dalits, the women,” she said after meeting Gurvindar’s family. On Wednesday night, Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi had met the families of deceased farmers Luv Preet Singh and Nachchattar Singh and journalist Ramayan Kashyap. Puran Singh, Gurvindar’s cousin, said: “We showed Priyanka some videos and she was convinced that the minister’s son killed my brother, other farmers and a journalist. The killers are roaming freely because their leader is a central minister in the Modi government.” Priyanka offered prayer at Mari Mata Mandir, a temple of goddess Durga in Lucknow, on Thursday morning before leaving for Bahraich. Earlier, she tweeted in Hindi: “We will fight for justice till the end, till conclusion. All the victims’ families have said they will get justice when the Union minister would be suspended and the killers were arrested.” Meanwhile, Navjot Singh Sidhu, president of Punjab Congress Committee, was detained by the police in Saharanpur while he was on his way to Bahraich along with hundreds of his supporters to join Priyanka. Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat, who was headed to Lakhimpur Kheri with dozens of supporters, was detained in Bareilly. However, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav and Bahujan Samaj Party general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra met the families of three victims in Lakhimpur Kheri as they had reached there in a group of five. The government has imposed a preventive order and is not allowing the assembly of more than five people. A large number of Congressmen gathered at the gate of Raj Bhavan, demanding audience from the governor and returned after an hour when Anandiben Patel received their memorandum, which registered their protest against the arrest of Priyanka in Sitapur for three days from Monday. She was allowed to proceed towards Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
08-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur: UP police helping  Ajay Mishra's son, says SKM||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Thursday accused the Uttar Pradesh police of helping junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashis Mishra abscond and expressed dissatisfaction with the one-member committee set up to probe the Lakhimpur Kheri killings. The one-member committee, which was promised by the Uttar Pradesh administration on Monday to ease the tension over Sunday’s incident, was notified on Wednesday. The Morcha, which is describing the deaths as “farmers’ massacre”, maintains that the panel was hurriedly notified in view of the Supreme Court hearing on Thursday. According to the Morcha, the one-member judicial panel is not according to their demands and does not instil confidence in the farmers of the country. “The order does not mention anything about the key reason or objective of setting up such a commission. The inquiry should be on whether or not the incidents of Lakhimpur Kheri were pre-planned intentional murders, with the aim to intimidate and quell protesters. “In the notification issued, there is no mention of the open threat issued by the Union government minister (Teni) in a public meeting, about the role of the MoS and his son in the gruesome developments of Sunday and thereafter,” the Morcha said, referring to reports of the deceased journalist Raman Kashyap’s family saying that they were being asked to change their complaint. The family, lifelong supporters of the BJP, have alleged that they are being pressured to file a complaint stating that Raman was beaten up by the farmers. The family has said that Raman was run over by the SUV. “Members of the BJP want to include my brother’s name in their FIR to show that an equal number of deaths happened on both sides. Four farmers and four BJP workers will make the cross case equal and balanced. They want to use my brother for this balancing act,” Raman’s brother Pawan told news website News Laundry. The Morcha said: “Further, the notification gives a time window of two months and indicates that the timeline can be extended too. From all of this, it is clear that this ordering of a judicial inquiry into the matter is to essentially buy time, to whitewash the actual set of events and to postpone justice for the victims.” Upset with the manner in which both the state and central governments are handling the case, the SKM said it would announce the future course of action on October 12 if its demands were not met by then. The Morcha has demanded the arrest of Ashis, who eyewitnesses insist was in the car that mowed down the farmers, and dismissal of his father from the Union council of ministers. The Morcha’s collective leadership is slated to meet on Friday to chalk out the future course of action, but the announcement will be made only on October 12 as it wants to wait for the antim ardas (last prayer) for the farmers who were killed. Meanwhile, a protesting farmer was injured in Naraingarh area of Ambala in Haryana on Thursday morning after being allegedly hit by a car that was part of a BJP MP’s convoy. The farmers had converged on the Naraingarh-Sadhaura road to protest the presence of Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini at a function in the area. While the convoy was returning from the event, one of the cars hit a farmer, prompting the protesters to wonder if this was a coincidence or a strategy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
08-10-2021||India||India to give tourist visas from October 15||The Centre on Thursday said it would begin granting fresh tourist visas to foreigners coming to India through chartered flights from October 15. Foreign tourists travelling by flights other than chartered aircraft would have to wait till November 15. Tourist visas have been suspended by India since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic last year. The Union home ministry on Thursday said it received representations from several state governments and various stakeholders in the tourism sector to start tourist visas. The ministry consulted all major stakeholders like the ministries of health, external affairs, civil aviation, tourism and several state governments where foreign tourists are expected to arrive. “After considering various inputs, the MHA has decided to begin granting of fresh tourist visas for foreigners coming to India through chartered flights with effect from October 15, 2021. Foreign tourists entering into India by flights other than chartered aircraft would be able to do so only with effect from November 15 on fresh tourist visas,” the ministry said in a statement. All due protocols and norms relating to Covid-19 as notified by the ministry of health and family welfare from time to time will have be followed by foreign tourists, carriers bringing them into India and all other stakeholders at landing stations. “With this, the restrictions placed on visa and international travel stand further eased given the present overall Covid-19 situation,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
08-10-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir minority teachers shot dead by militants||A principal and a teacher, one a Sikh and another a Dogra, were killed by militants inside their school in a Srinagar locality, marking another bloody day in Jammu and Kashmir where rebels are increasingly targeting people of minority communities. Officials said three militants stormed the Government Boys Higher Secondary School in Sangam locality in Srinagar’s Idgah area at 11.15am, apparently searching for non-Muslim teachers. Eyewitnesses said they snatched the mobiles of the teachers but picked up two — principal Supinder Kour, 45, and teacher Deepak Chand, 39 — and shot them. Kour was from Srinagar’s Aloochi Bagh locality and Chand was from Jammu. The city has been rocked by six civilian killings in as many days, shattering the tall claims of the Narendra Modi government that the scrapping of state’s special status will end militancy in Kashmir. Some Valley politicians linked the killings to the Centre’s 2019 decision to scrap Article 370, through which many here believe that New Delhi seeks to change the Muslim-majority character of the erstwhile state, which has ended up deepening the fissures between communities. Fear has gripped the minority communities, with some apprehending a return to the deadly 1990s when thousands of Pandits and some Sikhs migrated to other parts of the country. In Delhi, Union home minister Amit Shah chaired a high-level meeting with national security adviser Ajit Doval, home secretary Ajay Bhalla and Intelligence Bureau chief Arvind Kumar to discuss the unfolding situation. The killings, it is feared, will deal a further blow to the Centre’s long cherished goal of facilitating the return of migrant Kashmiri Pandits to the Valley. Of the five men and a woman who fell to militants here during the past six days, four — Makhan Lal Bindroo, a prominent Kashmiri Pandit businessman, Virendra Paswan, a street vendor from Bihar, Kour and Chand — were members of minority communities. The families of the victims were devastated by their deaths with videos showing them crying inconsolably. “Why did you kill her? Why didn’t you kill me? What had she done?” asked the wailing mother of Kour. Mohit Bhan, a Kashmiri Pandit who is the spokesperson of the PDP and lives in the Valley, said the killings have triggered a deep sense of insecurity among the minority communities. “Received frantic calls , fear in the voice sent shivers down my spine. Go out stand with them they need you more than ever today. The callousness of  administration for pushing us back to 90s can’t be ignored,” Bhan tweeted. Director-general of police Dilbagh Singh said the killings have been executed to create an atmosphere of fear and disturb harmony in Kashmir by giving a communal colour to the situation. “We are grieved that such incidents have taken place one after another. People have lost lives. We are working on cases which happened earlier. Srinagar police have got a lot of clues and soon terrorists involved in this barbarity, targeting values and communal harmony, will be exposed,” Singh told reporters. The DGP said it was an attempt to malign Kashmiri Muslims. “Those who come from outside to earn a living are targeted and there is a conspiracy to prove there is no love lost. Terrorists are terrorists and are doing it at the behest of agencies from across (the border),” he said. Though the killings have been widely mourned in Kashmir, some politicians claimed they were a fallout of the decision to scrap its special status. “When Article 370 was abrogated, a group of usual low IQ, high decibel RW (Right-wing) social media influencers went overboard to argue for forced demographic change, without realising what the repercussions of this alarm. The blood is on their hands as well,” tweeted National Conference spokesperson Ifra Jan. Jan deleted the tweet after Kashmiri Pandit Twitter users accused her of defending the gruesome killings. In January, Satpal Nischal, a 70-year-old Punjabi jewellery shopowner in Srinagar’s Saraibala, was shot dead by militants. A month later, militants killed Aakash Mehra, son of the owner of Krishna Dhaba at Sonwar here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
08-10-2021||India||Plea against UP govt for forcibly discharging Siddique Kappan undergoing Covid treatment||The Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) on Thursday moved a contempt petition against the Uttar Pradesh government for allegedly shifting journalist Siddique Kappan back to Mathura jail by prematurely discharging him from hospital where he was undergoing treatment for Covid-19. The petition is yet to be listed for formal hearing. According to the KUWJ, a bench headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana had on April 28 this year directed the Uttar Pradesh government “to provide adequate and effective medical assistance to him and to allay all apprehension relating to his health, it would be in the interest of justice to shift Siddique Kappan to a hospital in Delhi for proper medical treatment”. The petition filed through advocate Wills Mathews stated that the top court had directed that the “recovery of Mr Siddique Kappan was the first requirement for discharging him and shifting him to Mathura Jail, whereas the respondents got him discharged when Mr Kappan was Covid positive, with high sugar level around 460, along with dental problems and various other serious medical problems”. “… the act of discharging Mr Siddique Kappan at midnight on 06.05.2021, even depriving him of his sleep, amount to contempt of court,” the petition stated. According to the plea, despite a legal notice dated May 9 and reminder dated May 25 “for taking care of urgent medical issues of the accused in compliance with the specific directions of this Hon’ble court, the respondents did not take any step to correct their mistakes and as the accused is still in need of the medical assistance, which was denied to him, and delay in treatment will result in irreparable injury”. It added: “The petitioner is moving the present contempt petition as left with no other alternative remedy as the illegal action of the respondents/contemnors were wilful and deliberate.” Kappan, a freelancer and secretary of the Delhi unit of the KUWJ, was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police on October 5 last year while he was going to Hathras village to report on the gang-rape and murder of a minor Dalit girl. The state government had accused Kappan of being a member of the Popular Front of India and being involved in anti-national activities. The KUWJ had, however, categorically denied the allegations against Kappan. On October 7 last year, the Uttar Pradesh police had registered an FIR against Kappan under various IPC sections relating to sedition. As his medical condition had worsened in April last year, the apex court had directed that he be shifted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. The KUWJ has alleged that Kappan was shifted to the AIIMS on April 30 pursuant to the court’s direction. However, he was forcibly taken out of the hospital on May 6, “when he was sick and treatment was going on, at midnight and taken to Mathura jail”. It further stated that Kappan had gone into depression following the death of his mother in June this year. The petition said: “Even after one year of the arrest, that is, on 05.10.2020, the accused is not in receipt of the chargesheet…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
08-10-2021||India||Congress builds pressure on BJP to remove Ajay Mishra||The Congress on Thursday sustained its pressure on the BJP for the removal of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni and the arrest of his son Ashis Mishra in the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre, a day after Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra brought the horrific crime into national focus by their visit to the victims’ families. While Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu led a massive delegation of ministers, MLAs and party workers to Uttar Pradesh, similar groups from Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and Haryana also marched towards Lakhimpur Kheri under their top state leaders. Though none of these groups were allowed to reach Lakhimpur Kheri, the Uttar Pradesh administration was brought under tremendous pressure, demolishing the perception that the controversy will go off the boil after the visit by Rahul and Priyanka. Sidhu declared he would go on a fast-unto-death from Friday if Teni’s son wasn’t arrested. “You have to confront the governments when zulm (oppression) crosses the limit. Over 600 farmers have died in the movement against the farm laws but the Narendra Modi government is unmoved. So far, no politician has died for the cause. I am taking a public vow — I will go on fast from tomorrow if the minister’s son who ran over farmers is not arrested. I am ready to sacrifice my life for ensuring justice for the farmers.” That the Congress is taking the agitation seriously, unlike the symbolic gesture of protest usually, was manifested not only in Priyanka’s determined resolve to reach Lakhimpur Kheri and Rahul’s combative support to the cause, but the involvement of senior leaders in Thursday’s campaign. In Punjab, while deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and several ministers drove to Saharanpur where they were taken into custody, even chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi joined them briefly to motivate the delegation. Channi had accompanied Rahul and Priyanka to Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday and, along with Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, announced financial assistance of Rs 50 lakh to the victims’ families. The massacre of farmers has become an emotional issue in poll-bound Punjab as two young Sikhs had lost their lives in the tragedy. Even the delegation from Uttarakhand was led by Harish Rawat while both Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Kumari Selja were present in the Haryana group. The Rajasthan delegation was led by state Congress chief Govind Dotasara. Sachin Pilot tried to visit Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday itself but was detained at Moradabad. Delegations from Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Delhi and other states are also scheduled to reach Lakhimpur Kheri. The party high command has also decided to seek time from the President to demand the removal of Teni and the arrest of his son. The Uttar Pradesh Congress unit submitted a memorandum to the governor for the arrest of the father-son duo and held demonstrations throughout the state on Thursday. The Lakhimpur episode is bound to affect the coming elections in Uttar Pradesh and elsewhere but it has already impacted the Congress’s internal politics. While veteran P. Chidambaram, who had talked of fear in the party a few days ago, had to jump in favour of Priyanka on Wednesday, it was followed by a series of tweets by G-23 leader Anand Sharma in support of the Congress leadership. Kapil Sibal and Vivek Tankha, both G-23 members, wrote a letter to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath explaining legal points about the illegality of Priyanka’s arrest. While Sharma attacked the Uttar Pradesh government for arresting Priyanka and stopping Rahul on Wednesday, he tweeted on Thursday: “Commending Rahul and Priyanka’s courageous act of compassion and solidarity with farmers whose sons were killed. A sincere and expressed commitment to fight for justice for the bereaved farmers which must be supported by all who respect the rule of law.” The G-23 is clearly in a mood for reconciliation which will help the party change the narrative about the leadership crisis with Rahul emerging as the clear leader. The momentum is only going to pick up from here as electioneering will start now in five states, pushing the leadership question aside even if Rahul doesn’t take over formally. This dramatic change of ambience might have done a great favour to the party as a generation war theory was gaining currency after the joining of Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani and the outbursts of sulking veterans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
08-10-2021||India||LIC agent held over ghost policy fraud||The Odisha Crime Branch on Thursday arrested an LIC agent for misappropriating Rs 1.81 crore by claiming death benefits on ghost policies. The accused, Kabiraj Behera of Kanas in Puri district, used to take out policies in the name of dead persons by manipulating documents, paid their premiums for a few years and then declared them dead to claim death benefits. The crime branch is investigating how he used forged documents to perpetrate the fraud on the LIC and whether the family members of the ghost policy holders were also involved in the racket. The Economic Offences Wing of the crime branch arrested Behera following a complaint by LIC officials who grew suspicious about the claims made by him. Crime branch officials said Behera, who has been working as an LIC agent since 2003, had fraudulently managed to take out 23 LIC policies between 2013 and 2019 in the name of four dead persons using forged documents showing them alive. He paid the premium for these policies regularly. “After about 3 to 5 years of paying the premium for these policies, he used to forge death certificates in the names of insured persons and made death claims in favour of the nominees of the insured persons in the local LIC branch office. He attempted to avail financial benefits under death claims against these 23 policies,” DIG crime branch J.N. Pankaj told The Telegraph. In all the policies the sum assured (death claims) was kept less than Rs 10 lakh to avoid suspicion and to ensure that the claim amount could be released without any hassle. “The accused is aware that an assured sum of less than Rs 10 lakh comes well within the financial power of the local LIC branch manager to settle the death claim. It need not be referred to the LIC divisional office for verification,” said crime branch officials. “The total amount of claims raised by the nominees of 23 policies through the present accused was more than Rs 1.81 crore, and against five policies, the LIC of India had released payments. However, the LIC officials during verification got suspicious about it and passed the information to the crime branch,” the officials added. During the search of the accused house, many incriminating documents pertaining to the processing of death claims like, voter identity cards, ATM cards, bank pass books, cheque books and Aadhaar cards were seized. “We have also seized papers containing the purported full signatures of the Ghost Policy Holders from the accused’s house. Investigation of the case is continuing to ascertain whether the family members of the deceased persons were involved or not,” said officials. An LIC official said, “The family members of the deceased must be involved in the crime. ”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
08-10-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul makes a splash in Goa, but strangely, feels the pinch||The simple hawai chappal, the white-and-blue saree of Didi have symbolised political austerity in Bengal for close to four decades, overshadowing the two-room ground floor flat where the former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee resides. Being a member of the Communist Party, Bhattacharjee had his role clearly defined and was under no compulsion to splash his photographs on hoardings and banners beyond the borders of Bengal. Mamata Banerjee, on the other hand, is compelled to be seen outside Bengal since the chief minister is nursing national ambitions once again _ this time with political strategist Prashant Kishore guiding the party, the Trinamul seems to be taking more confident steps in its attempts to spread wide and not thin. Visibility is now demanding a price from the Trinamul which the party never thought it would have to pay. Local level politicians in Goa are apparently impressed with the huge hoardings and banners that have been put on the roads connecting Panaji with Mapusa in the north and Margao in the south. “The huge banners from the Trinamul Congress have given rise to the impression that the party is a cash-rich one. That has evoked a lot of interest. Heads (Panchas) of villages and former heads are making demands for money to work for the party,” said a source. Mamata has always claimed that proceeds from her painting sales and royalties from the 102 books that she has written in Bengali, English, Urdu and translated into Alchiki, help fund her party's activities. Income records provided by the Trinamul which were published by the Association for Democratic Reforms revealed between the years 2010 to 2015, Rs 646.90 lakh was earned from sale of paintings, which accounted for 14 per cent of the party’s income. In the 2019-20 fiscal,  the party had received Rs 8,08,35,000 crore in donations from 63 donors as per the income-expenditure statement for the year. The way politics works in Goa suits the Trinamul’s style. In the ten years that Trinamul has governed in Bengal, it has managed to win over politicians from the Congress, the Left and also the BJP.  Goa has seen similar switchovers that made a mockery of elections. In 2017, for example, the Congress bagged the highest number of seats winning 17 out of the 40. The government however was formed by the BJP which allied with other local parties and then worked to engineer defections within the Congress. The Congress now is left with only four legislators. It is quite likely that the murky waters of Goan politics will turn murkier with the arrival of the mercurial Mamata Banerjee. The Trinamul can teach a lesson or two in defections to most political parties in the country. Since her stupendous victory in the Bengal polls, Mamata has stepped up the ante in projecting herself as the only viable alternative to the BJP’s Narendra Modi and has been systematically targeting the Congress leadership, especially Rahul Gandhi. While Mamata’s foray into other states is not new, this time there is a marked difference that the party has shown in picking up individuals. Like Sushmita Dev, who has been nominated for the Rajya Sabha from Bengal, but is most likely going to be the party’s face in Tripura. Her father, the late Santosh Mohan Dev, was the only Congressman, apart from a member of the Gandhi family, to have represented two different states in Parliament, Assam and Tripura. In Goa, the Trinamul has bagged the two-term former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro. “Doubts will remain. As the Congress leader, Faleiro could not keep his flock together, how can he be expected to bring Trinamul to power in a state which is completely alien to us?” asked a south Calcutta Trinamul leader. Faleiro, however, dismissed all misgivings about his new party in the state. “All surveys indicate people of Goa want a change and the only party that can provide a credible change is the Trinamul. We are working very hard towards that,” said Faleiro.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
08-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post poll violence: CBI arrests two, including minor, in murder case||The CBI has nabbed two people, including a minor, in a case of murdering a man during post-poll violence in Bengal, officials said on Friday. Rajendra Sharma and the minor were held in connection with the killing of Palash Mondal reported on June 14 in Nadia district, they said The agency had booked 10 accused and unidentified people for allegedly breaking into the house of Mondal with firearms, dagger, tube well pipes and iron rod. "They allegedly ransacked the house of the complainant and dragged out her husband. One of the accused allegedly fired at the head of the complainant's husband following which he collapsed. The victim was taken to Shaktinagar District Hospital where he was declared dead," CBI Spokesperson R C Joshi said. The CBI had filed a charge sheet on September 10 against the 15 accused including Sharma. "The arrested persons were produced before a court. It remanded one accused to four days in police custody and the other (minor) was sent to remand home. Further investigation is continuing," he said. The CBI has also filed a charge sheet against three accused in a separate case related to violence. Sk Mijanur, Sk Fatenur alias Fate and Sk Emdadul Islam were charge-sheeted by the CBI in a separate case of murder. In its charge sheet filed before a Haldia court, the CBI alleged had attacked the complainant's uncle and seriously wounded him. "The victim was initially admitted at Nandigram Hospital and later shifted to P G Hospital in Calcutta where the victim died," Joshi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
08-10-2021||West Bengal||14-year-old Malda girl rescued from Bangladesh||A 14-year-old schoolgirl from Malda who was trafficked to Bangladesh in January was rescued on Thursday. “The Class VIII student had an affair with a married man... she did not know that the man was married. In January this year, she eloped with him,” said an officer. The police initiated a probe after the girl’s family filed a complaint. The man’s cell phone was tracked. He had initially taken the girl to Dinhata in Cooch Behar and then to Bangladesh. The investigators contacted the CID, the Indian High Commission in Bangladesh and also the police of the neighbouring country. “Bangladesh police traced the girl and handed her over to us at the Petrapole border. On Thursday, we produced the her in a Malda court,” the police officer said. Search for the man is on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
08-10-2021||West Bengal||V-B gears up to set up first satellite campus in Uttarakhand’s Ramgarh||Visva-Bharati has geared up to set up its first satellite campus in Uttarakhand’s Ramgarh after the Uttarakhand government allotted it 300 acres. Varsity officials said that Ramgarh, in scenic Nainital district, was among Rabindranath Tagore’s favoured destinations. Records indicate at least one visit with his entire family in 1914. Many of his poems on natural beauty are believed to have been written in Ramgarh, 1,729m above sea level. It is also said several verses of Gitanjali, for which he was awarded the Nobel in 1913, were penned in Ramgarh. “The central government had passed the bill in Parliament and the Centre’s junior minister of defence and tourism Ajay Bhatt recently wrote to the Uttarakhand chief minister to hand over 300 acres of land to Visva-Bharati after approval in the cabinet. We are planning to set up the campus as soon as possible. However, we need to estimate the cost too,” said a senior varsity official. Varsity sources said that the executive council had on June 10, 2020, approved the proposal for setting up the new campus at Ramgarh in Nainital district which has associations with Tagore. “The project was initiated by the ministry of human resource development under the keen supervision of former education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. It was earlier fixed that the Uttarakhand government will provide the land and the HRD ministry will fund the project,” said an official. Visva-Bharati officials could not confirm whether the varsity can start its academic sessions in its satellite campus from this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
08-10-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung surprises supporters by eschewing Gorkhaland issue||Bimal Gurung on Thursday surprised his supporters by eschewing the Gorkhaland issue while addressing supporters during the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s 15th foundation day in Darjeeling that he attended after a gap of four years. Gurung had launched the Morcha in 2007 to press for a separate state of Gorkhaland. Even though he settled for an autonomous Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) in 2011 after a long agitation, he continued to demand for statehood by holding more than 30 days of general strike in 2013 and another 104-day general strike in 2017. Gurung on Thursday said: “You might be thinking that Bimal Gurung will talk about Gorkhaland again. I will not. I will not talk today.” He reasoned his talk on Gorkhaland would only help others. “When I talk (on Gorkhaland) another (group) will stay in their chairs. For their benefit they will use my talk, my courage,” said Gurung. He was perhaps alluding to 2017, when his then colleagues, Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa, formed a new faction when Gurung was on the run following the Gorkhaland agitation. The duo developed ties with the state government and got nominated to the GTA. Gurung, who shared a blow-hot, blow-cold relationship with Mamata Banerjee till 2017, and decided to ally with her party last year, leaving long-time ally BJP, also said he would no longer make enemies with the government or the Opposition. “My politics will be for developing the place,” he said, adding that he had changed but his critics had not. “In the coming days I want to work with Bengal, she (Mamata Banerjee) has promised a permanent political solution for the region,” Gurung said. The BJP promised a permanent political solution in its 2019 Lok Sabha poll manifesto. Before Assembly polls, Mamata, too, promised the same. Gurung repeated that for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, his party will support anyone who works for the aspiration of the hills. “I had announced this (while joining Trinamul in October 2020) earlier,” he said. Many believe that Gurung is also leaving some space to raise the statehood issue. This is largely because despite joining hands with Trinamul, Gurung’s party came third in all the three Assembly seats of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong in the recent Assembly elections. The results seem to be weighing heavy on his mind. “I came third, maybe we could not spread our message (to the hill people) but despite coming third, we will do first-class work for the people,” said Gurung adding that his priority would be to get minimum wages fixed for the tea garden workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
08-10-2021||West Bengal||14-month-old girl falls off mom’s arms into Hooghly river, missing||A 14-month-old girl  is feared drowned after allegedly slipping off her mother’s lap and falling into the Hooghly near Kalna Ghat while crossing the river on a ferry on Wednesday night. Twenty-four hours later, she has not been found. Kalna police, searching for her, informally spoke to the woman and her husband. No formal complaint has been filed yet. The incident occurred at  8.30pm on Wednesday, a little after the private ferry left Kalna Ghat in East Burdwan, with Tapashi Ghosh, 27, her husband Amit Ghosh, 34, and their two children, Trisha (14 months) and Arpan, 4, on board with passengers bound for Nadia’s Santipur. The couple from Santipur were returning home after a visit to a paediatrician in Kalna. Amit said that during the ferry ride, his wife suddenly fell ill and collapsed. The baby slipped out of her arms. A few passengers claimed the baby was pushed off. “The woman was seated comfortably, holding the baby on her lap. There was little chance of the baby falling into the river unless pushed,” an eyewitness said. Amit refuted these allegations. “People are blaming (Tapashi) without basis. How can a mother push her child? There is no tension in our family. The kids had fever. So, we took them to a paediatrician in Kalna. A terrible incident occurred when we were coming home,” said Amit, a weaver. Sources said the incident had left Tapashi so shocked and shaken that the police had to take her to a doctor in Santipur. A Kalna police officer said river Hooghly was in spate right now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
08-10-2021||West Bengal||Female leopard flees from zoological park in Jhargram||Panic spread in and around Jhargram town after a leopard fled from its enclosure of a zoological park on Thursday evening. The female leopard, Harshini, 5, weighs around 40kg and was brought to the Jungle Mahal Zoological Park in Jhargram town three years ago from north Bengal. Police, the local administration and foresters made public awareness announcements from Thursday evening asking people to be alert and inform police or foresters if the animal was spotted. “An important piece of information for the people.... A leopard has fled by breaking its cage at Deer Park (the popular name of the zoological park). We request you all to be alert and safe. If you see any such animal, please inform the forest department or Jhargram police station,” police announced on mics. Birbaha Hansda, minister of state of forest department and Trinamul MLA from Jhargram, said the department would hold a thorough probe to find out who were responsible for the incident. “Our forest officials are searching for the leopard and we have sought help from the police. We will certainly conduct a probe as negligence led the animal to flee from a zone which is under 24/7 surveillance,” said Hansda. A forest official said there were two leopards in the enclosure but only one of them escaped. The official added that the wire fencing of the enclosure had been damaged and repair was on when the leopard fled. “Forest officials informed us around 4.30pm about its disappearance from the zoological park. We alerted all concerned to avert any mishap,” the official added. Pradip Sengupta, the range officer of Jhargram, said the leopard was missing from its enclosure and might cover a greater distance if not caught. “We have involved several teams with search lights and have fielded them at various strategic locations to spot the animal,” said Sengupta. “The forest department said in their letter that they realized the leopard was missing at around 4.30 pm but are not sure when the animal left the zoo premises. It proves that the staff of the zoo was lackadaisical,” said a district official. Divisional Forest officer of Jhargram, Sheik Fareed J., did not take calls or reply to a text message from this newspaper till late evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
08-10-2021||West Bengal||Jagdeep Dhankhar administers oath to Mamata Banerjee ||Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar administers the oath to Mamata Banerjee at the state Assembly on Thursday afternoon in a seven-minute ceremony. This is the first time in recent memory that the governor administered the oath to MLAs, including Mamata and two others from Trinamul, Jakir Hossain and Amirul Islam. “One can call it a historic day as the governor administered the oath.… After the ceremony, the governor, along with the chief minister went to Speaker Biman Banerjee’s room, which was a rare occurrence,” said a Trinamul MLA. As the Trinamul leader who led her party to a thumping victory in the Assembly polls, Mamata had taken oath as chief minister on May 5, but as she had lost the election from Nandigram, she had to win a bypoll to continue as CM beyond November 5. She emphatically won the September 30 bypoll to Bhowanipore to become an MLA. No one from the Opposition was present during the swearing-in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
08-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 771 new cases, 756 recoveries and 13 deaths||Bengal on Thursday recorded a rise for the eighth time since September 26 in its active Covid-19 cases, as the number rose by two to 7,593. The state logged 771 new infections, 756 recoveries and 13 deaths. Bengal snapped its 97-day streak of constant fall in active cases on September 26. The state has 3.24 per cent of the national total of active cases, and remains seventh among states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 155 new infections and North 24-Parganas 143, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Seven districts logged a single-digit figure. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta reported one death and North 24-Parganas five. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.94. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.19 per cent on Thursday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.74 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.47 lakh recoveries and 18,876 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
08-10-2021||West Bengal||Kamtapur state demand rears its head again in hills||The Narendra Modi government’s decision to hold a meeting on the hill issue has prompted outfits and political parties of the Rajbanshi community reassert their demand for the Kamtapur state. On October 12, Union home minister Amit Shah will attend the meeting at North Block in Delhi for “resolution” of issues related to Gorkhas.” In recent years, this is the first-of-its-kind meeting that the Centre has convened on the issue which has been time and again flagged by the residents of Darjeeling hills. “Our demand for Kamtapur state is no less important that the demand of the hill people. After festivities are over, we want the Centre to convene a tripartite meeting to discuss our demands. We have carried out a number of political activities on the issue to draw the attention of the state and central governments during past few months. If required, we will resume our movement again,” said Manabendranath Roy, general secretary, Kamtapur Progressive Party. In north Bengal, the demand for statehood has been raised time and again by different organisations of the Rajbanshis. Altogether, around 85 lakh Rajbanshis, including Nasya Sheikhs or Rajbanshi Muslims, dwell in the region. They are close to 40 per cent of north Bengal’s population. Nikhil Roy, president of Kamtapur Peoples’ Party (United), another political party that has ben vocal on the demand said they do not want any autonomous arrangement in north Bengal. “If any such arrangement is made for hills, only hill residents will benefit while the rest of north Bengal will be deprived. That is why we want a state and the Gorkhas will also be a part of it,” said Roy. He said that a few months back, the issue had again gained pace as BJP MP John Barla, who is the Union minister of state for minority affairs now, had spoken on statehood. “We believe central leaders of the BJP will take due cognisance of our demand. Otherwise, we will be forced to launch a movement,” the Rajbanshi leader added. Like the two factions of KPP, leaders of Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Association (GCPA), have also spoken out. Bangshibadan Barman, who heads one of the factions of the GCPA, said the Centre should break its silence. Barman, who is an office bearer in the Rajbanshi Development & Cultural Board and Rajbanshi Bhasa Academy constituted by Mamata Banerjee to address some demands of the community including recognition of their language, said the Centre should meet the clauses of Cooch Behar’s merger with India. “It is high time that the Centre convenes a meeting and confers the status of a state to us according to the agreement signed between the India government and the royals of the then princely state of Cooch Behar which led to the merger in 1949,” he said. Political analysts of the region have termed the renewal of the demand by Rajbanshis an “obvious move” ahead of the October 12 meeting. They have also said it has come as a fresh poser for the BJP as there are differences within the party on the issue. “A section of party leaders supports the demand but many others oppose it. As these organisations want the Centre to act, it will be interesting to see how the BJP handles the situation. Moreover, if there is any development on the hill issue, there is no doubt that Rajbanshis will intensify their demand,” said an observer. Trinamul leaders sounded unperturbed. Their party is principally against any further division of Bengal, they said. “Mamata Banerjee has done a lot for the Rajbanshis and for north Bengal as a whole. Development work is going on and in no way has the region been deprived. We will keep on underscoring the development work carried out here. The BJP, however, will have to clarify its stand as the party is responsible for inciting a section of residents here with false promises,” said a party leader based in Cooch Behar. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar correspondents||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
08-10-2021||West Bengal||Trafficked 14-year-old schoolgirl rescued from Bangladesh||A 14-year-old schoolgirl who was trafficked to Bangladesh earlier this year from a Malda village was rescued on Thursday. Sukumar Ghosh, the inspector-in-charge of Chanchal police station, said: “The Class VIII student had an affair with a married youth... she didn’t have any inkling that the youth was married. In January this year, she eloped with the youth.” When the girl went missing, her family filed a missing complaint with the police. The police initiated a probe and tracked the youth’s cell phone and came to know that the youth had initially taken the girl to Dinhata in Cooch Behar and then to Bangladesh. “During the investigation, it was found that the youth had trafficked the girl in Bangladesh. The investigators then contacted the CID, the Indian High Commission in Bangladesh and also the police of the neighbouring country,” Ghosh said. “Police in Bangladesh managed to trace the girl and produced her in a court. She was then over to us at the international border in Petrapole. On Thursday, we produced the girl in a Malda court where she gave a statement to the judicial magistrate,” the police officer said. .”We are in search of the accused youth,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
08-10-2021||West Bengal||Two youths get life sentence  for murdering railway employee ||Two youths were on Thursday sentenced to life imprisonment for murdering a railway employee about a year ago in Malda. Police said Hanuman Roy, 60, was found dead at his quarters in ward number 22 of Englishbazar municipality on October 26 last year. Roy had sent his wife and other family members to his native home at Bairampur, in Gazipur district of Uttar Pradesh, a few days before the incident. “Mobaraq Sheikh and Zakir Sheikh, both friends who used to run a cell phone shop at Sujapur in Malda district, had strangled Roy to death as Roy apparently used to blackmail one of the youths,” said a police officer. The additional district and sessions court in Malda sentenced the two youths to life imprisonment and a fine of Rs 10,000 was imposed on both of them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
08-10-2021||West Bengal||Sunderbans street theatre speaks for the mangroves||A theatre troupe from Nadia’s Krishnagar has enlisted the help of local theatre groups for to create awareness among residents of the Sunderbans delta on the need to stop illegal felling of trees in the mangroves to halt erosion. In its first phase, which began on October 3, members of the Krishnagar Sinchan troupe organised interactive street plays across remote areas of the region to make people understand the ecological importance of mangroves. The series, titled ‘O Nodi rey! (O river!)’ was staged at Satjelia, Kumirmari, Kalidaspur, Canning and other villages in South 24-Parganas with the support of theatre groups Marichjhanpi Golpata, Fulmalancha Katha Natya Sanstha, and the Sunderbans Puppet Theatre. Krishnagar Sinchan director Susanta Halder said: “It’s a collective effort for a great cause. The mangrove is a shield for the people of the Sunderbans. But unfortunately, that shield is not in a healthy state, and needs to be sustained with care and protection. We have taken up an initiative to convey this message among people, as unless they come forward, nothing can work to save the mangroves.” “It is easier to reach people through theatre, as hard facts can be made clear in a palatable, even enjoyable way,” Halder added further. The Sunderbans are a cluster of islands in the Bay of Bengal, spanning the coastline of West Bengal and Bangladesh. The forest delta hosts the world’s largest mangrove, with an area of about 1,000 sq km of which 60 per cent is in Bangladesh. The mangrove functions as a shield during cyclones too. But the decaying mangrove owing to illegal felling and large-scale erosion are a serious worry for survival and safety of residents. “We never heard the importance of mangroves put forth so simply,” said Nimai Biswas, a resident of Satjelia, who watched a few street acts. A member of the Sinchan troupe said: “We are just trying to make people feel the need for mangroves, the river and nature around them. That’s their lifeline. We used street theatre to touch their hearts.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
08-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP central leadership retains losers’ team in Bengal||The BJP central leadership has retained its team Bengal, with party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya as the minder for the state along with Arvind Menon and Amit Malviya as his deputies, despite the Assembly poll drubbing. The decision came as a shock for the majority in the party’s Bengal unit who were rooting for a change. On Thursday, the BJP released a list of its newly formed National Executive Committee, where Vijayvargiya, Menon and Malviya have been reinstated as the three people in charge of Bengal. “Does this mean our leaders in Delhi have no regard for our views at all?” asked a state BJP functionary. “We are the ones who fight on the streets. We don’t want Kailashji here any longer. Yet, he has been made our minder again,” he added. A majority in the state unit held Vijayvargiya, who had helmed the party's election strategy, responsible for the poor show in Bengal Assembly polls. The state BJP leaders think that Vijayvargiya’s strategy of allowing turncoats from all hues into the saffron camp cost the party dear. “Kailashji was in-charge of distributing tickets during the Assembly polls. Nothing could be worse than the choices he made. At least 50 workers died in the post-poll violence and he didn’t bother to come,” a source in the BJP said. On Thursday, Trinamul turncoat Sabyasachi Dutta left the BJP and re-joined Trinamul in the presence of state ministers Partha Chatterjee and Firhad Hakim at the Bengal legislative Assembly. Vijayvargiya  had played a key role in Dutta’s induction. Several leaders from Bengal like Swapan Dasgupta, Debasree Chaudhuri, Anirban Ganguly, Dilip Ghosh, Jayanta Roy, Bharati Ghosh, Ashok Lahiri and Roopa Ganguly were included in the BJP national executive committee. Rajib Banerjee, who had recently been vocal against BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari and the party, also found a berth. BJP also announced its candidates for the bypolls, Ashok Mandal for Dinhata, Niranjan Biswas for Santipur, Joy Saha for Khardaha and Palash Rana for Gosaba. Biswas’s nomination created a new controversy within BJP, with sources close to Ranaghat MP Jagannath Sarkar claiming that Biswas doesn't share a rapport with Sarkar. After the poll debacle, the BJP Bengal leadership, a state leader said, had conveyed to Delhi that they would be better off without Vijayvargiya and his deputies. “After election results, Kailash-ji stopped coming to Bengal, while Menon got busy in his family life and Malviya has been active only in social media. We heaved a sigh of relief... But they are back and it's very sad,” said a BJP MLA. Amid the despondency, a BJP source said that there was still some hope as the list of observers may be changed soon. “Our state chief Sukanta Majumdar has been retained as observer for Sikkim, but since he has been promoted as the president of the Bengal unit he would no longer be the minder for another state. So, there is scope for more changes and that’s the only hope for us," said the source. On the issue of Dutta's resignation from the party, Majumdar said it would not affect the BJP since the defector had “no connection with workers whatsoever”. “However Trinamul appears to have forgotten that the legislative Assembly is a constitutional body. To hand over a party flag to someone inside the Assembly is an insult to democracy,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
08-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: A tragicomedy||Chacha Chaudhary, an Indian comic book character, has been made brand ambassador for Namami Gange, the prime minister’s flagship project. The National Mission for Clean Ganga hopes to raise awareness among children about the need for behavioural changes towards the Ganga and other rivers with a bit of help from Chaudhary who is popular in this age group. But will Chaudhary also reveal the bitter truth that in seven years, only 37 per cent of the funds sanctioned for the Namami Gange project has been utilized? Unsurprisingly, the plan to build a robust sewage infrastructure — three-fourths of the Ganges’s pollution is caused by the municipal sewage from about 100 cities and towns — remains unrealized; only 39 per cent of the sewage projects has been completed. It is unlikely that Chaudhary, a hero on paper only, would be able to stop industrial discharge, which is one of the main sources of pollution of the Ganges. That is the responsibility of the government. Ironically, the lockdown achieved what the powers that be failed to. A study by the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur showed that the shutdown of industrial operations last year had reduced chemical and heavy metal contamination of the Ganges by more than 50 per cent, albeit temporarily. The Ganges’s rejuvenation is not just a political task; it must be reimagined as a public commitment. Therefore, the social ecosystem around the river needs to be transformed. This, in turn, can only be achieved by instituting incremental, but persuasive, changes in public behaviour to erase regressive customs. In a country where the dead are still sent floating down the river in the hope of divine deliverance, the Bharatiya Janata Party is unlikely to discover the spine to discourage such rituals, fearing political backlash. The Ganges is not the only river in danger: most of India’s principal riverine systems are being allowed to deteriorate. Unchecked pollution and restrictions on water flow are two major threats. What allows governments to get away with such lapses is the tepid nature of public concern about the depredations on the fragile environment. Even interventions by courts — the Uttarakhand High Court had accorded the Ganges and the Yamuna legal rights before the apex court stayed the verdict — have not resulted in urgent changes, either in policy or in the public consciousness. The reliance on Chacha Chaudhary to turn the tide is thus tragicomic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
08-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Recent flooding in Bengal||Blame game Sir — The recent flooding in Bengal, following the release of dam water by the Damodar Valley Corporation, has affected nearly 22 lakh people (“Drowned”, Oct 5). The loss of property and damage to agriculture are substantial. The immediate response of those who are accountable is to pass the blame. The Damodar — dubbed the ‘Sorrow of Bengal’ —  has several dams and barrages in order to control the water flow for irrigation and power generation. During monsoon, water needs to be released to keep the dams from bursting and flooding the entire downstream region. The body responsible for doing this, the DVC — a Central organization — should take steps to alleviate the misery of the people, especially the downstream area. The modernization of dams and de-silting programmes need to be undertaken at once. Ashok Kumar Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — Twenty blocks in South Bengal have been badly affected by the floods. The chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, has blamed the Centre for this situation. But this allegation may not hold water. The DVC authorities are compelled to release excess water from dams after heavy rains. The fact that Banerjee had previously talked to the Centre about the need for de-siltation of the dams has given the state government a golden opportunity to put the blame on the Centre. But this is an expensive project. Further, it requires a huge tract of land to stockpile the silt, which was not readily available. Shyamal Thakur,East Burdwan Sir — As always, the Centre and the state government have begun blaming one another for the floods that have affected lakhs of people. But neither party can fool the people into believing that it stands for public good unless concrete action is taken to prevent such incidents in the future. The common people are treated like pawns by political leaders. No financial compensation will be enough for the losses they have suffered. Swarnava Maity,Howrah Sir — Only a thorough investigation will reveal who is accountable for the disastrous South Bengal floods. The passing of the buck must stop. Both the Centre and the Bengal government must join hands to save the people from the aftermath of the deluge. Sheetal Bharadwaj,Calcutta Sir — It is unfortunate that while one part of Bengal’s population is gearing up for Durga Puja, another part has lost whatever little it had to the floods. While the government must ensure that financial compensation reaches every affected household, the common people, too, could spare a thought for the flood victims. Several organizations are at work, trying to reach out to them with relief material. One must contribute whatever one can. Reshmi Singh,Calcutta Sudden halt Sir — The recent six-hour outage of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp caused users to panic. After all, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger are apparently the most used instant messaging apps in a large number of places. This panic could have been avoided. A fundamental feature of the internet is its decentralized structure — there are always multiple avenues of completing an action, whether with another email client, search engine or messaging app. Over-reliance on any particular service is bound to cause such problems. History has taught us that monopolies are never a viable option; this lesson should guide our outlook towards the internet. Abhijit Pramanik,Hooghly Sir — The world almost came to a standstill when Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram stopped functioning for six hours. The owner of these apps, Mark Zuckerberg, climbed down on the list of the world’s richest people by losing millions on account of the outage. The response from users proves how dependent we have become on social media apps — these days, human life seems unimaginable without them. Janga Bahadur Sunuwar,Jalpaiguri  Buckle up Sir — Indian shops are not the only ones bursting at the seams. With the ‘back-to-school season’ in full swing, the retail sector in the West has recovered somewhat from the hits it took during the lockdown. For instance, the apparel brand, Levi Strauss, revealed that its profits have picked up 56 per cent over 2019. It was especially tough on the clothing industry, since the purchase of outdoor apparel fell by a massive margin. But while big brands will be able to get back on their feet quickly, smaller brands are unlikely to survive the losses incurred. Governments must come up with a safety net for them. Amitava Gupta,Calcutta Parting shot Sir — Hearteningly, the government has decided to form an expert committee to set a national minimum wage for all casual workers. Attention needs to be paid to the plight of domestic workers. A minimum wage of at least Rs 60 an hour must be made compulsory for such workers with one day off per week. Utpal Kumar Basu,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
08-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Rich bloom||Differences in language in a multilingual country like India can lead to occasions for wry humour. The recent uproar in Karnataka over the Centre’s christening of some welfare schemes in Hindi — the Bharatiya Janata Party’s preferred lingua franca — is a case in point. The ‘Tika Utsav’ — the Centre’s push for inoculation against Covid-19 — set tongues wagging in the southern state since ‘tika’ in Kannada means, quite literally, the rear side. The BJP has now been forced to step in; Tika Utsav has, mercifully, been renamed ‘Lasika Utsava’. ‘Lasika’, in Kannada, means immunization. Similar heartburn has also been reported regarding the name, ‘Tithi Bhojan’, part of the mid-day meal scheme, since the term is associated with a sombre occasion. It would not be an exaggeration to speculate that the disproportionate use of Hindi in welfare schemes is likely to evoke both dark humour as well as outrage in parts of the country that prefer other languages as means of communication. What appears to be comical can, however, be an occasion for reflection on the challenge posed by ‘language imperialism’. Language has shaped India’s political history in significant ways, both as an agent of unity and division. The nation’s unity came about as a result of the pluralistic spirit that informed the creation of states on the basis of representation of language and, in turn, unique identities. At the same time, anxieties concerning the unilateral imposition of a particular language — ‘Hindi, Hindu, Hindustan’ is a problematic ideological goal of India’s current regime — have led to strife. Conditions that created the anti-Hindi campaign witnessed in parts of India should not be replicated. The greater thrust should be on consolidating India’s multi-linguistic heritage. This should go beyond the homilies pledged in policy. For instance, the National Education Policy prioritized the adoption of a four-language policy, including the mother tongue. Yet, a significant number of Indian languages, especially those that are used by people on the margins, are faced with extinction. This contradiction cannot be addressed without support and sensitivity from the political dispensation. Unfortunately, there has been a marked paucity in this respect with persistent concerns about the BJP-led national government’s precise motives. What must be noted is that linguistic aggression transcends instrumental imperatives: there is also an ethical underpinning. The survival of multiple languages is critical to maintaining the diversity and richness of the essence of Indian democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
08-10-2021||Opinion||Guns over roses||The disturbing images of the attack on the Kabul airport in August were a reminder of the grave threat posed by terrorism. With the Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan, the international community needs to take proactive measures to tackle this threat. As per the Global Terrorism Index, 2020, released by the Institute of Economics and Peace, deaths due to terrorism decreased by 15.5 per cent in 2019 after peaking in 2014. Yet, terrorism remains a major concern for world peace. In 2019, more than 63 countries reported at least one death to a terrorist attack. South Asia is worst affected by terrorism, followed by sub-Saharan Africa, on account of the Islamic State’s renewed focus in the region after its decline in Syria and Iraq. There is a possibility that in spite of the Taliban’s assurance, Afghan territory could be used by terrorist outfits to target neighbouring countries. These groups include al-Qaida and Lashkar-e-Toiba (targeting India), Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (targeting Pakistan), the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant-Khorasan Province (responsible for the attack on the Hamid Karzai airport), Uighurs (targeting China) and so on. The rapid expansion of terrorist groups, such as the Boko Haram in sub-Saharan Africa, should also ring alarm bells for the international community. In 2019, the majority of terrorist attacks took place in countries experiencing conflict. Ethnic and religious differences along with corruption have a correlation with terrorism in developing and poorer nations, whereas exclusion and alienation are the primary causes of such violence in the advanced economies. Socio-economic deprivation, foreign intervention and the rise of online radicalization with the rise of internet penetration also contribute to terror activities. As per the Global Terrorism Index, 13,826 people died in terrorist attacks in 2019. The economic loss was pegged at $26.4 billion. This excludes losses from impact on business, lost opportunity cost, tourism, mental trauma and so on. The global community’s response has been to create bodies such as the Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure under the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, designation of terrorists by the United Nations Security Council, Financial Action Task Force measures to check terror financing, the BRICS’s Counter Terrorism Strategy and so on. There is no universal definition of terrorism. This makes it difficult to classify attacks as terror strikes. India proposed the adoption of a Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism in 1996. The treaty proposes a universal definition of terrorism, a ban on all terrorist groups, prosecution of all outfits, including cross-border terrorists. But a deadlock ensued because of differences in the international community regarding the clauses. The external affairs minister’s Eight Point Action Plan Against Terrorism proposed in the recently concluded UNSC meeting provides a holistic approach to deal with the rising threat of transnational terrorism. In order to deal with transnational terrorism, the world needs to get together and cooperate on multiple fronts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
08-10-2021||Opinion||New opening||From Washington to Canberra, much of the northern hemisphere has its eyes focused on the region termed the ‘Indo-Pacific’. In London, a new presence is central to the Boris Johnson government’s new focus on a global role for the United Kingdom. I’ve discussed the changing landscape for a post-Brexit Britain in a new co-authored paper for the British Foreign Policy Group thinktank, available for free here. One of the questions that occupied us was how far the relationship between India and China might reshape the region. Put simply, China’s economic and military strength is now second only to that of the United States of America. But India has cards to play, in diplomacy, trade, and influence, if it chooses to use them. The military aspects of India’s role in the region are the ones most frequently criticized by China. Over the past few years, there has been an increasing formalization of the Quad, the naval agreement by which India, Australia, Japan and the US come together to patrol the oceans against an opponent that remains unnamed, but most believe to be Beijing. China used to dismiss the Quad as being as insubstantial as “sea foam”, but now rails against it as a blow to (a Chinese-dominated) peace in the region. The Quad looks less isolated in the light of the new Aukus treaty announced last month which brings together the US, Australia and Britain in a regional pact. Rather than the region developing fixed, all-encompassing structures like Nato, it seems that Asian security may become more dependent on ‘mini-lateral’ agreements that bring together different actors for different purposes. What most of these groupings have in common is that they seem opposed to China, without ever stating that as their purpose. Yet the ability of countries inside and outside the region also flags up one of the great weaknesses in China’s position: it has few security partners because so few Asian actors want to see its role in the region increase. Every Asian actor wants access to the Chinese market; few want to become dependent on China for their security. This gives India the chance to move further and faster to embed itself in the region. To do so, it could seize the opportunity to use its advantage: most of China’s trade partners do not consider India a threat in the way that they are wary of China. This would mean potentially painful change in the medium term, however. China’s large domestic market is a key target for emerging Asian economies. India’s millions are also talked about in terms of future prosperity, but in practice, market barriers and a middle class still smaller and less affluent than China’s overall mean that India is not yet a true substitute for China. Refashioning Asia’s trade ecology to give India a greater role is complex and by no means pain-free. Yet India need not simply rely on the confrontation of the Quad, or the desire to replace China as a market partner for other Asian countries. It also has the opportunity to take a cooperative diplomatic lead. Unlike the other Quad members, India has an affiliation that is not shared by Quad members: membership of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. The SCO is a perennial underperformer in international-organization terms, with few concrete achievements to its name. It has a disparate membership — China and Russia in the lead, but both India and Pakistan as well the central Asian countries — and a broadly defined security agenda, which provides a regional talking-shop. However, it does provide one of the few small-group entities where both India and China have equal membership. Generally, Russia and China continue to dominate the organization; however, Indian membership gives it the opportunity to make its strengths in the region known. In addition, Russia and India have a longstanding relationship dating back to the Cold War. While China’s new closeness to Russia on issues from energy to defence may have been more obvious in recent years, this does not exclude India from the chance to make use of its old friendships. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations provides an intriguing parallel. Asean has very few formal powers, nor does it demand uniform political systems (it contains both democratic and authoritarian states). Yet, over the years, this ‘talking-shop’ has actually become a powerful source of influence in the region. India may choose to leverage its SCO membership to create a cooperative, forward-looking influence that the organization simply does not have right now. After all, there is no lack of crises in the region that need influential powers to step up. It is indicative of how fast the situation in the region is moving that Afghanistan, an issue which seemed world-changing just a few weeks ago in mid-August, is now relegated to the inside pages of newspapers at best. A new consensus seems to have emerged in the West: the fall of Kabul was tragic for those, particularly women, trapped in the country and bad for American prestige, but overall, the decision to pull out was a good one. Instead, American focus should be on the western Pacific and on China. China itself has repeatedly argued that it does not welcome the fall of Afghanistan to the Taliban, and there are plenty of reasons to take them at their word. Certainly Beijing has been pleased at the humiliation of the West and has taken every opportunity to tell Washington and its friends that military intervention and forced democratization will end badly. Yet the American departure leaves China with a host of problems in the region. It has sought to find an accommodation with the Taliban, but is fully aware that the insurgents are no real friends of Beijing. Some prominent figures on social media in China have argued that the Taliban of 2021 are like the Chinese Communists of 1949, insurgent radicals with whom China should make common cause, but this interpretation does not stand up to much analysis. Above all, China wants to provide enough material support to the Taliban to remove any thought that they might want to support their fellow Muslims in Xinjiang where many thousands are being held in ‘re-education’ camps where their religion and language are being forcibly programmed out of them. Beijing also has a long and fruitful relationship with Pakistan, but (like the US) is never sure whether Islamabad’s links with radical Islamic groups can really rein those groups in; there is growing concern about the number of Chinese civilians, diplomats included, who have been murdered in both Pakistan and Afghanistan. Yet China is also desperate not to send its own troops in, an act which would destroy any credibility for its argument that it is different from the US when it comes to military intervention. The last thing that Beijing wants is an unstable Afghanistan that degenerates into civil war, and where Chinese lives and investments are in danger. India may choose to become part of the solution. The prospect of an unstable Afghanistan is alarming for New Delhi as well, and skilled diplomacy, based on India’s existing role providing development assistance to the country, could provide ways to avoid a disaster. The use of India’s influence to bring stability, rather than conflict, to the region would be a powerful contribution in an Indo-Pacific where confrontation looks too dangerously possible. Rana Mitter is author, with Sophia Gaston, of the report, “Resetting UK-China relations"||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
08-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi plan to hold vaccine camps during festival days ||Ranchi district health department is keen on conducting special Covid vaccination camps in crowded places, especially malls, during the coming Durga Puja and Dussehra festivities. The department has sent a proposal to the Ranchi deputy commissioner for sanctioning  additional manpower to kick off the drive. Civil surgeon  Vinod Kumar on Friday said that the department was  awaiting a formal  in the next couple of days. “Besides the existing vaccination camps that are held in the capital on a daily basis, we have planned to set up mobile as well as static camps outside big malls, commercial establishments and the like to inoculate a floating crowd. This is one of the ways we are using to  curb a spike in Covid-19 cases," he said. He said the department had asked for about 450 additional manpower to be hired on contract  for the next three months. “We currently have about 150 people for collection of Covid-19 samples and about 100 for vaccination in the district. Once we get the required manpower, we will be able to speed up the vax coverage ,” he said. Currently, on an average, Ranchi is administering about 10,000-12,000 jabs daily. Kumar said the the department is  targeting to increase it four-fold during the main days  of the Puja. Even though the state government has imposed lots of curbs to keep Durga Puja festivities a low-key affair, there's a huge rush of shoppers already. Puja organizers are also working out measures to maintain Covid appropriate behavior at their premises. Ashok Purohit, president of the Ranchi Zila Durga Puja Samiti, said all  puja organizers will continue to follow the state government prescribed SOPs. “In pandals, only those who are vaccinated at least with one dose will be allowed entry to work during the pujas. At Rajasthan Mitra Mandal pandal, of which I am also the president, we have decided to sanitise the area daily through ozone powered fumigation,” he said. Ranchi Mahangar Yuva Dasta, a voluntary outfit that manages crowds, announced on Friday it would organise  free distribution of masks and sanitisers outside every big pandal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
08-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Congress leaders stopped on way to Lakhimpur Kheri, sit on dharna||Jharkhand Congress delegation led by state party president and comprising two cabinet ministers on their way to Lakhimpur Kheri district were stopped at Wyndhamganj in Sonbhadra district along Jharkhand-Uttar Pradesh border in the wee hours of Thursday. “The leaders had crossed the Garhwa district of Jharkhand but the UP police which had been expecting our leaders had heavily barricaded the entry point at Wyndhamganj and stopped them. “We had no option but to sit on a dharna at 3.30am and continued till 7am. Thereafter, the leaders returned back to their respective districts,” said Jharkhand Congress spokesperson Rakesh Kumar Sinha. Significantly, the delegation was led by state party president Rajesh Thakur and comprised state health minister Banna Gupta and state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh and several MLAs and had left Ranchi on Wednesday late evening by road route for Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of farmers killed. “We wanted to meet our leader Priyanka Gandhi and go to Lakhimpur Kheri. But excuses of Section 144 were made by the police. This is totally unconstitutional. The UP government is behaving in a dictatorial manner, they are not even ready to arrest us. It is such a cowardly government and they have no right to stay in power,” said Rajesh Thakur. A total of eight people, including four farmers. died in the violence that took place in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. Farmers outfit have alleged that Ashish Mishra Teni, son of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra Teni arrived with three vehicles around the time that farmers were dispersing from their protest at the helipad and mowed down farmers and towards the end also attacked SKM leader Tajinder Singh Virk directly, by trying to run a vehicle over him. Meanwhile, Congress leaders are awaiting instruction from party central leadership on future course of action. “We will continue to express solidarity with the farmers’ agitation and also with the bereaved family members of farmers killed in UP. “The leaders after spending several hours in the UP-Jharkhand border have started returning to their respective districts. We are waiting for a directive from party high command on the future course of agitation,” informed Rakesh Kumar Sinha. Left parties backed All India Kisan Sabha Jharkhand chapter which had burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath across different districts of Jharkhand on Monday have started holding meeting at panchayat and block levels to inform farmers about oppressive activities unleashed against farmers by the BJP-led government at the Centre and also in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
08-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to extend academic year ||The Jharkhand government will soon issue a notification for extending the academic session in state-run schools to mitigate the learning loss caused by the closure of educational institutions because of the Covid-19 pandemic, officials have said. “The decision is almost final after going through several surveys which pointed to loss of studies due to the Covid-induced lockdown and closure of offline classes for over one-and-a-half years. The extended academic session will be applicable till the year 2024,” said a senior official in the state education and literacy department. After a formal notification is issued later this month, Jharkhand will become the first state in the country to notify the extension of academic session, the official said. The idea has been proposed to continue this arrangement for the next two sessions. According to sources in the education and literacy department, the academic session for the year 2021-22 will not end on the stipulated March 31 but will continue till June 30. According to the new system, the academic session will be extended for three months. Subsequently, the session for the year 2022-23 will be extended till May 31 and for the year 2023-24 till April 30. After this, the session from the year 2024-25 will end on the predetermined date of March 31. Since schools have been closed for months due to Covid-19, classes are being held online. Students across the country have reported learning loss. A survey by the Azim Premji Foundation has found that 92 per cent of the children have lost at least one language ability, while 82 per cent have lost mathematical skills. A recent survey report titled “Locked Out: Emergency Report on School Education”, of nearly 1,362 schoolchildren (Classes I to VIII) in underprivileged households (where parents usually send their children to government schools) suggests that only 28 per cent of students in rural areas and 47 per cent in urban areas were studying regularly. The Jharkhand government is also planning to reopen schools for Classes I to V. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said that the government is taking a serious look into the issue. “Chief minister Hemant Soren is very sensitive about the matter of loss of learning due to Covid. We had opened the schools for Classes VI to VII in September this year. We are monitoring the situation. After the festivities are over and after evaluating the pandemic situation, we will take a decision on reopening classes between I and V too,” said Oraon. Education and literacy department secretary Rajesh Kumar Sharma said that deliberations have been held on the extension of academic session. “We have deliberated on it. However, no final decision has been taken so far. We have also sent the proposal on reopening primary schools between Classes I and V to the state disaster management department after the festivities. Only after we get the nod of the disaster management department will we issue a notification for opening of primary schools,” said Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
08-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi civic body revives abandoned park in 75 hours||Ranchi Municipal Corporation, the civic body of Jharkhand capital Ranchi, revived a park abandoned for over eight years in only 75 hours in a rare instance of alertness. The modification of the park situated near the Raj Bhavan which had turned into a space for throwing waste and had dense wild shrubs, into a recreation park was done following the directive of Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren in August. The decision to transform the park into a clean, modern, breathable, relaxing place full of amenities within 75hours was taken on August 15, 2021. Sunil Yadav, a local ward member, said: “This park used to be a place of attraction in the area. It is close to the district collectorate and district court premises and is the posh address of the capital city. People coming from different parts of the district to get their work done at the collectorate or court used to come and relax in the park. However, due to lack of maintenance and neglect, the park was abandoned. Gradually it became a dumping place of waste and had wild shrubs growing all over. After a while, no one would want to come and the park was closed and deserted.” The local ward member further said this park was selected for development as Dharna Sthal. “However, this would have disturbed the local residents as it would have only been used for agitation. We are grateful to the RMC officials for transforming the park and restoring its beauty” said Yadav. “On the occasion of 75th Independence Day, Aazadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, we took this challenge to transform this deserted park into a place of activities within 75hrs. During the process, a part of the park has been developed as a spice garden, wherein, more than 100 saplings of 10 different types of spices have been planted. Waste materials like tyres, plywood and other scrap materials have been used in a major part of renovation work done inside the park,” said RMC commissioner Mukesh Kumar. “Apart from the cleaning, few parts of the park have been restored to its original condition, such as an old railway track of toy trains surfaced during the renovation work. We tried our best to restore it to its original condition. To make the park a child-friendly space, a colourful touch has been added in every corner. A dedicated play area has been created for children,” said Mukesh Kumar. Additionally, RMC also has plans to open up a space inside the park where guests can have some snacks and refreshments. “We are planning on finding a way to ensure that the park remains a plastic waste-free space and sets an example for other parks in the city and state. This was a tedious target to achieve, but we worked on a mission mode to meet the deadline. More than 100 personnel were involved in the process. This was a joint effort of our officials, our support staff, our cleaning staff, everyone,” said RMC commissioner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
