09-10-2021||Business||Diesel price in Mumbai hits century as fuel prices go up again||Mumbai on Saturday became the first metro city in the country to see diesel prices cross the Rs 100 per litre mark after fuel prices were hiked again. Petrol price was hiked by 30 paise per litre and diesel by 35 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The fifth straight day of price hike pushed fuel rates to a new record high. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 100.29 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 92.47. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 103.84 a litre and Rs 109.83 per litre in Mumbai, the notification showed. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. Shedding the modest price change policy, state-owned fuel retailers have since Wednesday started passing on the larger incidence of cost to consumers. For four days in a row, the price of petrol has been hiked by 30 paise a litre and diesel by 35 paise, the biggest rally in rates. This is because the international benchmark Brent crude has soared to over USD 82 per barrel after the decision by OPEC+ not to increase output more than 0.4 million barrels per day, fuel rates are being increased by a larger proportion. A month ago, Brent was around USD 72 per barrel. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rates on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 3.85 paise per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 2.65. Prior to the July/August price cuts, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
09-10-2021||Business||Srei group firms face insolvency process||The Reserve Bank of India has taken the Srei group firms — Srei Infrastructure Finance and Srei Equipment Finance — to the National Company Law Tribunal’s Calcutta bench on Friday. This comes a day after the Bombay high court rejected a writ petition filed by the Srei group against the central bank’s move to supersede the boards of the two non bank finance companies. The division bench of the NCLT comprising members Rajasekhar V.K. and Harish Chander Suri admitted the two petitions after seeking consent of Rajneesh Sharma on whether he is willing to act unconditionally as the administrator of the two financial service providers. Sharma, former Bank of Baroda chief general manager, has been appointed by the Reserve Bank of India as the administrator of the two companies along with a three-member committee to assist him in managing the company affairs. Srei group founder Hemant Kanoria termed the situation as “unfortunate” stating that the objective from the beginning of the crisis has been to find a resolution. Srei had moved to NCLT last year for the payment to its creditors under section 230 of the Company’s Act which was not considered by the lenders. “When the administrator was appointed this Monday, we moved to the Bombay high court primarily so that the investor process could be completed and a resolution is arrived at expeditiously and till that time the IBC proceedings could be stayed. “However, as the court did not accept and the RBI has moved to the NCLT today, we will fully co-operate with the regulator to arrive at a solution. We have full faith in our country’s regulator, government and judiciary that fair justice would be done,” said Kanoria. The RBI had conducted a special audit of the parent company SIFL and SEFL and advised to reasseses and re-evaluate the relationship with certain entities. Adherence to prudential norms, including income recognition, asset classification and provisioning, corporate governance and related party transactions were among the key issues of concern for the lenders. The company’s total liabilities are around Rs 18,000 crore of bank loans and another Rs 10,000 crore of external commercial borrowings and bonds. The corporate insolvency resolution process will enable foreign creditors, bond holders to restructure their debts alongside domestic creditors, including banks. If a resolution plan is successfully approved, it will allow the companies to start on a clean slate. However, a section of creditors are concerned over the prospects of a haircut on account of going through the resolution process. Srei maintained that efforts were being made to revive the business that has been affected by the Covid pandemic and asset liability mismatch, before the RBI decided to exercise its powers and supersede the boards. The group was also in discussion with private equity investors for capital infusion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
09-10-2021||Business||Tata Motors grants stock options to employees||Tata Motors on Friday said it has granted performance share units and stock options to employees. They carry the right to apply for equivalent number of ordinary shares of the company, subject to terms and conditions of vesting in the scheme. In 2018, Tata Motors issued stock options (ESOPs) to its employees, making it the first company in the group to do so. In June this year, the homegrown auto maker came out with another first — share units to retain talent. The board of Tata Motors had then approved the issue of performance shares or options to eligible employees of the company and its subsidiary companies under the long term incentive scheme. Performance shares is an incentive given to an employee if certain performance parameters or objectives are met whereas ESOPs are part of the compensation package. The issue of these preference shares was subject to shareholder approval. Tata Motors on Friday said that following the shareholder approval in July 30, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) of the board at its meeting held on Friday has approved the grant of 8,76,210 stock options and 9,64,614 performance share units in aggregate, to the eligible employees. While the performance share units will be granted to 255 employees, the options will go to 22 employees. Meanwhile, shares of Tata Motors were in demand on Friday on reports that TPG group is in negotiations with the company to invest more than $1 billion in its electric vehicle division and that the investment would value the arm at around $9 billion. The reports said Tata Motors is also in negotiations with some sovereign wealth funds like Abu Dhabi Investment Authority. On the BSE, shares of Tata Motors ended at Rs 382.95, a gain of 1.74 per cent, or Rs 6.55, over the last close. During intra-day trades, the share hit a 52-week high of Rs 398. At close, it had a market cap of Rs 1,27,151.19 crore. Last month, Tata Motors had said that its electric vehicles achieved a cumulative sales milestone of 10,000 units. Tata Motors had entered the electric vehicle space with Tigor EV as a fleet offering, and then expanded to the personal segment through Nexon EV in January 2020. The company has also increased its charging infrastructure via more than 700 installations in 120 cities across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
09-10-2021||Business||Zee gets time till October 22 to reply to Invesco plea||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Friday gave Zee Entertainment Enterprises time till October 22 to file its reply to a plea by its minority shareholder Invesco, after appellate body NCLAT ordered the tribunal to give the media major reasonable opportunity to do the same. The Mumbai bench of the NCLT, comprising Bhaskara Pantula Mohan and Narendra Kumar Bhola, directed Zee Entertainment Enterprises to file its reply by October 22 for further consideration. The NCLAT had on Thursday directed NCLT Mumbai to give reasonable opportunity to the media major to reply to Invesco’s plea for holding a meeting of shareholders, and also remarked that the tribunal made an “error” by not providing sufficient response time. While the NCLT is hearing a petition filed by Invesco demanding convening of an extraordinary general meeting (EGM), Zee had approached the NCLAT seeking more time to reply to the petition. The US-based investment firm had on September 30 moved a petition seeking convening of EGM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
09-10-2021||Business||TCS profit rises 29% for quarter ended September 30||Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) on Friday reported a 29 per cent growth in net profit for the quarter ended September 30, meeting Street estimates as it continued to gain from enterprises resorting to digital transformation amid the pandemic. The country’s largest IT services company posted a net profit Rs 9,624 crore compared with Rs 7,475 crore in the same period of the previous year. Analysts had expected the company to report profits in the range of Rs 9,600-9,800 crore. Rajesh Gopinathan, MD& CEO, TCS, said the company witnessed a robust growth across its entire ‘operating spectrum’ and that its investments in people have paid off. Gopinathan who was optimistic on the path ahead, said that the company was capitalising on the growth momentum to drive transformation not only within the organisation, but also among its corporate clients. “Each dimension of the growth momentum is adding significant tailwinds and we intend to capitalise on it,” he added. During the quarter, TCS posted revenues of Rs 46,867 crore compared with Rs 40,135 crore in the year ago period —- a rise of almost 17 per cent. Similarly operating margins showed a rise of 10 basis points to 25.6 per cent on a sequential basis. Further, all verticals showed double digit growth. At the board meeting on Friday, the directors declared an interim dividend of Rs 7 per share. The TCS board has approved the re-appointment of Gopinathan as CEO and MD for a term of five years from February 21, 2022 to February 20, 2027. It also approved the re-appointment of N. Ganapathy Subramaniam as chief operating officer and executive director from February 21, 2022 to May 19, 2024. Subramaniam is the brother of Tata group chairman N Chandrasekaran. The company said that growth was led by the manufacturing vertical at 21.7 per cent, and it was followed by life sciences and healthcare at 19 per cent, retail (18.4 per cent) and BFSI (17 per cent). Further, all major markets also showed strong growth, and this was led by North America which showed a rise of 17.4 per cent. “Strong growth and disciplined execution helped us overcome headwinds from currency and supply-side inflation and deliver expanded margins. Our industry-leading profitability and strong cash conversion give us the wherewithal to make the right investments needed to build out the business of the future’’, Samir Seksaria, Chief Financial Officer, said while commenting on the results.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
09-10-2021||Business||Delhi HC rejects IndiGo co-promoter plea on arbitration||A single judge bench of the Delhi high court has reportedly rejected a plea by IndiGo co-promoter Rakesh Gangwal to enforce an arbitration award given by the London Court of International Arbitration. The Gangwal group has a stake of around 36.63 per cent in InterGlobe Aviation — the parent of IndiGo while the Rahul Bhatia group has a shareholding of 38 per cent. Differences between the two promoters had come out in the open in July 2019 after Gangwal shot off a letter to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) seeking its intervention to address corporate governance issues in the company. In October 2019, InterGlobe Enterprises (IGE) and Bhatia had sought arbitration proceedings against Gangwal, the Chinkerpoo Family Trust and Shobha Gangwal (RG Group). Recently, the London Court of International Arbitration had given the final arbitration award, and Gangwal moved the Delhi High Court to enforce the award. Gangwal had sought a direction from the Delhi High Court for the conduct of an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) for doing away with certain transfer restrictions that came on account of a right of first refusal present in the company’s Articles of Association  (AoA). The award had said that the AoA that gives this right to both the promoters of the company on each other’s shares be amended and that an extra-ordinary general meeting be held in this regard with consensus by both the promoters. However, the Delhi High Court on Friday said that the orders has given a time of 90 days for the  implementation of its directions, and that Rahul Bhatia may also choose to contest its directions during this period. Shares of InterGlobe Aviation on Friday ended marginally higher at Rs 1961.75 on the Bombay Stock Exchange. He had also raised questions about certain related party transactions (RPTs) between IndiGo and entities belonging to the IGE group. Gangwal alleged that these transactions between IndiGo and the IGE group did not have the approval of the board and the audit committee and were often backdated. Besides, many of these RPTs undermined the interests of the airline, Gangwal said. He also said that there was misrepresentation in the company's Red Herring Prospectus (RHP) dated October 16, 2015. All these charges were rejected by the IGE group. Earlier, Gangwal’s request for an extraordinary general meeting to discuss the affairs of the company was turned down by a 4:2 vote at a board meeting on June 12 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
09-10-2021||Business||India chief economic adviser to step down in early December||Chief economic adviser K.V. Subramanian on Friday announced that he was stepping down from his post in early December and returning to academia following  the completion of his three-year term in the finance ministry. His tenure is ending on December 6. The government had appointed Subramanian, an ISB Hyderabad professor, as CEA. He had taken over the charge of CEA on December 7, 2018, nearly five months after his predecessor Arvind Subramanian had left the role. Arvind Subramanian had stepped down before the end of his term citing “pressing family commitments". The CEA’s announcement has come ahead of the budgetary exercise for 2022-23 starting from October 12. Finance ministry officials said the government would soon start the selection process and invite applications for a new appointment. However, even if his successor is appointed on time, the person will have only a few months to pen the economic survey of 2021-22. In a statement, Subramanian thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for their support and inspiring leadership. “I have decided to return back to academia following the completion of my 3-year fulfilling tenure," he said. “Being provided the opportunity to contribute during a period of tremendous uncertainty and epochal change has been the lucky icing on the cake. So, while being conscious of the enormous privilege bestowed on me, I will happily return back to serving the country as a researcher after fulfilling my three-year commitment,” Subramanian said in a long statement. A day prior to his decision to leave, Subramanian praised the Modi government for unleashing competitive forces in the economy which have helped start-ups. The focus of policies in the last seven years has been on enabling competition in the economy, he said, stressing this is partly responsible for the growth of startups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
09-10-2021||Business||Tata group wins bid for troubled national carrier Air India||Welcome back, Air India. Ratan Tata’s quiet, matter-of-fact tweet summed up the mood in Bombay House after the Narendra Modi government announced that the Tata group had won the bid for the troubled national carrier in a two-horse race. The announcement — anticipated for weeks — means that Air India returns to the Tata fold after 68 years. The Tatas’ bid was for an enterprise value of Rs 18,000 crore, considerably higher than the SpiceJet chairman Ajay Singh-led consortium’s offer of Rs 15,100 crore. The government had set a reserve price of Rs 12,906 crore for the loss-laden airline. Tata Airlines — the precursor to Air India — was founded in October 1932. J.R.D. Tata had created history when he touched down in Bombay on October 15, 1932, in his Puss Moth on a flight from Karachi, carrying a precious mailbag that marked India’s tryst with the world of aviation. The government nationalised the airline in 1953. Even though the government took over the airline, J.R.D. Tata stayed on as chairman till he was unceremoniously dumped by Prime Minister Morarji Desai in January 1978. “Air India, under the leadership of Mr J.R.D. Tata, had, at one time, gained the reputation of being one of the most prestigious airlines in the world. Tatas will have the opportunity of regaining the image and reputation it enjoyed in earlier years. Mr J.R.D. Tata would have been overjoyed if he was in our midst today,” said Ratan Tata, the 83-year-old patriarch of the group who had unsuccessfully tried to acquire Air India in the late nineties before its disastrous merger with Indian Airlines in 2007. The winning bid came from Talace Private Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Tata Sons, the group’s holding company. The Tatas will be paying an upfront cash component of Rs 2,700 crore while assuming a debt of Rs 15,300 crore. The deal is expected to be completed by December. “This is a historic moment, and it will be a rare privilege for our group to own and operate the country’s flag-bearer airline. It will be our endeavour to build a world-class airline which makes every Indian proud,” said N. Chandrasekaran, chairman of Tata Sons. Divestment secretary Tuhin Pandey said the group of ministers headed by Amit Shah had cleared the winning bid for Air India on October 4 but didn’t say why the announcement was delayed by four days. The other ministers in the panel were finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, commerce minister Piyush Goyal and civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia. Civil aviation secretary Rajiv Bansal said the Tatas would retain all employees of Air India for one year from the close of the transaction and could offer a voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) in the second year. Air India has 12,085 employees: 8,084 permanent and 4,001 contractual. Besides, Air India Express has 1,434 employees. About 5,000 permanent employees are due to retire over the next five years, Bansal said. The Tatas cannot transfer the Air India brand or logo for five years. Thereafter, it is free to do so but only to an Indian entity. There has to be business continuity for three years and the new owners will have to maintain an equity stake above 51 per cent with a lock-in period of one year, Pandey said. Air India had a total debt of Rs 61,562 crore at the end of August 31. This means that debt worth Rs 46,262 crore will remain with government entities, principally Air India Asset Holding Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
09-10-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India starts tightening liquidity tap||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday suspended a bond acquisition programme (G-SAP) and increased the limit of an instrument — variable rate reverse repo (VRRR), as the apex bank took the first steps towards tightening the liquidity tap. The central bank however held the key repo and reverse repo rates unchanged and retained its accommodative stance as the economic recovery is in its early stages. While all the six members of the monetary policy committee (MPC) unanimously voted to keep the repo rate unchanged, five of them supported the accommodative stance. Prof Jayanth Varma of IIM Ahmedabad was the lone dissenting voice. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said since the beginning of the pandemic the central bank has maintained ample surplus liquidity to support a speedy and durable economic recovery. Das said the potential liquidity overhang is more than Rs 13 lakh crore, which is adequate to meet the needs of a resurgent economy. As a first step, the RBI said it was suspending the Government Securities Acquisition Programme or G-SAP through which it purchased bonds from banks thereby infusing liquidity into the system. RBI bought bonds of Rs 2.2 lakh crore in the first half of this fiscal through G-SAP. The RBI also announced that it is increasing the size of the variable rate reverse repo (VRRR) auction. In the previous policy, the size of these auctions were raised to Rs 4 lakh crore per auction. This will now be increased to Rs 6 lakh crore per auction by December 3, 2021 in the following manner: Rs 4 lakh crore as already notified; Rs 4.5 lakh crore on October 22; Rs 5 lakh crore on November 3; Rs 5.5 lakh crore on November 18; and Rs 6 lakh crore on December 3. The Reserve Bank  may also consider complementing the 14-day VRRR auctions with 28-day variable reverse repo auctions in a similar calibrated fashion. Growth forecast The RBI has maintained 2021-22 growth target at 9.5 per cent. This comes on the back of a 7.3 per cent contraction in the previous year. The growth for 2022-23 is projected at 7.8 per cent, which is a full percentage point higher than the median growth projection of professional forecasters polled by the RBI at 6.8 per cent. Inflation outlook CPI (consumer price index) inflation is projected at 5.3 per cent for the fiscal, down from the earlier forecast of 5.7 per cent and within the target level of 4 per cent plus or minus 2 per cent. Watch on Big Tech Deputy governor M. Rajeshwar Rao on Friday said the RBI is examining whether deposit acceptance by Google and Amazon is within the prescribed laws and regulations, at a time concerns about big tech firms’ play in the financial space are at a heightened level. Both Google Pay and Amazon have announced partnerships with lenders to accept deposits in the country through their mobile  apps. “We are examining the issue regarding the regulatory implications, having regard to the applicable laws and the regulations that are prescribed for the thing. So, we are examining it,” Rao said. Sensex surges The Sensex soared past the 60000-level while the Nifty finished at an all-time high on Friday after the RBI kept the key interest rates unchanged . The Sensex jumped 381.23 points or 0.64 per cent to close at 60059.06, just shy of its lifetime high. The NSE Nifty rose 104.85 points or 0.59 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 17895.20. At the bond markets, yield on the benchmark 10-year security rose to a day’s high of 6.32 per cent. It later settled at 6.318 per cent compared with the last close of 6.267 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
09-10-2021||Business||136 countries agree on global tax overhaul ||More than 130 nations agreed on Friday to a sweeping overhaul of international tax rules, with officials backing a 15 per cent global minimum tax and other changes aimed at cracking down on tax havens that have drained countries of much-needed revenue. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which has been leading the negotiations, said 136 countries and jurisdictions had signed on to the deal. “Today’s agreement will make our international tax arrangements fairer and work better,” Mathias Cormann, the organization’s secretary general, said in a statement. “We must now work swiftly and diligently to ensure the effective implementation of this major reform.” The agreement is the culmination of years of fraught negotiations that were revived this year after President Biden took office and renewed the United States’ commitment to multilateralism. Finance ministers have been racing to finalise the agreement, which they hope will reverse a decades-long race to the bottom of corporate tax rates that have encouraged companies to shift profits to low-tax jurisdictions, depriving nations of money they need to build new infrastructure and combat global health crises. On Friday, Hungary, which had sought sweeter terms, agreed to back the new tax, joining two other important holdouts, Ireland and Estonia, which ratified the deal on Thursday. The agreement to enact a 15 per cent minimum corporate tax rate had been proposed by the United States, which has long looked for ways to minimise incentives for companies to shift profits abroad to lower their tax bills. As the Biden administration prepares to try and raise corporate tax rates in the United States, getting a global minimum tax in place has become critical to prevent companies from simply shifting their headquarters overseas. The deal goes beyond setting a global minimum tax — it also creates new rules for the digital era. Under the agreement, technology giants like Amazon, Facebook and other big global businesses will be required to pay taxes in countries where their goods or services are sold, even if they have no physical presence there. The accord would represent a sea change in the way the world’s largest corporations have been taxed for decades, and is likely to see them pay more taxes while spreading taxable revenue more evenly to countries where those businesses earn sales. Until now, profits have largely been taxed where businesses have had a physical presence. New York Times New Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
09-10-2021||India||Mumbai police summon CBI director in phone-tapping case||The cyber cell of Mumbai Police on Saturday summoned CBI director and former Maharashtra DGP Subodh Kumar Jaiswal in a phone-tapping and data leak case, a senior official said here. Jaiswal has been asked to be present to record his statement on October 14, the police official said. The case relates to the `leak' of a report prepared by IPS officer Rashmi Shukla about alleged corruption in police transfers in Maharashtra when she headed the state intelligence department. Jaiswal was the director general of police during this period. It was alleged that phones of senior politicians and officials were tapped illegally during the inquiry and the report was leaked deliberately, but the FIR registered in this regard by the cyber cell does not name Shukla or any other official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
09-10-2021||India||Shah Rukh Khan's driver questioned by NCB in drugs case||The NCB on Saturday summoned Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's driver in a case related to the recovery of drugs on a Goa-bound cruise ship that has led to the arrest of 18 people, including the A-lister's son Aryan Khan. The NCB recorded the statement of the driver who drove Aryan and his friends to the cruise ship that started its journey from Mumbai, said a ndtv.com report. Aryan was arrested last Saturday by the anti-drugs agency as it raided a cruise ship and found narcotic drugs. He was on Friday sent to the Arthur Road jail. Along with him, five other men arrested in the case too were sent to the same jail, while two women accused including Munmun Dhamecha were sent to Byculla women's prison, a police official said. They are likely to spend the weekend in quarantine cells of the two prisons as the Sessions Court, where they will need to file appeal for bail, would not be working on October 9 which is the second Saturday of the month, police sources said. They would not get any special treatment inside the prison, sources said. On Thursday, the metropolitan magistrate had sent eight accused including Aryan (23) in 14-day judicial custody after their NCB remand ended. Khan and others were brought to the prison after 2.30 pm, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
09-10-2021||India||NCB: Do not see political party or religion while arrersting||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday said all the allegations levelled against the agency in connection with the cruise ship raid and alleged recovery of drugs, in which Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested, are "baseless, motivated afterthoughts and prejudicial". NCB Director, Mumbai Zone, Sameer Wankhede said the anti-drugs agency works professionally. "We do not see any political party and religion. We do our job professionally," he added. Based on a tip-off, an NCB team raided the Goa-bound cruise ship last Saturday and claimed to have recovered banned drugs. A total of 18 persons have been arrested in the case, including Aryan Khan. The incident took a political turn when Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Wednesday claimed that the raid was "fake" and that "outsiders" were involved in it. On Saturday, Malik alleged that the NCB had initially detained 11 persons from the Goa-bound cruise ship, but let off three of them, including the brother-in-law of BJP leader Mohit Bharatiya, a couple of hours later. A senior NCB official told media persons on Saturday that the two men, whom Malik had claimed as "outsiders" involved in the raid, were actually among the nine independent witnesses involved in the operation. He said the duo was not known to the NCB before October 2, when the raid was conducted. NCB Deputy Director General Gyaneshwar Singh told reporters that such statements are based on conjecture and assumptions. "These assumptions are frivolous and malicious in view of documents and records of procedures duly followed by the NCB that can subject to legal verification. The NCB reiterates that its procedure has been and will continue to be professionally and legally transparent and unbiased as all the suspect/accused persons have been treated at par and in accordance with the law," he said. When asked about allegations, Singh said he will not comment on what other people are saying about the NCB. "The NCB is a responsible organisation. Whatever we say, we say it based on the proofs and evidence. We are doing our work honestly and dedicatedly," he said. Singh said independent public witnesses are mandatorily required to be present during any seizure operations as per the set legal procedure. Malik had claimed that a man named (K P) 'Gosavi', who is seen escorting Aryan Khan in one of the videos, was not an NCB official, and his social media profile states that he is a private detective based in Kuala Lumpur. He had also said that two men were seen escorting Arbaaz Merchant, also arrested in the case, in another video, and one of them is a member of the BJP, (later identified as Manish Bhanushali). Singh said the NCB strongly adheres to the legal procedure and involves at least two independent witnesses in all its seizure operations. "As the operations are conducted on a real-time basis, so the field verification of independent witnesses is not possible as the main focus is on drug recovery," he said. Singh said a total of nine independent witnesses were involved in the whole operation (cruise ship raid) and Manish Bhanushali and K P Gosavi were among them. "None of the Independent witnesses, including the two (Bhanushhali and Gosavi) were known to the NCB before October 2," he said. Later in a statement, Singh said a total of 14 persons were brought to the NCB zonal office (in Mumbai) for examination. "All of them were served notice under section 67, examined thoroughly and their statements were recorded," Singh said. Eight persons were arrested and the remaining six persons were let off since no incriminating evidence was found against them, he stated and added that the other six "can be associated if the need arises in the investigation as per law". As panchnamas were made at the respective spots, hence the place, timing, situation and resources may differ, he added. Singh stated that these documents are a matter of court record and have been produced in the court and will be part of a charge sheet in future. "Hence all such documents are part of a transparent legal procedure open to scrutiny at appropriate fora," he added. Meanwhile, Sameer Wankhede said those are the independent witnesses. "Whatever they (who are raising allegations) want to say let them say. We will speak before the court," he said without taking any names. Wankhede said the case is sub-judice and the investigation is underway. The NCB will follow the orders of the court, he added. "The NCB is an independent and professional agency. We did not see any political party and religion and we do our job professionally," he added. On Friday, a metropolitan magistrate's court in Mumbai rejected bail applications of Aryan Khan and two others, following which he was sent to the Arthur Road prison.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
09-10-2021||India||Narendra Modi to inaugurate Indian Space Association on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the Indian Space Association (ISpA), an industry body aspiring to be the voice of the Indian space sector, on October 11, the PMO said on Saturday. He will also interact with representatives of the space industry on this occasion. The ISpA will undertake policy advocacy and engage with all stakeholders in the Indian space domain, including the government and its agencies. Echoing the prime minister's vision of the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat', the ISpA will help in making India self-reliant, technologically advanced and a leading player in the space arena, the PMO said. The ISpA is represented by leading home grown and global corporations with advanced capabilities in space and satellite technologies. Its founding members include Larson & Toubro, Nelco (Tata Group), OneWeb, Bharti Airtel, Mapmyindia, Walchandnagar Industries and Ananth Technology Limited. Other core members include Godrej, Hughes India, Azista-BST Aerospace Private Limited, BEL, Centum Electronics and Maxar India, the PMO noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
09-10-2021||India||Mandaviya directs 19 states to pace up vaccination||COVID-19 containment can derail if festivals are not celebrated following protocols, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya warned on Saturday and exhorted 19 states to escalate their inoculation pace so that India can achieve administering 100 crore vaccine doses in the next few days. India has so far administered over 94 crore Covid vaccine doses. Reviewing the progress of COVID-19 vaccination with principal secretaries and mission directors of the National Health Mission from all major states, Mandaviya underlined that administering 100 crore doses of Covid vaccine is the immediate milestone in India's inoculation journey. According to a Health Ministry statement, Mandaviya noted that if festivals, synonymous with auspiciousness, joy and large gatherings, are not observed as per Covid protocols, containment of COVID-19 can get derailed. "The two-pronged solution is to follow Covid protocols very strictly and to speed up vaccination," the minister said. He cited results of experiments that pegged the number of first dose recipients not developing severe COVID-19 to be 96 per cent and further pointed out that the number increases to nearly 98 per cent for people who have taken both doses of the vaccine. Officials of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bengal took part in the meeting. Observing that over eight crore balance vaccine doses are physically available with states, Mandaviya enquired about specific hurdles, if any, faced by them in increasing their pace of vaccination and vaccine coverage among the target population, the statement said. Many states are nearing saturation of coverage in urban areas and are catering to the floating population in the city, it said. Labour and time-intensive door-to-door vaccination is being undertaken in some geographically aloof pockets where first dose coverage is nearing saturation. Uttar Pradesh state that comparatively limited supply of Covaxin and its shorter span between the doses as a rate inhibiting factor, according to the statement. "In consultation with the states, the minister exhorted each state to increase their target so that the administration of the last six crore doses for reaching the mark of 100 crore is achieved in the next few days," the health ministry stated. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan urged all the state health administrators to be strict with observance of Covid-appropriate behaviour during festivities to prevent a COVID-19 outbreak. He underlined the need to adhere to a detailed standard operating procedure issued through a ministry's letter on September 21. It included no mass-gatherings in containment zones and in districts with over 5 per cent case positivity. Gatherings with advance permissions and limited people to be allowed in districts with a positivity rate of 5 per cent and below. Relaxations and restrictions to be imposed based on weekly case positivity. States should closely monitor case trajectories in all districts daily to identify any early warning signal to ensure the imposition of restrictions and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour accordingly. All rituals like the burning of effigies, Durga Puja pandals, Dandia, Garbas and Chhatt Puja should be symbolic. The number of people allowed to participate in gatherings and processions should be regulated. Places of worship should have separate entry and exit points while the use of common prayer mats, offering of 'prasad', the sprinkling of holy water should be avoided.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
09-10-2021||India||India, China to hold 13th round of military talks on Sunday||India and China will hold another round of high-level military talks on Sunday with a focus on making some forward movement in the disengagement process in the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh, government sources said. The talks are scheduled to start at 10:30 AM at the Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, the sources said on Saturday. The Indian side is expected to seek disengagement as soon as possible in the remaining friction points besides pressing for resolution of issues in Depsang Bulge and Demchok. The 12th round of talks had taken place on July 31. Days after the talks, the two armies completed the disengagement process in Gogra, which was seen as a significant forward movement towards the restoration of peace and tranquillity in the region. The 13th round of talks is taking place in the backdrop of two recent incidents of attempted transgressions by the Chinese troops -- one in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand and another in the Tawang sector in Arunachal Pradesh. Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a brief face-off near Yangtse in the Tawang sector of Arunachal Pradesh last week and it was resolved within few hours following talks between commanders of the two sides as per established protocols, people familiar with the development said on Friday. Last month, close to 100 soldiers of China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) transgressed the LAC in the Barahoti sector. The transgression took place on August 30, and the Chinese troops returned from the area after spending few hours. Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravne on Saturday said the military build-up by China in the eastern Ladakh region and new infrastructure development to sustain the large-scale deployment are a matter of concern. He also said if the Chinese military maintains the deployment through the second winter, then it may lead to an LoC-like situation (Line of Control) though not an active LoC as is there on the western front with Pakistan. The Indian delegation at Sunday's talks is to be led by Lt Gen PGK Menon, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area in August. In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
09-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur: Those who killed BJP workers not culprits, says Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said that he doesn't consider those who killed BJP workers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri as culprits as they only reacted to SUV running over protesters. Eight people were killed in the violence that broke out on October 3 after an SUV allegedly ran over a group of anti-farm law protesters who were demonstrating against the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya at Tikonia-Banbirpur road in Lakhimpur Kheri. The dead included farmers, BJP workers and a journalist. "The killing of two BJP workers in Lakhimpur Kheri after a convoy of cars mowed down four farmers is a reaction to an action. I do not consider those involved in the killings as culprits," Tikait said in reply to a question asked during a press conference here. Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Yogendra Yadav said, "We are sad over the loss of lives, be it BJP workers or farmers. It was unfortunate and we hope justice is done." Farmer leaders on Saturday demanded that Union Minister Ajay Mishra and his son be arrested in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, and said the incident was a "pre-planned conspiracy". Ajay Mishra should also be removed from the government as he started this conspiracy and is also protecting the culprits in the case, Yadav alleged during the press conference here. He also said that the SKM on October 15, which is Dusshera, will burn the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah to protest against the violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
09-10-2021||India||Delhi could face power crisis, Kejriwal writes to Narendra Modi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the national capital could face a power crisis and that his government is taking adequate steps to avoid such a situation. He said he has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his intervention in making adequate arrangements of coal and gas to generation plants supplying electricity to the city. "Delhi could face a power crisis. I am personally keeping a close watch over the situation. We are trying our best to avoid it. In the meanwhile, I wrote a letter to Hon'ble PM seeking his personal intervention," Kejriwal tweeted. In his letter to Modi, the Delhi CM noted that the city was facing a coal shortage since August. "I draw your attention to the prevailing coal shortage situation that is continuing since August/September for the third month in a row," the letter stated. It has affected the power generation from the major central generating plants supplying power to Delhi, it said. Kejriwal requested the prime minister's intervention for adequate coal to be diverted from other plants to plants like Dadri-II and Jhajjar TPS, which are supplying to Delhi. He also requested gas allocations to Bawana, Pragati -I and GTPS supplying power to the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
09-10-2021||India||Congress Working Committee meeting to be held on October 16||Top Congress leadership will gather here on October 16 to deliberate on the current political situation, including the Lakhimpur violence, and decide on the organisational elections at a meeting of the party's working committee. The meeting of the Congress' top decision-making body has been convened after demands from some quarters within the party to discuss important issues, including some defections in the recent past. Former leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad had also written to the Congress president to convene a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) soon. AICC general secretary K C Venugopal tweeted, "A meeting of the Congress Working Committee will be held on Saturday, the 16th October, 2021 at 10 am at AICC Office, 24, Akbar Road, New Delhi to discuss current political situation, forthcoming assembly elections and organisational elections." The party leadership is also likely to decide on the schedule for electing the new Congress chief. The party, in its CWC meeting, held on January 22 had decided that the Congress would have an elected president by June 2021, but the same was deferred at the May 10 CWC meet in the wake of the COVID-19 situation. The latest meeting is being held in the wake of Lakhimpur clashes on October 3 in which eight people lost their lives, including four farmers who were allegedly run over by an SUV belonging to the convoy of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra. The incident has given enough ammo to the Congress to corner the BJP government and recapture the lost political space. The CWC meeting will also discuss certain dissenting notes rising within the party over the spate of defections and the party's poor electoral fortunes. Sonia Gandhi took over as the interim Congress president in August 2019 after Rahul Gandhi resigned in the wake of the party's Lok Sabha debacle in May 2019. There have been demands from a section of Congress leaders for having a full-time and active party president as well as an organisational overhaul. The demand grew louder after a storm in the party in August last year over a letter to Sonia Gandhi by a group of 23 leaders, including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Bhupinder Hooda, Prithviraj Chavan, Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari and Mukul Wasnik raising these issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
09-10-2021||India||Cruise drugs case: NCP claims BJP leader's kin was let off by NCB hours after detention ||NCP leader Nawab Malik on Saturday claimed that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had initially detained 11 persons from a Goa-bound cruise ship off Mumbai coast last week, but let off three of them, including the brother-in-law of BJP leader Mohit Bharatiya, a couple of hours later. Addressing a press conference here, Malik, who is NCP's spokesperson and a Maharashtra minister, alleged that Bharatiya's brother-in-law Rishabh Sachdeva was among those three persons. Two others - Pratik Gabba and Aamir Furniturewala - who had brought Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, to the cruise party, were released along with Sachdeva two hours after their detention, he said. When contacted, Bharatiya declined to immediately comment on the NCP's allegation, but his office said he would hold a press conference later in the day. "The names of Pratik and Aamir figured in the ongoing hearings in the court," Malik said. Malik had earlier announced that on Saturday he would reveal the name of the BJP leader, whose brother-in-law, he claimed, was let off by the anti-drug agency. Based on a tip-off that a party was to take place on board the ship, an NCB team led by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede had raided the Cordelia cruise last Saturday and claimed to have recovered banned drugs. A total of 18 persons have been arrested in the case, including Aryan Khan. The NCP leader demanded that the call records of these three persons along with that of Wankhede be examined. "Rishabh Sachdeva's father and uncle came to the NCB office and telephonic conversations happened between Wankhede and the BJP leaders in Mumbai and Delhi from the phone of Sachdeva's father," Malik claimed. "Why were the phones of these three persons not seized?" he asked. According to Malik, the Mumbai police were also given information that 11 persons had been detained from the cruise ship. Malik also alleged that the NCB's raid on the cruise was "fake, planned and conspired to defame the film industry and the Maharashtra government". "Selective people have been arrested...The matter is serious. CCTV footage should be taken and a detailed inquiry should be conducted," the minority affairs minister alleged. He also hit at the BJP for attacking him over his allegations. "The BJP says that I am attacking the NCB since my son-in-law was arrested by the agency. I have never supported my son-in-law and he will fight his case. How can I give information I have in this case to the NCB which has framed a false case. If an independent commission is set up to conduct a probe, I will do so," Malik said. His son-in-law Sameer Khan had been arrested by the NCB on January 13 this year in an alleged drugs case. He had got bail in September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
09-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur: Farmer leaders to burn effigies of Modi, Shah on Dusshera||Farmer leaders on Saturday demanded that Union Minister Ajay Mishra and his son be arrested in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, and said the incident was a pre-planned conspiracy . Ajay Mishra should also be removed from the government as he started this conspiracy and is also protecting the culprits in the case, Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Yogendra Yadav alleged during a press conference here. He also said that the SKM on October 15, which is Dusshera, will burn the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah to protest against the violence. In the incident on Sunday in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri, eight people were killed, including four farmers. "The incident was part of a pre-planned conspiracy and the attackers tried to terrorise farmers," farmer leader Darshan Pal said at the press conference of the SKM, an umbrella body of farm unions, spearheading the stir against three agri laws. He also claimed that the government has adopted a violent approach against protesting farmers. "But we won't take the path of violence," Ugrahan asserted. Four of the eight people who died in the violence on Sunday were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. "We demand Union Minister Ajay Mishra and his son Ashish be arrested," Ugrahan said. The SKM also said that on October 18 it will call 'rail roko' to protest the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. It said that on October 26, they will call for a mahapanchayat. Meanwhile, Ashish Mishra appeared for questioning before the SIT on Saturday in the crime branch of the Police Lines earlier in the day. Ashish Mishra appeared before the special investigation team (SIT) before 11 am, the time mentioned in the second summons served to him the previous day after he did not turn up for interrogation on Friday. While Ashish Mishra is facing questioning by the SIT team headed by Deputy Inspector General of Police (Headquarters) Upendra Agarwal, his father Ajay Mishra is huddled with lawyers at his local party office in Lakhimpur. Sources said the police team has prepared over two dozen questions for Ashish Mishra to answer in connection with the case. After two men were arrested on Thursday in the case, police then had pasted a notice outside Ashish Mishra's house asking him to appear before it in connection with the violence that claimed eight lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
09-10-2021||India||India, Denmark decide to expand ties in health and agriculture sectors ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his visiting Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksen on Saturday held "fruitful" talks with a focus on expanding cooperation in a range of key areas such as health, agriculture, water management, climate change and renewable energy. In his media statement after the talks, Modi said both sides reviewed the progress made under the India-Denmark Green Strategic Partnership and deliberated on further expansion of overall cooperation in multiple sectors. The two sides also inked four agreements that will provide for deepening of cooperation in areas of science and technology, climate change and skill development. "A year ago today, we took the historic decision to establish a Green Strategic Partnership between India and Denmark in our virtual summit. This is a sign of far-reaching thinking and respect for the environment by both our countries," he said. The green partnership, finalised at a virtual summit between the prime ministers of the two countries, aims to create a framework for significant expansion of cooperation in areas of renewable energy, environment, economy, climate change and science and technology. Describing the talks as "fruitful", Modi said both sides decided to cooperate in areas like efficient supply chain, smart water resources management and technologies relating to the farm sector to increase agricultural productivity in India. In her remarks, Frederiksen said the cooperation between India and Denmark is a great example of how green growth and green transition go hand-in-hand. She said both sides decided to boost cooperation, particularly in the health and agriculture sectors. Frederiksen arrived here early this morning on a three-day state visit. Earlier in the day, Modi welcomed Frederiksen to India at a ceremony in the Rashtrapati Bhavan. The Danish prime minister also visited Rajghat and paid tribute to Mahatma Gandhi. Ahead of the talks between the two prime ministers, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar called on Frederiksen. "Welcomed Denmark Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen on her first visit to India. Our Green Strategic Partnership will advance further as a result," Jaishankar tweeted. India and Denmark have strong trade and investment ties. More than 200 Danish companies are present in India and over 60 Indian companies have a presence in Denmark.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
09-10-2021||India||Himanta Biswa Sarma takes dig at Priyanka Gandhi ||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday took a dig at Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for sweeping the floor when she was detained recently in Uttar Pradesh, asking how this could be news as cleaning a room is part of anyone's daily household chores. Participating in the India Today Conclave 2021 here, Sarma said India has changed and people will not pay attention to such "stage-managed" acts of politicians. "I don't know how come a lady sweeping the floor could be news. This is a common household practice in every family of India. I have seen my mother sweeping the floor. Have you not seen your mother sweeping the floor?" he asked. The chief minister said the act of Priyanka Gandhi, during her detention in Uttar Pradesh, was "staged-managed" otherwise how come a photographer was present there to shoot the video. Priyanka Gandhi was detained at Sitapur in Uttar Pradesh early on Monday when she was on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of farmers who were killed after a convoy of vehicles ran over them on Sunday. Ashish Mishra, the son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra, was allegedly in that convoy and police have registered a murder case against him for the incident. During the detention at a police guesthouse in Sitapur, Priyanka Gandhi was seen in a video sweeping the floor. On Friday, the Congress leader made a surprise visit to a Dalit hamlet in Lucknow and picked up a broom to clean it. Replying to a question on the Assam government's move to evict encroachers from government land, the chief minister said eviction process, be it against indigenous people or migrant Muslims, will continue according to the state government's land policy. "We cannot allow 1,000 families to grab 77,000 acres of land. Eviction is an ongoing process," he said. Deaths of two people and desecration of one of the bodies during an eviction drive in Assam's Darrang district recently were condemned by individuals, political parties and social groups. Sarma said that many people in Assam, since pre-Independence days, believe that migrant Muslims are the root cause of many problems like the encroachment of land and losing the culture and identity by the indigenous people. He said efforts should be made by migrant Muslims to remove such beliefs of the indigenous people. Asked about his controversial comments that he does not want the votes of migrant Muslims, the chief minister said he knows that the community does not vote for the BJP and that is why he does not want to spend time wooing them. "I have made a deal. They will not vote for us. So, I will not campaign in their areas. But I will carry out all development works in their areas," he said. Sarma also gave an example saying out of the seven lakh free houses to be constructed in Assam, 4.5 lakh will be of migrant Muslims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
09-10-2021||India||NCB searches film producer Imtiyaz Khatri's premises in cruise drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday conducted searches at the residence and office of film producer Imtiyaz Khatri here in connection with the seizure of drugs from a cruise ship, an official said. "The Mumbai zonal unit of the NCB began the searches at Khatri's residence and office in Bandra here this morning," he said. Khatri's name cropped up during the interrogation of the accused persons, who were earlier arrested in the drugs seizure case, the official said, adding that the NCB has been cracking down on the drug peddlers and suppliers in the metropolis. Based on a tip-off that a party was to take place on board the ship, an NCB team had raided the Goa-bound Cordelia cruise last Saturday and claimed to have recovered drugs. A total of 18 persons have been arrested in the case, including Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
09-10-2021||India||Air India and the many complex turnaround challenges Tatas face ||The Tata Group will have a monumental task on its hands when it takes control of loss-making Air India two months from now after winning the state-owned carrier with a Rs 18,000-crore bid. First of all, the Tatas will be flying into an aviation market reeling from the coronavirus pandemic that has left India’s airlines bleeding cash. This will make restoring Air India’s fortunes even tougher. Kapil Kaul, chief executive of airline consultancy CAPA, believes turning around Air India’s performance could take three to five years. One of the immediate challenges facing the new owners will be to find office space. The deal does not include the airline’s other assets and the buildings like the Air India building at Nariman Point and Airlines House in Delhi. As a result, one of the Tata Group’s first jobs will be to locate office accommodation for Air India’s roughly 12,000 employees. The Tata Group will also have to launch a global manhunt for top personnel who will need to pick up the reins very quickly. Currently, Air India has no CEO and Rajiv Bansal, its chairman and managing director, is an IAS officer, who is also the Civil Aviation Secretary. As well, the airline will have to decide where to have its new headquarters. Before its merger in 2007 with Indian Airlines, Air India was headquartered in Mumbai. Post-merger, the combined airline moved to Airlines House in New Delhi which had previously been the Indian Airlines’ headquarters. But its greatest challenge will be to bring together the three airlines now under its control -- - Air India, Air Asia and Vistara. It looks almost certain they will merge the two low-cost airlines Air India Express and Air Asia India. The only hurdle to be surmounted is that AI Express flies Boeings and Air Asia India has Airbus 320s. Air Asia in MAlaysia is financially strapped and would have no objection to the merger. Ideally, Vistara and Air India should also be merged but it’s not clear whether Vistara’s parent Singapore Airlines has given the go-ahead for this move. Under the deal announced Friday, the Tata Group also gets a 100 per cent stake in the low-cost carrier Air India Express and a 50 per cent stake in SATS which provides ground catering and other services for Air India and other airlines. The Tata win had been widely expected and was considered almost a certainty. The only other bidder, Spice Jet’s Ajay Singh, would have had considerable difficulty assembling the large sums of money required both for the bid and to keep the airline in the skies. The Tatas will pay Rs 18,000 crore for the airline, out of which Rs 15,300 crore will go towards repayment of Air India’s colossal debt mountain. The deal will take effect when the payment is made within the next two months. The government will continue to pay the retirement benefits of around 55,000 former employees. Besides the purchase amount, the Tatas will also have to spend heavily to modernise Air India’s fleet which is quite old. Many aircraft will need to be replaced. The airline has 117 aircraft currently and Air India Express has 24 planes. Air India’s massive government-backed debt totals around Rs 70,000 crore.  It received a $4.2-billion bailout from the government in 2012. Apart from the Rs 15,300, the rest will now have to be cleared by the government. The Tata Group’s three airlines will together have about 25 per cent of the Indian aviation market. However, this is far behind the market leader, IndiGo which has a dominating 60 per cent share of passenger traffic. Air India is also making operational losses and the new management team will need to move urgently to trim these sharply. However, it has several routes, both nationally and internationally, which were started for political reasons at the behest of powerful politicians, and which could now be cut if they are loss-makers. Several international routes have been launched partially to serve the government’s diplomatic goals and these could also be in for the chop in the not-too-distant future. The Tata Group has yet to unfold its strategy for bringing together the three airlines it now owns in India. It has a controlling 85 per cent stake in Air Asia India and is likely to buy out the remaining 15 per cent because its Malaysian partner is keen to exit the Indian market. It’s unclear whether Singapore Airlines would be happy about bringing together Vistara with Air Asia India and Air India. But combined, the three airlines together could be a fighting force against IndiGo which is a tough and ruthless competitor. The Tatas have a huge opportunity in the international markets where Indian carriers have allowed the Gulf carriers to grab a large chunk of Indians travelling abroad. It’s thought that Dubai’s Emirates gets about 20 per cent of its revenue from Indian passengers. The same’s true for Etihad and Qatar Airways. Similarly, Indians travelling eastwards have divided their preferences between airlines like Singapore Airlines, Thai Airways and Cathay Pacific. In recent years Air Asia International has also grabbed a big slice of the low-cost market. Nevertheless, Air India gets two-thirds of its income from its international routes and is the leading player from India in the international market and it could build on this in coming years. Airline industry experts predict that the hub-and-spoke system operated by Singapore and the Middle Eastern airlines may weaken post-pandemic because passengers will want to take direct flights and not increase infection risks by changing flights.  Says an aviation industry expert: “The future, even for Singapore, is to grow the business here.” There are other issues that remain unclear. Air India has always been designated as the national carrier and that status has brought considerable benefits. In his statement welcoming Air India into the Tata fold, Tata Sons Chairman N. Chandrasekaran, referred to the airline as “the country’s flagbearer airline”. Air India’s interests were always kept paramount even when foreign airlines applied for routes into India. Also, government employees were issued orders some years ago that they had to fly Air India unless the airline did not have flights to their destination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
09-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son being interrogated by SIT||Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra appeared for questioning before the SIT on Saturday in the crime branch of the Police Lines here in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on October 3. Ashish Mishra appeared before the special investigation team (SIT) before 11 am, the time mentioned in the second summons served to him the previous day after he did not turn up for interrogation on Friday. Police officials here at the spot refused to comment on the ongoing interrogation. Meanwhile, Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu ended his "silent protest" after the minister's son turned up for questioning. The Punjab Congress unit chief began his 'maun dharna' from 6.15 pm on Friday outside the home of local journalist Ram Kashyap in Nighasan tehsil. The protest came to an end around 11.30 am on Saturday Kashyap had also died in the incident on October 3. Speaking to reporters after ending his fast, Sidhu said, "This is the victory of truth. A person may be a king, but no one is bigger than justice. If there is justice, there is 'shaasan' (governance), and if there is no justice, there is 'kushaasan' (misgovernance). This is the victory of the families of farmers. The family of Lovpreet Singh and the family of Raman Kashyap." Lovepreet Singh of Palia village of Lakhimpur is among the four farmers who died in the violence. While Ashish Mishra is facing questioning by the SIT team headed by Deputy Inspector General of Police (Headquarters) Upendra Agarwal, his father Ajay Mishra is huddled with lawyers at his local party office in Lakhimpur. Sources said the police team has prepared over two dozen questions for Ashish Mishra to answer in connection with the case. After two men were arrested on Thursday in the case, police then had pasted a notice outside Ashish Mishra's house asking him to appear before it in connection with the violence that claimed eight lives. Four of the eight people who died in the violence last Sunday were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. A nine-member team headed by DIG Upendra Agarwal has been formed to investigate the FIR lodged against the minister's son and others. Ajay Mishra Teni, who was in Lucknow to meet chief minister Yogi Adityanath, said Ashis could not appear for questioning because he was “not well” but would have his statement recorded on Saturday. Teni declared his son innocent and denied he had gone into hiding. A statement from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which has been leading the 10-month-old farmer protests against three farm laws, said: “There is no trace of him (Ashis). News reports indicate that he is changing locations and is absconding, with several Uttar Pradesh police teams searching for him.” Adityanath told a TV interviewer that nobody would be arrested until there was concrete evidence against them. Reminded about the allegation that Ashis was in a car that mowed down farmers, he said “there is no such video (showing Ashis)”. A Thar jeep belonging to Teni and a Fortuner had run over and killed four protesting farmers and a journalist at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday afternoon with some eyewitnesses saying Ashis, also known as Monu, was in the car. Following the deaths, the farmers are alleged to have killed a driver and two BJP workers. Some reports said Ashis, named in the murder FIR, may have fled to Nepal. Deputy inspector-general (headquarters) Upendra Agarwal, head of the nine-member team probing the incident, had waited in vain for Ashis at the police lines on Friday morning before issuing the fresh notice. It was pasted on the wall of the minister’s home in the afternoon. Adityanath, asked by the TV interviewer whether Ashis was absconding, skirted the question. “An SIT (special investigation team) and a judicial commission have been formed. The judicial commission will probe the reasons behind the incident and the SIT will investigate deeper into the case,” he said. Asked about Ashis’s alleged culpability, he said: “There’s no such video (showing him at the scene) till now. We have given out a phone number and told people to share evidence (via WhatsApp).... No action will be taken against anybody under pressure from anybody.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
09-10-2021||India||Will ramp up production capacity as new vaccines come on stream, India tells UN||India has informed the UN that it will ramp up its production capacity as new Indian vaccines come on stream, emphasising that the supply chains of raw materials must be kept open as COVID-19 vaccines need to reach every corner of the globe. India's Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti on Friday said that India has provided medical related assistance and subsequently, vaccines to numerous countries all over the world. "We meet at a time when the Covid crisis is nowhere near the end. However, with the introduction of vaccines, there is hope that we will finally be able to turn the corner, he said while speaking at the UN General Assembly General Debate of the Second Committee on Crisis, Resilience and Recovery Accelerating Progress towards the 2030 Agenda'. "As Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi mentioned, we will resume this and work closely with other partners to end this pandemic. For this, the supply chains of raw materials must be kept open. We will ramp up production capacity as new Indian vaccines come on stream," Tirumurti said. India will resume the export of surplus COVID-19 vaccines in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the Vaccine Maitri' programme and to meet its commitment to the COVAX global pool. The government had stopped the export of COVID-19 vaccines after the second wave of the pandemic hit the country in April. India has exported over 66 million vaccine doses to nearly 100 countries through grants, commercial shipments and the COVAX facility. During his address to world leaders at the high-level General Assembly session last month, Modi had said that India is engaged in vaccination development and manufacturing despite limited resources. India's digital vaccine delivery platform CoWIN has supported its vaccine drive, Tirumurti said, adding that Modi has announced that India has offered this CoWIN platform to the world as a global public good. We are bridging the digital divide by leveraging technology solutions that are low cost, developmental and designed to empower all citizens, especially women, he said. Tirumurti said at the General Assembly that the disruption caused by the pandemic has disproportionately impacted the Global South. Many of our ambitions and goals have been thrown out of gear, including the pathway to Sustainable Development Goals, he said. He said the message to the world is for the international community to come together to combat the pandemic and build a resilient system that will drive global recovery. International institutions have been slow to react initially, but have finally started to get their act together in a more coordinated manner. The Indian ethos of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam The World is One Family' should show us the way to build back better, Tirumurti said. Stressing that the digital technology is already a game changer, Tirumurti said its utility during this period of building back will only increase, as a force multiplier. India has already deployed digital technology in a people-friendly and citizen-centric manner to ensure inclusive, integrated and equitable development and delivery of services within our country, including through our unique digital identity system, he added. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
09-10-2021||India||India logs over 19,000 fresh Covid cases, 248 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 19,740 COVID-19 infections, taking the country's total tally of cases to 3,39,35,309, while the number of active cases has declined to 2,36,643, the lowest in 206 days, according to Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll has climbed to 4,50,375 with 248 more fatalities, the data updated at 8 am stated. The daily rise in new coronavirus cases has been below 30,000 for 15 straight days, the ministry said. The active cases have declined to 2,36,643 and comprise 0.70 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March last year. The national COVID-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.98 per cent, the highest since March last year, it said. There has been a decrease of 3,578 cases in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, the ministry's data stated. The daily positivity rate has been recorded at 1.56 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 40 days, it said. The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 1.62 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 106 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,32,48,291, while the case fatality rate has been recorded at 1.33 per cent, it said. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 93.99 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16 last year. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed the two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
09-10-2021||India||Future Laureate’s India question||Maria Ressa asked me with the concern the hunted alone can convey: “Will Rana Ayyub be safe?” I had run into Ressa, who shares this year’s Nobel Peace Prize with another journalist, Dmitry Muratov, in the summer of 2018 in the corridor of the Estoril Congress Center in Portugal. Two days earlier, Ressa, the co-founder of Rappler (a digital media platform for investigative journalism that had earned the wrath of the Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte), had been conferred the Golden Pen of Freedom Award. The corridor of the convention centre, less than 200 metres from the Palacio Estoril Hotel where some of the scenes of the sixth James Bond movie, On Her Majesty’s Secret Service, were filmed, was teeming with journalists and media executives who were attending the 70th World News Media Conference, organised by the World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers (WAN-IFRA). Ressa, who had received multiple rounds of standing ovation during her acceptance speech in which she had also mentioned India and the threats from trolls, was being mobbed by many journalists. I, too, introduced myself to Ressa and when she realised that I am from India, she told me that someone had sent her a link to the report on the award ceremony I had filed for The Telegraph. It was then that she asked me about Ayyub, the Mumbai-based journalist relentlessly targeted by Right-wing trolls and sections of the establishment. A few weeks earlier, Ayyub had written in The New York Times how she and many of her colleagues were slut-shamed and threatened with rape on social media for being critical of Hindu nationalist politics and the government. Ressa herself has been the target of a psychological barrage laced with death and rape threats by countless real and fake social media users — she called it the “shark tank” — because of the journalism her digital platform is pursuing. Several cases have been filed against her; she was arrested in 2019 and convicted in 2020. The appeal is pending. When Ressa asked me whether Ayyub would be safe, I did not know what to say. Since then, the harassment Ayyub has faced has increased manifold. On Friday, soon after the Nobel Peace Prize was announced, Ayyub told Sankarshan Thakur of The Telegraph: “Maria Ressa is not just one of the bravest journalists in the world who has taken on the might of the Duterte regime but is also an ally, friend for journalists who are trying to hold the line. “She is a friend who I have turned to for advice, hope, empathy on days the going gets tough for me in India. As a journalist facing multiple cases, this Nobel Peace Prize for Maria is a shot in the arm for me and her colleagues across the world. Like her, I have faced the most debilitating, sexualised, online and offline harassment. This Nobel is not just for Maria but for every unsung journalist speaking the unpopular truth.” At the award ceremony in Estoril, Ressa, who headed the CNN bureau in Manila and was its lead investigative reporter in Asia before co-founding the game-changing Rappler (a portmanteau of “rap” for discussion and “ripples” for making waves), was midway through her speech when India cropped up. “According to Freedom House (a watchdog), in at least 30 of 65 countries it studied, cheap armies on social media are rolling back democracy globally. In India, South Africa, Mexico, it happens on Twitter; other countries, on WhatsApp. Social media platforms are now choice tools for authoritarian rule.” Ressa sounded the alarm on the exponential power of trolls backed by those wielding power. “When a lie is repeated 10 times, truth has a chance to catch up... but when it’s repeated a million times, it becomes the truth, especially when it is backed by online state-sponsored hate exploiting the fracture lines of society,” she said. Ressa had concluded her spirited acceptance speech by playing a video clip that showed a cross-section of journalists replying to questions on the threats and intimidation they face in the Philippines while discharging their professional responsibilities. Some of the questions and answers follow: Have you ever been harassed because of your work? Jason Felipe Villamor Gutierrez, foreign correspondent: Yes. Have you been threatened online? Inday Espina-Varona, journalist: Oh, yes. Have you been called biased? J.C. Gotinga, foreign correspondent: Yes. Have you been called stupid? Ed Lingao, broadcast journalist: Yes, plenty of times. By idiots. Have you been accused of corruption? Ezra Acayan, freelance photojournalist: Yes. Have you been called fake news? Lingao: Oh, yes. They always say I am fake news. Anything that is critical is fake. Right? Have you been accused of being an imperialist spy? Gotinga: Yes. Have you ever been accused of being a communist operative? Espina-Varona: Yes. Have you ever been threatened with rape? Pia Ranada, multimedia journalist: Yes. What will stop you from reporting? Gutierrez: Nothing. Espina-Varona: Nothing. Ranada: Nothing. Lingao: Death? Acayan: Dude, you have to kill me. Three years ago, I had begun the report for The Telegraph by listing the questions and answers. Then I had written: “If there was a lump in many a throat, there was a knot in the gut too. One country was among those spotted more than once inside a vicious online propaganda machine that was described as a ‘shark tank’: India.” At the conference in 2018, Michael Golden, the then president of WAN-IFRA and the vice-chairman of the board of The New York Times Company, spoke of Gauri Lankesh, who had been shot dead a year earlier in Bangalore. Ressa requested all the Filipino journalists in the audience to stand up and be recognised for “trying to do our jobs”. Ressa thanked WAN-IFRA “for having our backs” and told the spellbound audience that her team back home was staying up at 1am to witness the moment. “My heart breaks when I look at what our young reporters and staff have to live with — and the courage they show in the face of brute force and impunity... the respect they continue to show authorities, the nightmares they fight at night, the mission that lives inside them,” she said. “My name is Maria Ressa. We are Rappler, and we will hold the line.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
09-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Supreme Court frowns on UP carnage probe||The Supreme Court on Friday suggested that Union minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashis, who is yet to be arrested, was receiving preferential treatment and said it was “not satisfied with the steps taken so far by the state government” in investigating the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage. “When there is a serious allegation of death or gunshot injury, will (all) the accused in this country be treated the same way? Sending notices like, ‘Please, come tell us’?” Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said, alluding to the Uttar Pradesh police merely summoning Ashis instead of arresting him. The bench, which included Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, said the police investigation was “not serious”, underlined that the officers involved were “local”, and said the probe should be conducted by some other agency to ensure a “fair, free and impartial investigation”. It added that the CBI could not be relied on in the present case — “for reasons known to you and all of us” — leaving open the possibility that it might consider constituting an independent probe team. The bench also made it a point to ask the state government to ensure that all the evidence was protected and preserved. Justice Ramana had turned livid at the outset when Uttar Pradesh additional advocate-general Garima Parshad sought a brief passover saying senior advocate Harish Salve, who was to represent the state government, was busy with some other matter. A passover refers to a brief postponement of proceedings. After Justice Ramana said no passover would be granted, Salve managed to log in for the virtual hearing. Salve began his arguments by saying “the young man who is being targeted…” only for the CJI to cut him short saying the charges were very serious. “We have given him notice; he has to show up at 11am tomorrow,” Salve said about Ashis, alleged to have been in a Thar jeep belonging to his father that had mowed down four protesting farmers and a journalist on Sunday. Ashis has already missed his first summons for questioning on Friday. Justice Ramana immediately asked: “Mr Salve, is it the same way we treat other accused, too, like sending notices, etc?” Salve suggested Ashis, also accused of shooting a farmer, had not been arrested because the post-mortem report did not show any bullet wounds. But the bench said this could not be a ground for not taking a murder accused into custody. Salve too admitted that “the manner in which the car was driven and if the allegations are true — I’m saying if the allegations are true — there is a 302 (murder) case”. The CJI then said: “This is the opinion of the bench. This is a responsible state government and police, but when there is a serious allegation of death or gunshot injury, will (all) the accused in this country be treated the same way? Sending notices like, ‘Please, come tell us’?” The bench added: “The way the investigation is proceeding, it seems the police are not serious. Who are the people in the SIT (special investigation team) — you have your DIG, superintendent of police, circle officers, all local people, and this is what happens when all the local people are there.” When Salve said “action is being taken at the highest level”, Justice Ramana retorted: “Action is only in words here.” Justice Kohli observed: “Proof of the pudding is in the eating.” Justice Ramana then asked whether there was any request from the state to transfer the case to the CBI. “It is entirely in your Lordships’ hands. The state has not made such a request. Please have this matter on reopening (after a weeklong Dussehra vacation). If your Lordships are not satisfied with the progress, then you may hand it over to the CBI,” Salve said. Justice Ramana said: “We are not making comments. The CBI is not a solution for reasons known to you and all of us. It is better if some other person or agency investigates the matter. We can keep this after vacation and let us see how it progresses.” “We have to make a pudding which is palatable,” Salve conceded, hinting that some concrete action would be taken. “I have been assured at the highest level that between today and tomorrow, whatever is the shortfall will be filled up because the message has gone,” he said. The court, which had turned into a PIL a letter petition from two advocates seeking an independent probe into the Lakhimpur Kheri killings, fixed the next hearing for October 20. The court’s written order said it had gone through the status report in the Lakhimpur Kheri case “filed on behalf of the state of Uttar Pradesh in compliance of our order dated 07.10.2021”. “On a perusal of the status report and considering the submissions of learned senior counsel, we wish to observe that we are not satisfied with the steps taken so far by the state government. “The learned senior counsel has given an assurance to this court that he will talk to the concerned authorities of the state government and ensure that necessary steps be taken keeping in view the concern expressed by this court. Learned senior counsel also assured the court that he will communicate with the state government to get the investigation of the alleged incident conducted by some other agency so that fair, free and impartial investigation is held. “Learned senior counsel also assured the court that he will communicate with the concerned highest police authorities in the state to protect and preserve the evidence and other material relating to the incident in question.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
09-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Ashis Teni fails to answer police summons ||Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashis failed to answer a police summons for questioning on Friday in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, prompting farmer leaders to allege he was in hiding and the government was trying to protect him. The police have served a fresh notice asking Ashis to appear by 11am on Saturday or face legal action. Teni, who was in Lucknow to meet chief minister Yogi Adityanath, said Ashis could not appear for questioning because he was “not well today” but would have his statement recorded on Saturday. Teni declared his son innocent and denied he had gone into hiding. A statement from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which has been leading the 10-month-old farmer protests against three farm laws, said: “There is no trace of him (Ashis). News reports indicate that he is changing locations and is absconding, with several Uttar Pradesh police teams searching for him.” Adityanath told a TV interviewer that nobody would be arrested until there was concrete evidence against them. Reminded about the allegation that Ashis was in a car that mowed down farmers, he said “there is no such video (showing Ashis)”. A Thar jeep belonging to Teni and a Fortuner had run over and killed four protesting farmers and a journalist at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday afternoon with some eyewitnesses saying Ashis, also known as Monu, was in the car. Following the deaths, the farmers are alleged to have killed a driver and two BJP workers. Some reports said Ashis, named in the murder FIR, may have fled to Nepal. Deputy inspector-general (headquarters) Upendra Agarwal, head of the nine-member team probing the incident, had waited in vain for Ashis at the police lines on Friday morning before issuing the fresh notice. It was pasted on the wall of the minister’s home in the afternoon. Adityanath, asked by the TV interviewer whether Ashis was absconding, skirted the question. “An SIT (special investigation team) and a judicial commission have been formed. The judicial commission will probe the reasons behind the incident and the SIT will investigate deeper into the case,” he said. Asked about Ashis’s alleged culpability, he said: “There’s no such video (showing him at the scene) till now. We have given out a phone number and told people to share evidence (via WhatsApp).... No action will be taken against anybody under pressure from anybody.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
09-10-2021||India||Supreme Court collegium iterates Sakya Sen’s name for third time||The Supreme Court collegium on Friday iterated Calcutta advocate Sakya Sen for elevation as a judge of Calcutta High Court, rejecting for the third time the objections apparently raised by the Union government. “The Supreme Court Collegium in its meeting held on 8th October, 2021 has, on reconsideration, resolved to reiterate its earlier recommendations for elevation of Shri Sakya Sen, advocate, as judge in Calcutta High Court,” said a brief resolution passed by the collegium of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices U.U. Lalit and A.M. Khanwilkar. In another resolution, the collegium approved a proposal to elevate Soubhik Mitter, advocate, as a judge of Calcutta High Court. The collegium also recommended nearly two dozen others for elevation to different high courts in the country. Sakya Sen is the son of Justice Shyamal Sen, former acting chief justice of Calcutta High Court, acting governor of Bengal, and former Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court. He had also headed two panels linked to the jurisdiction of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration and the Saradha scam. While no official reason has been cited for not elevating Sakya Sen till now, sources said one reason could be his relative young age. He was said to have been in his early forties when the first recommendation was made in 2017 by the then collegiums, headed by then Chief Justice Dipak Misra. The memorandum of procedure requires a minimum age of 45 for elevation to a high court. The collegium had then said the high court collegium had recommended the name, probably considering his ability and performance in the court and the shortage of judges from the Bar. “In the case of Shri Sakya Sen, we approve his name for elevation in relaxation of the age criterion,” the Supreme Court collegium had said. However, on August 8, 2018, following objections from the Centre that Sabyasachi Chaudhury and Sakya Sen were too young, the collegium remitted their case back to the Calcutta High Court collegium. On July 24, 2019, the Supreme Court collegium made a fresh recommendation for Sakya Sen’s elevation. On September 1 this year, while the four other names were iterated by the collegium, Sakya Sen was not mentioned. But on Friday, the collegium iterated his name.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
09-10-2021||India||LAC: Sources confirm India-China 'face-off' in Tawang  last week ||Indian and Chinese troops were locked in a “face-off” for a few hours last week at Tawang sector in Arunachal Pradesh after nearly 200 Chinese soldiers crossed into the Indian side, defence ministry sources said on Friday. The latest incursion comes a month after about 100 Chinese soldiers had transgressed 5km across the Line of Actual Control in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand on August 30 and damaged a wooden bridge before retreating. These transgressions have come amid a 17-month-old border standoff between the two sides in eastern Ladakh following Chinese incursions since May 5 last year. However, neither India’s defence ministry nor its army has yet made any official disclosure about the Uttarakhand and Arunachal transgressions, prompting veterans to suggest that silence may now be the official policy. “Chinese aggression started with Ladakh and has reached Uttarakhand and Arunachal, but the government is still having us believe that no one entered Indian territory,” a retired lieutenant general told The Telegraph. On June 19 last year, four days after a clash in the Galwan Valley had killed 20 Indian soldiers and at least 4 Chinese troops, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said no one had entered Indian territory or occupied Indian posts. The comment prompted Beijing to immediately claim ownership of all the areas it held within India-claimed lines. “Nearly 200 Chinese troops crossed over into (Arunachal) last week and were stopped by Indian military personnel. The matter was resolved and troops from both sides disengaged after the local commanders intervened,” a defence ministry official said. “The standoff continued for a few hours. The situation was brought under control after a customary banner drill, during which both sides held up banners before marching back to their respective positions.” An army source confirmed the incident but avoided saying the Chinese had transgressed. “The two countries have differing perceptions about the LAC, which is not formally demarcated. Peace and tranquillity has been made possible by adhering to the existing agreements and protocols,” he said. “Both sides undertake patrolling up to their line of perception. Whenever patrols of both sides meet physically, the situation is managed according to protocols and mechanisms agreed by both sides. Physical engagement can last a few hours prior to disengagement, which takes place according to mutual understanding.” Transgressions and border skirmishes are not uncommon along stretches of the disputed, 3,488km China border along Arunachal, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh. The Indian Army chief, General M.M. Naravane, had last week said that border incidents with China would continue until a long-term solution in the form of a boundary agreement was reached. In eastern Ladakh, the Chinese are estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. Twelve rounds of military talks have taken place. There’s been “partial” disengagement from the Galwan Valley, Pangong Lake and Gogra but the standoffs at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains continue. General Naravane last week sounded an alert about a heavy Chinese troop build-up across the eastern Ladakh border. Days later, the air force chief, Air Chief Marshal V.R. Chaudhari, said China had deployed its air force in three Tibetan bases across the LAC from Ladakh but added that the IAF was fully prepared for any eventuality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
09-10-2021||India||Congress accuses Modi and BJP of standing with a criminal ||The Congress on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the entire BJP were standing with a criminal to deny justice to the farmers murdered in a horrific incident never witnessed before in the country. Expressing shock at the continuance of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, who is also a murder accused in another case, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “India’s Constitution has become captive of criminals; the rule of law is being mowed down by jeeps and the sentiment of the judiciary is being deliberately ignored.” The party ran a social media campaign throughout the day to highlight the Prime Minister’s silence and inaction on the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre that has shaken the nation’s conscience. On October 10, Priyanka Gandhi will address a Kisan Nyay rally in Varanasi to press for justice for the victims. Surjewala asked since when police had started pleading with criminals to appear in a murder case, referring to the summons sent to Mishra’s son Ashis on two successive days. Ashis is accused of mowing down the farmers. “Uttar Pradesh police is treating the minister’s son like son-in-law. They are issuing summons to the murder accused. The government goes to the court to say firing might have happened but it missed the target. The court had to say it expects a responsible government. Both the Modi and Yogi (Adityanath) governments as well as the BJP appear to be standing with the criminals,” he said. Pointing to the irony of the minister himself being a murder accused, Surjewala said: “A murder case was filed against Ajay Mishra (Teni) and others in 2004. How will justice be delivered if the case is not decided in 17 years? On March 12, 2018, Allahabad High Court reserved an order on whether a murder trial will continue against Mishra or not. For three years, the order was not passed and Mishra became a central minister. The Supreme Court should take note of this case. We demand a special bench to complete the process in this case in two days and report to the Supreme Court in the next hearing what has to be done.” A delegation of Punjab leaders headed by Navjot Singh Sidhu met the families of the victims in Lakhimpur on Friday. Sidhu announced that he would sit on fast from Saturday till the minister’s son is arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
09-10-2021||India||India to drop jab terms for UK||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar on Friday spoke to his British counterpart Elizabeth Truss and agreed to facilitate travel between India and the UK, indicating that New Delhi is prepared to drop the quarantine requirements for British nationals travelling from the UK after London on Thursday announced willingness to recognise India’s vaccine certification. “Good to talk to UK Foreign Secretary @trussliz. Agreed to facilitate travel between our two countries. This will help to implement the Roadmap 2030,’’ Jaishankar tweeted on Friday afternoon. Britain had on Thursday  announced that travellers from India who are fully vaccinated with any vaccine recognised by the UK regulator will not require to quarantine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
09-10-2021||India||Karnataka: Ten persons arrested for 'murdering' Muslim youth ||Ten persons have been arrested on the charge of murdering a Muslim youth who was in a relationship with a Hindu girl in Belgaum, Karnataka. The girl’s parents — Eerappa Basavanna Kumbar, 54, and Susheela Kumbar, 42 — and members of a Hindu Right-wing organisation named Sree Ram Sena Hindustan were among those arrested on Friday, 10 days after the dismembered body of Arbaz Aftab Mulla, 24, was found near railway tracks at Khanapur in Belgaum district, 500km from Bangalore. The decapitated body was found with hands tied at the back and multiple stab wounds. Arbaz was a used-car dealer who lived with his widowed mother, Najeema Shaikh, a schoolteacher. Sena leader Pundalik Maharaj, who was among seven persons detained on Sunday after figuring in the FIR, is also among those arrested. Those arrested have been booked under IPC Sections 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 341 (wrongful restraint), 120b (criminal conspiracy), 384 (extortion) and 388 (extortion by threat of an offence punishable with death). The maximum punishment is the death sentence. In her complaint, Najeema had accused the girl’s father and members of the Sena of repeatedly threatening her and her son over the interfaith relationship. The little-known organisation is said to be inspired by the Sree Ram Sene, a larger outfit that has a history of attacks against minority communities and their interests. The Sree Ram Sene has denied any link with the Sree Ram Sena Hindustan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
09-10-2021||India||DU teacher cries ‘marks jihad’ by Kerala school board students||A Delhi University teacher and former chief of a Right-wing organisation has described as “marks jihad” the increasing number of Kerala school board students securing admission in DU colleges with 100 per cent marks in the Class XII exams. The Kerala government has rejected as “baseless” the allegation of Rakesh Kumar Pandey, associate professor of physics at Kirori Mal College, and said there was no leniency in the award of marks. In a Facebook post on Wednesday, Pandey, former president of the Right-wing National Democratic Teachers’ Front, said: “A college had to admit 26 students in a course having 20 seats only because they all had 100 per cent marks from Kerala board. For last few years, Kerala board is implementing #MarksJihad.” “If any board wants to control the admission in DU, it can do so by giving 100 per cent marks. I have been watching a trend for the last three years. There is an increase in the number of students from Kerala Board of Higher Secondary Education with 100 per cent marks. I feel there is a motif (sic) behind this. Some people want to send their volunteers into DU.” Students, teachers and lawmakers have criticised the use of the term “jihad” and the levelling of allegations against a particular state board without any evidence. In Islam, jihad means “struggle”. Pandey on Friday claimed he had not made any communal innuendo, but had referred to the communist ideology. Kerala has a communist government. The teacher’s comment is an extension of the Right-wing’s propensity to project a fallacious interpretation of the idea of “jihad” and use the term to besmirch a particular religion and attribute sinister motives to everyday actions. Pandey’s comments also appeared to be born out of the warped view that envisioned a new course at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) that links Islamist and communist terror and describes “jihadi terrorism” as the only form of “fundamentalist-religious inspired terrorism”. Pandey reinforced such a belief when he told The Telegraph on Friday: “The term love jihad is used when you manipulate love to spread a religion. Here I found the board is being manipulated (to award more) marks to spread an ideology. I saw a parallel, so I used the word jihad. I did not mean religion here. The Left ideology is declining at DU and JNU. This is a way to send volunteers to maintain their strength.” “Love jihad” is a Right-wing coinage to describe a relationship between a Muslim man and a Hindu woman. Recently, a Kerala bishop added another dimension to it by claiming that a “narcotics jihad” was leading the state’s youths to addiction. There has been an attempt in Kerala recently to drive a communal wedge in the state that has a Muslim population of over 25 per cent. Together, Muslims and Christians number close to Kerala’s Hindu population, an unusual demographic mix in the country. Pandey claimed that the students and teachers protesting his social media post were either from Left or Congress forums. “No religious group has objected to my post. It was not meant for them,” he said. In his Facebook post, Pandey claimed that DU-affiliated colleges were having to take in students in excess of the number of seats because of alleged bloating of marks. Pandey said that in terms of number of students securing 100 per cent marks in Class XII exams, the Kerala board was second only to the CBSE, which is a national board with many more students. He claimed that most students from the Kerala board were not able to communicate in Hindi or English. One of the reasons Pandey has doubted foul play is that almost none of the Kerala school board students who had scored 100 per cent in the Class XII board exams had achieved the feat in Class XI. Mohammad Hanish, principal secretary in the Kerala department of general education that oversees the functioning of the school board, said the board had conducted the exam in a fair manner and that there had been no leniency in the award of marks. “The comments by the professor are baseless. There is no question of inflation of marks. No undeserving student has got 100 per cent marks,” Hanish said. Jeeban Babu K, director in the department of general education, said the state board had conducted the exams physically in schools this year unlike other boards, referring to the pandemic-time upward trend in marks due to the cancellation of physical exams by them and assessment on the basis of formulae that took previous exams and internal performance into consideration. “Our students appeared in the exam and got marks. Because the schools were open for a few days for classes and practicals, certain relaxations were given. We identified certain chapters in each subject to be the focus areas from which most questions were set. Also, more question options were available,” Babu said. CPM Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas criticised Pandey for trying to create a communal divide in society. In a letter to Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Brittas urged him to issue a strong condemnation of the academic’s comments and ensure action was taken against Pandey. “At no stretch of the imagination, those comments can be considered as accidental but are intended to defame Kerala and to create polarisation in the society,” Brittas wrote. “His comments are suspected as a part of a deliberate attempt to cause divide and suspicion among students from outside states who are studying in DU. What further aggravates the situation is that his comments of marks jihad are not only derogatory in nature but also… (aimed) to cause communal divide and tension between various religions,” he wrote. Student outfits such as the National Students Union of India (NSUI), Students Federation of India (SFI) and the All India Students Association (AISA) have disapproved of Pandey’s comments and organised protests. DU Teachers’ Association president Rajib Ray said: “All the boards in the country are given the same preference by DU. The term ‘marks jihad’ should be resisted.” Rajesh Jha, a college teacher associated with Academics for Action and Development, said no particular board should be targeted as liberal marking was a common phenomenon now. “Stereotyping a board of a state or a region is unacceptable. A researcher can point to the general trend of liberal marking and how students from across boards are scoring 100 per cent marks,” Jha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
09-10-2021||India||Shows of strength by Paswan’s relatives on first death anniversary||The first death anniversary of former Union minister and Lok Janshakti Party founder Ram Vilas Paswan on Friday turned out to be a show of strength between his brother and Union minister for food processing industries Pashupati Kumar Paras and son Chirag Paswan, an MP. While Paras, who heads the Rashtriya LJP, observed the occasion in Patna, Chirag, leader of LJP (Ram Vilas), did so in Delhi. Top leaders from various parties chose to attend the functions according to their inclination towards he ruling dispensation or the Opposition. Leaders from the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) attended the event organised by Paras, while Chirag’s programme attracted top Opposition leaders of the country, apart from a few from the BJP. Paras had engineered a split in the LJP in June this year, walking away with five of its six Lok Sabha members, leaving Chirag to fend for himself. Later on, Paras was inducted as a minister in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s council of ministers. The Election Commission recently allotted names and symbols to the two separate entities — sewing machine for the Rashtriya LJP and helicopter for the LJP (Ram Vilas) — for the bypolls to two Assembly seats on October 30. Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan, chief minister Nitish Kumar, deputy chief ministers and BJP leaders Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi as well as several other leaders from the NDA went to the programme organised by Paras and paid homage to Ram Vilas. “We have gathered here to pay tributes to Ram Vilasji. People will remember the work done by him and his popularity will always remain. I had personal relations with him and I will always respect him. He passed away last year, but it was not an age to go. We will do whatever is needed to carry his memory among the masses,” Nitish told mediapersons. Nitish had not attended the first barsi (first death anniversary according to the Hindu lunar calendar) organised by Chirag in Patna in September. Both the leaders do not see eye to eye since Chirag fielded candidates against Nitish’s Janata Dal United in the 2020 Assembly elections — a move that the JDU has blamed for its poor performance. The JDU managed to win just 43 seats while the undivided LJP bagged just one seat. Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad’s eldest son and MLA Tej Pratap Yadav, said to be estranged from his party, also attended the event in Patna and paid tributes to the leader. Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Lalu and his daughter and Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury and several others attended the programme organised by Chirag at 12 Janpath in New Delhi. Chirag welcomed everybody with verve on the occasion, but stayed away from making political comments in public. However, the presence of the senior Opposition leaders gave credence to the speculations that they were reaching out to Chirag to bring him into their fold. In fact, Lalu and his younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav have been urging Chirag to switch over to their camp. The event at 12 Janpath also saw Rahul holding the hand of Lalu and having a hearty chat. It also laid to rest the speculation about bitterness between their parties over the bypolls to two Assembly seats in Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
09-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP targets Durga Puja pandal, which potrays farmers' protest, over use of shoes||The BJP on Saturday objected to the use of shoes for "decorating" a Durga puja pandal here, alleging that it would hurt religious sentiments of people. Organisers of the puja pandal in Dumdum, however, rejected the assertion and said that the shoe installation on the sidewalk leading to the marquee depicts farmers' movement in the country, and the Durga idol, set up at a considerable distance from it, is surrounded by paddy stacks. Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari said in a tweet on Saturday that the organisers have committed a "heinous act" by adorning the pandal wall with shoes, and urged the chief secretary and home secretary to look into the matter. "A Durga Puja pandal in Dumdum Park has been decorated with shoes. This heinous act of insulting Maa Durga in the name of 'Artistic liberty' won't be tolerated. I urge the Chief & Home Secretary @egiye_bangla to intervene and compel the organizers to remove the shoes before Shashti," he added. Echoing him, former Meghalaya governor and veteran BJP leader Tathagata Roy told reporters that "everything cannot be tolerated in the name of artistic freedom. This is a grave insult to goddess Durga and hurts our religious sentiment". An office-bearer of Dumdum Park Bharat Chakra puja committee, on his part, clarified that the shoe installation was at a distance from the pandal. "Our theme, this year, is farmers' agitation. As part of the theme, the path leading to the pandal has shoe installations to symbolise a scene after a police lathicharge on agitating farmers, which forced them to run helter skelter. Such scenes were witnessed recently. "Inside the marquee, Devi Durga and her progeny are surrounded by paddy stacks," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
09-10-2021||West Bengal||Rivalry whiff in attack on Trinamul duo, 1 dead on spot||A Trinamul activist died after he and his aide were hacked and shot by unidentified assailants in North 24-Parganas late on Thursday night. Police sources said Mofazzel Haque, owner of a prawn culture farm and a booth-level organiser, was returning home with a close aide Hafizur Gazi on a bike when a group of about eight goons waylaid them near Rajapur market in Champapukur area of Matia. “The gang stabbed the duo with sharp weapons and to ensure that they are dead, the assailants fired at them from close range and fled. Haque, 51, died on the spot and Gazi is admitted to Basirhat super-speciality hospital in a critical condition,” said a source. The police said Haque had pending criminal cases against him and was out on bail. After preliminary probe, the police claimed that the murder was a fallout of old business rivalry. “We are looking into all possible aspects behind the murder. We have got some leads and will arrest the culprits soon,” said an officer. The sources informed that two years ago, Haque escaped an attempt on his life. Some goons had tried to hack him and opened fire at him. The attack was allegedly led by a rival gang with whom Haque had developed animosity over his prawn culture business. Local Trinamul leader Abu Ishaq Mondal blamed the BJP for the murder. “The local BJP leadership with the help of goons have unleashed terror in the area ever since they lost the Assembly polls,” he said. The BJP, however, refuted the allegation. BJP Basirhat district organising committee president Tarak Ghosh said: “We don’t have any organisation in the area. The murder is an outcome of a rivalry between Trinamul-backed goons. They are blaming us to divert attention.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
09-10-2021||West Bengal||Elephants spoil Durga Puja leave of forest officials ||The forest department in Bankura has cancelled Durga Puja leave for all employees, including senior officers, from Friday in a move aimed at managing 80-odd elephants that entered the district in herds from Dalma forest in Jharkhand. The elephants have most recently been spotted in the Beliatore and Barjora regions of Bankura’s north forest division. “It is not a cakewalk to manage 80 elephants at a time. We have to drive them away. We have cancelled Durga Puja leave of all our employees for better handling of the animals,” said Kalyan Rai, the divisional forest officer of Bankura (North). Sources said DFO Rai, who was scheduled to be on Puja leave, had to cancel his plan. Officials said there was also another herd of around 20 elephants on the way to Bankura and may enter the district any time. Apart from the challenge to drive away such a huge number of elephants, foresters are worried about possible reasons that could have led such a large number of elephants to enter in small groups. Officials said there were at least four herds that had come from Jharkhand and interestingly, they chose Bankura in place of other Jungle Mahal districts like Jhargram, Purulia and pockets of West Midnapore. A senior forest official said they suspected the reason behind the movement being recent flooding and heavy rains in terrains that elephants frequent. “Usually, elephants from Jharkhand move to several parts of four Jungle Mahal districts. But this time, West Midnapore and Jhargram received the most rainfall during the rainy season. Elephants can’t move easily through silt or muddy land owing to their weight. This may have led them to turn towards Bankura,” said a forester. All elephants entered Bankura through West Midnapore and Jhargram districts but proceeded directly to Bankura by crossing the Rupnarayan and Dwarakeswar rivers. “Despite Bankura having received heavy rainfall a few days back, the water has fully drained owing to the laterite soil of the district,” he added. The other theory is that the elephants had to wait to cross into Bengal as the rivers in Jungle Mahal were flowing above the danger-level due to heavy rain and release of water from several dams. "The elephants always come by crossing rivers from Jharkhand. It is tough for them to cross the rivers if they are in spate. It may be that several herds had been waiting on the bank of a river in Jharkhand and crossed together as soon as the water level dropped," said a forester. The forest department in Bankura has already issued a red-alert in pockets of Bankura’s Beliatore, where the elephants are residing now. Villagers in those pockets said that they are very worried as the elephants are raiding paddy fields and destroying crops. “The paddy will ripen soon and green paddy is the favourite food for elephants. Earlier, there were one or two elephants that used to destroy small amounts of crops. We don’t know what happens if fields are raided by 80 elephants at a time,” said Biswarup Nayak, a villager from Jambedia village in Bankura’s Beliatore. “It is another threat for us before the Pujas as it would be a threat for us to use the road through the forest to visit pandals in Barjora or Bankura town,” said Nayak. “We have already formed teams and are trying to drive away the animals. We have to drive the herd away through the same route through which they came here. However, it is a time-consuming process as the number of elephants is high,” said Rai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
09-10-2021||West Bengal||Rajasthan resident arrested for  Rs 1crore fraud in Siliguri||A Rajasthan resident has been arrested for allegedly cheating a number of Siliguri residents over Rs 1 crore while promising them earning opportunity by making “velvet pencils”. Velvet pencils are made from the scrap of recycled plastic and are used for drawing. According to police sources, a case was registered at the Siliguri police station on July 9 against a firm of conning various residents of Siliguri and surrounding areas. “The representatives of the company had promised these residents that they would help them in setting velvet pencil making units and collected money from them. However, instead of meeting the promise, Hemant Sharma, the principal accused and some others, fled with around Rs 1.50 crore which they had collected from people,” said a police officer. The police finally managed to trace Sharma in Jaipur of Rajasthan on October 4. “Our team arrested Sharma and produced him in a local court in Jaipur. The court then ordered a transit remand for seven days. On Thursday, the team reached Siliguri with the prime accused. We will interrogate him to know about his accomplices and the money,” the officer added. In another incident, the Border Security Force (BSF) posted at the India-Bangladesh border in Pathanpara of Jalpaiguri district intercepted two suspected Indian smugglers from near the border on Thursday. Sources said one kilo of cannabis and a two-wheeler were seized from Parimal Roy and Bishu Roy. The duo are residents of Manikganj in Jalpaiguri. Both have been handed over to the police. Timber seizure The foresters of Sarugarah range under Baikunthapur forest division has seized teak logs worth around Rs 20 lakh from Fulbari, located on the southern end of Siliguri. The foresters said they searched a truck loaded with old furniture and found the logs concealed beneath the furniture. “The illegal timber was loaded in the vehicle somewhere in Arunachal Pradesh and it was on its way to Bihar. The truck driver managed to escape before the raid. We are in search of him,” said a forest officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
09-10-2021||West Bengal||Rural trade registration to go online in Bengal||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to introduce an online system at the panchayat level for issuing registration certificates or trade licenses. The shift to the online system to carry out any commercial activity in panchayat areas is part of an attempt to improve ease of doing business in the state. On Thursday, the state panchayat and rural development department issued an order, mentioning that from now on, such certificates would be issued online and on a real time mode. “Under the new system, new registration certificates as well renewal of old certificates would be issued from panchayat offices immediately after online submission of application and payment of necessary fees. Those would be generated by the system and no physical signature would be required for it,” said a source in the department. The decision, which will come into effect from November 4 according to the order, is aimed at encouraging commercial activities across Bengal so that jobs are created even in remote areas. Ahead of the Assembly polls, the chief minister had time and again promised that 1.5 crore jobs would be created in the next five years. "Hasslefree dealings with the government will encourage youths to come forward and set up their ventures even in rural areas... And if small commercial ventures come up in rural areas, it will generate employment for local people... That in turn will ease the pressure on big cities like Calcutta as unemployed people tend to migrate from rural areas to urban areas in search of jobs," said a senior government official. This is the reason why the state government has recently relaxed criteria for setting up of private industrial parks and announced incentives for them. “The state is focusing on small industries which are labour intensive to create more jobs,” said a source. In the order, the process of application has also been simplified. Earlier, any applicant, for a new certificate or for renewal of his existing certificate, had to submit a series of documents at the panchayat office. “However, from now on, the applicant will have to submit only two documents, an identity proof and another document which would prove occupancy or ownership of his business address would be required. Added to it, the applicant will have to submit a declaration that he has obtained certificates of statutory compliances from appropriate authorities. This would largely expedite the process of issuing new certificates from the panchayat offices,” said a state government official. Among the statutory compliances include certificates from different departments and agencies like fire services, pollution control board, excise, customs, RBI and SEBI. In the order, it has also been mentioned that not a single registration certificate would be issued offline by any panchayat. The certificates issued online will be valid for three years. Representatives of trade bodies, who have time and again mentioned that it takes time to get the certificate which in many occasions discourages a private entrepreneur from making investments, have lauded the decision. “It is an important move that can boost private investment in rural areas. In towns and cities, there is not much space left to open industrial units. Now that the process has been made online at the panchayat level, we expect it would bring fresh investments in the MSME sector across north Bengal and in the state as a whole,” said Sanjay Tibrewal, chairman of the NB zonal council of the Confederation of Indian Industry. Additional reporting by Pranesh Sarkar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
09-10-2021||West Bengal||Tri-Services Expedition team receives a warm reception ||The Mount Khangchengyao Tri-Services Expedition team received a warm reception at Sukna, the headquarters of 33 Corps of the Indian Army located on the outskirts of Siliguri, on Friday. Lt Gen AK Singh, the GOC of 33 Corps, also known as the Trishakti Corps, congratulated the team — including two women officers in addition to officers and jawans from army, Indian Air Force and Indian navy — on accomplishment of the expedition under very challenging conditions. On September 20, the expedition to Mount Khangchengyao, located in north Sikkim, was flagged off from Gurudongmar Lake and the team made it to the summit on October 2. Situated at a height of 6,889 metres, Mt Khangchengyao is considered as one of the most challenging peaks because of steep climbs, vertical ice walls, freezing temperatures and rarefied atmosphere. Army sources said that the expedition was planned as part of the celebrations to commemorate the golden jubilee of the 1971 war.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
09-10-2021||West Bengal||TMC insulted House by handing over party flag to Dutta: BJP||BJP MLAs led by Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari demonstrated in front of the statue of Dr B.R. Ambedkar on the campus of the Assembly on Friday, alleging that the Trinamul Congress had insulted the Constitution and the House by handing over the party flag to Sabyasachi Dutta. Dutta had switched to the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls and he rejoined Trinamul on Thursday. Trinamul secretary general and state’s parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee, along with transport minister Firhad Hakim, handed over the party’s flag to Dutta. The opposition MLAs have alleged that such activities are against constitutional norms. “The lamentable act of the parliamentary affairs minister conducting party affairs inside the Assembly is an attack on the constitutional norms. We are protesting against this vitiation,” said Adhikari. Speaking to journalists, Adhikari said the BJP would lodge complaints with Speaker Biman Banerjee and governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. He also said once the courts open after the Puja vacation, his party would file a PIL over the matter. CPM MP Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya also took a dig at Trinamul. Trinamul leader and minister Subrata Mukherjee said that there is nothing wrong in what happened on Thursday. “Nothing is written anywhere against it,” Mukherjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
09-10-2021||West Bengal||Active Covid-19 cases inch up again in Bengal||Bengal on Friday recorded a rise again, for the ninth day in the past 13 days, in total active Covid-19 cases, as it increased by 32 to 7,625, with 784 new infections, 746 recoveries and six deaths. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases on September 26. The state has 3.2 per cent of the national total of active cases, and remains seventh on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 158 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 128. These are the two districts in the state to record three-digit figures of new infections. Seven districts reported single-digit figures. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.06 per cent on Friday. Nineteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday. Calcutta logged one, while North 24-Parganas reported two. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.9. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.75 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.48 lakh recoveries and 18,882 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
09-10-2021||West Bengal||Hogol river devours 29 homes in South 24-Parganas||Around 200 persons were rendered homeless as 29 houses caved in owing to a sudden erosion of the Hogol river banks at Radhaballabhpur village of Basanti in South 24-Parganas since early on Friday. Local sources said a breach in the dyke along the river had caused the erosion that eventually led to residential houses collapsing like a pack of cards barely within two hours from 4.30am. Although several people lost their properties ahead of the festive season, no loss of life has been reported. The loss of human lives was averted as the administration had apprehended the vulnerable condition of the dyke and arranged for timely evacuation of at least 15 families from their houses on Thursday night. After the houses were lost to the erosion, officials of the district administrations, irrigation officials and local MLA Shyamal Mondal rushed to the spot and shifted the victims to Chandrakona free school and provided them with relief materials and food.  South 24-Parganas district magistrate P. Ulaganathan said: “We managed to evacuate 15 families apprehending a threat on Thursday night. The victims have been provided with necessary disaster relief and the irrigation department has begun the repair of the bank.” The district administration has also identified around 50 more vulnerable houses located on a 250m-stretch along the dyke. “They will be shifted to safer zones by Friday night,” Mondal told The Telegraph, adding that chief minister Mamata Banerjee had been informed and all necessary support and rehabilitation initiatives would be taken up as per her advice. A team of engineers of the irrigation department as well as the officials of Canning subdivision examined the damaged dyke so that the repair could be taken up fast. The officials later held meetings to chalk out a rehabilitation plan for the victims since they would not be allowed to stay adjacent to the dyke. The loss of property has angered local residents who blamed the irrigation department and the district administration for negligence in repairing the dam on time. Local residents claimed they had sensed danger as the water level of Hogol increased alarmingly following the recent spell of incessant rain. “The dyke lacked maintenance for a long time. We feared a breach and had alerted the panchayat authorities about the poor condition of the dyke. But they did not pay heed to our appeal. Only last night when the water level began to rise further that officials came and asked us to evacuate our houses. Some people managed to shift their valuables, while saw everything disappear into the water in front of their eyes,” said a local resident. Local residents said the erosion started at around 4.30am when most villagers were asleep and woke up when neighbours raised an alarm. “I woke up suddenly with a tremor and rushed out of the house fearing an earthquake. A while later my house disappeared into the river. I could save nothing. I was preparing for daughter’s marriage, now everything is gone,” said an inconsolable Runu Seikh, who was surrounded by Ansar Seikh, Feroz Khan, Iman Khan, Mainuddin Ansari, Sahajada Seikh and Anwar Hossain who too have lost their homes. “I woke up to a crushing sound and rushed outside. I stood helpless as my home was eaten up by the river. I could not save anything," said Anwar and questioned the failure of the government machinery to act on time. While DM Ulaganathan said that a rehabilitation plan for the victims would be finalised soon, MLA Shyamal Mandal said: "We are planning to shift all people living on the vulnerable stretch adjacent to the dyke. We will not allow them to live there risking their lives and properties."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
09-10-2021||West Bengal||Leopard traced and caged near zoo in Jhargram||Forest department officers found the leopard, which had slipped out of the mini zoo in the town, inside the Jhargram forest reserve on Friday morning and managed to bring the animal back to the enclosure 17 hours after the escape. The officers had initially feared the leopard was roaming free and that led to panic among Jhargram residents. The zoo is on the outskirts of Jhargram town from where the forest starts. “We had to target it with some sedative shots in order to cage it,” said a zoo official. He added that the zoo would “remain closed for a few days”. The forest officers and police had put the town on high alert on Thursday afternoon after the leopard’s escape. Market areas and stores were abruptly shut around 7pm after the police began public announcements asking people to be on alert. Officials from Calcutta were called in late on Thursday in order to assist in the search operation. The animal was sighted within a few hours after the officers traced its footprints, following which the team set up a cage to lure it back into its enclosure. However, when that did not work, the leopard was sedated. “We think he had successfully escaped from the zoo, but could not make her way too far in the dark and got disoriented,” said a Jhargram forest officer. On Thursday, the residents had raised their voices before the officials regarding how a big cat could have escaped its enclosure in the midst of purported high security and low footfall owing to Covid-19. On Friday, forest minister and Jhargram MLA Birbaha Hansda confirmed that the leopard had been found.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
09-10-2021||West Bengal||Nepal relaxes protocols for Indians travelling through land||The Nepal gate is barricaded with bamboo scaffold while the Indian check-post has not been raised since March last year. But in the festive season, a small “chor-bato (a short-cut pathway)” has turned into a lifeline for citizens to enter each other’s territory. After Nepal’s cabinet had decided on September 21 to allow in Indian vehicles, the first overland Indian tourists had entered Nepal through the Raxaul-Birgunj border from Bihar on October 1 The Nepal government has also relaxed travel protocols for Indians travelling through land. Indians need to submit a Covid-19 report obtained within 72 hours of departure from the first port of embarkation or within 72 hours of entering Nepal by land. They are also required to produce a printed copy of the international traveller arrival form obtained after online registration on www.ccmc.gov.np. On the Pashupatinagar border, which is 30km from Darjeeling town, the cabinet decision has not reached in writing but people are visiting the country without producing any documents. “We have heard that a decision has been taken to allow Indians to enter Nepal in vehicles but we have not received the instruction in writing and hence, are not issuing any permit,” said a Nepalese official at the border town. Indian officials, who also downed the gate, too, said they had not received any specific instruction to open the gates from the Indian government. “At the local level, Nepalese officials did approach us to allow vehicles to move but we have told them to take up the matter with embassy officials,” said a senior district official. However, through the lockdown, Indian commercial vehicles carrying essential items have been allowed to enter the country. Such entry is, however, allowed only from Naxal-Kakarivitta border near Siliguri and not through Pashupatinagar border. At a time when the “official” movement of people is tied up in red-tapism, a “short-cut” near the border posts has become the thoroughfare. Officials from both sides are overlooking the “chor-bato” movement. Of late, tourists are even allowed to enter the heart of Pashupatinagar bazar in Nepal, which is a kilometre away from the Nepal gate. “Earlier, Indian tourists were not allowed beyond the Nepal gate (which is 50 meters from India’s post) but now they allow the tourists to visit their town,” said an Indian official posted at the border. Many tourists visiting Darjeeling do go to Pashupatinagar “to get a feel of visiting a foreign country” and also for shopping. For many local people, the decision by officials of both the countries has come as a major relief. “There are relatives on both sides of the borders and for many, it has come as a major relief during Pujas. Many locals also go to Pashupatinagar for shopping,” said a local. The entry of Indian citizens at Pashupatinagar has brought some relief to the Nepalese businessman. “My shop would be chock-a-block during this period but not this time around. Nevertheless, the steady trickle from across the border has ensured some business,” said a Nepalese businesswoman who deals in “foreign clothes”. According to a report in Kathmandu Post, a leading English newspaper of Nepal, travel and tourism businesses account for around 8 per cent of Nepal’s gross domestic product and provided more than 1.05 million jobs directly and indirectly in pre-Covid times. Indians account for the largest number of travellers to Nepal. In the first eight months of 2021, Nepal received 33,680 Indian tourists by air, the paper reported. There were, however, no data of Indians crossing land border points. India and Nepal share a 1,800km-long border which is largely porous.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
09-10-2021||West Bengal||Union ministry orders probe into job scheme fund fraud||The Union ministry of rural development has ordered an inquiry into alleged misappropriation of funds worth Rs 200 crore in the 100-day work scheme in five districts of Bengal. But the Bengal government withheld permission for the probe, while the Centre said such a nod was not needed to conduct the investigation. According to a source aware of the developments, the ministry has set up five teams to conduct the inquiry into a complaint — forwarded to the cabinet secretary — that alleged that Rs 200 crore had been embezzled while purchasing materials for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in Bankura, Alipurduar, North Dinajpur, Jhargram and South 24-Parganas. Even as New Delhi informed Nabanna about its plan to conduct the probe, the Bengal administration has withheld permission for the inquiry citing that all expenditures were uploaded on the portal of the ministry on a daily basis and there was no need for the investigation by visiting gram panchayats. “The ministry has written to district administrations and the panchayat department that a total of four days would be required to complete the inquiry and reports need to be submitted by October 10. But as the state was yet to give permission to the teams to conduct an inquiry, the process has not yet started,” said a senior state government official. He added that the top brass of Nabanna would take a final call and a decision would be taken after Durga Puja whether to allow the teams to conduct the inquiry. According to sources, the gram panchayats, the implementing agency of the MGNREGA, buy materials for constructing roads or carrying out afforestation projects. “So far, the state government has spent nearly Rs 1,400 crore in procuring materials under the scheme in the 2021-22 fiscal. If there is an allegation that Rs 200 crore was misappropriated from the funds already spent, it is a serious charge,” said a bureaucrat. Each central investigating team, a source said, comprises members of five NGOs, registered as national-level monitors under the scheme, and one internal audit officer. “One NGO led by an internal audit officer would visit one district. But unless the permission is given from Calcutta, the teams cannot visit the districts,” said a state government official. One of the internal audit officers, who is supposed to come to Bengal, said the Centre didn’t require any nod from the state government to conduct a probe. “But according to the standard practice, permission has been sought from the additional chief secretary and panchayat and rural development department before initiating the inquiry. If the permission is not given, we would wait for the ministry’s instruction,” said the officer. Sources said the formal inquiry had been ordered after an additional secretary had visited the state to look into the progress of the MGNREGA in July-August and apparently found some irregularities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
09-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Meet the real 007||Spies, real or imagined, belong to the twilight zone. Furtive or ambiguous at best, their shadowy self is their greatest weapon to avoid detection. Some of the greatest flesh-and-blood spies of the world perfected this art of subterfuge. Melita Norwood, for instance, was an ‘innocuous’ assistant to the director of one of Britain’s atomic research centres, passing secrets on to the Russians. She evaded identification for almost four decades. Harold Philby’s access to the upper echelons of power — something that even surprised the usually unflappable Stalin — was made possible only because of his unassuming ways. Larry Wu-tai Chin, a mole for the Chinese communist party, went on to occupy sensitive positions in the American administration and military. Ironically, the carefully constructed image of the spy as a secretive creature was blown to smithereens with the arrival of — albeit on screen — the biggest spy of them all. James Bond has always been brash, ostentatious, promiscuous, larger than life — in other words, 007 is everything that manuals on espionage around the world would surely ask promising candidates not to be. But it seems that even Bond has had his all-too-visible wings clipped. In his latest adventure — No Time to Die has been received with a tumultuous welcome — the spy is hardly the over-the-top hero he is known to be. Pussy Galore would note — with relief — that James no longer forces himself on non-consenting women; neither does he leave Alcoholics Anonymous shaken and stirred by guzzling endless alcohol; he also seems to have discovered, at long last, that women and ethnic minorities need to be respected. The testosterone-driven, unabashedly masculine, gun-loving Bond seems to have become — almost — a modern, suave, self-effacing gentleman. Even his vocation has acquired a touch of realism. Bond, like his real peers in the British Secret Intelligence Service, tries to shun the licence to kill. The reasons for Bond becoming believable could be many. Middle age — Bond is, initially, in retirement in the film — cools down both testosterone and adventurism. After a lifetime of promiscuity and spilling blood, Bond could well be suffering a bite from his conscience. But James’s bonding with reality could also be because of a deeper, collective anxiety. In a world battling existential crises — from environmental Armageddon to a lethal virus — humanity seems to have discovered that heroes in real life do not wear tuxedos or capes: they, more often or not, are found draped in a doctor’s coat, wearing the scientist’s glasses or in workman’s clothes hunched in front of a computer. This tempering of the imagination with a dose of realism is likely to be temporary. Yet it could have interesting implications on the fictive realm — writing, cinema and the arts. Could culture’s renouncement — however transient — of the Believe it or Not syndrome lead to the revitalization of the wave of realism in the dizzyingly diverse creative universe? This could well be a sobering comeuppance for a civilization that has brought itself to the very edge of the abyss with the help of hubris and toxic fantasies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
09-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: BJP removes Varun and Maneka Gandhi from national executive committee||Firm stand Sir — The Bharatiya Janata Party removed Varun and Maneka Gandhi from its national executive committee hours after the former tweeted that the police should identify those involved in the death of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri and arrest them immediately (“BJP ire on Varun and Maneka”, Oct 8). When the BJP national president, J.P. Nadda, announced the 80-member list, people were quite surprised to see the Gandhis missing. This is a clear indication of the top leadership’s discontent with Varun Gandhi. The mother-son duo must take this opportunity to reconsider their political affiliation and break away from the sangh parivar. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — Varun Gandhi must be appreciated for speaking up against the violence at Lakhimpur Kheri. His firm stance against the brutal incident is in sharp contrast to the continued silence of the prime minister, Narendra Modi. While a thorough investigation must be conducted, it is evident from videos that a speeding vehicle trampled the peaceful protesters on the fateful day. After days of protests, two arrests have been made, but Ashish Mishra — son of the Union minister, Ajay Mishra, and the primary accused in the case — is still roaming free. The BJP’s lack of action shows how little it cares for the common people. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam Breathless Sir — According to a recent study by the network, C40 Cities, Calcutta witnessed 2,200 premature deaths owing to coal power plants in 2019 (“Choked”, Oct 7). The study further projected that the city is likely to witness 10,000 more premature deaths by 2030. These are alarming figures. If India is to meet the 2030 emissions goal, it must change its energy generation strategy immediately. Further, the health costs associated with coal pollution are estimated to stand at $46.5 billion over the next decade, more than twice India’s total public health expenditure in 2018. By continuing to support coal-fired power plants, the Centre and state governments are threatening the health of citizens as well as affecting India’s air quality targets. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The report by C40 Cities shows that about 20 per cent of India’s coal-generated electricity is restricted to within 500 kilometres of Calcutta. Yet, air pollution from coal-fired power plants travels long distances, putting everyone at risk, especially vulnerable citizens such as the young, the elderly and pregnant women. The state should take this up with the Centre. Kanchana Gupta,Calcutta Timeless act Sir — The demise of veteran actor, Arvind Trivedi, who played the role of Raavana in Ramanand Sagar’s Ramayan has broken the hearts of his fans. He was a mainstay of Hindi film and television and had acted in over 300 films. Trivedi will be remembered for his iconic role. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — The news of Arvind Trivedi’s death comes on the heels of Ghanshyam Nayak’s demise. We rarely appreciate the contributions of TV actors the way we adore film stars. They will be missed. Ishan Anand,Bokaro  Just words Sir — Audiobooks have become a popular way of introducing children to reading. These are supposed to expose kids to a variety of topics that may be difficult for them to read about on their own and help in speech development and listening skills. Yet, the visual component of children’s books is crucial. Without illustrations accompanying the words, children are unlikely to understand the import of the words they are hearing. Equally important is for children to visualize the alphabets — if they just hear words, they may confuse similar-looking alphabets such as ‘b’ and ‘d’ at a later stage. Perhaps audiobooks for children should come with illustrated books to match image to text. Preetha Sarkar,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
09-10-2021||Opinion||Positive notes: Global Citizen Festival||The star-studded Global Citizen Festival took place on the Central Park lawns in upper Manhattan on September 25. It was a 24-hour outdoor concert — 60,000 people attended it — with eminent musicians performing live. Performances also took place in Lagos, Paris, Rio de Janeiro, Los Angeles, London, Sydney, Mumbai and other cities. The festival is a fundraising campaign to address crises like hunger, climate change, and inequity in vaccine distribution. Noteworthy performances in New York included those by Jennifer Lopez, who herself hails from the Bronx, and the celebrity couple, Shawn Mendes and Camila Cabello — they performed separate sets, but Cabello did bring Mendes to the stage for their duet hit, “Senorita”. Lizzo energized the crowd with “Good as Hell” and “Truth Hurts”. The royal couple, Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, also dropped by. Prince Harry discussed the importance of vaccine equity. This music festival is part of Global Citizen’s year-long campaign, Recovery Plan for the World, where it calls upon governments and leaders to commit money to “kickstart an equitable global recovery.” While you didn’t have to buy tickets with money, you had to ‘earn’ your ticket. Through the app, you were invited to share educational messages on social media, sign petitions or write letters to local politicians to rack up ‘points’ to obtain a ticket. Heavyweight champion Every fall, the Katmai National Park and Preserve in Alaska hosts a competition to celebrate resilience and strength within nature. And who better to award but the fattest bear in town? What started out as Fat Bear Tuesday seven years ago has evolved into Fat Bear Week with the goal to evaluate how fat the Alaska bears get before hibernation in the upcoming winter. The park pits the participating bears against each other for people to vote online for who they believe is the fattest bear, in a manner similar to the NFL March Madness where winning teams per game dwindle by process of elimination. The competition commenced on September 29 and finished on October 5. The Katmai Park has just over 2,000 bears who feast heavily on sock-eye salmon. This year’s winner is 480 Otis. A total of over 7,93,000 votes were cast across all the rounds. Celebrate diversity We are in the middle of the country’s celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month, which spans from September 15 to October 15. It started as a week-long celebration in 1968 until President Ronald Reagan expanded it to a month in 1988. Who falls under the umbrella identity of Hispanic is a fraught question even today. When the US Census Bureau was trying to account for the presence of immigrants from Central American, South American and other countries, there was a lot of debate on how to group them. The terms, Hispanic, Latino, and even Brown, were thrown around. The word, Hispanic, comes from the Spanish word, Hispano, referring to someone coming from Spain. However, the origins and identities of people migrating from Latin American nations are complex, and not necessarily tied to Spain. The term, Latinx, is being brought to use more frequently, both as an alternative to Hispanic and as a gender-inclusive word. One of TV’s largest broadcast networks, NBCUniversal, features specials and segments, including “Generation LatinX”, “Dis(Owning) Hispanic” and “The New Latino Landscape”, to discuss the history and identity of the Latinx population — 62 million Americans. Other TV outlets and shows will showcase prominent Latinx business leaders, athletes who have faced challenges as well as film icons. In New York, the 57th annual Hispanic Day parade will take place tomorrow with 21 countries with delegations showcasing their music. Typically, celebrations involve food, music and dance around the Latinx culture. While those are important, discussions on history and plight are also crucial and this is somewhere the American education system is lagging behind. Curtain rises The much anticipated Academy Museum of Motion Pictures finally opened its doors last month in Los Angeles with a splashy green carpet with Hollywood stars appearing to pay homage to cinema. The seven-storey, 300,000 square-foot museum, which cost half a billion dollars, features a building that looks like a giant transparent sphere. Some refer to its shape as the ‘Death Star’, and the Los Angeles Times called it a ‘giant eye-ball’. Tickets cost $25 for adults to tour the museum. With an additional charge, you can enjoy the immersive, high-tech Oscar award ceremony simulation. The museum is already becoming a trendy spot, booked to be the location for the premieres of Ridley Scott’s drama, House of Gucci, starring Lady Gaga, and Guillermo del Toro’s Nightmare Alley. The opening night included Lady Gaga, H.E.R, Robert Pattinson, Zooey Deschanel, Rebel Wilson and many others. “It matters for Los Angeles to have this film museum,” said the actor, Tom Hanks, to a crowd during a media preview event a few days before the public opening, reported Daily News. The museum includes galleries showing the history of cinema, interactive displays, props from movies and the old projectors used prior to modern cameras. FOOTNOTE MGM Resorts in Las Vegas is teaming up with an auctioneer to sell 11 original Picasso paintings. It will take place on October 23, commemorating Picasso’s 140th birthday. So far the pieces have been displayed in exhibitions around the globe. Of these, Femme au béret rouge-orange, a portrait of his muse, Marie-Thérèse Walter, is expected to go for $20-$30 million. If that’s a little out of your budget, you could consider the least expensive item — a ceramic pitcher estimated at $60,000-$80,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
09-10-2021||Opinion||The kisan’s Sardar||In 1931, the annual meeting of the Indian National Congress was held in the port city of Karachi. Vallabhbhai Patel was elected president. Early in his address, Patel remarked: “You have called a simple farmer to the highest office to which any Indian can aspire. I am conscious that your choice of me as first servant is not so much for what little I might have done, but it is the recognition of the amazing sacrifice made by Gujarat. Out of your generosity you have singled out Gujarat for that honour. But in truth every province did its utmost during… the greatest national awakening that we have known in modern times.” In 1931, the Congress had been in existence for more than four decades. Yet in this time, it had never before elected a person born in a peasant household to head the organization, this despite Mahatma Gandhi’s own claim — and exhortation — that “India lives in her villages.” All past presidents of the Congress had been city-bred and city-raised. Vallabhbhai Patel was the first major leader of the freedom movement who came from a rural background. Notably, it was as a mobilizer of peasants that he first made his mark on the national stage. Recent discussions of Patel’s historical legacy have stressed his crucial role in the integration of the princely states and in furthering national unity in the aftermath of Independence and Partition. Those contributions were indeed substantial, but it would be a pity if an exclusive attention to them obscures his formative work as a peasant organizer. Indeed, it is Patel as a Sardar (leader) of the kisans who seems most relevant to us today when, for more than a year now, peasants in northern India have sustained a satyagraha against the Narendra Modi government. The Bardoli Satyagraha of 1928, which was led and organized by Vallabhbhai Patel, emphatically demonstrated the power and potential of non-violence in the cause of peasant self-respect. In this struggle, kisans in rural Gujarat mobilized against the oppressive agrarian policies of the colonial State. Rich details of their movement are contained in the records of the Bombay Presidency, now housed in the Maharashtra State Archives in Mumbai. Patel’s speeches in Bardoli during the months of the satyagraha make for riveting reading, even in translation. In one, he asked the peasants to show courage and sacrifice: “What are you afraid of?” he said in Gujarati: “Confiscation? You waste thousands after marriage ceremonies, then why worry if the [government] officers take away goods worth Rs. 200 or Rs. 500?” “In this struggle,” said the Sardar to the peasants of Bardoli, “it is better to have five persons who are ready to die instead of having five thousand sheep.” In another speech, Patel sarcastically observed that “the Government has kept a steam-roller to suppress the farmers of Gujarat.” In a third, Patel remarked that “a pro-government newspaper says that Gujarat is suffering from Gandhi fever. Let’s hope that everybody gets such a fever.” A police report commented, with some alarm, that Vallabhbhai was consulting “the leaders of almost every village in the [Bardoli] taluka”. Supplementing the archival records of the colonial State are the old microfilms of that splendid (but now sadly defunct) newspaper, The Bombay Chronicle. In the last week of April 1928, the Chronicle reported as follows on a kisan sabha: “At a cultivators’ meeting at Varad yesterday night enthusiastic scenes of devotion and worship showered upon Mr. Vallabhbhai Patel were witnessed. Women dressed in Khadi, with garlands of hand-spun yarn and offerings of flowers, cocoanut, red powder and rice were paying their respects and making obeisance in unending chains. Songs composed by pious matrons among women-folk, in some places altered to suit the present occasion, invoking God to bless them in their holy struggle for truth were recited by about five hundred women, which gave a religious turn to the congregation consisting of about 2,500 souls.” In August, the Chronicle reported on a settlement between the satyagrahis and the State, whereby the government agreed to an enquiry “by a Judicial Officer associated with a Revenue Officer the opinion of the former prevailing in all disputed points”. The State released all satyagrahis from jail and reinstated village headmen who had resigned. In his book on the Bardoli Satyagraha — published in 1929 — Mahadev Desai writes that Sardar Patel’s “apotheosis of the peasant has a twofold basis — his keen sense of the very high place of the peasant in a true social economy, and his poignant anguish at the very low state to which he has been reduced”. “He is the producer, the others are parasites,” said Patel of the Indian peasant. The satyagraha succeeded in Bardoli, writes Desai, because the Sardar taught his fellow peasants two fundamental lessons — the lesson of fearlessness, and the lesson of unity. Almost a hundred years separate the peasant struggle that Patel led in Bardoli with the kisan andolan of today. Yet the parallels are hard to miss. On the one side, the role of women in sustaining the movement, and the quiet heroism of the satyagrahis, who have braved winter, summer, monsoon and a pandemic and kept their struggle going. On the other side, the attempt by the State to stall and delay, to divide the movement, and to spread falsehoods about its leaders. Thus, in a note dated July 28, 1928, the Bombay Government claimed that Patel had “kept Gandhi out of the movement … because he does not want it to be controlled by a man who would stick at blood-shed and who would cloud the issue by laying stress on spinning, untouchability and so on.” The report went on to make the staggeringly libellous remark that “Vallabbhai [sic] himself is fond of the bottle and in many ways not unlike Rasputin.” Back in the 1920s, the collaborators with the raj included Brahmin revenue officials and hired goons brought in from outside Gujarat. Now, in the 2020s, it is the police and the godi media that aid the postcolonial State, the first in suppressing the peasants, the second in distorting their message and defaming their leaders. Indeed, in the range of repressive methods used against the farmers — water cannons, the installation of metal spikes on roads, internet shutdowns, hate-filled propaganda — the Modi-Shah regime has exceeded even the White Man’s raj. Vallabhbhai Patel’s early biographer, Narhari Parikh, quotes him as telling the peasants: “Remember that you who are prepared to lose your all for the sake of truth must win in the end. Those people who have joined hands with the officers will regret their action.” As a follower of Gandhi, Patel hoped that the force of truth and non-violence would in the end compel the government to see reason. “There will be a satisfactory settlement,” he said in one speech, “only when the Government’s attitude changes. When there is a change of heart, we shall immediately find that bitterness and hostility, which now move the Government to action, have been replaced by sympathy and understanding.” Today’s kisan leaders have been animated by the same spirit of hope, although past experience suggests that sentiments of sympathy and understanding may be even more foreign to this regime than they were to the British. I shall end this column as I began it, by quoting from Sardar Patel’s Congress Presidential Address of 1931. Here, while speaking of the great national upsurge led by Gandhi, he remarked that “it is a fact beyond challenge that India has given a singular proof to the world that mass non-violence is no longer the idle dream of a visionary or a mere human longing. It is a solid fact capable of infinite possibilities for a humanity which is groaning, for want of faith, beneath the weight of violence of which it has become almost a fetish. The greatest proof that our movement was non-violent lies in the fact that the peasants falsified the fears of our worst sceptics. They were described as very difficult to organise for non-violent action and it is they who stood the test with a bravery and an endurance that was beyond all expectations. Women and children too contributed their great share in the fight. They responded to the call by instinct and played a part which we are too near the event adequately to measure. And I think it would be not at all wrong to give them the bulk of the credit for preservation of non-violence and the consequent success of the movement.” These words of 1931 make for moving reading in 2021, when, once again, peasants in India have offered dignified and resolute resistance to an unfeeling and possibly uncaring administration. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
09-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur’s joggers park all set to be renovated||Joggers’ Park along Kadma-Sonari Link road is having a steady footfall of fitness enthusiasts despite its renovation work being in progress. Located in a densely-populated area, people of different age group continue to visit the park despite the work for its paver blocks being in progress. Post noon, The Telegraph Online spotted a 63-year-old man, Kamar Khan, sweating it out while walking through the unsettled track. “I have been using this track ever since it came into being, which is a decade ago. It is good that the jogging track is being renovated, but the renovation work can not deter me from following my fitness routine,” said Khan, a businessman and resident of adjoining Dhatkidh locality. Like the elderly Khan, scores of residents can be seen carrying out morning and evening walk, jogging and yoga on the one-kilometer-long track from early morning till late evening even the renovation work is in progress. The renovation work of jogger’s park is being carried out by Tata Steel Utilities & Infrastructures Services Ltd (TSUISL), a subsidiary of steel major of Tata Steel. “The jogging track along the Kadma-Sonari Link Road is renovated. It is a long track and is likely to take couple of months to be completed the project,” TSUISL’s spokesperson Sukanya Das while talking to The Telegraph Online. She pointed out that the track is about a decade-old, and the constant usage has made the surface uneven at several points, adding that the joggers will have a pleasant experience when the renovation work is complete.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
09-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: Power crisis aggravates due to coal shortage||The ongoing power crisis due to coal shortage at power plants has led to frequent load shedding that lasts for several hours for those subscribing to power produced by different power plants owned by Damodar Valley Corporation and National Thermal Power Corporation. The situation can be accessed from the fact that BCCL is being forced to stop power supply for around six hours for different districts of Jharkhand that falls under its command area, including, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Giridih, Chatra, Koderma, Hazaribagh and East Singhbhum. This apart, the Kahalgaon (Bhagalpur)-based power plant of National Thermal Power Corporation is being forced to indulge in short supply of power due to the worst ever coal crisis. As a consequence, less power is being drawn in Jharkhand through the Dumka grid that is connected through the Kahalgaon power plant. Despite the fact the production as well as despatch of coal to power plants has been increased by different subsidiaries of Coal India Limited including BCCL, CCL and ECL, there is an acute power crisis. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Rajesh Kumar Gupta, patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry said, “The crisis has started to affect both the trade and industry during the most crucial time for business in Jharkhand, with Durga Puja being round the corner while the situation is more difficult for industry as industries can’t be run on inverters and generators.” “Though, the crisis was generated due to slump in coal production due to monsoon. The heavy rains and cyclone that followed made it difficult to mine. However, we are unable to understand the lack of preparation by the government in this regard,” said Gupta. “The sudden shifting back of many industries including the hard coke units from imported coal to Indian coal coupled with the decrease in production of coal during monsoon has aggravated the crisis,” further added Gupta. Echoing the sentiments, Nirmal Jhunjhunwala, President of Giridih Chamber of Commerce and Industry said, “The wrong policies of the central government are to be blamed for the coal crisis and the resultant power crisis in the country. If the situation continues for some time the economic growth of the country would be derailed as the smooth running of the industries is key for the growth of the country.” Similar was the reaction of Sanjay Baid, President of Bokaro Chamber of Commerce, “We are the worst hit victim of the power crisis in Chas as besides the four hours of official load shedding by DVC, several hours of load shedding by Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited is also being carried out as a result of which getting people are having to stay with electricity for over 10 hours a day.” BCCL CMD, PM Prasad, “We are working day and night to improve the coal production and supply to power companies. The situation is likely to normalize within a month.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
09-10-2021||Jharkhand||World Mental Health Day: Jharkhand suicide deaths low, but nowhere near WHO target||At least five persons per 1 lakh population in Jharkhand die by suicide, latest data released by the International Association of Suicide Prevention (IASP) has revealed, further stating that the probability of achieving the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) target of reducing suicide mortality rate by one-third by the year 2030 was hardly 10 per cent in Jharkhand if the current trends continue. According to the IASP, Jharkhand’s Suicide Death Rate (SDR) was one of the lowest among states and union territories in India. While the SDR in Jharkhand is likely to stay lower than most of the other states and union territories in India by 2030, there was 90 per cent probability that Jharkhand will fail to reduce suicide mortality rate in the next nine years, IASP’s prediction reveals. “Given the current situation, it seems quite impossible for the state to achieve WHO’s target of reducing suicide mortality rate. However, if the health department invests more in mental health and ensures medical support to people in need, we might be able to reduce suicides,” said Dr. Siddharth Sinha, Senior Consultant at Ranchi Institute of Neuro Psychiatry and Allied Sciences (RINPAS). The lack of awareness and stigma associated with mental health are the leading reasons for rise in cases of mental health disorders and suicides in Jharkhand, said Sinha, adding that timely medical intervention can reduce suicides by a significant rate. The WHO is set to observe World Mental Health Day on October 10. This year, the theme of the day is ‘mental health in an unequal world’, and the WHO plans to address disparities and gaps in awareness and accessibility to mental health treatment across the globe. Being a developing state, Jharkhand still struggles with limited infrastructure and resources in terms of providing treatment to people suffering from mental health disorders, say psychiatrists. “According to the National Mental Health Survey of India, conducted 2015-2016, we found the treatment gap to be more than 90 per cent for common mental illnesses. This may be a direct consequence of chronic under-investment, as governments spend an average of just over 2 per cent of their health budgets on mental health,” said Dr. Nishant Goyal, assistant professor of psychiatry at Central Institute of Psychiatry in Ranchi. While the Covid-19 pandemic gave psychiatrists an opportunity to raise the issue of under-investment in mental health, it also wreaked havoc on the mental health of several thousand Jharkhand residents, said Goyal, adding that unemployment, feeling of isolation and alienation coupled with the fear of the virus led to a significant spike in mental disorders in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
09-10-2021||Jharkhand||Judicial probe plea on Stan Swamy arrest anniversary||Protests and programmes were organised in Jharkhand, Kerala and Karnataka on Friday to mark the first anniversary of the arrest of octogenarian Jesuit priest and rights defender Father Stan Swamy who passed away in July this year in judicial custody. Over 150 rights activists and members of civil society organisations, Left parties and tribal outfits under the banner of Shahid Father Stan Swamy Nyaya Morcha staged a dharna for over two hours at the Raj Bhavan in Ranchi. Fr Stan was arrested from Namkum near Ranchi on October 8, 2020, by the National Investigation Agency. A delegation submitted a memorandum to governor Ramesh Bais later in the afternoon demanding a judicial probe into the “custodial killing” of Fr Stan and punishment for those responsible for his death, release other 15 arrested in the Bhima Koregaon-Elgaar Parishad case, immediate release of political prisoners lodged in prisons of Jharkhand and other parts of the country and repeal of draconian laws like the UAPA. “We have come to know about a letter written by three prisoners — human rights lawyer Surendra Gadling and cultural activists Ramesh Gaichor and Sagar Gorkhe — who were eyewitnesses to the inhumane treatment meted out to Father Stan Swamy, to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray a few days back. The letter claims that Stan Swamy’s death was an institutional murder. Since Stan Swamy was based in Jharkhand, we would like the governor to ensure that a judicial probe is ordered into his custodial killing so that those responsible are punished,” said Aloka Kujur, a member of the Adivasi Adhikar Morcha and a tribal rights activist. CPM leader and convener of the Morcha, Praful Linda, said the governor should take up the issue with the highest authorities and ensure that all political prisoners and human rights activists arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case are released along with political prisoners in other parts of the country. Fr Stan had spent a lifetime working among the Adivasi community in Jharkhand fighting for their rights. He was arrested from Bagaicha at Namkum by the NIA in October 2020 in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case and lodged in Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai. He died while undergoing treatment under judicial custody at a private hospital in Mumbai in July. His death had led to an outpouring of outrage as the 84-year-old was repeatedly denied bail despite his deteriorating health over nine months in jail. Kerala campaign Filmmakers, artistes and activists of Kerala under the banner of Capture Collective organised an online awareness and protest campaign to mark the occasion. Karnataka webinar The Indian Social Institute, Bangalore, to which Fr Stan was associated, organised a national-level webinar on “SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act: Challenges Today” to mark one year of his arrest. N. Paul Divakar, general secretary, Global Advocacy and Networks, National Challenges on Dalit Human Rights, Abirami  Jotheeswaran, general secretary of the All India Dalit Mahila Adhikar Manch, and Rahul Singh, general secretary, National Dalit Movement for Justice, spoke at the webinar. Father Stan had been associated with issues related to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for over four decades in Jharkhand and other parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
