10-10-2021||Business||Government to begin work on monetising AI subsidiaries||After completing the significant Air India privatisation process, the government will now start work on monetising its four other subsidiaries, including Alliance Air, and over Rs 14,700 crore worth non-core assets like land and building, Secretary in the department of investment and public asset management (DIPAM) Tuhin Kanta Pandey said. The government on October 8 had announced that salt-to-software conglomerate Tatas have won the bid to acquire debt-laden national carrier Air India for Rs 18,000 crore. This includes a cash payment of Rs 2,700 crore and taking over Rs 15,300 crore debt. The deal, which is expected to be completed by December-end, also includes sale of Air India Express and ground handling arm AISATS. Mr Pandey told agencies that his department will now get down to working out a plan for monetising the subsidiaries of Air India which are with the special purpose vehicle AIAHL and setting off the liabilities. “There will be a plan for monetising the assets of Air India Assets Holding Limited (AIAHL). It is a very big task again of clearing of AIAHL liabilities and disposal of assets. In AIAHL there is a company of ground handling, engineering and Alliance Air which have to be privatised,” said Pandey, who spearheaded Air India privatisation. “It (sale of subsidiaries) could not be started because these all are intimately linked. Unless and until Air India goes, we could not proceed with other things,” he added. As a precursor to Air India sale, the government in 2019 had set up a special purpose vehicle (SPV) — AIAHL — for holding debt and non-core assets of the Air India group. Four Air India subsidiaries - Air India Air Transport Services Limited (AIATSL), Airline Allied Services Limited (AASL), Air India Engineering Services Limited (AIESL) and Hotel Corporation of India Limited (HCI) - along with non-core assets, painting and artefacts, and other non-operational assets, was transferred to the SPV. Air India had a total debt of Rs 61,562 crore as on August 31. Of this, Tata Sons holding company Talace Private Limited will take over Rs 15,300 crore and the remaining Rs 46,262 crore will be transferred to AIAHL. Besides, non-core assets of Air India including land and building, valued at Rs 14,718 crore, are also being transferred to AIAHL. Further, liabilities of Rs 15,834 crore towards dues to operational creditors, like those for fuel purchases, as of August 31 would be transferred to AIAHL. Pandey said between September 1 and December 31, 2021, just before closing the deal, the government will work out a balance sheet of Air India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
10-10-2021||Business||Fuel rates see hike for sixth straight day||Diesel prices on Sunday crossed Rs 100-a-litre-mark in Gandhinagar and Leh as fuel prices were hiked again in sync with firming international oil prices. Petrol price was hiked by 30 paise per litre and diesel by 35 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The sixth straight day of price hike pushed fuel rates to a new record high. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 104.14 a litre and Rs 110.12 per litre in Mumbai, the notification showed. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 100.66 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 92.82. After Mumbai and Hyderabad, diesel rates cross the Rs 100 per litre mark in Gandhinagar, the capital of Gujarat state, and UT of Leh. Diesel now costs Rs 100.21 a litre in Gandhinagar and Rs 100.06 in Leh. Bhopal, Raipur and Jaipur are other state capitals where diesel is above that mark. The relentless fuel price hike has also pushed petrol above the Rs 100 mark in all but one state capital, with Dehradun, Chandigarh and Gwahati joining that list. Ranchi is the only state capital with petrol less than that mark. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. Shedding the modest price change policy, state-owned fuel retailers have since October 6 started passing on the larger incidence of cost to consumers. For five days in a row, the price of petrol has been hiked by 30 paise a litre and diesel by 35 paise, the biggest rally in rates. Prior to that, petrol price was increased by 25 paise and diesel by 30 paise. This is because the international benchmark Brent crude has soared to over USD 82 per barrel after the decision by OPEC+ not to increase output more than 0.4 million barrels per day, fuel rates are being increased by a larger proportion. A month ago, Brent was around USD 72 per barrel. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rates on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 4.20 paise per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 2.95. Prior to the July/August price cuts, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
10-10-2021||Business||India may have to scrap Google Tax||India may have to give up its equalisation levy or the so-called ‘Google Tax’ as part of the global tax deal that 136 nations agreed on Friday. It will also have to make a commitment that it will not introduce such measures in the future once the global minimum tax deal comes through. As part of the two-pillar multilateral solution to the problem of adroit tax avoidance by the Big Boys of technology, countries like India will be conferred the right to tax digital players like Microsoft, Google, Facebook, and Netflix and set a ‘global minimum corporation tax’ of 15 per cent. The global tax deal is propped up by two pillars. Pillar One provides for the reallocation of the additional share of profit to the market jurisdictions, while Pillar Two consists of minimum tax and is subject to tax rules. Multinational enterprises (MNE) with global sales above 20 billion euros and profitability above 10 per cent will be covered by the new rules. Under the special purpose nexus rule, 25 per cent of the profit above the 10 per cent threshold will be reallocated to market jurisdictions. Analysts said this was higher than the 20 per cent allocation in the July plan. Taxing rights on more than $125 billion of MNE profits are expected to be reallocated to market jurisdictions each year. Under Pillar Two, a global minimum corporate tax rate has been set at 15 per cent which is in contrast with the July Plan that provided for “at least 15 per cent”. This new minimum tax rate will apply to companies with revenues above 750 million euros. This is estimated to generate around $150 billion in additional global tax revenues annually. Sumit Singhania, partner, Deloitte India, said: “Consensus on the global minimum tax will make tax competition amongst nations rather unfeasible by narrowing down any such opportunities to the rarest circumstances.” Nangia Andersen Partner Sandeep Jhunjhunwala said: “The OECD has asked for an immediate and upfront withdrawal of unilateral digital services tax.” Gouri Puri, partner at Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas, said a consensus on the two-pillar solution is the key to securing a more certain and stable tax regime. “While the fine print is awaited, India is balancing its interests both as an importer and an exporter of capital, goods and services. The deal will prevent a race to the bottom amongst countries," Puri added. The agreement will now be placed before the G20 Finance Ministers meet on October 13 and then to the G20 Leaders Summit at the end of the month. “Countries are aiming to sign a multilateral convention during 2022, with effective implementation in 2023,” said the OECD.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
10-10-2021||Business||Diesel crosses Rs 100 mark in Mumbai, fuel prices up again||Mumbai on Saturday became the first metro city in the country to see diesel prices cross the Rs 100 per litre mark after fuel prices were hiked again. Petrol price was hiked by 30 paise per litre and diesel by 35 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The fifth straight day of hike pushed fuel rates to a new record high. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 100.29 a litre, while in Delhi, it costs Rs 92.47. In Calcutta, the fuel costs Rs 95.58. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 103.84 a litre and Rs 109.83 per litre in Mumbai. In Calcutta, the fuel will sell for Rs 104.52.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
10-10-2021||Business||$2.7 billion flash festive sales||E-commerce platforms have garnered $2.7 billion in gross merchandise value (GMV) in the first four days (October 2 to 5) of festive season sales, according to estimates of Bangalore-based Redseer Consulting. Smartphones have contributed to 50 per cent of the GMV in these four days of sales. The firm said the sector is on its track to achieve $4.8 billion GMV for the whole of the current festive week. This is a 30 per cent growth compared with $3.7 billion in the corresponding festive week in 2020. Typically Amazon holds its ‘Great Indian Festival’ and Flipkart holds its ‘Big Billion Day Sale’ at the beginning of its festive sales. The total number of shoppers in 2021 festive season is projected to peak to 75 million against 52 million in 2020. Ujjwal Chaudhry, associate partner at RedSeer, said, “With the festive sales lasting longer than last year (nine days compared with seven days) we see the customer demand being more spread out across the period than being concentrated in the first half of the festive week. To that tune, we observed sales of $2.7 billion across e-commerce platforms and we expect another $2.1 billion over the next five days.” According to a survey by Redseer around 75 per cent of customers would buy equivalent to or more than last year across categories such as mobiles, large appliances, beauty and fashion. Sellers are estimated to offer around 10-30 per cent discounts on these platforms to push higher volume sales, the firm added. Buy now and pay later is an emerging trend which is likely to account for around 10-15 per cent of the festive sales.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
10-10-2021||Business||Sanjeev Sanyal defends public sector undertakings selloff plan||Defending the Centre’s privatisation policy, principal economic adviser Sanjeev Sanyal on Saturday said most of the public sector undertakings (PSUs) that the government intends to sell were actually created by the private sector. Stressing that this government is unapologetic about privatisation, he said “You (Opposition) made the point that this (PSUs) has been built through the blood and sweat of the public sector. So, let me put the record straight on this: Actually much of what we are attempting to privatise were actually built by the private sector.” Citing an example, he said Air India was simply taken away from the private sector and nationalised in 1953. “In 1969, banks were simply taken away and nationalised. So, when people say that these institutions were built by the blood and sweat of the Indian bureaucracy, let me point out to you that these things were originally built by private companies,” he said at India Today Conclave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
10-10-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir: Over 700 detained following civilian killings||Security forces have detained over 700 people in Jammu and Kashmir in response to the killing of seven civilians, including those from the Kashmiri Pandit, Sikh and Muslim communities, in six days. Several of those detained are believed to have links to the banned Jamaat-e-Islami or are suspected overground workers (OGW), and come from Srinagar, Budgam or other areas in southern Kashmir. A senior police officer told NDTV they had been detained to "break the chain of attacks in the (Kashmir) Valley". The officer also said the attacks may have been fuelled by an increase in radicalism following the Taliban's rise to power, and that the killers were going after "easy" targets. The murders have sparked outrage in the already tense Kashmir Valley, with opposition leaders fiercely critical of the administrations' apparent inability to stop the attacks and locals living in fear. On Thursday, National Conference leader and former Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah told NDTV that innocent people are dying and demanded the government re-assess polices. Mr Abdullah also called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to visit the Valley and offer reassurances to those living there. The most recent deaths were of two government schoolteachers - Supunder Kour (a Sikh) and Deepak Chand (a Hindu), who were shot dead by gunmen in Srinagar on Thursday. "The pistol-wielding men came... asked for ID cards of teachers and fired at two... one each from the minority Sikh and Hindu community," news agency Reuters quoted a schoolteacher as saying. On Tuesday, Makhan Lal Bindroo, 70, the owner of a pharmacy in Srinagar's Iqbal Park, was shot at inside his store. He was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival. A Kashmiri Pandit, Mr Bindroo stayed in Kashmir even during the 1990s - the peak of terrorism. Two others killed on Tuesday were Mohammad Shafi, a taxi driver in Bandipora, and Virender Paswan from Bihar, a street food vendor in Srinagar. Police have attributed most attacks to "The Resistance Front" - reportedly an offshoot of the banned Lashkar-e-Taiba. They have also said seven of the 28 civilians killed since January are non-Muslims. On Thursday the Home Ministry sent a team of senior officers to Kashmir to supervise operations. This was after Home Minister Amit Shah held a meeting and reportedly criticised local officials. Earlier this week sources told NDTV the police were clueless and planning a massive crackdown. J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha has condemned the killings and warned terrorists that a "befitting reply" will be given to those found involved in the attacks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
10-10-2021||India||LAC: India, China hold 13th round of talks to resolve problems||The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Sunday held talks to resolve problems at frictions points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh where the countries have been locked in a border standoff for over 17 months, officials familiar with the developments said on Sunday. The 13th round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers from the two armies began at 10.30 am at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC and got over at 7.00 pm, the officials said. It came more than two months after the last round of talks that led to disengagement of forward deployed troops from Gogra or Patrol Point-17A, which was one of the flashpoints on LAC, in early August. The focus of the ongoing talks is to cool tensions at Hot Springs and Depsang, as previously reported by Hindustan Times. Officials earlier said disengagement of rival frontline soldiers deployed at Hot Springs was on the agenda for the 13th round of talks. The talks come at a time of massive military build-up and infrastructure development by PLA across LAC, with the Indian Army matching the Chinese moves. In February, the two sides pulled back their troops and weaponry from the Pangong Tso sector. But despite two rounds of disengagement at friction points this year, the two sides still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each and advanced weaponry in the Ladakh theatre. Army chief General Naravane on Saturday said if PLA is there to stay in the Ladakh theatre, so is the Indian Army, flagging concern about the continuing Chinese build-up in the theatre. The latest round of military dialogue follows a face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers along LAC in Arunachal Pradesh’s sensitive Tawang sector last week and another incursion by PLA in Uttarakhand on August 30. Top Indian and Chinese commanders had agreed to a speedy resolution of outstanding issues on LAC at the 12th round of talks, with the dialogue focusing on disengagement of rival troops from the remaining flashpoints on the contested border. A joint statement issued after the 12th round described the talks as “a candid and in-depth exchange of views on resolution of remaining areas related to disengagement along LAC in the Western Sector of India-China border areas.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
10-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: Maharashtra bandh; several trade groups extend support in Pune||Several trade organisations in Pune have expressed support for Monday's Maharashtra bandh called by the ruling MVA constituents and other outfits to protest against the October 3 killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. The Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP) president Fattechand Ranka said all shops, except those dealing in essential items, will remain closed till 3 pm on Monday. Over 2,000 traders dealing in fruits, vegetables, flowers, grains, onions and potatoes etc will support the bandh to show solidarity with farmers who play an all-important role in their sector, said Rohan Ursal, secretary of the Shree Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard Adate (Traders) Association. Transport is also likely to be hit in Maharashtra's second largest city as rickshaw unions have decided to not ply their vehicles during the duration of the shutdown on Monday. ”Our organisation and several other transport groups will be supporting the bandh,” said Rickshaw Panchayat functionary Nitin Pawar. However, commuting respite for the public is expected from the civic-run Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd, which has decided to run extra buses on Monday. “As PMPML services fall under the essential category, we will be functioning on Monday, and have decided to ply extra buses, on all routes if needed,” said its transport manager DM Zende.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
10-10-2021||India||Kashmiri Pandits in US ask India to re-evaluate Kashmir policy||Kashmiri Pandits in the US have strongly condemned the recent targeted and gruesome killings of civilians in the Valley by the militants and asked the Indian government to re-evaluate its Kashmir policy and provide proper security to the minority community if it wants them to return. At least seven people were killed by militants in Kashmir Valley in the last five days. Of those killed, four belonged to minority communities. The Kashmiri Overseas Association (KOA), a socio-cultural organisation of the Kashmiri Pandits in the US, has expressed shock and anguish over the gruesome killings of pharmacy owner Makhan Lal Bindroo, street food vendor Virender Paswan and two teachers -- Deepak Chand Mehra and Supinder Kaur. Kaur, a Srinagar-based Sikh, and Mehra, a Hindu from Jammu, were killed two days after The Resistance Force, a shadow outfit of the banned Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), claimed responsibility for the deaths of three people on Tuesday. Bindroo, a prominent Kashmiri Pandit and owner of Srinagar's most famous pharmacy, was shot dead at his shop that evening. Minutes later, 'chaat' vendor Paswan from Bihar was gunned elsewhere in the city. Almost simultaneously, another civilian, Mohammad Shafi Lone, was killed at Naidkhai in Bandipora. Three days before that, militants shot dead Majid Ahmad Gojri at Srinagar's Karan Nagar locality. Later that Saturday night, they gunned down Mohammad Shafi Dar at Batmaloo. According to the KOA, emotions of rage and helplessness ran high when the Kashmiri Pandits residing in various parts of the US heard of the "gruesome, targeted killings of innocents in Kashmir by the terrorists". "These incidents brought back the painful memories of 1990, when members from the community were killed, women were raped, children rendered orphans, resulting in the exodus of over 400,000 people to save lives and honour, said KOA president Dr Archana Kokroo. "The recent targeted killings have terrorised the minority community in the Valley and many are fleeing their homes again," Kokroo said. "Our peace-loving and progressive community has survived the brutality of the forced exodus of 1990 due to our perseverance and hard work. We continue to live by our values of non-violence. Killing another one of us is not a victory for the terrorists, Kokroo said. "This is the saddest event that every humanitarian must mourn. India is an independent nation and all Indians have constitutional rights and freedoms. A few interlocutors should not be able to threaten human rights with violence, said Lavanya Vemsani, a Professor of Indian History and Religions in Shawnee State University, Ohio. "The government must increase security in the Valley, especially for the non-Muslim minority," Vemsani said. Dr Ashok Moza, president and founder of Chemicals Inc, said the government of India "needs to consider creating clusters of thousands of Kashmiri Pandits and other non-Muslims in different parts of the Valley and offer them protection just like Israel has provided to its citizens on the West Bank." "The recent killing is a clear reminder that non-Muslims in general and Kashmiri Pandits in particular are unsafe in the Valley, Moza said. Commenting on the recent killings, long-time social and cultural activist in Boston Sanjay Kaul, who is also the vice president of the World Hindu Council, said that the government "must re-evaluate its Kashmir policy and provide proper security to the community and work on building their confidence if they are encouraging them to live in the Valley. The Kashmiri Pandit community is once again on the edge as their woes continue even after 32 years in exile, he said. Reacting over the incident, Pran Chaku, distinguished technologist and a long time Houston resident, said, "This incident has horrified and shocked Kashmiri Pandits globally. I hope the government acts sternly. If the security of the minority community and their right to live in their place of birth cannot be guaranteed, then the government has failed us." Padma Shri awardee Subhash Kak, Regents Professor Emeritus at the prestigious Oklahoma State University, said: It has been heartbreaking to read about the brutal killings by terrorists in Srinagar. We must stand resolute and fight this evil for good . Rajesh Kachroo, a PK-ReHinGe activist in Virginia, advocated establishment of a homeland for Kashmiri Hindus in east and north of the river Jhelum and adoption of the 1991 Marg darshan Resolution of Panun Kashmir. "We have reiterated that the only safe option for Kashmiri Hindus, who are refugees in their own country, is establishment of homeland, east and north of the river Jhelum and adoption of the 1991 Marg darshan Resolution of Panun Kashmir, Kachroo said. "KOA sends its deepest condolences to the families of the dead and pray that there are no more killings. We all stand in solidarity with the families of these bravehearts, KOA Secretary Anil Ganju said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
10-10-2021||India||IMD issues orange alert for 6 districts in Kerala from Oct 12||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued an orange alert for six districts in the state for October 12, 13 and 14, predicting heavy rains. The weatherman, in a 4 PM bulletin, issued an Orange alert in Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki districts for three days. Meanwhile, a Yellow alert has been sounded in Thiruvananthapuram, Palakkad, Malappuram and Kozhikode districts. Currently, all of the southern districts of the state have been put on Yellow alert. "Heavy (7-11 cm in 24 hours) rainfall is very likely to occur at one or two places in Kerala on 10 and 11 of October 2021. Heavy (7- 11 cm in 24 hours) to Very Heavy (12-20 cm in 24 hours) rainfall is very likely to occur at one or two places in Kerala from 12 to 14 of October 2021," the IMD website read. A Red alert indicates heavy to extremely heavy rains of over 20 cm in 24 hours, while Orange alert means very heavy rains from 6 cm to 20 cm of rains. A yellow alert denotes heavy rainfall between 6 to 11 cm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
10-10-2021||India||Rahul hits out at PM for his silence over ‘killings of farmers and BJP workers’||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Sunday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying he remains silent on the "killings of farmers and BJP workers", and rising prices, but turns "violent" when he is criticised or his "friends" questioned. He also targeted the government over Army Chief General M M Naravane's "China was here to stay" remark in the context of standoff in eastern Ladakh. "'China here to stay.' Where? On our land," Gandhi said on Twitter, tagging a media report on General Naravane's statement on the PLA build-up. In another tweet, the former Congress chief attacked the prime minister over his silence on the rising fuel price prices and the recent "killings" of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. "PM silent - rising inflation, fuel prices, unemployment, murder of farmers and BJP workers. PM violent - lack of camera and photo-op, true criticism and questions on friends," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Gandhi and his Congress party have been attacking the prime minister on issues of China, inflation and his silence on the Lakhimpur violence that left eight dead including four farmers, BJP workers and a journalist. Speaking at the India Today conclave Saturday, Gen Naravane had said, "Yes, it is a matter of concern that the large-scale build-up has occurred and continues to be in place, and to sustain that kind of a build-up, there has been an equal amount of infrastructure development on the Chinese side." "So, it means that they (PLA) are there to stay. We are keeping a close watch on all these developments, but if they are there to stay, we are there to stay too," he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
10-10-2021||India||Penalise power plants for not stocking coal for 30 days, says Sidhu||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday sought action against private thermal power plants in the state for "punishing consumers" by not maintaining adequate coal stock for electricity generation. His remarks came a day after state-owned utility Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) was forced to cut down power generation and impose load shedding in the wake of a severe coal shortage. Punjab must prevent & prepare, rather than repent & repair Private Thermal Plants floating guidelines, punishing Domestic Consumers by not keeping Coal Stock for 30 Days should be penalised. It is time to aggressively work on Solar PPAs, & roof-top solar connected to the Grid! tweeted Sidhu. According to the Central Electricity Authority guidelines, power plants located at a distance of over 1,000 km from a coal mine should always have minimum coal stock of up to 30 days but this level of stock is not maintained by the power plants in the state. Because of inadequate coal supply, power plants were running at a reduced capacity in the state, an official of the PSPCL had said on Saturday. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday hit out at the Centre for insufficient coal supply and apprehended impending shutdown of the state's thermal power plants due to fast depleting coal supplies in the next couple of days. He said Punjab was not getting adequate coal supply despite agreements with various subsidiaries of the Coal India Ltd and had asked the central government to immediately ensure the state's quota of coal to tide over the power crisis. The PSPCL on Saturday had appealed to power consumers to conserve power in the light of the acute shortage of coal in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
10-10-2021||India||Thales group to focus on addressing cyber security requirements of Indian armed force||Leading French defence major Thales Group is planning to focus significantly on addressing requirements of the Indian armed forces for new-age cyber security solutions, artificial intelligence and advanced capabilities in big data analytics. Chairman and CEO of Thales Group Patrice Caine said the company has been looking at expanding its overall footprint in India, particularly in the areas of emerging technologies that will be crucial for the armed forces. The Indian Army, the Navy and the Indian Air Force have been focusing on acquiring futuristic technologies like nanotechnology, quantum computing, artificial intelligence, swarm drones and robotic technologies to deal with future security challenges. Caine said Thales Group is aiming at expanding its overall footprint in India in a number of segments, including in areas of cyber security, artificial intelligence and digital solutions. "We are also looking at bringing some key pieces of equipment and systems to contribute to raise our level of involvement in sharing defence technologies with India's defence sector in the field of sonar, radars and other platforms," he told PTI. However, he refused to share the details. Caine said that India's defence manufacturing sector is moving in the right direction riding on a series of policy initiatives by the government and Thales would like to be a key partner of the country in its quest to become a key producer of military platforms and solutions. "We are totally committed to help India expand its defence production under the 'Make in India Initiative' by producing equipment either on our own or with our partners. India has a good talent pool to develop cyber-security solutions, AI applications and big data analytics," he said. India is expected to spend close to USD 300 billion in the next five years in procuring defence equipment and almost all major global defence firms are eyeing a slice of it. The Thales Chairman and CEO also indicated that the company is looking at having joint ventures with a number of Indian companies for a range of prodicts and military solutions but refused to share details. He said India is now considered as a key country for sourcing various raw materials for the company's global production line and it is going to double procurement from the country in the next five years. “India is now a key and reliable country in our global supply chain,” he said. Thales is part of the French firms that provided key components for the Rafale jets procured by India. As part of Thales' offsets commitments under the Rafale deal, the company helped Bharat Electronics Ltd (BEL) in producing modules for the RBE2 radar. Thales has been providing avionics and other equipment to the state-run aerospace behemoth Hindustan Aeronautics Limited for over four decades and is involved in supplying equipment for various other key military projects. Present in India since 1953, Thales has offices in New Delhi, Gurgaon, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai and Mumbai, among others. Over 600 employees are working with Thales and its joint ventures in India. Caine also complimented India's reform measures aimed at boosting defence manufacturing. The government has initiated a series of measures in the last couple of years to encourage the domestic defence industry. In August last year, it was announced that India will stop the import of 101 weapons and military platforms like transport aircraft, light combat helicopters, conventional submarines, cruise missiles and sonar systems by 2024. A second negative list, putting import restrictions on 108 military weapons and systems such as next-generation corvettes, airborne early warning systems, tank engines and radars, was issued recently. In May last year, the government announced increasing the FDI limit from 49 per cent to 74 per cent under the automatic route in the defence sector. The government has been focusing on reducing dependence on imported military platforms and has decided to support domestic defence manufacturing. The Defence Ministry has set a goal of a turnover of USD 25 billion (Rs 1.75 lakh crore) in defence manufacturing by 2025 that included an export target of USD 5 billion (Rs 35,000 crore) worth of military hardware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
10-10-2021||India||Vice President laments stereotyping of North-East||Lamenting that despite being such a wonderful place, the general attitude toward the North East to this day is largely characterised by ignorance, lack of appreciation and stereotyping in the rest of India, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday urged people to visit the region to appreciate its beauty and cultural richness. The fact is that seven of the eight states of the region performed better than the country's Human Development Index (HDI) in 2019, he underlined. "But how many of us are aware of this?" Naidu asked. “Not many outside the region would know that the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report finds Nagaland as the safest state for women in India,” he pointed out. The vice president also said that Assam is world renowned for its tea and silk, while Manipur, a state with just 0.24 per cent of the country's population, produces a good number of international sportspersons. "True to its name, this 'land of gems' has given us rare gems like Mary Kom and Mirabai Chanu who have done India proud," he wrote in a Facebook post. Naidu said that after his seven-day trip to the region, he has returned assured that the North-East is witnessing a new era of resurgence. "I have a better understanding of the men, matters, aspirations, challenges and opportunities of the region. A welcome development is the decline in insurgency in the region. I am confident that the north-eastern region would become totally free of insurgency in the near future in view of the various developmental initiatives and the strong desire of the people for peace and progress," he said. Naidu urged people from other parts of the country to visit the North-East to appreciate the natural beauty and cultural richness of the region. "But it is disappointing to note that despite being such a wonderful place, the general attitude toward the north eastern region to this day is largely characterised by ignorance, lack of appreciation and stereotyping in the rest of India. This must change," he asserted. "We have a lot to learn from the north-eastern states. Some time back, I saw a video of a road in Aizawl, Mizoram and was amazed to see motorists observing strict traffic discipline even though no traffic cop is in sight. This is a rare sight in other big Indian cities," he said to drive home his point. Naidu said although he wanted to cover all the states in the region, he decided against visiting Mizoram to enable the state administration focus more on dealing with an upsurge in COVID-19 cases. Later this month, he will undertake a three-day visit to Sikkim and Darjeeling from October 20, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
10-10-2021||India||Narendra Modi a patient listener, democratic leader, says Shah||Hailing Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a "democratic leader", Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said even his critics will agree that the Union Cabinet has never functioned in such a democratic manner as it is functioning in the Modi government. Rejecting allegations that Modi is an autocratic leader, Shah said that he has not seen a "patient listener" like the prime minister, who gives importance to all worthy suggestions given by anyone irrespective of their designation or position in the hierarchy. In an interview to SANSAD TV, the Union minister said Modi does not hesitate in taking political risks for decisions that are in national interest, and at times has taken bitter decisions for the welfare of the nation. Responding to a question that opposition and critics term Modi an autocratic leader who takes all decisions on his own, Shah described the prime minister as a "democratic leader". He is a very patient listener and gives importance to all worthy suggestions irrespective of the person's designation, Shah said. "...I have closely seen both Modi and his style of working. I have never seen a patient listener like him. Whatever may be the issue, he patiently listens to everyone and speaks least, and then takes a proper decision. He takes decisions patiently after considering suggestions given by all including a . small-time official or worker," the home minister said. Underlining that Modi does not impose his decisions, Shah, a former BJP president, said, "Those who have worked with him or at times there are critics also among those who worked with you, they all would agree that the Union Cabinet never functioned in such a democratic way as it is being run in a democratic manner with Modi ji being the prime minister." Shah said that Modi insists on discipline and therefore, details of some meetings, which are required to be confidential as they are premature, do not come out in public. The home minister stressed that decisions in every meeting are taken after collective consultation. Shah said that Modi has always maintained that he is in power to change the country for the better and not merely to run the government. Therefore, he does not hesitate in taking harsh and risky decisions which may be against the party's supporters but are in the interest of the nation and the people, the minister said. Noting that one has to take harsh and tough decisions in national interest, Shah said, "When you crack down on black money, bring economic reforms, seal all loopholes of tax evasion, then some people suffer, those who voted for us for years may also suffer." "It happens, but they also understand that Modi is not going to get anything out of this, eventually it will benefit the country. So, finally every one associates with Modiji," he said. Shah listed out various achievements of Modi during his 20-year-long public life, especially of his leadership both as Gujarat chief minister and as prime minister at various critical junctures. Taking on the opposition, Shah said that some opposition parties assume it is the birth right of their leadership to be in power. But Modi changed this by focusing on people-centric and nation first politics, he said. Shah said he would request friends from these opposition parties, who criticise the government's policies, that if there is corruption in the present government expose it. "Expose our failures to the people. But don't lower the political standard by resorting to personal attacks," Shah said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
10-10-2021||India||Only PM's friends safe in the country, says Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday launched a scathing attack against the BJP in PM Narendra Modi's constituency Varanasi, saying only the ruling party leaders and their "billionaire friends" are safe in the country. Vadra said this during a "Kisan Nyay Rally", days after eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra has been arrested in connection with the case. Addressing the rally, Priyanka said when she speaks to people, they tell her that there are no jobs and income. Farmers, Dalits and women are feeling harassed, she claimed. People may belong to any caste and religion, they are not safe, the Congress leader alleged. "In this country, the prime minister, his council of ministers, people from his party and their billionaire friends are safe. Understand this properly. The country is getting damaged," the Congress leader said. Before the rally, Priyanka visited the Kashi Vishwanath and Kushmanda temples. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel also offered prayers at the Kashi Vishwanath temple. Prayers of different religions were recited at the rally. Senior UP Congress leader Pradeep Mathur told PTI that Congress workers from different walks of life accorded a warm welcome to the party general secretary. State Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh said with the Sunday's event, the party has launched itself aggressively for the upcoming 2022 UP Assembly elections. "The Congress under the leadership of Priyankaji will comprehensively defeat the demon power, which has unleashed itself in various parts of the state," Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
10-10-2021||India||Manish Sisodia accuses Centre of not acknowledging coal crisis||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday said the Centre is not ready to accept that there is a coal crisis and its policy to turn a blind eye to every problem could prove fatal for the country. Union Power Minister R K Singh today said there isn't any coal crisis and that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal should not have written a letter to the prime minister on the issue. It is sad that a Union cabinet minister has adopted such irresponsible approach, Sisodia said at a press conference. This clearly show that the central government is making excuses to "run away" from crisis. They had done the same thing when the country grappled under an oxygen shortage. They would not even accept that there is a problem. They try to prove states wrong instead, Sisodia said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
10-10-2021||India||Covid compliance hits new low as festive season approaches: Survey||As India enters the festival season, a survey by a digital community-based platform that has measured basic COVID-19 safeguards found that only 13 per cent people rated mask compliance in their area and district as effective while just 6 per cent termed social distancing norms as beneficial. The survey by LocalCircles, which received 65,000 responses from citizens residing in 366 districts of India, found out how people were complying to mask and social distancing protocols in cities and districts, while travelling in flights/airports, trains/railway stations and bus/bus stands as well as places like vaccination centres which many have visited in the last few months. Sixty-four per cent were men and 36 per cent respondents were women. Forty-six per cent respondents were from Tier-1 areas, 29 per cent from Tier-2 areas, and 25 per cent from Tiers-3, 4 and rural districts. A previous LocalCircles survey from June 2021, which was shared by the Union Ministry of Health in its briefing on July 6 this year, had indicated that mask compliance was rated as effective by 29 per cent people then and social distancing compliance as effective by 11 per cent. The drop in mask compliance ratings from 29 to 13 per cent and in social distancing compliance ratings from 11 per cent to 6 per cent indicates that complacency has set in with many now believing that COVID-19 is gone," said Sachin Taparia, founder of LocalCircles. With 2021 festive season already on and likely to see significantly higher levels of socialising, shopping and community events, the risk of COVID cases rising is now high , he warned. The travel euphoria currently is stronger than the one LocalCircles reported in February-March this year, Taparia said. LocalCircles on March 23 this year had raised the red flag highlighting the need to enforce mask and social distancing compliance and implement movement restrictions or lockdown at the earliest when its "citizen pulse trackers" indicated high levels of risk. On the mask front in the latest survey, just 13 per cent respondents said that more than 90 per cent people in their area, district or city are compliant and only 30 per cent respondents termed mask compliance as effective during travel at airports, stations, bus stands, etc. On the bright side, the survey showed that mask compliance levels were higher vaccination centres as 61 per cent of citizens said it was effective when they visited the places in the last two months. Regarding social distancing norms, just 6 per cent respondents said compliance levels are effective in their area, district or city. The survey respondents also said the top indoor locations where they have observed low social distancing compliance were vaccination centres, trains, buses, malls and indoor shopping complexes. So, while mask compliance at vaccination centres is somewhat working, social distancing compliance isn't effective. Forty-per cent of the survey respondents said shopping markets were the top outdoor location where social distancing compliance wasn't working. The report also suggested that the Central government, state governments and district administrations must ensure that clear guidelines are formed and enforced for community gatherings and compliance to masking and social distancing norms. Special focus is needed on awareness creation and ensuring compliance in Tier-3, 4 towns and rural districts where some cases of the citizen feedback received showed that compliance is at near-zero levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
10-10-2021||India||Power consumption moderates by 72 million units on Saturday, shows improvement||Power consumption dipped by nearly 2 per cent or by 72 million units (MU) to 3,828 MU on Saturday compared to 3,900 MU on Friday, showing slight improvement in supply situation across the country amid coal shortage crisis, according to the power ministry data. According to the data, the power consumption of 3,900 MU on Friday or October 8 was the highest this month so far (from October 1 to 9), which also became cause of concern among the ongoing coal shortage crisis in the country. On Saturday, Tata Power arm Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd (DDL) which operates in North and Northwest Delhi, had sent phone messages to its consumers saying, "Due to limited coal availability in generation plants across the north, power supply scenario between 2-6 pm is at critical level. Kindly use electricity judiciously. Be a responsible citizen. Inconvenience caused is regretted - Tata Power-DDL." This was the fallout of coal shortage at power plants in a year when the country produced record coal, but rains hit movement of the fuel from mines to power generation units, impacting power generation in many states, including Gujarat, Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. Another factor that has contributed to the present crisis is power plants that used imported coal to generate electricity, have either curtailed generation or completely stopped as a spurt in international energy prices has made it difficult for them to meet the commitments to states at a particular rate. The ministry of power in a statement issued on Saturday had said, "It was noted that on 7th October, 2021 total dispatch of coal by Coal India limited (CIL) touched 1.501 MT thereby reducing the gap between consumption and actual supply. The Ministry of Coal and CIL have assured that they are making best efforts to increase dispatch to the power sector to 1.6 MT per day in the next three days and thereafter try to touch 1.7 MT per day. It is likely to help in gradual build up of coal stocks at power plants in near future. The coal supply as well as consequent power situation is likely to improve." According to the data, the peak power demand met or the highest electricity supply in day touched 172.41GW on October 8. This is the highest peak power demand met from October 1 to 9. The data also showed that peak power demand met slowed to 170.03GW on Saturday, October 9, indicating that the power demand is moderating with the onset of autumn. The latest available data of the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) showed that coal stocks at power plants on October 7, 2021, was not adequate as there were 16 plants with cumulative capacity of 16,880 MW which had the dry fuel for zero days. Besides, as many as 30 plants with 37,345 MW capacity had coal for just one day and 18 plants with 23,450 MW capacity had coal for two days as of October 7, 2021. There were 19 plants with 29,160 MW capacity which had coal for three days and nine plants with 7,864MW capacity had coal for four days. There were six plants with 6,730MW capacity had coal stock for five days while 10 plants with 11,540MW capacity had coal for six days. While one plant with 2,270 MW capacity had coal for seven days, another power plant with 920 MW capacity had coal for eight days. The coal stock data for October 7, 2021, also showed that there were 69 non-pithead plants which had coal stock for less than four days and categorised as supercritical stock. Besides there were 23 plants which had coal for less than seven days and categorised at critical stock. The CEA monitors 135 coal-based thermal power plants with cumulative capacity of over 165GW.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
10-10-2021||India||Varun Gandhi warns against Hindu vs Sikh narrative in Lakhimpur Kheri violence case||BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Sunday warned against attempts to turn the Lakhimapur Kheri incident into a "Hindu vs Sikh battle", saying it is dangerous to create these fault lines and reopen wounds that have taken a generation to heal. The Pilibhit MP, who was recently dropped from the BJP national executive, said the struggle for justice in Lakhimpur Kheri is about the "cruel massacre of poor farmers in the face of an arrogant local power elite", and the issue has no religious connotations. "To use the word 'Khalistani' liberally to describe the protesting farmers is not only an insult to the generations of these proud sons of the Tarai who have fought and shed blood on our borders, it is also extremely dangerous for our national unity if this provokes the wrong kind of reaction," he said. In a tweet, he said, "An attempt to turn Lakhimpur Kheri into a Hindu vs Sikh battle is being made. Not only is this an immoral & false narrative, it is dangerous to create these fault-lines & reopen wounds that have taken a generation to heal. We must not put petty political gains above national unity." Police had arrested Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, in connection with the October 3 Lakhimpur violence. Farmer organisations have blamed the father-son duo for the incident and are alleging that the minister had made a provocative speech while his son was inside a vehicle that hit farmers. Both have denied the allegations. Ashish Mishra was named in an FIR following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down four farmers protesting over Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit last Sunday. Two BJP workers and their driver were allegedly lynched by angry farmers in retaliation. Local journalist Raman Kashyap also died in the violence, which has triggered a political storm and put the BJP government on the back foot in poll-bound UP. Gandhi has been sympathetic to the farmers' cause over their protests against three agricultural laws and often tweeted in their support, a stand which is said to have not gone down well with the BJP leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
10-10-2021||India||Border dispute: India, China hold 13th round of military talks||After a gap of over two months, India and China on Sunday are holding another round of high-level military talks with an aim to move forward on the disengagement process in the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh, sources in the security establishment said. The 13th round of Corps Commander-level talks are taking place at the Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, they said. The talks began at around 10:30 AM, the sources said. The fresh round of talks is taking place over three weeks after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar conveyed to his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi that the two sides should work for an early resolution of the remaining issues in eastern Ladakh. The two foreign ministers met on the sidelines of the SCO Summit in Dushanbe on September 16. The two sides held the 12th round of talks on July 31. Days later, the two armies completed the disengagement process in Gogra, which was seen as a significant forward movement towards the restoration of peace and tranquillity in the region. The Indian delegation at Sunday's talks was to be led by Lt Gen PGK Menon, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps. On Saturday, Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane said if the Chinese military continues with its large-scale deployment in the eastern Ladakh region, then the Indian Army too will maintain its strength on its side which he said is "as good as what the PLA has done." The fresh round of talks is taking place in the backdrop of two recent incidents of attempted transgressions by the Chinese troops with one in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand and another in the Tawang sector in Arunachal Pradesh. Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a brief face-off near Yangtse in the Tawang sector of Arunachal Pradesh around 10 days back and it was resolved within a few hours following talks between commanders of the two sides as per established protocols. Last month, close to 100 soldiers of China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) transgressed the LAC in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand. The transgression took place on August 30, and the Chinese troops returned from the area after spending a few hours. India has been insisting that resolution of outstanding issues including in Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra is essential for an overall improvement in ties between the two countries. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area in August. In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
10-10-2021||India||Ashish Mishra, accused in Lakhimpur Kheri violence, sent to 14-day judicial custody||Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, was produced before a court here late on Saturday night, which sent him to 14-day judicial custody in connection with the October 3 Lakhimpur violence. After around 12 hours of questioning in connection with the violence in which eight persons including four farmers were killed, a medical team examined Ashish Mishra in the crime branch office, after which he was taken for production before a judicial magistrate, who sent him to custody, senior prosecution officer SP Yadav told PTI. He said an application for police remand of Ashish Mishra was submitted to the judicial magistrate who fixed it for hearing at 11 am on Monday. Ashish Mishra was named in an FIR following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down four farmers protesting over UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit last Sunday. Farmer leaders and opposition parties had been demanding Mishra's arrest but the minister and his son had denied the allegations. Two BJP workers and their driver were allegedly lynched by angry farmers in the incident. Local journalist Raman Kashyap also died in the violence, which has triggered a political storm and put the BJP government on the back foot in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
10-10-2021||India||India records 18,166 new Covid-19 cases, 214 deaths||India logged 18,166 new coronavirus infections taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,39,53,475, while the active cases declined to 2,30,971, the lowest in 208 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 4,50,589 with 214 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 16 straight days. The active cases comprise 0.68 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.99 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 5,672 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
10-10-2021||India||Senior citizen files petition before Kerala HC against PM vaccine photo||A senior citizen has filed a writ petition before Kerala High Court seeking the removal of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's photograph from his Covid-19 vaccination certificate. Peter Myaliparambil, a senior citizen and an RTI activist from Kottayam in central Kerala, noted in his petition that the Prime Minister’s photograph on his personal vaccination certificate was a violation of his fundamental rights. “The petitioner has a right to be left alone. The petitioner has a right not to be subject to messaging that to the petitioner appears no more than propaganda and publicity for an individual,” Myaliparambil argued in the plea. The petitioner explained that he had paid Rs 750 for a single dose of Covishield vaccine at a private hospital in Kottayam, mainly because of the lack of slots for free vaccines. “The petitioner has paid for his vaccination…. In fact, it was the non-availability of free vaccine slots that led to the petitioner opting for the paid vaccination. The state has no right to claim credit by inserting a photograph of the Hon’ble Prime Minister in the certificate issued to a paid-vaccine recipient,” Myaliparambil said. He submitted copies of vaccination certificates from the US, Indonesia, Israel, Kuwait, France and Germany to show that none of these featured pictures of the heads of state or government. His contention is that none can encroach on another’s private space. “The certificate issued to the petitioner, in his name, having his personal details and the details of a medical record, is his private space. The State has no right to access that space, any more than the petitioner consents to it.” Advocate Ajit Joy, who represents the petitioner, told The Telegraph that Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar had on Friday ordered the Union and state governments to file their responses within two weeks. The petitioner contended that the purpose of such a certificate was to confirm the vaccination status of an individual. “It is a certificate issued merely to confirm the status of vaccination of a person. The photograph of the Hon’ble Prime Minister has no relevance (to) such a certificate as can be seen from such certificates issued by other countries.” Myaliparambil highlighted how several campaigns were being run giving the entire credit to Modi for the “largest vaccination campaign in the world” and cited how the University Grants Commission and Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, Bangalore region, had put up banners thanking the Prime Minister for free vaccines. “On the whole, the petitioner is concerned that the national campaign against Covid-19 is being converted into a media campaign for the Hon’ble Prime Minister…. There seems to be an effort to show the campaign as a one-man show, a propaganda to project an individual at State expense,” he noted. He contended that the Union government and the Prime Minister “cannot claim to have done anything but their duty”. He noted that the Prime Minister’s being given so much prominence in the Covid-19 vaccination campaign “is leading to the colouring of the petitioner’s rational thought and critical appraisal leading to a distortion of the petitioner’s freedom to vote including exercising free choice”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
10-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: Callousness spreads to autopsy reports, too||Families of the Lakhimpur Kheri victims have alleged that the post-mortem reports they have been given are carbon copies that are too faint to read, and that protests to the authorities have brought no redress. Pawan Kashyap, brother of Raman Kashyap, a journalist killed along with four farmers by a Thar jeep belonging to Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni on October 3, alleged the administration had issued the illegible copies “deliberately”. “Clearly, everybody is under pressure from the government. This could be why they have given us a carbon copy of my brother’s post-mortem report that neither the doctors nor the lawyers among my friends can read,” he told The Telegraph. “All I understand is that the report says Raman died of injuries. A post-mortem report must mention the nature of injury, but it’s so indistinct that we cannot make out whether it has this information.” Pawan said he had received the copy on Wednesday and requested the sub-divisional magistrate, who has been coordinating between the police and the families, to provide a clearer copy. “Despite my repeated requests, they are not giving me a clearly written post-mortem report. This shows something very serious is still going on in the administration,” he said. Puran Singh, a cousin of Gurvinder Singh of Bahraich — one of the four farmers killed in the incident involving the Thar, which was allegedly carrying Teni’s son Ashis “Monu” Mishra — made the same complaint. Some eyewitnesses have said Gurvinder was shot dead by Ashis. In the Supreme Court on Friday, the state government counsel had said Ashis had not yet been arrested because the post-mortem did not show a bullet injury. “The first post-mortem report that we received on Wednesday was unclear. All we understood was that he (Gurvinder) died of injuries. Since some eyewitnesses have said he was killed by a bullet fired by Monu, we refused to receive the first post-mortem report,” Puran told reporters. “Then the local administration agreed to have a second post-mortem. It’s report, given to us on Friday, too was illegible. All we were able to glean from it, again, was that Gurvinder had died of injuries.” A senior criminal lawyer in Lucknow, Umesh Kumar Singh, said it’s normal practice to provide families with carbon copies of handwritten post-mortem reports but if the families apply, they can be given typed reports. He said the carbon copies are normally expected to be legible. The additional chief medical officer of Lakhimpur Kheri, Ashwini Kumar, said: “They should immediately submit a request with the CMO (chief medical officer) for a clear or typed report. They have every right to have a clear copy.” Prashant Kumar, additional director-general of police, said: “We will hear every issue raised by the victims’ families and sort them out gradually.” Teni has claimed his son was not in the Thar but 4km away at their village of Banvirpur. But Pawan said some people had told him that when Ashis heard of farmers sloganeering against his father in the neighbourhood, he decided to go and see for himself. He quoted a source at Banvirpur as saying: “I was not on the spot but I heard from someone who was that Monu said, ‘Let’s go and see how these people have had the audacity to enter my area and protest against us’.” Samajwadi Party president and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav accused the government of protecting Teni and his son. “They first crushed the farmers and a journalist and then by denying them justice, they crushed the law of the land. Now the BJP government is crushing democracy by allowing a criminal to remain a Union minister,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
10-10-2021||India||Covid: Jab syringe export restrictions after govt stupor||The Centre has imposed temporary export restrictions on syringes for Covid-19 vaccines to address a possible shortage that industry executives say could have been averted through government planning they had first requested over 18 months ago. The Union health ministry on Saturday announced restrictions on the export of a range of auto-disposable, disposable and reuse prevention syringes for three months, saying they are needed to vaccinate all eligible citizens within the shortest possible time. The restrictions suggest that inadequate quantitative planning by the government that had hobbled India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign through limited supplies in its early months has also impacted syringes, experts tracking the campaign and executives have said. “It is clear there has been poor planning — a failure to make projections and prepare for inventories needed,” said R. Ramakumar, a health economist and professor of developmental studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. “We saw this with vaccines, we’re seeing it with syringes,” he added. India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign had administered 940 million doses by Saturday morning and needs to deliver at least 948 million more doses to fully vaccinate the country’s estimated 944 million adults with two doses. Only about 265 million (28 per cent) people have received both doses so far. The export restrictions will stall the supply of 0.5ml and 1ml auto-disposable syringes, 0.5ml, 1ml, 2ml and 3ml disposable syringes, and 1ml, 2ml and 3ml reuse prevention syringes to international agencies and countries dependent on Indian-made devices. For instance, Hindustan Syringes and Medical Devices, the world’s largest manufacturer of auto-disposable syringes, will have to hold or seek special permission from the Indian government to meet pending orders of over 30 million 0.5ml and 1ml syringes from Argentina, Brazil and Guatemala. Hindustan Syringes has already had to hold back nearly 100 million syringes meant for Unicef to divert them to meet the health ministry’s demand for India’s vaccination campaign even though the order from the UN outfit for children predated India’s order. “It was awkward — such actions could threaten our credibility,” said Rajiv Nath, managing director of Hindustan Syringes and president of the All India Syringes and Needles Manufacturers Association. “This kind of situation could have been avoided had industry received advance demand visibility.” Nath first wrote to the health ministry in April 2020, suggesting that it would be “prudent to plan in time” for vaccine delivery to avoid shortages of syringes. He had also proposed a timeline for production ramp-up from 44 million syringes per month in April 2020 to 67 million by March 2021 to 90 million by September 2021, requesting both committed orders and financial support from the government. In April 2021, Nath again wrote to the health ministry saying the company had increased production to 70 million per month and could raise it to 87 million by September, and again requesting “clarity of committed orders and financial support”. Despite those pleas, members of the All India Syringes and Needles Manufacturers Association say the health ministry’s orders have come in dribs and drabs, foisting uncertainty on producers who are cautious about large investments that might remain unused after the Covid-19 threat recedes. Nath again wrote to the health ministry last month asking for the “probable quantities” of syringes India would require between January and March 2022 and between April 2022 and March 2023 to enable the company to allocate appropriate production space. Ramakumar said it was “not surprising” that the industry would seek clarity of committed orders and respond only to demand, particularly if there is a risk that the extra production capacity created for Covid-19 might become redundant after the epidemic. The health ministry’s Saturday announcement of export restrictions for three months on select syringes follows a Union commerce ministry notification on October 4 that had imposed such a halt on all syringes, triggering concern within industry and international agencies. The notification prompted the World Health Organisation Regional Office for the Americas and the Pan American Health Organisation to write to the Indian government on October 7, saying there is a “critical demand” for India-made syringes and requesting that pending orders be shipped out. The All India Syringes and Needles Manufacturers Association has welcomed Saturday’s clarification, saying this implies that the export of insulin syringes, 0.3ml syringes and 5ml or larger syringes could continue. The 0.3ml auto-disposable syringes may be used to deliver the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine but are not suitable for Covishield or Covaxin, the primary vaccines used in India. Health experts had attributed the slow start of India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign earlier this year to poor planning and lack of adequate advance investments by the government to prepare for the quantum of doses required in its early months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
10-10-2021||India||Union minister's son sent to judicial custody in Lakhimpur Kheri violence case||Ashis Mishra, son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, was arrested on Saturday night after almost 12 hours of questioning by the special investigation team (SIT) probing the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage. Around 10.45pm, an officer stepped out of the crime branch office at Lakhimpur Kheri where Ashis was being questioned and said: “After long interrogation, we conclude that Ashis Mishra is non-cooperative. He is not replying to many of our questions. We are taking him into custody on this ground. We are arresting him.” The officer did not identify himself. Ashis, accused of being in his father’s Thar jeep when it mowed down four farmers and a journalist on Sunday, had arrived for interrogation at 11am after having missed the first summons to appear at 10am on Friday. The Supreme Court had on Friday slammed the Uttar Pradesh government while alluding to Ashis being merely summoned rather than arrested, asking whether “(all) accused in the country would be treated the same way” when there is “a serious allegation of death or gunshot injury”. State government counsel Harish Salve had then told the court he had been “assured at the highest level that between today and tomorrow, whatever is the shortfall will be filled up”. On Saturday, a local police officer claimed Ashis had come armed with videos to try and establish he was in his village of Banvirpur when the carnage took place 4km away in Tikunia. The officer, who sought anonymity, expressed doubt whether the videos could establish Ashis’s contention. “However, we don’t know how the SIT will react to the clips,” he had said in the evening. At his Lakhimpur Kheri office in the afternoon, Teni told his supporters: “I have faith in the law and believe my son will emerge unscathed. We are happy to cooperate with the investigation.” Ashis had arrived at the crime branch office accompanied by two lawyers and four relatives, all of whom remained inside the building throughout the interrogation, police sources said. Over 1,000 police and paramilitary personnel were deployed in and around the building, as well as the police lines compound where it is located. While journalists waited outside the crime branch office — held back by a human chain of policemen — a crowd of about 100 people stood outside the compound gate, about 50 metres away. Among them were many BJP supporters. Local people said hundreds of farmers had gathered across roads and fields within a kilometre of the police lines and were constantly in touch with their sources stationed outside the compound gate. Over 100 BJP workers held a candlelight march in Lakhimpur town on Saturday evening, demanding the arrest of the killers of Shubham Mishra, a booth-level leader of the party. Mishra and two others — said to be inside the cars in a convoy led by the Thar — were allegedly beaten to death by farmers after five people were run over and killed. In the morning, Shubham’s brother Shantanu had told The Telegraph over the phone: “It’s obvious that both sides are blaming each other. All I know is that my brother was killed. We all, including his wife Rekha and one-year-old daughter Akriti, should get justice.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
10-10-2021||India||China is there to stay, says Indian Army chief Naravane||The Indian Army chief said on Saturday that the continued Chinese build-up in eastern Ladakh suggested that “they are there to stay”, a day ahead of the 13th round of military talks to resolve the 17-month-long standoff. Speaking at the Indian Today Conclave in Delhi, General M.M. Naravane said: “It is a matter of concern that the large-scale build-up which had occurred continues to be in place. And to sustain that kind of build-up, there has been an equal amount of infrastructure development on the Chinese side. It means that they are there to stay. We are keeping a close watch on all this development.” “But if they are there to stay, we are there to stay too. The build-up on our side and the developments on our side are as good as what the PLA has done,” the army chief added. The PLA is the Chinese People’s Liberation Army. Although the Indian Army has been talking about the massive Chinese deployment in eastern Ladakh and declaring that it is prepared for any eventuality, it has of late been publicly acknowledging a long haul. Last week Naravane had said border incidents would continue until a long-term solution in the form of a boundary agreement was reached. Gen. Naravane said on Saturday that the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh would become like the Line of Control with Pakistan considering the massive build-up — additional military equipment and troops deployed since last year — by India and China along the frontier. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a border face-off at multiple points in Ladakh since May last year. The PLA has altered the unmarked LAC at these friction points and as per estimates it has taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. The Indian Army chief said on Saturday that if the Chinese soldiers continued to stay put through a second winter, it would “definitely mean that we will be in a kind of LoC situation”. Man and machine of the army are permanently stationed in large numbers along the Pakistan border. “But it will not be an active LAC as it is there on the western front. We have to keep a close eye on build-up and troop deployment so that they (the PLA) don’t get into any misadventure once again,” Naravane said. Since last winter, India and China have amassed troops and equipment at altitudes of 14,000ft and above. Each side has deployed 50,000 soldiers along the LAC in Ladakh, backed by artillery, tanks and missile systems. The sources in the army said disengagement of Chinese troops from Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains would be taken up during Sunday’s corps commander-level talks that would take place on the Chinese side of the Chushul-Moldo border. A recent intelligence report has suggested that the Chinese army has been rapidly building infrastructure, including roads, bridges and habitats, for its soldiers near the multiple friction points in Ladakh. Besides, China appears to have built at least 10 new airbases along the LAC in Ladakh, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh and ramped up infrastructure at its existing airbases close to the Indian frontier, sources said. India, too, has stepped up its border infrastructure development programme, including the building of roads, bridges and tunnels, to counter further Chinese transgressions. So far, there has been “partial” disengagement from the Galwan Valley, the Pangong Lake and Gogra through the creation of a demilitarised “buffer zone”. This means the Chinese have stepped back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines, and the Indian troops have retreated by an equal distance — a move some veterans have criticised as “ceding more territory” to the Chinese. The standoff at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains continue. The Chinese are said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines at the Depsang Plains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
10-10-2021||India||Warning on remote electronic voting by Election Commission||A former chief election commissioner and an ex-returning officer who had flagged the “vulnerability” of electronic voting machines to tampering have opposed a purported proposal for remote electronic voting by the Election Commission. The Economic Times on Saturday reported that the EC is working on an “Internet-free” prototype to upgrade EVMs to allow people to vote from areas outside their constituencies. The report said: “For remote voters, the paper ballot on the EVM’s balloting unit will be replaced with an electronic ballot inserted in the unit. A constituency card reader, similar to a barcode reader, will be installed at the presiding officer’s control unit. “When a ‘remote voter’ approaches the presiding officer, the constituency card reader will decipher the voter’s constituency data and relay it to the balloting unit, which will display the ‘electronic ballot’ of the seat to which the voter is registered. The vote registered will be saved in the control unit, constituency wise, and tallied to each respective constituency during counting.” The EC did not confirm or deny the report. CEC Sushil Chandra is yet to respond to queries from The Telegraph sent via email and WhatsApp. Former CEC O.P. Rawat told this newspaper: “This will not be acceptable to political parties as it introduces new areas of suspicion…. How will any machine that has the data of so many constituencies stored in it give the data for counting constituency-wise? It is terrible. This can’t happen.” Several Opposition parties, including all national parties except the BJP, had asked the EC to revert to paper ballots before the Lok Sabha polls in 2019, citing “opaqueness” in the electoral system. Last year, NGOs had demanded postal ballots for domestic migrants while Opposition parties had flagged concerns over potential fraud. Besides service voters, this facility is available now to people above 80, Covid patients and the disabled. The election agents of the candidate are allowed to be present in polling stations to verify if the people casting their votes tally with the voters’ list. During the special summary revision of the voters’ list in Uttar Pradesh’s Amroha district this week, 18,898 voters were found to have the same photograph. Rawat explained: “I don’t think it (remote voting) is feasible without using the Internet and once you use the Internet, the security of your EVM is gone. That is the only strength the Indian EVM has — that it is standalone, it cannot talk to other machines, and it is not Internet-ready.” In 2019, IAS officer Kannan Gopinathan, former returning officer of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, had claimed that paper trail machines were vulnerable to becoming Trojan horses for tampering voting machines. Back then, the EC had said a “rigorous scrutiny” was being done, although no evidence of “transfer of vote from one candidate to another has been found” in the Lok Sabha polls that year. Gopinathan told this newspaper on Saturday: “My view is that the EC should get a paper published on this proposed tech in a peer-reviewed journal so that the authority of the arguments are clearly established and countered in a transparent way.” Voting app The Telangana State Election Commission, which conducts local body polls in the state and does not come under the EC’s supervision, has announced the pilot launch of a mobile voting application to be tried out in a dummy election in Khammam on October 20. Not only does this throw to the wind the EC’s precaution of keeping voting devices off the Internet, the voters will also be unsupervised. Nor has the state poll panel revealed how it plans to prevent coercion of voters. Rawat said Gujarat’s experience in using Internet voting in municipal polls in 2010 and 2015 had shown that despite huge expenditure, less than 1 per cent of votes were cast through this mode.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
10-10-2021||India||Farmer unions term Lakhimpur Kheri carnage ‘a terror act’||Farmer unions on Saturday termed the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage an “act of terror” that was part of a larger conspiracy to break their 10-month-old protest, and said the “massacre” was to their movement what Jallianwala Bagh was to the freedom struggle. The unions have drawn up a protest programme that will seek to tap emotions with the ashes of the Lakhimpur Kheri victims taken to every part of the country. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) announced a month-long agitation that would culminate in a mahapanchayat in Lucknow on October 26 if Union minister of state for home, Ajay Mishra Teni, was not dismissed and arrested with his son Ashis by Monday. The announcement came at a news conference in Delhi where Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait commanded the most interest amid speculation about him having “turned” and helped the government broker an “agreement” with the farmers of Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday. Although SKM leaders had earlier clarified that Tikait had not acted alone and various other union leaders were involved in the five rounds of negotiations with the administration, the speculation has persisted. The news conference on Saturday seemed an attempt to put a lid on the controversy. Tikait made it clear there was no question of giving up the agitation midway, saying: “Sangharsh se samadhan (resolution through struggle) is our motto.” He explained that Monday’s agreement had been a limited one to ease the tensions building up, with the bereaved families having refused to cremate their dead without some form of assurance from the administration. Given the importance the SKM attaches to the movement remaining peaceful, union leaders were keen to ensure the tensions did not flare up, knowing this was exactly what the government was hoping for. BKU-Ekta (Ugrahan) leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan said that after failing to discredit the movement by branding it “Khalistani, Pakistani, Naxals”, the BJP government was now resorting to direct violence to break the agitation. He cited the provocative statements by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar (since withdrawn) asking party cadre for “tit-for-tat” action against the farmers, a sub-divisional magistrate in Karnal ordering police to break the heads of protesting farmers, and now farmers being run over and killed in Lakhimpur Kheri. “They want to provoke us into violence, but we will not fall into this trap,” Ugrahan said. On reports of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri beating to death two people after a car belonging to Teni had mowed down five people, Tikait said: “It was a reaction to an action; it was not planned.” He added: “When two cars meet with an accident here, even educated people — fully aware that they can claim insurance — block the road and fight with each other.” Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan, an SKM constituent, stepped in to highlight that the law distinguishes between premeditated murder and reactive killing. “At the same time, the SKM believes that every person killed in the incident — irrespective of political affiliation — should get justice,” he said. Yadav said that if the government failed to meet the SKM’s demands by Monday, the protest programme would be set in motion. Either way, October 12 will be marked as Shaheed Kisan Divas across the country as it coincides with the antim ardas (final prayers) for the farmers killed on October 3. The SKM has urged farmers across the country to pay tribute to the slain farmers by attending the event at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri or organising prayer meetings at their own places on Tuesday. Candlelight marches will be organised that evening. The SKM has urged all citizens to light five candles in memory of the five “martyrs” — the four farmers and one journalist killed by the speeding cars — outside their homes at 8pm. If its demands are not met, the SKM plans to hold a Shaheed Kisan Yatra from Lakhimpur Kheri to every district of Uttar Pradesh and to every state, carrying urns containing the slain farmers’ ashes. In each state, this journey will conclude at a local holy place or historical site. On Dussehra, effigies of BJP leaders, including the Prime Minister and Union home minister, will be burnt across the country. This will be followed up with another rail roko on October 18, after which the mahapanchayat will be held in Lucknow on October 26, Yadav said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
10-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP remembers activists killed during Durga Puja: Dilip Ghosh||Senior BJP leader Dilip Ghosh on Sunday said that the party remembers its activists who were killed in post-poll violence in West Bengal even more during Durga Puja and will always remain by the side of their family members. Claiming that at least 53 BJP workers were brutally killed by ruling Trinamool Congress activists since results of the assembly elections were declared on May 2, the saffron party's national vice president said that many of its slain members had actively participated in Durga Puja celebrations in their respective areas. Ghosh visited a Durga Puja in the locality of Abhijit Sarkar, a BJP worker who was killed in Beleghata area of Kolkata on May 2, and said that even last year, the murdered party member had taken part in the festivities. "I have visited his parar pujo (neighbourhood Durga Puja) to be with his family and friends. I have assured them that Abhijit will get justice" he said. Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari had visited the marquee on Saturday and later tweeted, "Overwhelmed by the grief at this Durga Puja in Beleghata, Kolkata. The organisers, in remembrance of the slain local lad Abhijit Sarkar; post poll violence victim, has refrained from playing any joyous sound, to honour his memory. Drumbeats of the 'dhaak' has also fallen silent." BJP leader Priyanka Tibrewal, who lost to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the recent Bhabanipur by-election, also visited the puja and said that the party will continue to support Sarkar's family. A TMC leader said that the ruling party in the state does not want to do politics over Durga Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
10-10-2021||West Bengal||Thankful to Mamata Banerjee, say owners of Calcutta restaurants||Owners of fine dining restaurants in the city on Sunday welcomed the decision of the Bengal government to allow them to function as per normal working hours. The state government said in a notification that relaxations were being granted to restaurants, shops to be open as per "normal functioning hours" from October 10 to 20. "We wholeheartedly welcome the decision. All eateries will function accordingly beyond the earlier stipulated time of 10:30 pm from today or tomorrow till October 20," President of Hotel and Restaurants Association of Eastern India, Sudesh Poddar told PTI. Asked if the association will seek any clarity on the words normal functioning hours, Poddar said "the order is clear enough. The members will open their outlets as they used to in normal times for the 10 days. The owner of Peter Cat and Mocambo on Park Street, Nitin Kothari said "we are thankful to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for granting our wish to allow us open our outlets beyond the 10:30 cap on festival days." "I will keep the doors of my eateries open till 12 midnight today (Sunday). From tomorrow it will be extended to 1 am," he added. Due to easing of night curfew during the festival season and declaration of all puja pandals as no entry zones, owners of eateries on Friday urged the Bengal Chief Secretary to extend the closing hour by another hour from 10:30 pm during the Durga Puja. They had stated more people will be opting for dine out experiences on puja days this year as options for pandal hopping has lessened while a section of people want to celebrate the festivities out of the confines of their homes and they will be disappointed if eateries closed by 11 pm. The night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am, as per COVID-19 restriction, has been withdrawn by the government in view of Durga Puja which begins on October 11. The owner of 'Oudh 1590' restaurant chain Shiladitya Chowdhury told PTI, "We had requested the government if the deadline can be extended by some more time. We are delighted with the response."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
10-10-2021||West Bengal||Tea estate offers attractive bouquet of six teas in one pack||A tea estate located just outside Alipurduar town has come up with a new way to merchandise its tea attractively with a combination pack of assorted flavours. Majherdabri tea estate, known for its excellent quality of CTC brew, has launched an assorted package of six premium teas, including the famous Darjeeling tea. “For quite some time now, we had been mulling how tea lovers can be offered a variety of flavours in one pack. So now, we have come up with a special package of six types of teas. All, except Darjeeling tea, are produced in our garden. We have launched the package for sale in one of our outlets and the response has been good,” said Chinmoy Dhar, the garden’s manager. Dhar said the attractive package has six sealed containers, each with 40 grams of tea, along with a small bottle of local honey. Darjeeling tea apart, the five other flavours are rose, hibiscus, masala, organic CTC tea and organic CTC tea produced in Majherdabri. The pack has been priced at Rs 2,000 and is available for sale at an outlet in Jainti and at the company’s own outlet in Alipurduar. Soon, the pack of six teas will be available near Jaldapara National Park (in Alipurduar district) and in Lataguri (on the fringes of Gorumara National Park in the neighbouring Jalpaiguri district), said gardens sources. This initiative, Dhar said, will help the garden make extra earnings and create avenues to explore domestic and overseas markets for specialised teas. He added that in recent times, tourists to north Bengal have spoken about their love for different varieties of teas, especially rose and hibiscus which are great favourites. A senior tea planter based in Siliguri appreciated the initiative. He said that CTC teas are produced in bulk across north Bengal, and such value additions to tea can help estates get new buyers from other states and abroad. “Such new initiatives can help a garden be financially stable,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
10-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP's Raju Bista focus on hill talks, not ‘snub’||Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, on Saturday replied to the charge hurled by some hill parties that they had not been invited to the tripartite talks on October 12. Bista slammed parties like the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha and Anit Thapa’s Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM), saying these were satisfied with the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) and were eyeing its chairs. “Let us be clear that it is not a meeting on the GTA or on selecting any of its office bearers… it is about the solution of the demand that the Gorkhas here have raised for years. Those clamouring over the issue of invitation should assert if they want the solution and if they have confidence in the Narendra Modi government. This is because on several occasions we have heard them emphasising on the GTA,” Bista told the media after arriving at the Bagdogra airport. The BGPM, especially, had questioned the Centre for not inviting them  for the October 12 talks. The party has an MLA in Kalimpong and yet he was not called unlike the BJP MLAs of Darjeeling and Kurseong, BGPM leaders said. Bista’s emphasis on the topic of the meeting is a part of the saffron camp’s strategy to galvanise support in the hills, said political observers. “He tried to drive home the point that parties like the GJM and BGPM, which are with Trinamul, are focusing more on the GTA and not on the issue of permanent political solution. It is nothing but a political move to try and drum up support for the BJP and simultaneously gain the confidence of its allies in the hills,” said a veteran in hill politics. The MP, who ascended to Darjeeling, also held a meeting with leaders of its allied parties later in the day. Senior leaders of a number of parties, including the GNLF, CPRM, Gorkhaland Rashtriya Nirman Morcha, a faction of Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League and the Sumeti Mukti Morcha, were present at the meeting. “We discussed among ourselves what our submissions would be at the meeting. There will be representatives of Gorkhas and also representatives from the Dooars. Officials of the home ministry led by the Union home minister will attend the meeting that will commence at 4pm. Also, the state government has been invited at the meeting and we are hopeful that there would be some positive developments,” said Bista, who is also a national spokesperson of the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
10-10-2021||West Bengal||Cop, three others hurt in TMC infighting in Jalpaiguri ||A minor accident  in Indira Colony on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town late on Friday night snowballed into violence as two groups of Trinamul supporters clashed all through the night. At least four persons, including the chief of a local panchayat and a police officer, have been injured. The administration had to imposed prohibitory orders in the area. Police have also filed a suo motu case against 12 persons for perpetrating violence. An embarrassed district Trinamul leadership asked local leaders to restore normality in the area, insiders said. Trouble begun at 10pm on Friday, when Trinamul worker Uttam Das had parked his bike at BDO office More in Indira Colony and was chatting with friends when an e-rickshaw rammed into his vehicle. Allegedly, one of Uttam’s friends slapped the driver. Uttam is an aide of Krishna Das, a leader of Trinamul SC & ST cell in the district. Rustam Khan, an acquaintance of the e-rickshaw driver and a Trinamul worker, reached the spot with others. Khan allegedly beat up Uttam.. Uttam told Krishna. As news spread, Krishna and others from Trinamul joined the fight. Pradhan Hembram, another follower of Krishna and the pradhan of neighbouring Patkata panchayat, reached Indira Colony with his supporters. Residents alleged that Hembram and his associates had sharp weapons, sticks and firearms, and they attacked local youth Abdul Mannan, alleging that he had beaten up Uttam, and also Abdul's father. Others then clashed with Hembram, who was beaten up. Police controlled the situation. Hembram and two others were hospitalised. Krishna then got into a fight with the policemen on duty and suddenly, Mukul Ishore, an assistant sub-inspector of police, was attacked by some unidentified people in the dark. Ishore sustained serious injuries on his face and is hospitalised. Senior police officers had to bring the situation under control. Prohibitory orders were clamped in Indira Colony and in adjoining areas like Gosala More, Patakata Colony and Kaliyaganj. “A few hours before the incident, around 200 of us had been to a party meeting convened by Krishna Das. It is disappointing that his followers assaulted our neighbours. For decades, we have been with Trinamul and yet, the incident happened. We want the district leaders to look into the issue,” said Amina Khatun, a Trinamul supporter of Indira Colony. Krishna was brief in his reaction. “A minor accident had led to the incident. There was a misunderstanding among two groups of Trinamul supporters. We have resolved it through talks,” he said. Debarshi Dutta, the district police chief, said the situation was under control in the area. “We have posted out men who are keeping a watch over the situation. Also, a suo motu case has been filed at Kotwali police station against 12 persons for perpetrating violence,” he said. “It is disappointing that our workers clashed over a trivial issue. District leaders should look into it and take steps against all those involved in it. Such incidents affect the party’s image,” said a senior party leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
10-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid safety curbs on Ichhamati immersions||The traditional Vijaya Dashami boat ride on the river Ichhamati, to bid farewell to Goddess Durga, will be a restricted affair for the second pandemic year in a row. Taki civic administration has announced that only Durga Puja organisers will be allowed to sail on the river for immersion and that too for a limited time. The decision was taken in a flag meeting held a few days ago on the Ichhamati, in which officials of the Taki and Satkhira civic authorities, as well as the BSF, BGB (of Bangladesh), and police from India and Bangladesh were present. Krishnendu Ghosh, the officer in charge of Hansnabad police station, told the media that the decision had been “unanimous”. “A maximum of eight persons in each boat will be allowed to complete the immersion rites. The entire immersion process will be restricted between 1pm and 4.30pm and no one will be allowed to sail on the river beyond this time,” said Ghosh, adding the same protocol will be followed by Bangladeshi Puja organisers. Civic authorities have made it clear that no traditional joyrides for visitors  on the river will be allowed and any violation of the prohibition would be dealt with strongly. “Border Guards Bangladesh and Border Security Force personnel will be keeping surveillance from speed boats along the middle of the river and be creating a line of control with ropes so that no boat from either side can sneak into the other’s territory,” said an official. The administration, in consultation with the BSF and BGB, had imposed similar restrictions last year too. On the Indian side of the river, the deities are immersed at Taki. Deities from Satkhira in Bangladesh are immersed on the other side of the river bank. On Vijaya Dashami day before the onset of the pandemic, thousands used  gather on either side of the river to witness the spectacular immersion of Durga idols. Many people also used to hire boats to enjoy a ride on the river alongside the deities. A BSF official, who was present in the meeting, said people would have to view the immersion standing on the river bank and maintaining Covid protocol. “We have mutually agreed to ensure that Covid protocol is strictly followed in the greater interest of public health owing to the Covid situation,” the BSF official said. The traditional immersion boat ride on the Ichhamati goes back a few centuries, when it is believed to have been introduced by local zamindar families. “There were at least seven zamindars in undivided Bengal, who introduced the boat ride before the immersion. In the course of time, the villagers under their rule also joined the celebration. The tradition continued even though Bengal got divided thereafter,” said a local resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
10-10-2021||West Bengal||1 lakh in West Burdwan’s Jamuria hit by water crisis ||Over 1 lakh residents of a dozen municipal areas and adjoining villages in West Burdwan’s Jamuria are grappling with severe water crisis for over a week now, because the water treatment plant in Raniganj’s Damalia developed a snag last week and could be partially repaired. Sources said the plant got almost submerged when the region saw record rainfall of 434mm between September 28 and 29 and subsequent release of water from two DVC dams in Jharkhand. The civic authority and public health engineering department are supplying water in tankers in Jamuria, which wasn’t enough, residents said. People in Akhalpur and Chanda in Jamuria blocked a road connecting NH2 for over an hour on Friday demanding normal water supply. “We have to fetch water from  dirty sources far from home,” said Sukho Hansda of Akhalpur. The situation in and around Raniganj town, which also get water from this plant, was as bad till Thursday. But water supply was partially restored here on Thursday after people led by former CPM MLA from Raniganj Runu Dutta blocked NH60 for hours. Khursheed Ali Qadri, municipal commissioner of AMC, said that the plant had been “partially repaired” and claimed “there was no major complaint now”. However, Manoj Dutta, a CPM district secretariat member and Jamuria resident, disagreed. “The administration is sending 1,000 tankers of water where at least one lakh people stay. People in eight municipal wards, as well as six gram panchayat areas, are suffering.” SFI leader Aishe Ghosh on Saturday posted pictures of the people’s protest in Jamuria on her Facebook wall. She slammed the government for not doing enough to resolve the water crisis. Trinamul MLA from Jamuria Hareram Singh said: “It is a combined impact of heavy rain and DVC’s conspiracy… However, the situation has improved now…. The CPM need not worry.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
10-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal’s active Covid cases rise for 10th day||Bengal on Saturday logged a rise for the 10th day in two weeks in its active Covid-19 cases, as the number rose by nine to 7,634, with 776 new infections, 755 recoveries and 12 deaths. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of fall in active cases on September 26. The state has 3.3 per cent of India’s active cases, and is seventh among states with the most such cases. Calcutta logged 162 new infections and North 24-Parganas 127, the only two districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Eighteen districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta reported three deaths and North 24-Parganas four. The state’s recovery rate is 98.32 per cent, while the nation’s is 97.9 per cent. Its daily positive confirmation rate is 2.13 per cent now. Its Covid mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while the nation’s is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.75 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.49 lakh recoveries and 18,894 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
10-10-2021||West Bengal||BSF rescues ibises in Nadia, smugglers escape||The Border Security Force rescued five straw-necked ibises, which are Australian migratory birds, from near India-Bangladesh border in Nadia’s Hridaypur on Friday night. According to BSF sources, the birds were being smuggled to India from Bangladesh and the officials could not ascertain how the smugglers got the birds as they managed to flee. The exotic birds were later handed over to foresters of Bethuadahari forest. “The birds have been given an oral rehydration solution and are currently under observation,” said a forest official. The BSF sources claimed that a mature ibis draws high demand for private zoos and as pets. It is usually sold at Rs 50,000 by smugglers. A BSF spokesperson of the South Bengal Frontier said a patrolling team attached to the 82 battalion spotted mysterious movement of persons close to the border around 8.30pm on Friday. They challenged the group, but the smugglers fled leaving a cage with the birds. “Smuggling of exotic birds is not new, but newer and rarer varieties of birds are being smuggled and this is quite surprising,” the BSF spokesperson added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
10-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Covid vaccination drive before Puja pause ||The state health department has increased its Covid vaccination numbers in Bengal with four mega drives ahead of Durga Puja as the process will remain suspended at over 12,000 grassroots health centres on four days of the festival, starting Saptami. Officials said the decision to provide relief to thousands of health workers during the festive days had been taken in view of their tireless service  since the outbreak of the pandemic in early 2020. However, though grassroots-level centres will take a vaccination break on four days of the puja, the jab will be available at all medical colleges, district and sub-divisional hospitals like usual. Sources said they were also trying to keep the vaccination process on at the 341 block hospitals across the state during the festive days. “Our colleagues at the grassroot levels need a break to be with their families during the festival days. All the health workers serve us in emergencies and they have been working tirelessly since the outbreak of the pandemic. So, we opted to organise four mega camps this month (before Durga Puja) to counter the holiday effect,” said a senior state health official. The state vaccinated over 22 lakh people in two days of its mega drives on October 5 and 7. The third mega drive was on Saturday in which around 13 lakh people were vaccinated till 6pm. On usual days, the number of vaccination hovers around 4 lakh. The last mega drive will be held on October 11. “We are discussing if the vaccination process can be continued at block-level facilities during puja. It is also a fact that footfall for vaccination will be low during puja. We have vaccinated people in a large number to compensate the break during the festival,” said Jayanta Sukul, an additional director of health services who looks after Covid vaccination for Bengal. Health officials said the rate of vaccination was lower  in September-end because of floods in six Bengal districts. That’s why four mega drives were helping them shore up the  vaccination count. Covid vaccinations started in January. However, grassroots health workers were involved from early last year to identify the people with fever and collecting samples of those with suspected Covid symptoms. “No health worker was allowed leave during puja last year because of the threat of the second wave and everyone knows the situation in the country, including Bengal. It is not that all grassroots health workers will get leaves on all four days but the pressure will be less if vaccination is suspended,” said an official. “Apart from the vaccination, there is the scheduled work of immunisation of children and other regular health-related work, including taking care of the pregnant women,”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
10-10-2021||West Bengal||EC decides on central forces for Bengal Assembly bypolls ||The Election Commission has decided to deploy 27 companies of central forces for the upcoming October 30 bypolls in four Assembly segments in Bengal, poll panel sources said on Saturday. The commission has scheduled bypolls for the Dinhata, Santipur, Gosaba and Khardah constituencies on October 30. “Central forces will start reaching the state by next week, October 13 in all probability,” the EC source said. The 27 companies will have eight companies of the CRPF, nine companies of the BSF and five companies each of the CISF and the SSB. The poll panel had deployed 52 companies of central forces for the three September 30 elections, including the Bhowanipore seat, which elected chief minister Mamata Banerjee as a legislator. Many officers at the chief electoral office of Bengal said that to conduct peaceful polls on October 30 would be a challenge for them. For instance, they cited multiple post-poll atrocities that were reported from Dinhata since this summer. That’s why the EC is extra cautious about this seat, a source from the chief electoral office said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
10-10-2021||Opinion||Reflected Glory||Days before the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, the “best performing chief minister of India” Adityanath appointed “best actress” Kangana Ranaut as ambassador for a recently launched Uttar Pradesh government programme. The Centre’s National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) showed more imagination; it chose comic character Chacha Chaudhary. The NMCG, which has tied up with Diamond Toons, has announced something about related content being designed with the objective of bringing about behavioural change amongst children towards the Ganges and other rivers. Chacha Chaudhary, however, is not only old himself, he was also created in 1971, and is therefore a whole different context and world away. Match the following For its “Desh ke Mentor” initiative, wherein experienced professionals will mentor children enrolled in Delhi government schools, the Kejriwal government has chosen actor Sonu Sood as its mascot. In more peaceful days, not too long ago, the captain of Punjab had chosen Sood as the brand ambassador for his government’s Covid-19 vaccination drive. Punjab, of course, will have many ambassadors till 2022. Rajasthan, in the meantime, has chosen Avani Lekhara, who won a gold at the Tokyo Paralympics this year, as the face of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao. Shah Rukh Khan is Bengal’s ambassador; a point the BJP never fails to rub in. Outsider. Insider. Recently, the BJP’s Dilip Ghosh said, “The BJP is called outsiders, but if you (Banerjee) wanted a superstar as brand ambassador for West Bengal then you could have chosen Dev… you could have chosen Soumitra Chatterjee, but you selected Shah Rukh Khan. Don’t we understand why?” And yet, Ghosh’s party colleagues had no problem taking on Jamshedpur-born Priyanka Chopra as the brand ambassador of Assam. It was only after her inaction during the Assam floods was questioned --- the actress was tweeting instead --- that Himanta Biswa Sarma clarified that her ambassadorship had ended. Amitabh Bachchan, who used to be UP’s brand ambassador, actually offered to be the brand ambassador of Gujarat. Insider or Outsider, Ghoshbabu? In 2016, Bachchan replaced Aamir Khan. At the time, the switch was attributed to Khan’s comments about “rising intolerance in India”. Actor Govinda is the brand ambassador of Madhya Pradesh, but Anshika Gupta, a Class X student, was appointed brand ambassador for Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Yojana by the state government. Some years ago, word got around that the Kerala government had appointed German tennis legend Steffi Graf as the ambassador of its ayurveda heritage. And yet Graf had never visited the state and no one had checked if she was willing to lend her name either. But people concerned explained that the influx of German tourists to the state had increased and Graf being so fit and all had seemed like an able ally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
10-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Netflix lost in translation?||Lost meaning Sir — The Korean Netflix show, Squid Game, has taken the world by storm with its unique take on class and capitalism. But many bilingual Korean speakers have exposed the show’s faulty translations that dramatically affect a non-Korean speaker’s perception. This is not the first time Netflix has been guilty of weak translation. Many Hindi shows face similar problems. While it is not possible to always capture the nuances of language, a good translator can make a huge difference. Netflix must invest in hiring quality translators if it hopes to do justice to non-English-speaking shows. Srirupa Banerjee, Calcutta Second best Sir — It was delightful to read the report, “Beethoven’s 10th is finished by a machine” (Oct 3). Ludwig van Beethoven left behind some musical notes and sketchy ideas for the 10th symphony which he could not finish owing to deteriorating health. A group of musicologists and scientists formulated a computer programme to finish the unfinished 10th symphony using his completed symphonies and notes. While this is a novel effort, a caveat must be added: the genius of Beethoven was such that no two symphonies were alike. While the symphony produced by artificial intelligence may be an excellent piece of music, it will certainly not be as sublime as the original would have been. An interesting experiment would be to follow the same computer programme to try and generate the ninth symphony anew. Then people will have a clear idea about how close to — or far from — the original the new symphony is. Tapes Chandra Lahiri, Calcutta Green deficit Sir — It is disturbing to see the irresponsibility of our elected representatives and the seeming apathy of the media towards their shortcomings. After a delay of two years, the construction of the skywalk leading to the Kalighat temple is finally set to begin post Durga Puja. But in order to do so, yet another green patch in the city has been appropriated and turned into a marketplace to accommodate displaced shopkeepers. Calcutta is inching towards a ‘green famine’. Although parks have been taken up by dispensations across the political spectrum, the current one seems more ruthless than most. This is especially scary in the light of a survey published in The Lancet Planetary Health, which ranks Bengal among the top states in India with a high incidence of air pollution-related deaths. In spite of such red flags, the state government does not seem to care. Parks, water bodies and even our internationally acclaimed wetlands are being consumed in the name of development. This is no short of State-sponsored environmental terrorism and should stop immediately. Chitto Ghosh, Calcutta Smokescreen Sir — The collective obsession with Aryan Khan’s arrest is diverting attention from important problems afflicting the nation. Drug busts and arrests at rave parties are neither new nor rare. If Khan is guilty, he will be punished — one hopes given his young age he is given a chance to repent and reform if indeed he is guilty. But surely that is not the biggest problem in the country at present. Soumyadeep Deb, Calcutta Sir — Bollywood has become a convenient scapegoat for the powers that be. Each time it bungles up, it sends the Narcotics Control Bureau to raid Bollywood celebrities. Lakhimpur Kheri is relegated to the back seat while people watch agog the same footage of Aryan Khan being taken to and fro by the NCB. The government’s actions are predictable by now, but it is the continued willingness of the people to overlook the real plight of their countrymen that is heartbreaking. Suvendu Ghatak, Delhi Sir — The media seems to have learnt nothing from how hounding Rhea Chakraborty backfired for them. Rima Roy, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
10-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Tone deaf||Melodious instruments do not a harmony make. The Union minister for road transport, Nitin Gadkari, has claimed that he is planning to introduce a law under which only the sound of Indian musical instruments would be used as horns in vehicles. He also intends to have police cars, ambulances and ministerial convoys play a unique melody — something akin to the signature Akashvani tune — instead of the blaring sirens. Mr Gadkari’s concerns are not misplaced. According to the World Health Organization, rising decibel levels are among the top risks to public health. Data suggest that one in every five individuals suffers from disturbed sleep because of traffic noise. Worse, studies have shown that the human body does not have the ability to adapt to the racket: even while one is asleep, seemingly oblivious to noise, the distant rumble of, say, trucks continues to trigger the adrenal glands to pump stress hormones into the body, raising blood pressure and heart rate. This heightens the risk of, among other ailments, coronary heart disease, dementia and depression. What must also be mentioned is that noise pollution is often a silent killer; its dangers are eclipsed by the risks of other kinds of pollution, such as that of air or water, that are discussed widely in the public domain. This makes noise pollution — it leaves no trace — a particularly lethal adversary to contain. But would Mr Gadkari’s ‘solution’ be music to the ears of the aam aadmi? In a cacophonous nation like India, with patchy civil awareness, minimal interest in traditional music as well as poor implementation of laws, it does not take much for sound — no matter how melodious — to turn into noise. Surely, being caught in a traffic snarl with the incessant beat of a tabla set to Bhairav — a morning raga — on one side and a sarod playing Khamaj — an evening raga — on the other cannot be considered too pleasant an experience? Moreover, police cars and ambulances have harsh sirens for a reason — how else would people hear and make way for them on the roads? It is unlikely that a sea of traffic would part on hearing the Akashvani jingle. The minister’s plan raises a concern. Evidently, even something as personal as the choice of music of citizens is no longer immune to government scrutiny in democratic India. The list of “Indian musical instruments”, too, strikes a discordant note. An imaginative Mr Gadkari has included the violin — it traces its ancestry to Europe — among Indian instruments; does this go well with his government’s emphasis on the local as opposed to the global? These are not the only queries. Given that India’s ruling party is known to be allergic to representativeness, would the humble ravanahatha or chenda be heard at traffic signals too? But Mr Gadkari should be thanked for reminding the nation that noise is seldom only about pollution; it is linked — deeply — with notions of power and powerlessness. He may want to transform traffic signals into impromptu orchestras, but can he silence the insufferable din that emanates from political rallies?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
10-10-2021||Opinion||Tejashwi wins Round 1 in 'war of letters' with Nitish||War of words Both the Bihar chief minister, Nitish Kumar, and the leader of the Opposition, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, are fond of hurling ‘missive missiles’ upon their targets. The latter often dispatches letters on problems in the state to Kumar, much to his chagrin. So when Tejashwi recently wrote one to him, highlighting the importance of the river-linking project for the state and asking him to do the needful, scribes asked Kumar about it. However, Kumar chose to make fun of it, asserting that he only hears from the media about such letters which never reach him. Stung by it, Tejashwi immediately shared a picture of his letter, duly stamped as received by the chief minister’s secretariat. “Not only the chief minister but the chief minister secretariat seems to have got tired... How can a chief minister of a state be so ignorant, disillusioned, and live in the dark that he publicly says that he has not received a letter from the opposition leader about issues of public importance,” Tejashwi said. Exhibiting that he is a wily politician, Kumar chose to keep quiet this time. Keep an eye out The Karnataka Congress chief, DK Shivakumar, always had a way with wit and repartee. With the whole nation discussing how the SUV of a Union minister’s son ploughed through protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh — the incident led to the death of at least eight people — Shivakumar appealed to everyone to film moving cars of Bharatiya Janata Party leaders. His contention, possibly made half in jest, was that any video footage could end up being crucial evidence in some future investigation since one would never know when these leaders might run people over. Turn the tide It is no secret that the Congress leader, Ramesh Chennithala, is miffed at the recent developments in the party’s Kerala unit. After replacing him as leader of the Opposition following the poll debacle, the leadership quickly appointed K Sudhakaran as the new state party chief. While neither decision went down well with Chennithala and the old order, the old-timer has clearly set his ambitions high to climb his way back into the spotlight. The first thing he did was resign from various party organizations of which he had earlier assumed charge. He has since been interacting more with party workers and the media. The smart politician that he is, even his adversaries know he has the ability to turn the tide. Clean image The popularity of the Odisha CM, Naveen Patnaik, can be gauged from the fact that even though he had not campaigned for his party candidate, Rudra Pratap Maharathy, in the by-election to the Pipili assembly seat in Puri district this time, the Biju Janata Dal still won by a convincing margin of more than 20,000 votes. Even though all prominent BJP faces from the state, including the Union minister, Dharmendra Pradhan, and the national spokesperson, Sambit Patra, had campaigned for their party candidate, Ashrit Pattanayak, they failed to make a dent in the BJD bastion. BJD workers only went from door to door with Patnaik’s pictures and video messages. Both parties are yet to fully understand what connects people with Patnaik. While his critics say he wins because of a well-planned election strategy, others think that Patnaik’s clean image and pro-poor policy act as a magnet for voters. New mission The Election Commission is set to hire a private firm for 24-hour monitoring, response and maintenance of its website and social media handles, sources claimed. Routine flak online from activists and politicians has led the panel to shrug off its ‘publicity shyness’. But the expenditure — one staffer estimated it to be a couple of crores annually — is being questioned. Although lesser than what other public agencies spend on their online profile, the cost will be significantly higher than what is now paid to a clutch of temporary staff managing social media handles. In an informal discussion, an officer cited India’s 41 per cent internet penetration to suggest that such an outreach is unlikely to make much impact on voter enrolment. A source said they are being cautious to avoid a controversy like Maharashtra’s chief electoral officer faced last year by allegedly hiring a firm linked to the BJP. Secret reason The BJP has been hailing the prime minister, Narendra Modi, as the ‘globally loved leader’. While many leaders are competing in the game of sycophancy, the Madhya Pradesh CM, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, is standing out, raising eyebrows in party circles. Earlier this week, Modi completed 20 years as “head of a government”, and everyone in the party had to shower praise on him. Chouhan stood out by posting not one — like most senior leaders did — but around three tweets in praise of Modi. Recently, Chouhan was in Delhi to meet the PM. It was not clear if he was called or he went on his own. The meeting, amid generational change in the party, triggered whispers in the power corridors. The 62-year-old leader is the longest serving chief minister of the state. Many feel it is high time Chouhan now made way for the next generation. Is that why Chouhan wants to please the PM? Footnote: The ‘annual defacement’ show of the Hindutva rabble-rouser, Vishnu Gupta, got all the wrong optics this time with a video of him fleeing the police going viral. Gupta touts himself as a saviour of the capital’s Hindus and routinely defaces road signage with Islamic names, and organizes celebrations of Queen Victoria for ousting the Mughals and the former American president, Donald Trump. This year, too, he defaced the Akbar Road signage and gave bytes to TV channels until the cops showed up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
10-10-2021||Opinion||Aural pleasure||Over the past few years, I have been obsessed with the work of the Australian novelist, Liane Moriarty. Yes, me and everyone else. Ever since her 2014 blockbuster, Big Little Lies, Moriarty has become one of the publishing industry’s most dependable hitmakers. Although her prose is unflashy and her subject matter seemingly pedestrian — Moriarty writes tightly-plotted domestic dramas about middle- and upper-middle-class suburbanites — her observations are so precise, her characters’ psychology so well realized, that I often find her stories burrowing deep into my brain and taking up long, noisy residence there. It’s no wonder Hollywood has been snapping up her books as quickly as she can write them. Big Little Lies and her 2018 hit, Nine Perfect Strangers, have been turned into limited series for television. Moriarty’s enthralling new novel, Apples Never Fall, which debuted last month at the top of The Times’s bestseller list, may also be heading to a streaming service near you. But now a confession: I heap all this praise on Moriarty having technically never read a word she’s written. Instead, I have only listened. The English audiobook versions of her novels are read by Caroline Lee, a narrator whose crystalline Australian cadences add to Moriarty’s stories what salt adds to a stew — necessary depth and dimension. Lee’s voice is an irresistible, visceral joy; like the best audiobook narrators, her delivery is endlessly malleable, shifting nimbly across accent, register and tone to create a sense that one is inside the story rather than peering in from the outside. I binged Apples Never Fall in a day and a half, and when I was done, I began to wonder who deserved the greater share of praise — the author or the narrator. It’s true that Moriarty’s books are difficult to put down, but would I have been as deeply hooked if they weren’t cooed by a voice that could make the Federal Register sound compelling? But if Lee’s narration really does so completely elevate Moriarty’s text, what about the people who had read the book rather than listened to Lee read it? Hadn’t they missed something crucial? When the market for audiobooks began to skyrocket in the past decade, people would sometimes wonder whether they counted — that is, when you listened to the book, could you say that you had read it? It was a mostly silly metaphysical debate (in the vein of ‘Have you really been to a city if you’ve only flown through its airport?’ Or ‘If you replace an axe’s handle and then you replace its blade, do you have the same axe?’), but the question illustrated a deep cultural bias. The audio version of a book was often considered a CliffsNotes-type shortcut. It was acceptable in a pinch; but as a matter of cultural value, audio ranked somewhere lower than the real, printed thing. I rise now to liberate the audiobook from the murky shadow of text. Audiobooks aren’t cheating. They aren’t a just-add-water shortcut to cheap intellectualism. For so many titles in this heyday of audio entertainment, it’s not crazy to ask the opposite: compared to the depth that can be conveyed via audio, does the flat text version count? Obviously, there are writers and subjects that translate poorly to audio; writers who excel at a kind of textual virtuosity, like David Foster Wallace, are better read than listened to. I have also had trouble listening to dense, especially technical, books, mainly because audiobooks are often consumed while multitasking. (For me, there are few greater pleasures than cooking while listening to a book.) Yet there are just as many books that achieve a resonance via the spoken word that their text alone cannot fully deliver. Listening to a book is not only just as good as reading it. Sometimes, perhaps even often, it’s better. For a certain kind of literary snob, them’s fighting words, I know. But consider one of the publishing industry’s most popular genres, the memoir. When they’re read by the author, I’ve noticed that audio versions of memoirs sparkle with an authenticity often missing in the text alone. In fact, it is the rare memoir that doesn’t work better as audio than as text. A fine recent example is Greenlights by the actor, Matthew McConaughey. As text, his story is discursive and, sometimes, indulgent; but as audio, in his strange and irresistible staccato speaking style, it exemplifies exactly the kind of weirdness that makes him so intriguing as an actor and celebrity. As I listened to Greenlights, I realized how much extratextual theatre was going on; there’s a way in which McConaughey, through his delivery, conveys emotion that is almost entirely absent from his text. Recently I have been telling everyone I know to listen to The Last Black Unicorn, the account of the rough childhood of the comedian, Tiffany Haddish, in the foster system and the many hardships she endured on the way to making it big in show business. Her narrative is compelling enough but she is one of the best stand-up comedians working today, so it’s hardly a surprise that the tragedy and the hilarity of her story are punched up by her delivery in the audiobook. There is a riotous extended section in the memoir about her elaborate revenge plot on a boyfriend who’d cheated on her; I pity anyone who only read Haddish’s text, because the way she explains the various parts of her plan had me laughing to tears. As spoken-word audio has taken off, the publishing industry and Amazon, whose Audible subsidiary is the audiobook business’s dominant force, have invested heavily in the medium. Now audiobooks often benefit from high-end production and big-name voice talent, and there are innovations in digital audio — like spatially rendered sound, which gives listeners a sense of being surrounded by audio — that may turn audiobooks into something like radio dramas. Still, as popular as audiobooks have become, I suspect there will remain some consternation about their rise, especially from book lovers who worry that audio is somehow eclipsing the ancient sanctity of text and print. But that is a myopic view. Telling stories, after all, is an even older form of human entertainment than reading and writing stories. Banish any guilt you might harbour about listening instead of reading. Audiobooks are not to be feared; they do not portend the death of literature on the altar of modern convenience. Their popularity is a sign, rather, of the endurance of stories and of storytelling. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
10-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ongoing coal crisis affects Jharkhand Industries||The ongoing coal crisis caused by the decline in domestic production during monsoon among other reasons, has started to affect industries other than the power sector. Another reason for the acute shortage is the reduced import of coal from other nations. This is primarily because of the sudden hike in price for imported coal. The ongoing shortage is now affecting 3000 hard coke factories, TMT bar Industry, soft coke industries in Jharkhand. The 140 hard coke factories of Dhanbad, Giridih and Ramgarh that had been working on imported coke are the worst affected. The sharp hike in the price of imported coal during the last six months has added on to the difficulties of the local hard coke industries as the imported coking coal that was priced at around RS 18thosand per tonne is now being sold at Rs 30 thousand per tonne at the moment. Almost similar is the situation of pig iron industry, foundry industry and blast furnace industry as they were also thriving on coal imported from Australia that were brought in from Paradip and Haldia port through ships and later provided to hard coke factories which in turn used to convert the coal into hard coke. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Amitesh Sahay, owner of one of Hard Coke factory of Barwaddah, Maa Jagdhatri Hard Coke Industry, who is also President of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association said, “Majority of the hard coke industries is facing closure due to sharp rise in the price of imported coal as they are not getting the required coal from Coal India subsidiaries, including Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) or Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL)” Rajiv Sharma, General Secretary of JITA, held the wrong policies of the government owned coal major, Coal India Limited for the mess. He said, “During the nationalization of the coal industry, in early 1970s assurance was given to local coal based industries to provide coal on priority basis and the government also provided coal to Hard Coke Industries for some time but later the scenario changed.” Nirmal Jhunjhunwala, President of Giridih Chamber of Commerce and Industry said, “Majority of Thermo Mechanically Treated (TMT) bar industry that are in Giridih apart from the large number of Hard Coke Industries are on the verge of closure due to lack of availability of sufficient coal from BCCL, CCL etc and the hike in price of imported coal.” Mahesh Kejriwal, owner of a rubber roll industry in situated in Balidih based industrial park of Bokaro Industrial Area Development Authority said, “Though majority of the industries of BIADA are not directly dependent on coal as raw material but a few that are dependent Hard Coke Industries are facing difficulties due to coal crisis directly besides power shortage affecting the operation of industries in general.” Alok Mallik, President of Santhal Pargana Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said “The state government should also take lessons from the crisis and should facilitate the resumption of commercial mining operations  for which the bidding has been completed so that the crisis can be avoided.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
10-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur: Road accident cuts short trip to jab centre||Two persons travelling to a health centre on a motorcycle to get vaccinated died in a head-on collision with a tractor in Jharkhand's Seraikela-Kharswan district on Sunday, police said. The accident took place in Telai village in Rajnagar police station area when the duo, including a woman, were going to a vaccination centre in Chaliama, an officer said. The motorcycle collided with the tractor coming from the opposite direction and both the rider and the pillion rider were killed on the spot, while the tractor overturned after the driver lost control over the vehicle, he said. The deceased were identified as 24-year-old Manoj Gope and 44-year-old Sahiya Devi, the officer said, adding that the bodies were handed over to their families after the conduct of post-mortem examination. The tractor was seized but the driver managed to escape, he said, adding that a manhunt has been launched to nab him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
10-10-2021||Jharkhand||Monsoon starts to pull out of Jharkhand||The southwest monsoon started pulling out of Jharkhand on Sunday with weathermen saying a  complete withdrawal was expected in another 48 hours. "Conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from some parts of Odisha, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and most parts of Jharkhand during the next  two days, " said Abhishek Anand, head of IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The withdrawal line of the monsoon  was on Sunday passing through Motihari, Gaya, Daltonganj, Ambikapur,  Indore, Gandhinagar, Rajkot and Porbandar. Weathermen said withdrawal of the  monsoon was delayed this year. The process started from the north western parts of Jharkhand from October 6. Two back-to-back low-pressure systems originating from the Bay of Bengal added to the delay. Usually, the monsoon starts withdrawing from the northern parts of the country around the third week of September. The process gets completed in Jharkhand by the first week of October. Weathermen on Sunday said currently no  significant  weather conditions prevailed over Jharkhand. A cyclonic circulation over north Andaman Sea was extending upto 5.8 Km above mean sea level. Under its influence, a low pressure area was  likely to form over the same region during next 36 hours. It is likely to intensify and move west-northwestwards towards south Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh coasts during the subsequent four to five days. Statistics revealed that light rain occurred at one or two places over Jharkhand during the last 24 hours. The highest amount of rainfall (5 mm) was recorded at Bokaro. The forecast indicates mainly clear sky and  dry weather during the next 48 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
10-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand News Digest: Wild elephants damage boundary wall of Latehar’s Jharkhand Refractories||Daltonganj: A herd of wild elephants destroyed the boundary wall of Jharkhand Refractories in Balumath block in Latehar district. The elephants destroyed several sections of the wall at night. The owner of the Jharkhand Refractories Gopal Singh said, “We had a boundary wall surrounding 5 acre-radius of the factory where we prepare fire bricks. The elephants broke it in patches. At one place they damaged around a stretch of 40 feet and at another around 20,15 feet. The incident has made the owner incur a loss worth Rs 200000. He submitted a written complaint cum request for a compensation to the DFO Latehar Roshan Kumar. Forester Leyaqat said that he is aware of the destruction caused by the elephants. He said he would prepare a report once he resumes work. According to Singh, the elephants made two inroads into his Refractories in the past four or five days. Our Correspondent Hazaribagh: A clash broke out between hundreds of villagers and security personnel in Banadag coal siding, which falls under Katkamdag block. The incident left around 18 raiyats and a few policemen injured. The Raiyats in Banadag are against the coal siding which they claim is damaging the ambiance of the area and their cultivable fields. The villagers had been agitating for the past five days. They have charged Hazaribagh sadar MLA of BJP for running this siding and ignoring their problem, who has denied this allegation. BJP rivals including leaders of Congress, JMM and others backed this agitation that is disrupting coal transportation from this siding. As a consequence, 21-coal projects are getting supply of coal from Pankri Barwadih coal project of Barkagaon resulting in loss of RS.28.80crore to NTPC and around Rs.7crore to railways. Yesterday, well known Congress leader Munna Singh was arrested on charges of instigating the agitation and halting transportation. Sensing trouble, a huge team of police was sent with magistrates trying to convince villagers to end the agitation. But as police tried to apply force to call off the agitation, angry villagers began to pelt stones. Barkagaon Congress MLA Amba Prasad reached the spot and tried pacifying villagers. Till the report was being written around 150 agitators were present, stating that they would continue to protest till their demands are met. Vishvendu Jaipuriar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
10-10-2021||Jharkhand||35-year-old constable found dead in Sakchi police station||The dead body of a 35-year-old constable was found floating in a well located within the premises of Sakchi police station on Sunday morning. Identified as Ram Villash Paswan, the constable was posted at the Police Control Room, which is also located within the same premises. On Sunday at about 9 am when some constable had gone to the well for a bath, they discovered the dead body floating in it. The news was soon communicated to the fellow cops and senior officials who visited the spot to investigate. The recovered body was sent for autopsy at MGM medical college’s mortuary by the police. The well in which Paswan drowned is located behind the police barrack. Most of the constables’ bathe using tap water but many till date prefer to draw water from the well for their bath. This well has been there since the British rule era. Sakchi police station’s OC, Rajesh Kumar Singh said that they are sure of Paswan either having committed suicide or accidentally falling into the well. They have ruled out foul play. “We expect the cause of the constable's death to be ascertained by the autopsy. As of now, we have registered a case under the section of ‘unnatural death’,” said the OC while talking to The Telegraph Online. The OC, mentioned about Paswan being posted at the police control room where his duty was to attend to calls made on 100. “Paswan, a resident of Hazaribagh district was present on his duty on Friday, but on Saturday he was absent from the duty and nobody had seen him throughout the day and night,” mentioned OC. “The cop’s conspicuous absence from the duty as well as barrack since Friday evening. It is suspected that he either fell into the well accidentally or jumped into it for committing suicide in the night of Friday only,” said the OC. The police officer pointed out that several cops from the police barrack had gone to the well on Saturday also, but they failed to take notice of the body inside it because it was at the bottom of the well and came up on the water surface on Sunday only. The police have informed the family members of the deceased soon after recovering the body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
10-10-2021||Jharkhand||Human rights outfit urges NHRC to intervene into ‘custodial torture’  ||A human rights outfit has urged the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to intervene into the increasing cases of alleged custodial torture in Jharkhand. Arvind Avinash, secretary of the Jharkhand unit of the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), in a letter to the NHRC chairperson on Thursday evening informed about the increasing cases of torture of suspects in the custody of police and other law enforcement agencies in Jharkhand and termed it a violation of fundamental human rights. The letter cites the incident of May 1, 2021, when a 50-year-old man died purportedly after police thrashed him when he was out with his wife and younger brother during the lockdown. “The deceased’s wife filed a complaint with the Chouparan police station in Hazaribagh but as informed, till date, no action has been taken against the accused officers,” the letter states. The letter also informs about one Dhaneswar Mahto who is alleged to have suffered a heart attack in the custody of the excise department. “As per the statement of the wife of the deceased, despite the family members and the deceased himself complaining of poor health condition, he was not taken to the hospital until he collapsed. On August 25, 2021, another allegation of police cruelty surfaced when a four-year(-old) boy and his father (Deep Gupta and Sandeep Gupta respectively) complained of being brutally beaten by Sukhdeonagar PS (police station) in charge, Mamta Kumari over a matrimonial dispute. Till date no action has been taken against the authorities,” the letter says. The letter also referes to an incident on September 15 when hawker Sandeep Ram was picked by Jagarnathpur police and was allegedly tortured for three days in the lockup on the allegation of theft. “It was only when his health condition deteriorated due to continuous torture, he was taken to RIMS. The city SP (superintendent of police) states that he is yet to receive any complaint to take action, which is unfortunate as he is empowered to take cognisance of an offence even if there is no formal complaint made,” the letter adds. Avinash has requested the NHRC to take immediate action on alleged increase in police brutality in Jharkhand and pointed out that in none of the above cases an FIR has been registered so far. He has asked the rights panel to intervene in providing compensation to the victims and register an FIR along with departmental enquiry against the accused officials. Avinash has also written to Jharkhand chief secretary Sukhdeo Singh with copies to the director-general of police and inspector-general of police (prisons) about the rising cases of custodial torture in the state and cited the same incidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
10-10-2021||Jharkhand||Black cat commandos of NSG rally to mark 75 years of Independence||Forty-seven black cat commandos of the elite counter-terrorism unit, the National Security Guard (NSG), touched down in this Jharkhand city on Friday evening as part of a nationwide rally to commemorate 75 years of Independence. The Sudarshan Bharat Parikrama, organised by the Union home ministry, aims to connect with the youth and instil in them a sense of patriotism and strengthen the spirit of national integration. The commandos, who are travelling in 15 Tata Harriers, learnt about the legacy of Tata Steel and the steel city of Jamshedpur. On Saturday morning, the “Black Cat Car Rally” was flagged off from near Tata Steel telephone exchange gate for Calcutta by Chanakya Chaudhary, Tata Steel vice-president, corporate services. The rally was initially flagged off from the Red Fort in New Delhi on October 2 and will tour India’s major war memorials and places associated with the freedom struggle passing through Agra, Jamshedpur, Calcutta, Lucknow, Varanasi, Bodh Gaya, Bhubaneswar, Berhampur, Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Hyderabad, Ongole, Chennai, Bangalore, Hubli, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Jaipur. Chaudhary said: “Tata Steel is glad to host the all-India car rally, Sudarshan Bharat Parikrama, of the National Security Guard as part of ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’. We are honoured to have the team of 47 NSG commandos, including 12 officers, who will be driving 15 SUVs as part of this journey. They will be continuing their journey further from the historic clean and green city of Jamshedpur that has recently completed 100 glorious years.” Rally leader Colonel O.S. Rathore said Jamshedpur acted as a great host and that the historic city created by Tata Steel is an important milestone for them. “Jamshedpur has a rich history and the team cherished every moment of their stay here. The team also visited the Centre for Excellence and saw the archives of Tata Steel and Jamshedpur to know the rich history and legacy of the Tata Group, Tata Steel and the steel city of Jamshedpur,” said Col Rathore. The 29-day rally will cover 7,500km and pass through 18 cities in 12 states of the country. Jamshedpur was selected as part of the rally because its host Tata Steel, which completed 100 years in 2019, and its founder Jamsetji Nusserwanji Tata is considered the doyen of the Indian industry. “Jamshedpur also has a deep link with Independence. Mahatma Gandhi visited Jamshedpur for the first time on August 8, 1925, at the behest of Dinabandhu C.F. Andrews, a then labour leader. Mahatma, who was accompanied by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, had the twin objective of visiting India’s first planned industrial township and resolving labour unrest there,” said a communiqué issued by Tata Steel. The communiqué further said that Gandhi during his stay in Jamshedpur had visited several places within the city and was also shown around the steel plant where he had commented: “Tatas represent the spirit of adventure.” “Tata Steel has been a resolute partner in the journey of self-reliance, by way of its innumerable corporate and philanthropic contributions to the country and its people. Be it in the field of industry, infrastructure, education or healthcare, the company has been the proud flag-bearer of Atmanirbhar Bharat, for more than a century now,” said a Tata Steel spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
10-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand archers shine in national championship||Archers from Jharkhand hogged the limelight with three gold, three silver and one bronze in the recurve section on the concluding day of the 40th NTPC Senior National Archery Championship on Saturday. Dipti Kumari from Ranchi defeated her statemate Komalika Bari to win gold in the individual women’s section while Simranjeet Kaur of Punjab bagged the bronze. Tata Steel archer Jayanta Talukdar won gold in the 70+70 metres segment of the men’s section with 680 points (out of a possible 720) while Bommadevara Dhiraj of Andhra Pradesh who scored 678 had to be content with silver and Parth Sushant Saunkhe of Maharashtra with 673 points finished third. In the mixed team event, the vastly experienced duo of Komalika and Talukdar gave the hosts another gold medal amassing five points while Madhu Vedwan and Sachin Vedwan of Uttar Pradesh finished second with three points and Prachi Singh and Kapish Singh of Rajasthan bagged bronze. Olympian Deepika Kumari, a native of Jharkhand and a product of Tata Archery Academy, who has joined the ONGC and represents the Petroleum Sports Control Board (PSCB), took the gold in the 70+70m women’s category scoring 665 (out of 720) while Komalika of Jharkhand with 655 points won silver and Simranjeet Kaur of Punjab had to be content with bronze with a score of 649. In the women’s team event, the Madhya Pradesh contingent comprising Amey Rai, Vitasa Thakur, Sonia Thakur and Mausam Singh sprang a surprise bagging the gold as the Jharkhand team of Komalika, Ankita Bhakat, Dipti and Laxmi Hembrom settled for silver. The Rajasthan team of Prachi, Amandeep Kaur, Varsha Sona and Pallavi Chouhan finished third. In the men’s team section, the Haryana contingent of Akash, Sachin Gupta, Basant Kumar and Jashandeep bagged gold as the Maharashtra team of Parth Sushant, Yashdeep Bhoge, Om Vikram and Ujwal Bharat Olekar won silver. The Jharkhand team of Jayanta, Mrinal Chauhan, Somai Murmu and Alpi Tudu finished third. Parth Sushant of Maharashtra won gold in the individual men’s event while Sukhchain Singh of Services and Amit Yadav of Madhya Pradesh finished with silver and bronze. The event, returning after a year, will be followed by trials on Sunday and Monday for selection of the Indian team for the Asian Archery Championships scheduled to be held in Dhaka in November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
10-10-2021||Jharkhand||Gun salute to goddess at JAP Puja ||For the Gorkhas in the Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP), shashtra puja (worship of the weapons) and offering gun salute are essential part of the invocation during Durga Puja. The Gorkhas, mostly men, attached to the first battalion of JAP stationed at Doranda in Ranchi have been maintaining the tradition for around 140 years. The tradition is believed to have begun soon after an armed constabulary named Bihar Military Police (BMP) was raised way back in 1880 and the Gorkha jawans in the force began celebrating Durga Puja in their traditional way. It continued uninterrupted since then though the name of the force changed from BMP to JAP after the new state of Jharkhand was carved out from Bihar in November 2000. “The rituals are done by JAP-1 and its commandant, irrespective of his/her religion, who leads us all as a guardian,” said the battalion’s Subedar Major Prabhash Chhetri, adding that all the important rituals are done in presence of the commandant. The JAP personnel worship the goddess as Navadurga for nine days, beginning on the first day of devi paksha or the day Mahalaya is observed. There is no idol and they welcome the goddess under nine different trees located in their compound. The jawans only place a kalash (sacred pot) on a bedi (holy platform) at the designated place near Tikko Hall where the current Commandant Aneesh Gupta was present during the ritual on Thursday, Chhetri further said, adding that Gupta would be present during all other important rituals. They will also bring out their weapons — from rifles to light machine guns, let alone their very own khukri — from the arsenal for worshipping them on Navami and offer gun salute accompanied by a patriotic tune played by their well-known band as a mark of obeisance to the goddess. The jawans, who are often required to fight extremist elements in remote jungles, and also their family members believe the goddess protects them during hard times. Hence, many women family members fast and join the men during the rituals. “We normally have to draw a lot for selecting the women from among the volunteers but that will not be done this year due to Covid restrictions,” Chhetri said, adding that this would be the second consecutive year when they would be following the restrictions. “Like last year, no bhog will be distributed this year too,” he further said, adding that all rituals will be done following the Covid restrictions. The government provides funds for worshipping Navadurga by the Gorkha battalion of JAP and no subscriptions are collected, they said. The Puja raises enough interest among the residents of the state capital due to its unique traditions of worshipping the weapons and offering gun salute to the presiding deity but their entry will be restricted because of the current pandemic situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
