11-10-2021||Business||Nifty touches record high of 18K, Sensex remains above 60K||Equity benchmark Sensex rose 77 points to end at a record closing high of 60,136 on Monday, tracking gains in index heavyweights HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and ITC. After scaling a new intraday high of 60,476.13 during the session, the 30-share Sensex closed 76.72 points or 0.13 per cent higher at 60,135.78. Similarly, the Nifty rose 50.75 points or 0.28 per cent to its all-time closing high of 17,945.95. Maruti was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying nearly 4 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, ITC, NTPC, SBI, M&M, Kotak Bank and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, TCS was the top loser on the Sensex, shedding over 6 per cent, after the company's Q2 earnings missed street expectations. According to an Emkay Global note, TCS Q2 operating performance missed expectations, reporting lower-than-expected revenue and earnings before interest, taxes and corporate overhead or management (EBITM). The company on Friday reported a 14.1 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 9,624 crore in the September 2021 quarter. Following suit, Tech Mahindra, Infosys, HCL Tech and Reliance Industries fell up to 2.76 per cent. Indian markets started on a positive note following positive Asian market cues as investors took comfort on news of opening up more vaccinated travel lanes in 8 countries as COVID cases declines, said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. "During the afternoon session, markets continue to trade handsomely as broad gains in rate sensitive counters, viz, auto, realty and utility. Traders also took support as data showed country's exports growing at a healthy rate. Exports have touched USD 197 billion during April-September this fiscal. "Additional optimism came in as foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) remained net buyers to the tune of Rs 1,997 crore so far in October, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 2.12 per cent to USD 84.14 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
11-10-2021||Business||Indian economy on path to swift recovery, says Finance Ministry report||Strategic reforms and the rapid vaccination drive has placed the country on the path to swift recovery by enabling the economy to "navigate the ravaging waves" of the COVID-19 pandemic, according to the Finance Ministry's Monthly Economic Review. Sustained and robust growth in agriculture, sharp rebound in manufacturing and industry, resumption of services activity and buoyant revenues suggest that the economy is progressing well, the September review said. "India is well-placed on the path to swift recovery with growth impulses visibly transmitted to all sectors of the economy... Strategic reforms undertaken so far along with new milestones in vaccination drive have enabled the economy to navigate the ravaging waves of the COVID-19 pandemic," it said. The external sector continues to offer bright prospects to India's growth revival as the country's merchandise exports crossed the USD 30-billion mark for the sixth consecutive month in fiscal year 2021-22, it said. With merchandise trade deficit also rising in September, there is clear evidence of consumption and investment demand is also picking up in India, it said, adding, the external debt-to-GDP ratio continues to remain comfortable, declining to 20.2 per cent at the end-June 2021, from 21.1 per cent at the end-March 2021. In tandem with growth impulses witnessed across the economy, the report said, the rate of growth of bank credit stood at 6.7 per cent YoY in the fortnight ending September 10, 2021 compared to 5.3 per cent in the corresponding period of the previous year. With the restoration of supply chains, improved mobility, and softening food inflation, consumer price index (CPI) inflation retreated to a four month-low of 5.3 per cent in August 2021, clearly demonstrating that inflationary tendencies are pandemic-induced and transitory. However, it said, volatile prices in the international crude oil markets and upward-bound prices of edible oils and metal products may continue to pose concerns. Comfortable levels of systemic liquidity and softening of inflationary pressure have also lent stability to G-Sec yields in September 2021. The 10-year yield remained unchanged at 6.2 per cent compared to August. Latest trends in high-frequency economic indicators in August and September further indicate a broad-based recovery evidenced in sustained improvement in power consumption, rail freight activity, e-way bills, robust GST collections, highway toll collections posting a 21-month high, sequential uptick in air freight and passenger traffic, and quantum leap in digital transactions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
11-10-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rose over 100 points in opening trade on Monday, tracking gains in index heavyweights HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and Kotak Bank amid a positive trend in global markets. After opening over 100 points lower, the 30-share Sensex recovered the losses and gained 100.22 points or 0.17 per cent to trade higher at 60,159.28. Similarly, the Nifty rose 52.05 points or 0.29 per cent to 17,947.25. Maruti was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 3 per cent, followed by NTPC, PowerGrid, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Finserv and Bajaj Auto. On the other hand, TCS was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 6 per cent, after the company's Q2 earnings missed street expectations. According to an Emkay Global note, TCS Q2 operating performance missed expectations, reporting lower-than-expected revenue and earnings before interest, taxes and corporate overhead or management (EBITM). The company on Friday reported a 14.1 per cent rise in consolidated net profit to Rs 9,624 crore in the September 2021 quarter. Following suit, all IT stocks in the index were trading in the red. In the previous session, the 30-share index jumped 381.23 points or 0.64 per cent to close at 60,059.06, and Nifty rose 104.85 points or 0.59 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 17,895.20. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 64.01 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Seoul was closed for a holiday. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.43 per cent to USD 83.57 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
11-10-2021||Business||Time to assess one's credit health||The pandemic has had an impact on credit health. Last year, the Reserve Bank of India provided borrowers the option to defer their loan payments. The ensuing moratorium and loan restructuring options given to borrowers did ease the immediate burden of EMI payments. However, it also had an impact on the credit scores of borrowers. Those who had availed of a relief on their loans had their credit histories marked to reflect this. In the eyes of credit bureaus and lenders, these borrowers thus became high-risk as there was now a question mark over their repayment abilities and their creditworthiness. It now seems that the worst of the pandemic has been reined in and economic activity is regaining strength. And it’s also now time to assess one’s credit health. If it is weak, one must work on improving it. What our data found In a pan-India survey of salaried professionals between the ages 22 and 45 conducted by BankBazaar, we found a lack of awareness of one’s credit health. Of the respondents, 88 per cent said they currently had some form of debt such as home loan, credit card dues, or gold loan. Nearly 41 per cent said their loan payments used up 20-50 per cent of their monthly income. Thankfully, 87 per cent were aware of their credit score, and 89 per cent said they had even checked their score. Yet 27 per cent said they didn’t know their credit score impacts their loan interest rate (37 per cent in Calcutta), and 39 per cent (a similar percentage in Calcutta) didn’t know that opting for the moratorium would hurt their score. Further, 30 per cent (27 per cent for Calcutta) said they didn’t know a restructuring could hurt their score. Clearing your dues To cut a long story short, there’s no way around one’s dues. The simplest — and in this case, also the toughest —way to get your credit health in shape is to clear off your dues. Nothing else would have a higher positive impact on your credit score. As some borrowers may have ongoing challenges with loan payments, creating a plan and setting aside savings for clearing their dues would help. Mounting credit card dues are also problematic — this is a costly form of debt that compounds rapidly at 3-4 per cent per month. If you have card dues, it would be wise to avoid further use of your card and work on payment. This would improve your credit utilisation ratio and later your credit score. Delay your loan application People with loan-related problems are often the ones in need of further credit. This is a vicious spiral pulling the borrower deeper into debt. While this may be difficult, it would be wise to avoid fresh loan applications and work on clearing off existing dues through the means available to the borrower — for example, liquidating an asset to raise cash. Each new loan application leads to a ‘hard’ credit score check by the lender who wants to investigate your credit history. Each such check lowers your credit scores slightly. Therefore, making several loan applications while you’re already in poor credit health could cause further damage. Second, when you seek a loan with a bad credit history, you’re likely to be charged a high rate of interest, because you pose a higher risk to the lender. If you must take a new loan, a secured loan may be preferable since it can be taken against a collateral such as gold and would attract a relatively lower rate of interest than an unsecured loan. Concurrently, take steps to get your credit score above 750, from where you’ll start getting loans at reasonable rates again. Maintain old credit lines This may sound counter-intuitive but having a long-standing loan account up to standard is good for your credit health. For example, you may have held a credit card for the last 10 years or have a home loan going on for 15 years. The existence of these ongoing dues indicates that you’ve been able to keep up with your payments over a long period, which makes you creditworthy. In the computation of your credit score, the age of credit lines plays a moderate role. Therefore, if you can, at a time you’re looking to improve your credit score, avoid cancelling credit cards and resume making timely payment of EMIs, which would help your score tick upwards. Keeping track of your score Once you start using a credit card, take a loan, or get into any borrowing-related problems, it’s important to track your credit report every month. Credit score checks are free, and you can get them online in a couple of minutes. This will allow you to see how your credit behaviour is impacting your credit score. Any payment delays, burgeoning debts or defaults  would show up immediately on your report and have a negative impact. Conversely, timely and regular payments on your credit lines would gradually improve your score. But first, you need to know where you stand. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
11-10-2021||Business||Blame game over power crisis||With states from Delhi to Andhra Pradesh sending warnings of a developing power crisis because of the shortage of coal, the central government on Sunday pressed all the resources at its command to ensure power plants have enough feedstock to generate electricity. Union power minister R.K. Singh reviewed the coal stock position at all thermal power plants, including those units that supply electricity to distribution companies in Delhi, the ministry of coal said “ample coal is available in the country to meet the demand” and “any fear of disruption in power supply is entirely misplaced”. Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday, however, alleged that the Centre is not ready to accept that there was a coal crisis and its policy to “turn a blind eye” to every problem could prove fatal for the country. His remarks came after the coal ministry asserted that sufficient dry fuel is available in the country “Union power minister R.K. Singh today (Sunday) said there isn’t any coal crisis and that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal should not have written a letter to the Prime Minister on the issue. It is sad that a Union cabinet minister has adopted such irresponsible approach,” Sisodia said at a press conference here. In a year when the country produced record coal, excessive rains in coal producing belt hit movement of the fuel from mines to power generation units, impacting power generation in many states including Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh. Another factor that has contributed to the present crisis is power plants that used imported coal to generate electricity, have either curtailed generation or completely stopped as a spurt in international energy prices have made it difficult for them to meet the commitments to states at a particular rate. Tata Power, which has signed contracts to supply 1850 MW of electricity to Gujarat, 475 MW to Punjab, 380 MW to Rajasthan, 760 MW to Maharashtra and 380 MW to Haryana from its imported coal-based power plant at Mundra in Gujarat, has stopped generation. After Singh’s review, the power ministry said the total despatch of coal from all sources — Coal India Limited, Singareni Collieries Company, captive coal mines and imported coal — on October 9 was 1.92 million tonnes (mt)  against the total consumption was 1.87mt. “Coal despatch have exceeded the consumption, thereby indicating shift to gradual building up of coal stock,” it said adding the coal stock at power plant is sufficient for more than 4 days' requirement and as the coal supply is being ramped up by Coal India Ltd (CIL), the coal stock at power plant would gradually improve. In a separate statement, the coal ministry said the  stock at power plant end is about 72 lakh tonnes, sufficient for four days requirement, and that the Coal India Limited (CIL) has more than 400 lakh tonnes of stocks, which is being supplied to power plants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
11-10-2021||Business||Mercedes Benz India crosses its 2020 sales||Mercedes Benz India Limited hopes to cross the 10000-sales mark in 2021, driving on the back of a revival of demand. The German car giant has already crossed its 2020 sales of 7,893 units, but will fall far short of its 2019 figure of 13,786 units. The company clocked its best quarterly sales of the year 4,101 units in July-September. With this, Mercedes sold 8,958 units in the January-September 2021 period, significantly “ahead” of BMW which sold 6,027 units in the same period and Audi, around 2,000 units, according to industry sources. Mercedes’s performance has been backed by a completely new product portfolio and resurgent customer sentiment, the sources said. Martin Schwenk, managing director & CEO, Mercedes-Benz India , said, “We have had the best quarter ever. Even six months back we were not sure how we would do. But now we seem to be on track to get back to normality.” “The demand is back, it is a combination of pent-up demand due to postponed purchases and genuine demand. After-sales business has also picked up. The demand has been picking up since the second half of June.” However, the company is facing constraints in supply leading to waiting periods of four months to 16 months for some of its models. “We are facing a shortage in chips as well as supply chain issues, logistics worldwide isn’t as it was before the pandemic,” said Schwenk. The company has the longest waiting period for its SUVs. The GLS has a waiting period of 24-32 weeks, the GLE 7-8 weeks, the GLC 4-5 weeks and the GLA 8-10 weeks, said a company spokesperson. Mercedes vehicles usually have a waiting period of a couple of weeks, he said. The company said it would have sold 20 per cent higher more cars under normal conditions this year. Mercedes launched 11 products in 2021. including A-Class limousine, new E-Class, New GLA, the GLC facelift, New S-Class, GLS Maybach and a host of AMGs. It will launch two more products in the last quarter which might be the revamped  C-Class and an electric vehicles. The company will bring a fresh set of EQCs, its EV to the market. Asked if the company is looking at hybrids, which is the natural stepping stone for electrification, Schwenk said: “The government policy is fully inclined towards electric vehicles (EV)s and not hybrids. Though there are not too much charging options, the focus for Mercedes Benz India is full EVs. The electric story here is an evolving story.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
11-10-2021||Business||Godrej eyes bigger share of sales from digital channels||Godrej Consumer Products (GCPL) is eyeing a bigger share of sales from digital channels, amid changing consumer preferences. The fast moving consumer goods company is also identifying brands and categories that can be developed for online sale. Sunil Kataria, CEO India and SAARC, GCPL said the share of e-commerce to GCPL’s total sales has increased from 2 per cent to 5 per cent and there is a potential to increase it to 10 per cent over the next four years. “During the pandemic, e-commerce journey has accelerated and now it is 5 per cent of the business. My estimate is that over the next three to four years, this 5 per cent could become 10 per cent,” said Kataria while listing the growth drivers. “Consumers are changing the way they are shopping and have become more of an omni channel shopper. Consumers are also much more inquisitive about knowing what is used in making the product before purchase,” he said. The company has also identified certain categories such as air fragrances and fabric wash in the premium end that are more amenable to developing for online. “We have built a self-sustained supply chain and there is a strong NPD (new product development) pipeline that will contribute to the growth. We are also building strong e-commerce marketing capabilities,” Kataria said. As part of its move to drive e-commerce sales, GCPL has forayed into the premium organic baby care segment through the “goodnessme” brand which will have its own direct to consumer online platform. GCPL will not follow a similar strategy for its core brands. The company is also seeing a revival in demand with the gradual opening up of the economy, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
11-10-2021||Business||Labware maker Tarsons to expand in Bengal||Calcutta-based labware maker — Tarsons Products — is planning to put up two more units in Bengal at an estimated capital expenditure of Rs 260 crore adding to its existing base of five plants in the state. Tarsons, which has filed its draft prospectus for its maiden public offer, is engaged in the designing, development, manufacturing and marketing of consumables, reusables and equipment such as centrifuge and hot plate stirrer used in various laboratories. Tarsons’ clients include Dr. Reddy’s Labs, Syngene, Dr. Lal Path Labs and Metropolis among others. The company’s sixth unit is coming up at Panchla in Howrah district where it has acquired 5 acres to enhance production capacity in existing products such as micro pipette tips, cryo vials and launch new products including PCR plates, deep well plates, screw cap tubes, volumetric flasks among others.. The company is also in the process of finalising land acquisition at Amta, Howrah, where it has planned to set up a fulfilment centre and in- house sterilisation centre for captive consumption. The plastic labware market in India is estimated at Rs 1,225 crore as of 2020 in value terms and expected to expand at a compounded annual growth rate of 16 per cent to reach approximately Rs 2,575.5 crore by year 2025, according to a study of Frost & Sullivan. Tarsons clocked a total revenue of Rs 234.3 crore as of March 31, 2021 and a net profit of Rs 68.87 crore. Around a third of the total revenue is from exports to 40 countries. The company has seen the demand for labware products increase in the Covid pandemic. According to the draft prospectus of Tarsons, the company has proposed a fresh issue of Rs 150 crore and there is an offer for sale of 1.32 crore shares including promoters Sanjive Sehgal, Rohan Sehgal and private equity investor Clear Vision Holdings. Part of the capital expenditure in Panchla would be funded by the proceeds from the fresh issue while internal accrual would be used to fund the rest. Tarsons’ existing five manufacturing facilities are located at Jangalpur, Dhulagarh,  Burroshibtolla (2 units) and Kasba.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
11-10-2021||Business||Air India staff express VRS concern in Tata agreement ||The employees of Air India expect the Tatas to address their pressing concerns in a benevolent manner. The Tatas on Friday won the race to to take over the troubled national carrier, with the government choosing its bid over that of a consortium of investors led by SpiceJet chairman Ajay Singh in his personal capacity. The employees have expressed concern over the terms of the agreement that say the Tatas have the obligation to retain them for just a year and after that, some of them will have to take VRS. This would be a challenging task for the Tatas given the strong unions that exist in the airline for pilots, cabin crew, engineering and others. After VRS, the employees would have to vacate their housing accommodation provided by the airlines within six months. A large chunk of these are in Mumbai and Delhi. Air India has a total of 12,085 employees, with 8,084 permanent and 4,001 contractual staff, while Air India Express has 1,434 employees. In the next five years, about 5,000 permanent employees will retire, which may help the Tatas in reducing the wage cost. “The Tata group is well known for taking care of its employees. Even during the pandemic, the employees of Vistara were better looked after than Air Indians… we have great hopes from the new employer and are excited and apprehensive at the same time,” Praveen Keerthi, general secretary, Indian Commercial Pilots Association, said. Keerthi said the ICPA “looks forward to meeting the new employer and to take Air India to its former glory. In this they have our complete support”. The All India Cabin Crew Association, which claims to represent a majority of the cabin crew members in Air India, said in a tweet, “it is a Gharwapasi for our great #Airline... historic #aviation moment". However, the cabin crew were the most apprehensive about the takeover by the Tatas as they fear the new owners in their bid to stay competitive would try to go for younger members. Monetising subsidiary After the Air India privatisation, the government will now start work on monetising its four other subsidiaries, including Alliance Air, and over Rs 14,700 crore worth non-core assets such as land and building, Dipam secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said. The subsidiaries are under SPV Air India Assets Holding Limited and the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) will work on the plan, Pandey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
11-10-2021||Business||Airbus pitch to new airline Akasa ||Airbus is in conversation with Rakesh Jhunjhunwala-backed new airline Akasa for an aircraft procurement deal, a top official of the European plane manufacturer has said. Akasa has been in discussions with US plane manufacturer Boeing to procure its B737 Max planes, multiple media reports had said two months ago. Airbus’s A320 series of aircraft competes with Boeing’s B737 series of planes in the aviation market. “We are not in the business of countering offers but we are having conversations with Akasa. Of course, we do,” Airbus’s chief commercial officer Christian Scherer replied, asked if he plans to counter the offer put by Boeing to Akasa. Akasa is backed by ace investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala and has former IndiGo president Aditya Ghosh on its board. It aims to start operations by the summer of 2022 and plans to operate approximately 70 planes in the next four years. When asked if he can tell what stage the negotiations are with Akasa, Scherer replied: “That is really private. What I can tell you is that when you start an airline in India, what is the benchmark you are looking at. It is pretty obvious, isn’t it? It is IndiGo and to some extent Go First and SpiceJet, but the big guy is IndiGo.” IndiGo flies the most successful single aisle airplane in the world and it is also the most modern, which is the A320 and now the A321, he mentioned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
11-10-2021||Business||Calcutta High Court stalls action against Lodha baiters||The Calcutta High Court has stayed criminal proceedings against three individuals linked to the M.P. Birla group that were initiated in the aftermath of the annual general meeting of Birla Corporation Ltd late last month. Justice Kaushik Chanda stayed for three weeks the proceedings that flowed from orders of a judicial magistrate of Alipore Court. The case will come up after the puja vacations. The individuals who faced criminal charges before the Alipore Court were S. K. Daga, Krishna Damani and Vinay Sureka and two officials of three wholly-owned subsidiaries of Vindhya Telelinks Ltd, a cable company of the M.P. Birla Group. The developments over the past fortnight have added another chapter in the 17-year-long legal battle over the control of M.P. Birla group between the family of late Rajendra Singh Lodha and the Birla family members. Harsh V. Lodha, son of late R.S. Lodha, is the chairman of M.P. Birla group. The Birlas are challenging the legitimacy of his appointment. There is a question mark over the status of Daga, Damani and Sureka who continue to occupy key positions within the M.P. Birla group even though they appear to have fallen out with Harsh Lodha. The Lodha camp filed the complaints against the five persons immediately after the AGM of Birla Corporation, accusing them of falsifying documents over a sustained period of time and misrepresenting themselves as directors of group entities. At the AGM, votes were cast on behalf of these three companies that together hold over 23 per cent stake in Birla Corporation Ltd by people who, the Lodha side claimed, were not authorised to vote on behalf of the three companies. The votes were later rejected by the poll scrutiniser. On October 1 and 4, the lower court passed separate orders instructing the police to conduct a search and seizure operation at Birla Building, erstwhile registered address of these three companies, and  the headquarters of several key Birla companies, in central Calcutta on October 5 and 6 during which documents seized. Sureka moved the high court against the lower court orders. Senior advocate and former Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and advocate Mahesh Jethmalani represented these directors. Staying the lower court order, Justice Chanda said in his order: “The plain reading of the complaint does not disclose ingredients of the offences under Section 405 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 since it is not the case of the complainant that the accused persons being entrusted with the relevant documents dishonestly misappropriated or converted to their own use or dishonestly used or disposed of the said documents. The allegation is of withholding the documents.” Justice Chanda added: “I am also of the view that without receiving the search report from the police and without ascertaining the entitlement of the possession of the documents, the learned Magistrate ought not to have directed the return of the seized documents to the complainant.” The high court judge directed the complainants/investigating agency to hand over the seized documents to the joint commissioner of crime, Calcutta Police within 48 hours from the date of his order. The public prosecutor has been directed to produce the seized documents before the court at the next date of hearing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
11-10-2021||Business||Reliance takes 40% in Sterling and Wilson ||Mukesh Ambani is set to snap up a 40 per cent stake in Sterling and Wilson Solar Ltd (SWSL) for Rs 2,845 crore -- an acquisition that will enhance its presence in the renewable energy space. The transaction will see Reliance New Energy Solar Ltd (RNESL) becoming one of the promoters of the pure-play, end-to-end solar engineering, procurement, construction (EPC) solutions provider. The subsidiary of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) will have the right to nominate two individuals on the board of SWSL. The Mistry and the Khurshed Daruvala families will stay on as promoters of the company. Their combined holding currently stands at 69.36 per cent in SWSL. This acquisition will be sealed through a multi-stage transaction. To begin with, SWSL will issue 2.93 crore preferential shares at a price of Rs 375 per share. After this issue, the current promoters of SWSL — Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Pvt Ltd and Daruvala — will sell 1.84 crore shares out of their holding at the same price. RNESL will also come out with an open offer to acquire around 26 per cent of SWSL’s equity at the price of Rs 375 per share. Under the terms of the share purchase agreement, the two promoters of SWSL will sell additional shares to ensure that RNESL will have a 40 per cent stake in the company. The deal price of Rs 375 per share is at a discount of 13.75 per cent to the closing price of the SWSL scrip at the BSE on Friday. Second pact This is the second major transaction that the cash-strapped Shapoorji Pallonji group has struck after the Rs 4,400 crore deal for Eureka Forbes that was reached with Advent International last month. “We welcome SWSL as a strategic partner towards building our new energy platform. SWSL, with its engineering talent, deep domain knowledge, global presence, and experience of executing some of the most complex projects globally, will become an important part of our solar value chain. This will enable us to deliver our comprehensive, end-to-end ecosystem leading to cost-efficient green energy for Indian consumer,” Mukesh Ambani, Chairman of RIL said. SWSL has executed more than 11GW of solar turnkey projects globally and has over five decades of engineering experience. It is known for international EPC (engineering, procurement & construction) and O&M (operations & maintenance) service provider in the renewables sector. The company has a 3,000 strong team and presence across 24 countries. Reliance said the partnership with SWSL will provide it access to world-class talent, engineering and project management skills and complement its proven strengths in digital technology, engineering, and procurement and project execution which are key ingredients to deliver high quality, cost-efficient and time-bound implementation of giga-scale green energy capacity, in India and across the world. "Reliance, with its integrated new energy vision, and a commitment to put India on the global green energy map, provides us a great opportunity to further establish SWSL as the leading EPC solutions provider globally," SWSL chairman Daruvala said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
11-10-2021||Business||RIL acquires Europe’s solar panel leader ||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) signalled its ambitions in renewable energy with the announcement on Sunday of its acquisition of REC Solar, Europe’s largest solar panel manufacturer for $771 million (Rs 5,782 crore). The acquisition will be done through Reliance New Energy Solar Ltd (RNESL), Reliance’s newly formed 100 per cent subsidiary. RNESL will acquire the 100 per cent shareholding of REC Solar Holdings AS (REC Group) from China National Bluestar (Group) Co Ltd at an enterprise value of $771 million, Reliance said on Sunday. Formed in 1996, REC has its headquarters in Norway and operational base in Singapore and regional hubs in North America, Europe, Australia, and Asia-Pacific. According to the group’s website, it has manufactured over four crore solar panels, producing energy of 11GW for its customers. Reliance’s announcement is in line with the ambitious plans in clean energy announced by chairman Mukesh Ambani at its annual shareholder meeting in June. Reliance, which is locking horns with the Gautam Adani-led group in this segment, is planning to invest Rs 75,000 crore in renewable energy over the next three years. The oil-to-telecom giant is setting up one of the world’s largest renewable energy facilities at Jamnagar in Gujarat. It plans to establish four “giga factories” that will manufacture and fully integrate all the critical components of the new energy ecosystem. In solar energy, RIL is planning to build an integrated factory to make solar photovoltaic modules or solar panels. It will also build an advanced energy storage battery unit, apart from an electrolyser factory to manufacture green hydrogen. The acquisition of REC Solar comes just days after Gautam Adani said that the group will invest $20 billion in green energy over the next decade. Reliance said REC is part of a group known for its technological innovations and  long-life solar cells and panels. The 25-year-old company has three manufacturing facilities — two in Norway for making solar grade polysilicon and one in Singapore making PV (photovoltaic) cells and modules. The combination of REC’s strength in research & development and the scale of Reliance will further accelerate technological developments and introduction of new products, the company said. REC has more than 1,300 employees globally. They will become members of the Reliance group after the successful completion of the transaction. Reliance said it would strongly support REC’s expansion plans including a 2-3 GW facility in Singapore to make cells and modules apart from another such unit in France of 2 GW capacity and a 1 GW plant in the US. In India, Reliance plans to use REC’s technology in their proposed fully integrated factory at Jamnagar, with initial annual capacity of 4GW, which will eventually expand to 10GW. “It is in line with our strategy of investing in new and advanced technologies and operating capabilities aimed at achieving Reliance’s goal of enabling 100 GW clean and green energy before the end of this decade,” Reliance chairman and managing director Mukesh Ambani said on the acquisition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
11-10-2021||India||Coal ministry conducts pre-bid conference for auction of 11 mines||The government on Monday organised a pre-bid conference for prospective bidders for the sale of 11 coal mines. The coal ministry launched the second attempt of the auction of 11 coal mines earmarked for the sale of coal last month. "Ministry of Coal has organised a pre-bid conference today for prospective bidders," according to an official statement. These were the mines that were offered in the first attempt launched on March 25 and had fetched single bids. Presentations were made on the terms and conditions of auction, technical details of mines and the National Coal Index by SBI Capital Markets Ltd, Central Mine Planning and Design Institute (CMPDI) and DDG respectively, the coal ministry said. The auction will be held online through a transparent two-stage process, on the basis of percentage revenue share. Key features of the auction process include the introduction of the National Coal Index, ease in participation with no restriction for prior coal mining experience, full flexibility in coal utilisation, optimised payment structures, efficiency promotion through incentives for early production and the use of clean coal technology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
11-10-2021||India||Dalit woman gang-raped in UP's Jewar; BSP, Congress demand action||A middle-aged Dalit woman was allegedly gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh's Jewar area near Noida at gunpoint, police officials said on Monday, as opposition political parties, including the BSP and the Congress, demanded action against culprits. None of the four accused have been arrested yet over the incident that took place on Sunday morning outside a village even as multiple police teams were formed and surveillance teams, along with dog squads, deployed to probe the case, the officials said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Women and Child Safety) Vrinda Shukla said, "The incident took place between 9.30 am and 10.30 am on Sunday in open fields near the village where the rape survivor often went to cut grass and the accused also went often to graze his cattle. Both are from the same village and known to each other well." The key accused, who is a drug addict, had dragged the woman into the fields and forced himself on her, according to the police officer, even as local officials said the woman was raped at gunpoint. "The role of other people in the act could be ascertained after investigation. The key accused is on the run and details could be confirmed after his arrest," she said. DCP Shukla said the rape survivor was taken to the district hospital after the incident where her health condition was stable on Monday. The police said an FIR has been lodged under relevant sections of the law on the basis of a complaint by the woman's husband and an investigation is underway. BSP chief Mayawati condemned the incident, while a Congress delegation from Noida went to meet the family of the rape survivor. "The gang-rape of a Dalit woman in Gautam Buddh Nagar is extremely sad and shameful. The BSP demands that the BJP government in UP take strong action against the accused persons, and give justice to the affected family," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress leader Pankhuri Pathak, who led a party delegation to meet the Dalit woman's family, described the incident as a "heinous crime" and alleged failure of law and order in the region. "Jewar's name is now heard often because of an airport being developed in the area but this incident of gang-rape gives one an idea of the law and order situation in the area, which is close to Delhi," Pathak said. She added that the delegation was going to meet the family on instructions of the Congress high command. Azad Samaj Party chief Chandra Shekhar Aazad also hit out at the Yogi Adityanath government over the incident. "In Gautam Buddh Nagar, a Dalit woman was gang-raped at gunpoint by barbarians and casteist slurs were hurled at her. The barbarians have no fear of the law. Law and order has completely failed in UP. Dalit lives are in danger every moment and the incompetent government remains a mute spectator," he said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
11-10-2021||India||Amit Shah holds meeting with power, coal ministers||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday held a meeting with Power Minister R K Singh and Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi amid reports of the ongoing coal shortage in the country, officials said. During the hour-long meeting, the three ministers were believed to have discussed the availability of coal to power plants and the current power demands. Top officials of the power and coal ministries attended the meeting. The meeting came in the wake of several states warning of a possible power crisis due to the shortage of coal supply to power plants, officials said. According to the data, the power consumption of 3,900 MU on October 8 was the highest this month so far (from October 1 to 9) which also became a cause of concern during the ongoing coal shortage. On Saturday, Tata Power arm Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd (DDL), which operates in North and Northwest Delhi, had sent phone messages to its consumers saying, "Due to limited coal availability in generation plants across the north, power supply scenario between 2-6 pm is at critical level. Kindly use electricity judiciously. Be a responsible citizen. Inconvenience caused is regretted - Tata Power-DDL." This was the fallout of coal shortage at power plants in a year when the country produced record coal, but rains hit movement of the fuel from mines to power generation units, impacting electricity production in many states, including Gujarat, Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. Another factor that has contributed to the present crisis is power plants, that used imported coal to generate electricity, have either curtailed generation or completely stopped as a spurt in international energy prices has made it difficult for them to meet the commitments to states at a particular rate. The Ministry of Power in a statement issued on Saturday had said, "It was noted that on 7th October, 2021 total dispatch of coal by Coal India limited (CIL) touched 1.501 MT, thereby reducing the gap between consumption and actual supply." The Ministry of Coal and CIL have assured that they are making best efforts to increase dispatch to the power sector to 1.6 MT per day in the next three days and thereafter, try to touch 1.7 MT per day. It is likely to help in gradual build up of coal stocks at power plants in the near future. The coal supply as well as consequent power situation is likely to improve. According to the data, the peak power demand met or the highest electricity supply in day touched 172.41 GW on October 8. This is the highest peak power demand met from October 1 to 9. The data also showed that peak power demand met slowed to 170.03 GW on Saturday, October 9, indicating that the power demand is moderating with the onset of autumn. The latest available data of the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) showed that coal stocks at power plants on October 7 were not adequate as there were 16 plants with a cumulative capacity of 16,880 MW which had the dry fuel for zero days. Besides, as many as 30 plants with 37,345 MW capacity had coal for just one day and 18 plants with 23,450 MW capacity had coal for two days as of October 7. There were 19 plants with 29,160 MW capacity which had coal for three days and nine plants with 7,864MW capacity had coal for four days. Six plants with 6,730 MW capacity had coal stock for five days, while 10 plants with 11,540 MW capacity had coal for six days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
11-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: Ashish Mishra sent to three-day police custody||The Uttar Pradesh Police on Monday got three-day remand of Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case.  Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the violence on October 3.  "Police had demanded a 14-day remand of Ashish. They have got three-day remand from October 12 to 15," senior prosecution officer (SPO) SP Yadav told reporters.  The remand will end on October 15 morning.  The police remand was granted by Chief Judicial Magistrate Chintaram, with the condition that Ashish Mishra will not be harassed and his lawyer will remain present during interrogation, Yadav said.  Earlier, a court had sent Ashish Mishra to 14-day judicial custody.  Ashish was arrested on Saturday night after around 12 hours of questioning in connection with the Lakhimpur violence.  Mishra was named in an FIR following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down four farmers protesting over UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit last Sunday.  While farmer leaders and opposition parties had been demanding Mishra's arrest, the minister and his son had denied the allegations.  Two BJP workers and their driver were allegedly lynched by angry farmers in the violence. Local journalist Raman Kashyap also died.  Aged around 35, Ashish Mishra, alias Monu, looks after political activities of his father in his Kheri parliamentary constituency and was also vying for party ticket from the Nighasan seat to contest the upcoming UP Assembly polls.  The Supreme Court had on Friday questioned the non-arrest of the accused, directing preservation of evidence and mulled over transferring the probe to another agency.  The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the agitation against the Centre's three farm laws, had alleged that the violence was held under a pre-planned conspiracy and demanded the arrest of the minister and his son.  An "antim ardas" (final prayer) for the dead farmers will held on Tuesday at Lakhimpur Kheri's Tikonia village.  The SKM has also given a call for a "rail roko" protest across the country from 10 am to 4 pm on October 18 and a "mahapanchayat" in Lucknow on October 26.  Ajay Mishra should be "dismissed" from the cabinet and arrested on charges of spreading disharmony, murder and conspiracy, opposition Congress, SP and the SKM are demanding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
11-10-2021||India||UP Polls: Akhilesh Yadav's yatra to woo voters begins on Tuesday||Seeking to galvanise public support ahead of Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav will commence a yatra from Kanpur on Tuesday. "The 'Samajwadi Vijay Yatra' yatra aims to make people aware about the corrupt, autocratic and suppressive policies of the BJP government and to establish real democracy," the party said in a statement on Monday. Yadav will travel in a Mercedes bus, which has been turned into a 'rath' having posters of Akhilesh Yadav displayed on one side and that of party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav on the other, besides a picture of party leader Mohammad Azam Khan. A day before the yatra, the party released a 17-second video in which Akhilesh Yadav is seen talking to his father Mulayam Singh Yadav and touching his feet to get blessings. BJP leader and UP government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh took a swipe at Akhilesh Yadav, saying "the one who dumped the harried people during the corona times is going to the public in his five-star rath" and termed it as "another insult to the people of the state". The SP said that yatra will start from Kanpur and in the first two days on Oct 12-13 it will cover Kanpur Dehat, Jalaun and Hamirpur. "The yatra aims to provide justice to farmers, youths, dalits, the deprived, the backward, minorities and all sections and rid the state of autocratic and suppressive government," SP spokesperson Rajendra Chowdhury said. Chowdhury said it was the third such yatra by Akhilesh Yadav after the ones in July 2001 and September 2011. The politically crucial state is again headed for a heated multi-cornered contest with all major parties like the BJP, BSP, SP and the Congress reaching out to voters. Smaller parties like the Aam Aadmi Party and the AIMIM too are in the fray. The BJP alleged that Akhilesh Yadav was "'scared and nervous" to accept that the UP government has been working for "a crime-free society, including the eradication of corruption, attachment of the properties of criminals and development of the state". In a statement, Sidharth Nath Singh said,"When CM Yogi was running from one district to another to provide relief to the people during corona, the SP leader was busy tweeting from his air conditioned drawing room from where he will be going to land in his air conditioned luxurious 'Rath' pretending to go to the people."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
11-10-2021||India||Coal Scam: HC exempts Rujira Banerjee’s presence before trial court||The Delhi High Court Monday exempted for the time being the physical appearance of Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee's wife Rujira Banerjee before a trial court in connection with a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in West Bengal. The trial court in Delhi had directed her to appear before it personally on October 12. The high court said it will hear on October 29, the plea filed by Rujira Banerjee challenging the Enforcement Directorate's complaint filed in the case, the trial court order taking cognizance of that complaint and the subsequent issuance of a summons for physical appearance. Justice Yogesh Khanna granted Rujira Banerjee's exemption from personal appearance for the time being after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Enforcement Directorate, urged the court to take up her plea for hearing after the Dussehra break. Till then, the lady client (Rujira) may not appear in person, said the Solicitor General. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Rujira Banerjee, prayed that her client be allowed to appear through her lawyer before the trial court. List on October 29. Meanwhile, the petitioner will appear before the trial court through counsel, the judge ordered. On September 30, after she appeared virtually in relation to the complaint filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma directed her physical presence on October 12, while granting her exemption from the personal appearance for the day. Rujira Banerjee has contended that the Enforcement Directorate (ED)'s complaint against her is arbitrary, false, vexatious and an abuse of the process of law. The complaint has been filed to harass and cause prejudice to her and her family, the petition contended. A bare perusal of the impugned complaint confirms that the respondent agency (ED) falsely averred that petitioner had not complied with its illegal summonses (issued by ED)... Owing to the fact that she is a mother of two young children and a resident of Kolkata, the petitioner has repeatedly requested that she be examined at her residence in Kolkata. "The fact that the petitioner was in constant dialogue with the respondent in relation to the aforementioned summons clearly shows that there was no intention on the part of the petitioner to disobey the same, the petition said. It further argued that the trial court took cognizance and issued a summons on the complaint in a mechanical manner and without application of mind. The Ld. CMM failed to appreciate that not only were the notices in question illegal and in excess of jurisdiction, but furthermore the mode of service i.e., email to a third party, of summons dated 18.08.2021 at the first instance is contrary to law and cannot be held against the Petitioner, it said. The couple has already approached the high court for quashing of summons issued to them by the ED for questioning in the case. On September 21, the court had refused to grant any interim relief in relation to the ED summons. The 33-year-old MP, who is the nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamta Banerjee, represents the Diamond Harbour seat in Lok Sabha and is the national general secretary of the Trinamool Congress (TMC). The ED lodged a case under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act on the basis of a November 2020 FIR registered by the CBI that alleged a multi-crore coal pilferage scam related to Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in the state's Kunustoria and Kajora areas in and around Asansol. Local coal operative Anup Majhi alias Lala is alleged to be the prime suspect in the case. The ED had earlier claimed that Abhishek Banerjee was a beneficiary of funds obtained from this illegal trade. He has denied all charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
11-10-2021||India||PM Modi and Boris Johnson discuss Afghanistan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his British counterpart Boris Johnson on Monday held a telephonic conversation during which they welcomed the UK's recognition of Indian vaccine certification and agreed on the need for a coordinated international approach to engagement with the Taliban, according to a statement by the UK. The telephone talks came four days after the UK announced that Indian travellers fully vaccinated with both doses of Covishield or any other vaccine approved by it will not require to undergo a 10-day mandatory quarantine on arrival from October 11. The British statement said the two prime ministers discussed the shared fight against coronavirus and the importance of cautiously opening up international travel. "They agreed the UK's recognition of Indian vaccine certification is a welcome development to that end," it said. According to the statement shared with journalists by the British High Commission here, the two leaders also discussed the strength of the UK-India relationship and climate action in the context of the upcoming COP-26 in Glasgow. "The leaders also talked about the current situation in Afghanistan. They agreed on the need for a coordinated international approach to engagement with the Taliban, emphasising the importance of upholding human rights in the country," it said. It said the prime ministers welcomed the progress made on the 2030 Roadmap since it was agreed by Johnson and Modi in May. "This includes in areas such as trade and defence. The leaders looked forward to the upcoming visit of the UK Carrier Strike Group to India and the deepening of the UK-India strategic partnership," it said. In a tweet, Prime Minister Modi later said, "Was a pleasure to speak to Prime Minister @BorisJohnson. We reviewed progress on the India-UK Agenda 2030, exchanged views on climate action in the context of the forthcoming COP-26 in Glasgow, and shared our assessments on regional issues including Afghanistan." According to the statement issued by the UK, Johnson underlined the importance of making concrete progress on climate change ahead of and at the upcoming COP26 Summit. "He noted that India already leads the world in renewable technology and expressed his hope that they will commit to a more ambitious Nationally Determined Contribution and to achieving Net Zero emissions," it added. The Roadmap 2030 was adopted at a virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his British counterpart Boris Johnson at a virtual summit in May. The roadmap is aimed at elevating bilateral ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and guide cooperation over the next decade in the key areas of trade and economy, defence and security, climate change and people-to-people connect among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
11-10-2021||India||Cruise drugs case: court seeks NCB's reply to Aryan Khan's bail plea||A special court here Monday directed the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to file its reply on October 13 to a bail plea filed by Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, arrested in connection with the seizure of banned drugs on board a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Special Judge V V Patil, hearing matters related to the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, said it would hear the bail plea on Wednesday (October 13). Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3. He is currently in judicial custody and lodged at the Arthur Road prison in Mumbai. He approached the special court for bail after his plea for the same was rejected by a magistrate's court last week on the ground that it did not have the jurisdiction to decide the matter. On Monday, when Aryan Khan's counsel Amit Desai mentioned the bail plea, NCB's advocates A M Chimalkar and Advait Sethna sought a week's time to respond and file their affidavit. They said the investigation in the case was still on and there was quite a lot of material collected by the agency and at this stage, it needs to be seen if releasing Aryan Khan on bail would hamper the probe into the case. Desai, however, objected to it, saying a person's liberty is at question here, and argued that releasing the accused on bail would not stop the investigation in the case. "The bail will not stop the investigation. The NCB can continue their probe. That is their duty. But, keeping my client (Aryan Khan) in custody, especially when there has been no recovery (of drugs) from him, is not required," Desai said. "He (Aryan) has not been found in possession of any narcotics and there is no other material against him. Since his arrest, he has been in the custody of the NCB for a week and his statement was recorded twice. Why does he still need to be in jail?" the senior counsel argued. Chimalkar, however, said that the agency needs at least a few days time to file its reply. "What Desai is arguing appears to be rosy, but this is not what the investigation reveals or divulges. Aryan Khan is in judicial custody. Whether his release on bail will affect or hamper our investigation needs to be seen," Chimalkar said. Sethna, appearing for NCB, told the court that there was no extreme urgency for the bail plea to be heard immediately. Desai then sought the court to hear and decide Aryan Khan's plea separately, saying the recovery of drugs from each accused in the case was different. But, Chimalkar and Sethna opposed it and said the conspiracy is the same. Apart from Aryan Khan, four other accused in the case - Arbaaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha, Nupur Sateja, and Mohak Jaiswal - have also filed bail pleas in the special court. The court said it would start hearing Aryan Khan's bail plea on Wednesday. Aryan Khan has been charged with offences under Sections 8(c), 20(b), 27, 28, 29 and 35 of the NDPS Act pertaining to possession, consumption and purchase of drugs. The NCB has so far arrested 20 people in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
11-10-2021||India||Five Army personnel killed in gunfight with terrorists in JK's Poonch||Five Army personnel, including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO), were killed in a fierce gunfight with terrorists during an anti-insurgency operation in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, officials said. A heavy gunfight was underway in the Surankote area with at least four to five heavily armed terrorists who crossed into the country a few days ago, claimed NDTV.com sources. The operation was launched in a village close to DKG in Surankote in the early hours following intelligence inputs about presence of terrorists, a Defence spokesman said. The hiding terrorists fired on the search parties resulting in a fierce gunfight and critical injuries to a Junior Commissioned Officer or JCO and four other soldiers. They died from their injuries. All five soldiers succumbed to their injuries. The encounter with the terrorists was going on and further details are awaited, the spokesman said. The officials said there are reports about presence of a group of heavily-armed terrorists in Chamrer forest after they managed to sneak from across the Line of Control (LoC). Reinforcements have been rushed to the area to plug all escape routes to ensure the terrorists are neutralised, they said. Meanwhile, in another part of the valley, two militants were killed and a policeman was injured during encounters in Anantnag and Bandipora districts on Monday, police said. Security forces had launched a cordon and search operation at Khagund in Anantnag district's Verinag area following information about the presence of militants there. The search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire on the security forces, who retaliated, he said. The police official said that while one militant has been killed, a policeman suffered injuries. He added that the operation is going on. In another encounter, which broke out at Gundjahangir in Bandipora district's Hajin area, a Lashkar-e-Toiba militant was killed. "Killed terrorist has been identified as Imtiyaz Ahmad Dar affiliated with proscribed terror outfit LeT (TRF). He was involved in recent civilian killing at Shahgund Bandipora," Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
11-10-2021||India||Benefits of Using the Right Online Payment Services for Your Business||One aspect of business that is universal to all fields and industries is the payment transaction. The payment transaction is one of the most integral steps in the cash cycle. It is therefore imperative that businesses make sure that they choose the payment service that is most convenient to them. Companies of all sizes must understand the process of payments relevant to their end products and must partner with the payment service that will give them the greatest advantage in their sector and with their intended customers. Benefits of the Right Payment Service Online Payment Facilitators Until recently, the system of transaction management was handled by physical payment processors. Because these facilities had a bargaining advantage over their clients, high rates, poor service, and unexpected and inexplicable fees were common. Only the largest companies and organizations had any sort of leverage in protecting their interests. The solution to this problem is software companies rebranding as online payment facilitators. Online payment facilitators offer a more customer-focused approach to transaction management that is viable, without the disadvantages of payment processors. Customer Support and Improved Productivity Payment facilitators are designed to view the customer as the priority, and so the payment service is streamlined to the customer’s product, whatever that may be. The goal is to make the payment process for the goods and services of any company as easily reconcilable as possible. Thus, the input of field operatives is used to create an innovative, integrated platform that makes payment transactions as straightforward as possible.  Maintaining and managing the payment system when problems arise is also important. The processes for handling issues or glitches are streamlined to be as few as possible to remove unnecessary redundancies that would waste the customer’s resources. More Reasonable Rates The market for food payment facilitators is already a competitive one, and better charges were always a part of the mission. Therefore, improved rates over payment processors are a result. There are no complex and expensive processes that narrow a company's profit margin. Online payment facilitators can also advocate on behalf of their customers. Better Overall Customer Experience Another aspect of business that is universal to all industries is the customer, for whom every product and service is provided. The demands of the customer must be met, but the customer's experience while interfacing with any company is as important as the service itself. An easy-to-use, financially secure, and fast payment or transaction process is important to fulfilling this. A satisfied customer will trust the company and will become a loyal customer. Loyal customers and increased customer lifetime value are key to any service provider’s survival in today's economy. Conclusion A good online payment facilitator like Paystudio: white label payment gateway will make transactions hassle-free for customers of their client. They will make managing those transactions much easier as well. That is why opting for the best online payment facilitator is important if any business wants to stay competitive and relevant in its market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
11-10-2021||India||Uncommon Success: The Mark Neilson Story||It has been said that success isn’t about where you start, it’s about where you finish. When some people complain about having lemons there are others who sell lemonade. Mark Neilson is living the American Dream and he is helping others do the same. From humble beginnings in Alaska to the top of a multi-billion-dollar industry. This is insurance guru’s Mark Neilson’s story. Mark Neilson grew up in Cordova, Alaska where he lived in a small trailer with his working-class parents. Both of his parents worked hard around the clock, his father worked in the commercialized finishing industry and his mother would work odd jobs to help the family. Mark recalls working with his father in the fish market when he was old enough. His family moved to Utah where he grew up learning hard working values from the continued example of his mother and father. Mark’s parents always encouraged him to earn income on his own, he remembers having a lemonade stand when he was young. At the age of 19, Mark moved to Denmark for a religious mission where he would spend the next two years in service of others. This experience changed the course of his life forever. It was during this two-year period that he found his passion for helping others. He credits the time that he spent overseas for helping reinforce many of the service-based leadership skills he applies to his business. After returning from the mission, Mark knew that he could never achieve his goals staying home in Utah, so he left. After moving around a bit, looking for the right place, Mark relocated to San Jose, CA. Upon arrival he tried a few different careers including electrical work. Like many entrepreneurs, Mark never felt he was getting paid for his value and knew it was unlikely that he would get a promotion. Determined to live a different life than the one he grew up with, Mark kept looking until he found the insurance industry. He fell in love. The fact that he could determine his own income and did so by helping people was exactly what he had been searching for. Since that time Mark has gone on to become one of the top performers in the entire insurance industry. His accolades include, Diamond Club Member, Million Dollar Club Member, Presidents Club Member, Gold Club Member, Single-Month Production Record Holder, Producer of the Year, among many others. His determination to succeed at a high level is evident not only in his work-ethic, but in the care that he gives to the success of others. He believes that growing up from a humble background drives him to see others pull themselves up through hard work. If you would like additional information or to see if you can work with Mark Nielson, he is reachable on Instagram via @m.neilson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
11-10-2021||India||Multi-disciplinary approach the need of the hour in academics||Upasana Mahanta, professor at Jindal Global Law School and dean, admissions and outreach, OP Jindal Global University (Institution of Eminence Deemed To Be University), speaks on the significance of social sciences and the need to rethink career choices. Why is there a growing need for more students to study social sciences? Since Independence, there has been an inclination towards engineering, medicine and the pure sciences to build a rapidly industrialising India. However, modern-day problems call for a look beyond the purview of pure sciences. For example, India’s COVID vaccination drive and overall pandemic response require a multi-disciplinary approach, including public policy, psychology, communication, supply chain management. Even the National Education Policy 2020 urges educational institutions to do away with compartmentalisation of disciplines. Students are often prodded by their parents to study medicine or engineering. How can this be countered? One of the primary reasons students (or parents) opt for medicine and engineering as career options is that the student can tread a path of least resistance in elevating one’s social and economic status while attaining their career goals. Career opportunities outside STEM are usually perceived as underpaid avenues and students do not always get the support to follow their passions. To counter this mindset is difficult, but not impossible. We see an increasing trend of medicine and engineering students choosing a different career stream post after graduation and looking for something niche. The job market demands each student to be different and bring diverse knowledge to the table, this is made possible by the social sciences. Therefore, a multi-disciplinary education pivoted on complex problems through the lens of science, law and policy, humanities and social sciences is important. How do the cut-off percentages in STEM studies and social sciences affect the admission process? Like many other private, new-age universities in India, Jindal Global University does not believe in judging a student only based on marks. A student is a person, not just a percentage. As a result, our admission process is holistic. It takes into account the student’s abilities in critical thinking, verbal and written communication skills as well as motivation to study a particular discipline. Consequently, cut-off percentages in STEM and non-STEM disciplines do not affect the admission process at JGU. What new-age career prospects are opening up for students of social sciences? The founders of Apple, Tesla and Alibaba are all social science graduates. There are countless other avenues for social science graduates to make their mark. A study in any of the disciplines in social sciences allows students to critically examine the state of society and how it can be made better for all. This opens avenues in law, business, communication, finance, psychology, creative arts and any career that has an impact on how society lives and thrives. What are the opportunities in research and higher studies? Research in social sciences is constantly evolving to respond to the growing complexities of the world that we live in. Technological advancements, digitisation of education and demands of an ever-changing socio-political and cultural milieu provide new and exciting research possibilities and opportunities, Mindful of this, JGU offers a wide range of master’s programmes in law, business, diplomacy, public policy, psychology, and economics. Our curriculum design and assessment processes are devised to enable students to think critically, engage with existing literature, and work towards contributing to existing knowledge. Are there gaps in academic policies and social awareness in India that somehow limit social sciences to flourish? While the National Education Policy 2020 has set the stage for social sciences to flourish, I believe it is awareness and stigma that limit its growth. For example, most parents would want their children to become engineers or doctors and that creates a very unhealthy hierarchy between disciplines that are equally important. Some of the most sought-after careers in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic include graphic designers, digital marketers and content writers. As we slip more and more into a digital lifestyle, we will hopefully realise the emotional and humanist applications of technology where research and application of social sciences will be more valuable. Social sciences and STEM are also seen as female and male gender-oriented courses, respectively. Has there been a change in this gender disparity and also in how humanities as a field of study is perceived in India? This is an extremely antiquated and dated view, which bears no merit at all in present times. These perceptions must be constantly challenged. The gender of a student has no bearing on success in a STEM or non-STEM career. While this gender disparity exists and is changing, we must move away from assigning careers based on gender. What steps is OP Jindal Global University taking to promote the growth of social science studies? Since its inception in 2009, the OP Jindal Global University has strived for excellence in higher education within social sciences, arts and humanities. Each of our programmes is interdisciplinary in nature and brings out the multidisciplinary solutions required for modern-day problems. We strive to achieve this excellence by engaging the highest quality of faculty members anywhere in India, by ensuring that our curricula are updated and future- ready and by equipping our students with the universal skills necessary to succeed in whatever career path they choose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
11-10-2021||India||Who was Goolam Vahanvati, the lawyer regarded as a luminary across India||In every field of work, there are people that just leave a permanent mark for the achievements and success that they have accumulated over the years. Goolam Vahanvati was one such distinguish individual. Born and brought up in Mumbai, India, Goolam was the son of Essaji Vahanvati who was a lawyer by profession and Goolam’s biggest inspiration to take up law. When he was a kid, Goolam was a straight A student and would work hard. This continued when he became a lawyer, he was sharp and dedicated to his work, this led to him building up quite a reputation for himself across the Bombay Bar his years as a junior lawyer. In 1990, he was promoted to a senior counsel position and in all this time, he had been a part of various high profile cases. In the year 1999, Goolam was promoted to the role of Advocate General of Maharashtra and when the UPA rose to power in 2004, he was offered the role of Solicitor General of India. In 2009, Goolam Vahanvati became the first ever Muslim in India to ascend to the role of Attorney General of India, the highest position in the Indian judicial system. He served as the 13th Attorney General of India until 2012 and then his term was extended for another two years. Goolam Vahanvati passed away in September 2014 due to a cardiac arrest. Many of his cases such as the stamp paper scam, the case for OBC reservations for higher education, the stock market scam and others are still talked about and even take up as case studies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
11-10-2021||India||India never had more decisive government, asserts Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched Indian Space Association (ISpA), an industry body aspiring to be the voice of the country's space sector, and underlined his dispensation's commitment to reforms, saying the country never had a more decisive government. Modi cited the government's success in privatising loss-making public airline Air India to assert that this shows its commitment and seriousness. He said the government's policy about the public sector is that sectors, where it is not needed, should be opened to private enterprises. The prime minister referred to the opening of a host of sectors from space to defence to private players, and asserted that his government has kept national interest as well the needs of different stakeholders in mind. He said India is seeing reforms on such a wide scale because its vision is clear, which is about having an 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'. Modi said India is among the few countries which has end-to-end technology in the space sector. As a partner, the government is helping industry, young innovators, start-ups and will continue doing so, he added. He said his government's approach to reforms in the space sector is based on the four pillars; allowing the private sector freedom of innovation, government playing the enabler's role, preparing youngsters for the future and envisioning the sector as a resource to help the common man's development. The ISpA will undertake policy advocacy and engage with all stakeholders in the Indian space domain, including the government and its agencies, the government has said. Echoing the prime minister's vision of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat', the ISpA will help in making India self-reliant, technologically advanced and a leading player in the space arena, it added. The ISpA is represented by leading home grown and global corporations with advanced capabilities in space and satellite technologies. Its founding members include Larson & Toubro, Nelco (Tata Group), OneWeb, Bharti Airtel, Mapmyindia, Walchandnagar Industries and Ananth Technology Limited. Other core members include Godrej, Hughes India, Azista-BST Aerospace Private Limited, BEL, Centum Electronics and Maxar India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
11-10-2021||India||Uttarakhand Transport Minister Yashpal Arya, his MLA son resign from BJP, join Congress||In a big jolt for the BJP ahead of the next year's assembly polls, Uttarakhand Transport Minister Yashpal Arya quit the saffron party on Monday and joined the Congress along with his MLA son Sanjeev. Yashpal Arya and his son, along with their supporters, joined the Congress in the presence of senior party leaders Harish Rawat, K C Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala in New Delhi. Earlier in the day, they met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi at his residence. From 2007 to 2014, Yashpal Arya was the president of Uttarakhand Congress and had been a former speaker and a minister in the Congress government led by Rawat. He had switched over to the BJP in 2017 ahead of the assembly elections in Uttarakhand. He represents the Mukteshwar assembly constituency in the state. His son Sanjeev Arya represents the Nainital Assembly constituency in Uttarakhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
11-10-2021||India||Agitation will continue till farmers' demands are met, says Rakesh Tikait||The farmers' agitation will continue till all demands are met, including repealing of the three farm laws and legal guarantee on minimum support price for crops, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait has said. Talking to reporters in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district on Sunday evening, he said that the Centre is overlooking "the one-year long agitation of farmers in which 750 farmers have died". Farmers have been protesting against the legislations at Delhi border points since their enactment in September last year and demanding these be repealed. Tikait claimed that farmers' income has not increased despite the price of goods. The three farm laws and the BJP are "anti-farmer", he said, claiming that the government is not ready for a dialogue to resolve the issue. The BJP government at the Centre only supports industrialists, he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
11-10-2021||India||Maharashtra bandh: Bus services affected||Bus services were affected in Mumbai and neighbouring areas on Monday and most of the shops and commercial establishments remained closed in the wake of the bandh called across Maharashtra by three partners in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government to protest the killing of four farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district. As buses of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST- the transport undertaking of the city civic body) and many of the traditional 'black-yellow cabs' remained off roads, there were huge crowds on suburban railway stations to commute by local trains, which were running as per schedule. The three ruling allies - Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, have appealed to people to wholeheartedly support the bandh, which began at midnight, to express their solidarity with farmers. In the morning, shops and other commercial establishments, barring those engaged in selling essential items, remained closed in Mumbai. While the BEST bus services were affected in the wake of the bandh, the local trains, considered as the lifeline of Mumbai, were operating normally, but running packed as road commuters shifted to suburban rail services. Our services are running as per schedule," Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer of the Central Railway, told PTI. Most of the black-yellow cabs and auto-rickshaws were off roads in the metropolis, as per transport union leaders. "The black-yellow taxis are operating, but their number is very less. The taxi operations outside the city airport are unaffected," said A L Quadros, general secretary of the Mumbai Taximens' Union. The Metro rail services were also operating normally in the city. Officials of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) said their buses from Mumbai to other places were plying as per schedule and no untoward incident was reported anywhere. "Regional offices across the state have been informed to operate bus services in consultation with the district administration concerned and police after taking stock of the local situation," an MSRTC official said. There was heavy police deployment across the state capital in the wake of the bandh. Police personnel, including women, were on patrolling duty in every area of the city and no untoward incident was reported till now, a police official said. There was extra traffic police deployment on the city roads, where people were mostly seen travelling in private vehicles. Many senior police officials were seen visiting the 'bandobast' points. At railways stations also, extra police force was deployed. The Mumbai Police earlier said they will deploy the maximum manpower at their disposal on the streets on Monday to prevent any untoward incident during the bandh. Three companies of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), 500 Home Guard personnel and 400 men from the Local Arms units are already deployed as additional manpower for the ongoing Navratri festival security, an official said. In neighbouring Thane district, shops and commercial establishments remained closed in the morning and roads at many places wore a deserted look. Public buses remained off roads, while a few auto-rickshaws were seen plying in some places. Heavy security was deployed in Thane city, rural parts of the district, neighbouring Navi Mumbai township and Palghar district, officials said. Activists of the ruling allies, carrying placards and banners, took out morchas in Thane city, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan and Vasai towns and raised slogans to protest the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. Local leaders were seen requesting traders in some places to keep their establishments shut. The Thane Small Scale Industries Association in a release condemned the killing of farmers, but said the industries and small traders were not in favour of the bandh as they were already facing losses due to the COVID-19-related curbs. Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut last week said his party will participate with full force in the Monday bandh in Maharashtra. He said it was necessary to wake people up against the "anti-farmer" policies of the Central government. Eight people, including four farmers, died in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. The farmers died after being knocked down by vehicles reportedly carrying BJP workers, after which an angry mob allegedly lynched some people in these vehicles. On Saturday night, Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra was arrested by the police in Lakhimpur Kheri in connection with the October 3 violence. NCP spokesman and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Monday said the MVA demands that Union minister Ajay Misha be sacked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
11-10-2021||India||India witnesses lowest rise in daily Covid cases in 215 days||India logged 18,132 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 215 days, taking the country's total tally of cases to 3,39,71,607, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has increased to 98 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,50,782 with 193 fresh fatalities. The active cases have declined to 2,27,347, the lowest in 209 days, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 17 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 106 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.67 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020. A decrease of 3,624 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 10,35,797 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 58,36,31,490. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.75 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 42 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.53 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 108 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,32,93,478, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 95.19 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 193 new fatalities include 85 from Kerala and 28 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,50,782 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,542 from Maharashtra, 37,885 from Karnataka, 35,783 from Tamil Nadu, 26,258 from Kerala, 25,089 from Delhi, 22,896 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,905 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
11-10-2021||India||India, China's 13th round of talks on Ladakh row remains inconclusive||India and China failed to make any headway in resolving the remaining issues in eastern Ladakh at the 13th round of military talks, with the Indian Army saying on Monday that the "constructive suggestions" made by it were not agreeable to the Chinese side. In a statement that indicated hardening of its position on the matter, the Army said the meeting on Sunday did not result in resolution of the issues in remaining areas and that the Indian side emphasised that it expects the Chinese side to work towards it. "During the meeting, the Indian side, therefore, made constructive suggestions for resolving the remaining areas but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals. The meeting thus did not result in resolution of the remaining areas," the Army said in a statement. The talks took place at the Chushul-Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh on Sunday and they lasted for around eight-and-half hours. The Army said the Indian side pointed out that the situation along the LAC had been caused by "unilateral attempts" of the Chinese side to alter the status quo and in violation of the bilateral agreements. "The Indian side pointed out that the situation along the LAC had been caused by unilateral attempts of Chinese side to alter the status quo and in violation of the bilateral agreements," the Army said. "It was, therefore, necessary that the Chinese side take appropriate steps in the remaining areas so as to restore peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the Western sector," it said. The Indian side also referred to the talks between the Chinese and Indian foreign ministers last month in Tajikistan's capital Dushanbe on the sidelines of the summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. "This would also be in accord with the guidance provided by the two foreign ministers in their recent meeting in Dushanbe where they had agreed that the two sides should resolve the remaining issues at the earliest," the Indian Army said. "The Indian side emphasised such resolution of the remaining areas would facilitate progress in the bilateral relations," it added. The Indian delegation also emphasised that a resolution of the remaining issues would facilitate progress in the bilateral relations. The Army said the two sides have agreed to maintain communications and also stability on the ground. "It is our expectation that the Chinese side will take into account the overall perspective of bilateral relations and will work towards early resolution of the remaining issues while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols," it said. It is learnt that the Indian side took up the stalled disengagement at Patrolling Point 15 (PP-15) as well as issues in Depsang. The talks took place in the backdrop of two recent incidents of attempted transgressions by the Chinese troops with one in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand and another in the Tawang sector in Arunachal Pradesh. Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a brief face-off near Yangtse in the Tawang sector of Arunachal Pradesh around 10 days back and it was resolved within a few hours following talks between commanders of the two sides as per established protocols. Close to 100 soldiers of China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) transgressed the LAC in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand on August 30, and the Chinese troops returned from the area after spending a few hours. The two sides held the 12th round of talks on July 31. Days later, the two armies completed the disengagement process in Gogra, which was seen as a significant forward movement towards the restoration of peace and tranquillity in the region. On Saturday, Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane said if the Chinese military continues with its large-scale deployment in the eastern Ladakh region, then the Indian Army too will maintain its strength on its side which he said is "as good as what the PLA has done." The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area in August and in the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in February. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
11-10-2021||India||Two militants killed in encounters in J-K's Anantnag, Bandipora districts||Two militants were killed and a policeman was injured during encounters in Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag and Bandipora districts on Monday, police said. Security forces had launched a cordon and search operation at Khagund in Anantnag district's Verinag area following information about the presence of militants there, an official said. The search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire on the security forces, who retaliated, he said. The police official said that while one militant has been killed, a policeman suffered injuries. He added that the operation is going on. In another encounter, which broke out at Gundjahangir in Bandipora district's Hajin area, a Lashkar-e-Toiba militant was killed. "Killed terrorist has been identified as Imtiyaz Ahmad Dar affiliated with proscribed terror outfit LeT (TRF). He was involved in recent civilian killing at Shahgund Bandipora," Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
11-10-2021||India||Priyanka becomes Congress's face for UP Assembly elections 2022||The Congress on Sunday projected Priyanka Gandhi Vadra as its face for the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. At a Kisan Nyay rally in Rohania, Varanasi, Priyanka was projected as a lone crusader for justice while other challengers to the BJP were dismissed as compromised opportunists. Samajwadi Party leader and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav was singled out and accused of surrendering to the BJP’s coercive politics, an indication that the Congress was willing to go solo this election, due next March. Priyanka’s post of general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh does not automatically make her the party’s face for the state election. But Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, the AICC observer for Uttar Pradesh, told the rally: “The RSS-BJP incites people in the name of religion. Who fights for your rights; who fights for your welfare? “Who will you stand with -- those who fight for your rights or those who crush your rights? Support Priyanka, the next government will be formed under her leadership.” Priyanka asked people to answer one question honestly. “Ask yourself this question: has your life improved? Have they (the BJP) fulfilled their promises? If not, come with me; stand with me. I will not stop until I usher in real change.” In the end, this was the admission that she had taken up the challenge to confront Adityanath, shedding any inhibitions stemming from apprehensions about the outcome. The Congress, which last won an Uttar Pradesh election in 1985 and now commands barely 8 per cent of the vote share, has a long way to go in terms of organisational muscle. But Uttar Pradesh has defied political logic in the last three elections by giving decisive mandates successively to the Bahujan Samaj Party, Samajwadis and the BJP. The Congress is scanning the skies for that ray of hope from the ruins of Uttar Pradesh. Although the stated purpose of the meeting was to seek justice for the farmers – both in the context of the new farm laws and the Lakhimpur Kheri atrocity --- the atmospherics left little doubt that it marked the launch of the Congress election campaign with Priyanka as its mascot. All the speakers dwelt on her commitment to the welfare of the state and her sustained fight for justice. Former MP Rajesh Mishra said: “No other Opposition leader was seen fighting for the people during the last four years. Whenever she raised her voice, the Yogi (Adityanath) government had to pay heed. She fearlessly fought on the streets.” Another senior leader, Ajai Rai, described Priyanka as the saviour of Uttar Pradesh and said the state had finally got a leader. State Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu described Priyanka as the commander leading the fight against “goonda raj” in the state. “The rule of law has been destroyed in the state. Yogi is practising the politics of repression. Priyanka has taken it on herself to end this misrule,” he said. “From Sonbhadra to Unnao, Hathras and Lakhimpur, she has been like the sun rising against the darkness. She showed the same concern during the CAA-NRC struggle as well.” Lallu added: “Will you support those who surrendered to the BJP and hid in the safe confines of their homes, or Priyanka who fought for your cause? Akhilesh Yadav was scared of criticising the BJP. He hid in his home. His fight has been symbolic. Priyanka is committed to freeing the state of goonda raj. Come, support her in this mission.” Deepender Hooda lauded Priyanka’s courage and determination. “India’s soul was crushed under the wheels in Lakhimpur Kheri and Priyanka was the first leader to raise her voice,” he said. “Ek taraf satta khadi hai, doosri taraf satya khada hai. On one hand is arrogance and the brutality of power, on the other is the force of morality. We expect every citizen to stand with Priyanka in this battle.” Priyanka herself built a strong case against the Adityanath government, alleging justice was impossible under his rule. Recalling Sonbhadra, where tribal people had been killed for land, as well as Unnao, Hathras and Lakhimpur, she said: “People wanted justice in each case, not compensation. But there is no scope for justice under this regime. A minister’s son crushes innocent farmers and the government stands with the perpetrators instead of delivering justice. The Prime Minister comes to Lucknow but shows no concern. He refused to meet the families of the farmers.” Priyanka said: “They are celebrating Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. The farmers gave us freedom. Freedom has no meaning if citizens can’t expect justice. “The nation’s foundations rest on the hope for justice. That’s the constitutional spirit. But justice is not given anywhere in the country. Where will the people go if the chief minister and the Prime Minister side with the minister whose son mowed down farmers?” Priyanka also referred to subjects such as unemployment and the rising prices apart from the dangers of the new farm laws. She regretted that a segment of citizens felt that Narendra Modi had bolstered people’s sense of security. “That’s a myth. Nobody is secure except Modi’s friends. Women are unsafe, the poor are losing their livelihood, Dalits and minorities are unsafe. The country is being destroyed,” she said. “Look at the truth hidden behind the propaganda. This is no longer about elections; this is about the country. Who will save the country? Don’t get misled by their politics. Save your country. The Congress is not scared; the Congress cannot be silenced. Nobody can frighten us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
11-10-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: Cops who killed Adityanath's 'admirer' arrested||Police on Sunday  arrested inspector Jay Narayan Singh and sub-inspector Akshay Mishra on the charge of killing Manish Gupta, a Kanpur-based real estate developer who was an “admirer” of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, in a Gorakhpur hotel on September 27. Meenakshi, wife of Gupta, had alleged that six policemen had barged into the hotel room in the name of routine checking but they were actually there to extort money from the guests. Gupta died after being allegedly beaten up by the cops in his hotel room for taking time to show his identity proof. Meenakshi had alleged that the senior administrative and police officers had tried to bully her and refused to accept her complaint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
11-10-2021||India|| Varun Gandhi castigates efforts to communalise Lakhimpur carnage||BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi on Sunday castigated the efforts to communalise the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage, sending a message to his party and its government. “An attempt to turn #LakhimpurKheri into a Hindu vs Sikh battle is being made. Not only is this an immortal & false narrative, it is dangerous to create these fault-lines & reopen wounds that have taken a generation to heal,” Varun tweeted. “We must not put petty political gains above national unity.” Some BJP politicians, including Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, have sought to portray the protesting farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri as Khalistani extremists. Many of the protesting farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri were Sikhs. Of the five men mowed down last Sunday, the four farmers were Sikhs and the journalist was a Hindu. The Terai region of which Lakhimpur Kheri is a part has a large Sikh population, with settlers from the community arriving after the Partition. Varun was recently dropped from the BJP national executive committee along with mother Maneka Gandhi, also a party MP. The decision followed his relentless questioning on the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre and his persistent demands for strong action. On Sunday, Varun said the struggle for justice in Lakhimpur Kheri was about the “cruel massacre of poor farmers in the face of an arrogant local power elite”, and insisted that the issue had no religious connotations. “To use the word ‘Khalistani’ liberally to describe the protesting farmers is not only an insult to the generations of these proud sons of the Tarai who have fought and shed blood on our borders, it is also extremely dangerous for our national unity if this provokes the wrong kind of reaction,” he said. Ashis Mishra, son of Teni, has been arrested in connection with the October 3 massacre. He is alleged to have been in a Thar jeep belonging to his father that had, along with some other cars in a convoy it was leading, ploughed through a crowd of protesting farmers, killing five people. Varun has over the past few months annoyed the BJP leadership by publicly airing sympathy for the farmers who have been protesting against three farm laws since last November. Other BJP leaders and the party’s ecosystem have repeatedly tried to discredit the farmers and paint them as terrorists or Naxalites.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
11-10-2021||India||J&K: Sikh leaders accuse govt of failing to protect minorities||Sikh leaders on Saturday accused the government of failing to protect the minorities in Kashmir and said they would not join work unless their safety was ensured. Fear has gripped the Valley after a spate of civilian killings by suspected militants. Four of them, including a Sikh woman who was a school principal, belonged to minority communities. Muslims are in majority in Kashmir. A few dozen Kashmiri Pandit families have migrated to Jammu following the killings while hundreds of government employees from minority communities have stopped going to office fearing for their lives. Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee general secretary president Navtej Singh on Saturday told a media conference that minority community members would not join their duties in government offices unless the administration assured that they would be protected in Kashmir. “Life is more precious than anything else. We are living in fear. An unarmed lady was killed inside her school. Naturally all employees are scared. Unless the government ensures their protection, they won’t attend duty,” Singh said. A government official said the administration was encouraging the minorities to stay home until the situation eased. Singh said it was the prime duty of the government to protect the minorities but it had failed. “Otherwise, how is it possible to enter a school and kill people? Moreover, it was already in the knowledge of the government as a doctor (pharmacist) and a (non-local vendor) had been killed a day earlier,” he said. The pharmacist, who was a Kashmiri Pandit, and the vendor were killed on October 5. Two days later, militants killed the Sikh school principal and a teacher, a Kashmiri Pandit. Scores of Sikhs on Friday staged a protest in Srinagar, where they raised slogans against the Resistance Front, a militant group believed to be behind the killings. Sikhs, who number less than a lakh in Kashmir, have vowed to stay on. But some Kashmiri Pandit families have migrated to Jammu, prompting the Valley leadership to urge them not to leave. BJP youth leader Sahil Tikoo, a Kashmiri Pandit, said they must return and “face the battleground with valour”. “This fear of being dead has to go and now is the time. Either we face them now or we stop crying over it. We can’t be scared of these cowards,” Tikoo tweeted. Sikh leader Budha Singh said some people had claimed that the Sikh principal was killed for hoisting the Indian flag on Independence Day, wondering whether the scores of members of the majority Muslim community in Kashmir who too had unfurled the Tricolour would also be targeted. The national flag was raised at many places on August 15 on the government’s directions. “Will they do the same with (slain militant) Burhan Wani’s father who also raised the flag? A 1,000-odd schools did so at the government’s behest. Will they also be targeted? Our biggest medical institute has a Tricolour on top of it, will they kill the director?” he asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
11-10-2021||India||Martina Navratilova calls Amit Shah's praise for Modi a joke||Martina Navratilova, the tennis legend who torments the Right-wing ecosystem in India with her occasional tweets, has this time hit where it hurts the most. “And for my next joke…” Navratilova tweeted on Sunday night, adding an emoticon for astonishment and another that resembles a clown. Below the tweet she had added a tweet on a news report that said “Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was not a ‘dictator’ but the most democratic leader the country has ever seen”…. Shah’s comments were excerpted from an interview with Sansad TV on the occasion of Narendra Modi completing 20 years in public office last week. One Twitter user thanked Navratilova while another referred to the backlash that was activated when singer Rihanna tweeted on the farmers’ protest. Navratilova has been sticking to her Twitter bio motto — “Time to speak out now” — unfailingly. In 2016, she had drawn the ire of Indian trolls when she shared on Twitter an article on the crackdown on JNU students. In 2019, Navratilova had skewered the rapport between Modi and then US President Donald Trump. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan is among those who tasted the power of her off-court serve and volley, getting chastised when he blamed a rise in rape cases on “vulgar clothing”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
11-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Minister’s son sent to jail, cops seek custody||Ashis Mishra was sent to judicial custody by a magistrate shortly after his arrest late on Saturday night, but officers said the police special investigation team hoped to get his custody when the minister’s son is produced in court on Monday morning. Ashis, son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, was arrested at 10.48pm on Saturday after almost 12 hours of questioning by the SIT in connection with the October 3 murder of four farmers and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri. He was then taken to Lakhimpur district jail, about half a kilometre from the police crime branch office where he was interrogated, to be produced around 11.30pm before a waiting judicial magistrate. A man who introduced himself as one of Ashis’s lawyers but didn’t give his name spoke to reporters before the district jail on Sunday. The unidentified person said: “The police wanted Ashis’s custody but we objected. So, judicial magistrate Deeksha Bharti sent him to judicial custody and posted the case for Monday.” He said the legal team would apply for bail on Monday. He explained that Saturday night’s relief probably owed to the lateness of the hour and the fact that Ashis had already undergone prolonged grilling. Late on Saturday night, deputy inspector-general of police Upendra Agrawal had told reporters that Ashis, the “main accused”, had “remained evasive throughout the interrogation”. “He didn’t cooperate and we decided to arrest him formally. We need more information from him, so we will apply for his custody on Monday.” A Lucknow police officer who spoke to this newspaper provided several details relating to Saturday’s questioning, which he said he had obtained from colleagues in the SIT. He said Ashis had stonewalled some half a dozen of the 45-odd questions he was asked, and answered the rest evasively. “Asked where he was during the Tikunia carnage, he said he was in his village Banvirpur, 4km away, where a wrestling programme was on,” the officer said. “Asked which car in the convoy he was driving when some of the cars ploughed into the farmers, Ashis got irritated and said, ‘I have told you I was in the village’. “When, after a few more questions, he was asked why he had decided to run the farmers over, he said he wouldn’t answer any more questions.” The officer said Ashis had come with videos to defend himself. “When an interrogator said these videos had been ‘manufactured’, Ashis replied that it was the videos showing a jeep (said to be belonging to his father) crushing people that were fake,” the Lucknow officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
11-10-2021||India||Sangh organisations object college naming campus park after Stan||A Catholic college in Mangalore has put on hold its plan to name a park on the campus after Father Stan Swamy following objections from Sangh parivar organisations that described the Jesuit and tribal rights defender as “anti-national”. The 141-year-old Jesuit institution, St Aloysius College (Autonomous), had planned an event on Thursday to name the park at its management institute in Kotekar, on Mangalore’s outskirts, after the priest from Jharkhand who died in custody. College sources said the park — the institution’s private property — at the St Aloysius Institute of Management and IT was to have a signboard declaring it the “Fr Stan Swamy Peace Park”. But at a news conference on Wednesday, RSS student wing ABVP, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the Bajrang Dal objected to the plan. The outfit said the college management would be solely responsible if it failed to heed their warning and something untoward happened. The college scrapped the event and said it had been postponed because of President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit to the city on Thursday. On Saturday, the college rector, Father Melwin Pinto, told The Telegraph in an email that no fresh date had been set for the event. To a question, he said that no police complaint had been lodged since “we have not received any direct threat except for a letter from ABVP to the principal”. On Wednesday, ABVP state joint secretary Manikanta had also sent a letter to Mangalore deputy commissioner K.V. Rajendra, police commissioner N. Shashi Kumar and the college management, protesting the move to name the park after Father Stan. Father Stan, an 83-year-old Parkinson’s patient, had been arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case under the anti-terror law UAPA, accused of Maoist links and put in jail. He died in custody on July 5 after nine months of acute physical suffering in prison. The rector said “fascist forces” were tarnishing Father Stan’s image. “I have known Fr Stan Swamy personally and am appalled to know that his good name is being tarnished by fascist forces who have absolutely no idea of the colossal work of this man among tribals and marginalised groups,” Father Pinto said. “He was a diehard social activist committed to the Constitution’s values and issues of justice. Violence was never a part of his ideology.” A college official had earlier told this newspaper the park was to be opened at an “internal event” on Thursday. “We had scheduled a small event, but then we faced this issue the previous day, and the President was in town. So we decided to postpone the event,” the official, who cannot be named, said. “But at some stage we shall have to tell people what we plan to do about naming the park, now that it has become a major issue.” About 100 progressive organisations and individuals have expressed support for the college and urged the district administration to act against those resorting to intimidation. “They have absolutely no right to interfere in the goings-on of the private institution. These organisations have a stated purpose and history (of) violence, communal divisiveness and subscribe to an idea of our country, with scant regard to the Constitution and the rule of law,” an open letter said. It was issued by the People’s Union of Civil Liberties, Campaign to Defend Democracy, All India People’s Forum, journalist P. Sainath, educationist Anil Sadgopal, rights activist Harsh Mander, Clifton D’Rozario of the All India Lawyers’ Association for Justice, and others. “This blatantly illegal behaviour is a consequence of the free run that is being given to these fascist organisations in coastal Karnataka,” the letter said. “These organisations are imposing social apartheid, interfering in the private affairs of citizens and acting against the constitutional principle of fraternity by engaging in daily acts of violence and intimidation with impunity.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
11-10-2021||India||Proposed Puri international airport  threatens forest, livelihood||Sagar Behera, 45, returned home around 4pm on Friday with two empty cans tied to his motorcycle. A milkman, Behera had sold 40 litres of buffalo milk to sweet shops at block headquarters Brahmagiri. After he had milked the buffalos in the morning, his wife had taken the animals to graze in the forests along the coastline. Behera has been worried since he heard about a proposal to build an international airport along the coastline in his mauza, Sipasarubali. The proposed airport is expected to cover an area about 8km long and 2km wide, stretching from the outskirts of Puri town — 14km from Balabhadra Patna village — to the Bali Harchandi temple. The area is rich in flora and fauna. Several lakh cashew nut, neem, mango and casuarina trees grow on the sand dunes, protecting Puri town and the coastal villages from high tide and the recurrent cyclones. If the airport project gets going, thousands of these trees will be cut down, the sand dunes will be flattened, and hundreds of acres of forestland where cattle now graze will be absorbed into the tarmac. “I sustain my family by selling milk. If the grazing fields are taken away for the airport, I shall lose my livelihood,” Behera said. The livelihood of Balabhadra Patna’s about 140 families depends heavily on the beach forests, where they not only graze their cattle but collect cashew nuts in summer and firewood through the year. A state government official said the district administration had about 4,500 acres of land that could be used for the airport and its future expansion. However, if the sand dunes and forests have to be saved by building the airport at some distance from the sea, village farmlands will have to be taken over. Official activity on the proposed Sri Jagannath International Airport near Puri kicked off after Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in January. A three-member team from the Airport Authority of India (AAI) visited two proposed locations — in Sipasarubali and in Balukhanda, close to the Puri-Konark Marine Drive — in June and reportedly selected Sipasarubali. Akshya Pradhan, a 40-year-old farmer, said every family in the village earned Rs 10,000 to Rs 20,000 a year by collecting and selling cashew nuts. “We grow paddy, but not all the families own farmland. People survive on forest produce and casual labour,” Pradhan said. “I have two acres of land but I too collect cashew nuts in the summer.” Some others, however, are looking at the proposed airport with hope. Diwakar Dalai, 52, a former panchayat sarpanch, said the airport would boost the area’s economy. “Those opposing the airport are mistaken, it will benefit us immensely. Our children will get jobs. Others can open shops, dhabas, a taxi service and so on,” Dalai said. Pratap Dash from the nearby Narasingh Patna village too is in favour of the airport. He said agriculture was “no longer a sustainable occupation” because seawater entered the paddy fields through the Sunamukhi river during high tide, damaging the crop. The AAI has asked the state government for land records and wind speed data from the area, and a map of the Coastal Regulatory Zone. A government official said the local villagers had a few years ago formed an Upakula Jami Jangal Surakshya Samiti to guard the forests on the government land against the theft of cashew nuts and sand by the mafia. The Odisha Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation had in 2012 identified this area for a hotel project but protests from the Samiti scuttled it. Laxmidhar Sahu, a farmer from Barudi village, said the Samiti had begun protesting against the airport project. He asked why the area needed an airport when Bhubaneswar airport was just 60km from Puri. “The Centre plans to lease Bhubaneswar airport to private parties. I feel the government similarly plans to take control of the Sipasarubali area and later hand it over to the rich to build hotels. We will not allow this,” Sahu said. Puri Shankaracharya Nischalananda Saraswati too has opposed the airport project saying it will rob the area of greenery, and its cattle of food. Ratnakar Sethi, a 55-year-old labourer from Barudi, said an airport would damage the ecology. He said the trees and 10 to 15-metre-high sand dunes protect the land and settlements from the cyclones that strike every year with wind speeds of up to 120km per hour. Jagannath Bastia, an environmental activist from Puri, said any damage to the sand dunes and beach forests could cause erosion and endanger Puri town and the villages. Bastia, president of the Beach Protection Council and former member of the Odisha Coastal Zone Management Authority, recommended at least a 2km wide strip of sand between the proposed airport and the sea. But this will necessitate the acquisition of the villagers’ land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
11-10-2021||India||LAC: India and China hold 13th round of military talks||Indian and Chinese armies held the 13th round of military talks in eastern Ladakh on Sunday on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control to resolve the 17-month border standoff. The talks began around 10.30am and ended at 7pm, a defence ministry official said. Till around 9pm, neither the Indian Army nor the defence ministry issued any formal statement on the outcome of the meeting. Sources said India pressed for the disengagement process to be initiated in the remaining friction points — Depsang Plains and Hot Springs — in eastern Ladakh. The Chinese are said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines at the strategically located Depsang Plains. The Chinese army has disengaged “partially” from other friction points — the Galwan Valley, the Pangong Lake and Gogra — through the creation of a demilitarised “buffer zone”. This means the Chinese have stepped back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines, and the Indian troops have retreated by an equal distance — a move some veterans have criticised as “ceding more territory” to the Chinese. Ahead of talks, Indian Army chief M.M. Naravane had said on Saturday that the continued Chinese build-up in eastern Ladakh suggested that “they are there to stay”. “We are keeping a close watch on all this development,” he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
11-10-2021||India||'Not seen a listener like Modiji', says Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said he had “not seen a listener like Modiji” and dismissed as “baseless” the allegations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi operating like an autocrat. “These accusations (of Modi taking decisions alone) are baseless. I have not seen a listener like Modiji,” Shah said in an interview to Sansad TV, a channel for Parliament launched after merging Lok Sabha TV and Rajya Sabha TV. The minister was asked about a perception among a “section of the media and intelligentsia” that Modi is an autocrat who takes decisions unilaterally without holding consultations. “During meetings, Modiji is the one who talks less and listens patiently to everybody and then takes the right decision,” Shah said, adding that under no Prime Minister has the cabinet functioned as democratically as under Modi. “Whoever has worked with him, even the critics would agree that the cabinet has never functioned in such a democratic manner,” the minister said. Asked why then such a perception had formed, he said: “Such things are deliberately done.…” Then he quickly added: One reason was the “discipline” enforced under Modi. “He (Modi) expects discipline. So whatever deliberations take place in a forum doesn’t come out. Earlier it used to get leaked but not anymore,” Shah said, smiling. “So people think that Modiji has taken a decision unilaterally. Whatever discussion has taken place is not known to the people or journalists,” he added. It is widely known that in the Modi government, a very small coterie is aware of key decisions before they come for cabinet approval. Some senior ministers had acknowledged privately that they did not know of the demonetisation decision or the decision to scrap the special status of Jammu and Kashmir till these came to the cabinet. In the interview, Shah said a decision like demonetisation could only be taken by Modi, trying to project him as a strong leader. The November 2016 decision to junk the high-value currency notes, which forced millions of Indians to line up before banks for hours and days on end, is widely seen as an economic disaster. Shah also defended the government’s new farm laws and dismissed as unfounded the concerns of farmers protesting for the past nine months. The Prime Minister has not once met the thousands of farmers camped on the highways outside Delhi since November last year to convince his government to withdraw the laws. No questions were asked on the Lakhimpur massacre on which the Prime Minister is yet to react.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
11-10-2021||India||Bhupesh Baghel inaugurates the first phase of Ram exile path ||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel last week inaugurated the first phase of a tourism circuit project which seeks to retrace the path that devotees believe Lord Ram took with his wife Sita and brother Lakshman during his exile. Inaugurating the three-day event at Chandkhuri, home to the ancient Mata Kaushalya Temple, Baghel said on Thursday that Lord Ram had a very deep connection with Chhattisgarh. “Lord Shri Ram is in the heart and soul of every Chhattisgarhia. We Chhattisgarhia people know and believe Lord Shri Ram as Mata Kaushalya’s Ram, Bhancha Ram, Vanvasi Ram, Shabri’s affectionate and kind Ram,” said Baghel. The chief minister further said that the profound influence of Lord Ram can be seen and heard in the lifestyle, folk culture and folk songs of Chhattisgarh. Lord Ram had spent about 10 out of 14 years of his exile in Chhattisgarh, he said. While paying homage to Chandkhuri, considered the home of Lord Ram’s maternal grandparents, the chief minister extended Navratri greetings to the people. He said that not only Chandkhuri, entire Chhattisgarh is the maternal home of Lord Ram. Referring to the colourful cultural and religious programmes to be organised for three days during Navratri at Chandkhuri, Baghel said artistes of national and international repute along with those of Chhattisgarh would perform during the event. On the Ram Van Gaman Marg Tourism Circuit Project, the chief minister said the route, which is about 2,260km in length, is being developed from Harchouka in Sitamarhi of Koriya district to Ramaram in Sukma. “Cultural heritage constitutes an important part of Chhattisgarh’s identity. Our government is conserving and promoting the faith centres of every section of society. Efforts are being made for the development of Ghotuls (tribal huts) and Devgudis (temple-like structures of tribal deities) to preserve the tribal culture and traditions in Bastar region from the archaeological Buddhist site in Sirpur,” said Baghel. Terming Chhattisgarh as an emerging cultural hub, Baghel said: “The government is making consistent efforts to promote the culture of Chhattisgarh, its religious and archaeological sites, tourist places and the 5,000-year-old ancient theatre in Ramgarh of Sarguja at the global level.” Referring to Dongargarh, the city of Maa Bamleshwari, Baghel said the government was working to beautify all the places of religious and archaeological importance. He said that some people are trying to disturb the age-old tradition of peace and harmony in Chhattisgarh, but they will never succeed. Chhattisgarh has deep roots of tolerance, love and harmony, he added. The programme was presided over by home and tourism minister Tamradhwaj Sahu. The chief minister, ministers, MPs, parliamentary secretaries, MLAs, officers of corporations and divisions and thousands of devotees enjoyed bhajans presented by Padma Shri Kabir brothers and the performance of Manas Mandali of Nand Kumar Sahu. Baghel also unveiled a 51ft statue of Lord Ram in the backdrop of a light and fire show at Kaushalya Mata Temple in Chandkhuri. The renovation and beautification work of the temple has been done at a cost of Rs 15 crore 45 lakh. The work includes the grand gate on the premises, beautification of the pond around the temple, construction of attractive pathways and plantation. The main attractions for the devotees are beautiful gardens, a statue of Goddess Lakshmi with Lord Vishnu on the Sheshnag bed in the middle of the pond and a sculpture depicting “samudra manthan (churning of the sea)”. On the tourism circuit, devotees will get darshan of Lord Ram at every step. Through this route, devotees would be able to experience the memories of Lord Ram from Koriya to Sukma district. Places related to Lord Ram’s exile period — Sitamarhi Harchauka (Koriya), Ramgarh (Sarguja), Shivrinarayan (Janjgir-Champa), Turturiya (Balodabazar), Chandkhuri (Raipur), Rajim (Gariyaband), Sihawa Saptarishi Ashram (Dhamtari), Jagdalpur (Bastar) and Ramaram (Sukma) — will be developed into world-class tourist destinations at a cost of Rs 133 crore 55 lakh under the project. The project will not only boost rural tourism in the state but would also unleash the path to new global tourism opportunities, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
11-10-2021||India||Odisha: Three Class I officers held with unaccounted cash of Rs 23 lakh||The Odisha vigilance officers have arrested three Class I officers after unaccounted cash of Rs 22.61 lakh was reportedly recovered from their possession. Bidhan Chandra Sahu, a superintending engineer (irrigation), Prakash Kumar Mohapatra of the Odisha State Pollution Control Board at Rourkela and regional officer Narottam Behera of the State Pollution Control Board were arrested. All of them were sent to judicial custody on Sunday, following rejection of their bail pleas. A team of vigilance officers arrested Sahu at N.C. College Road in Jajpur town while he was heading to Cuttack in his office vehicle on Saturday. During interception, a sum of over Rs 10 lakh was recovered from Sahu and Rs 64,000 was found from his residential house in Cuttack. Vigilance sleuths also held regional officer Prakash Kumar Mohapatra of the Odisha State Pollution Control Board at Rourkela on Saturday and seized Rs 1.75 lakh from him. He could not account for the amount satisfactorily. The vigilance officers held another regional officer Narottam Behera of the State Pollution Control Board on Saturday. The officer based at Balasore was arrested while he was heading to Bhubaneswar. Getting a tip off that the officer was carrying huge cash with him, the officers laid a trap at Tangi check gate on the outskirts of Cuttack. During interception, a sum of Rs 89,290 was recovered from Behera. Later, Rs 9.25 lakh was found from Behera’s residential house at Satyanagar, Bhubaneswar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
11-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Delhi wants 100 crore dose celebration||The Union health ministry has asked every state, including Bengal, to send proposals for country-wide celebrations in “a big way” of the 100 crore landmark in the number of total Covid-19 vaccine doses administered. The 100-crore mark is likely to be achieved over the next few days as 95 crore jabs, including 26.75 crore second doses, have already been given. In a videoconference on Saturday evening with senior officials handling Covid-19 vaccination in each state, the top brass in the Union health ministry informed that the country would touch the 100 crore mark either on October 14 or the following day. “The Centre asked each state to send a detailed proposal for the celebration,” said a senior state health department official. October 14 is Mahanavami and October 15 is Vijaya Dashami. “It is a very good idea to celebrate the 100 crore milestone, but the timing isn’t great for us as it coincides with Durga Puja. We have already informed the Centre about the biggest festival of the state, in which vaccination is to be suspended. However, we are trying to arrange for a few things at selected places. It is yet to be finalised,” said the senior health official. “Celebration of the vaccination in a big way is not possible during Durga Puja in Bengal,” he added. Besides the celebration, the Centre also asked Bengal to ensure vaccination of as many people as possible to hike the numbers. Delhi informed the state health department on Sunday that it would send over 17 lakh doses before Tuesday to help that cause. Health officials said it was a challenge for them as vaccination programmes would be suspended at over 12,000 centres for four days next week. It would be big relief to the healthcare workers who have been continuously fighting against the pandemic since the outbreak in March 2020. More importantly, estimates suggest people are not likely to visit vaccination centres during the four days of Puja. “We have already held four mega vaccination drives to meet the gap of four days during Puja. It is a pressure situation for us, if we are to considerably increase the numbers before October 15. However, our last mega drive for vaccination would be conducted on Monday,” said a senior official. In the past three days of the mega drive, the state government vaccinated around 35 lakh people, which is considered outstanding. In terms of at least one dose administered, with over 4.64 crore doses, Bengal is the fifth state after Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar. In terms of both doses administered, Bengal, with nearly 1.8 crore doses (18 per cent of the population), is fifth after Maharashtra, UP, Gujarat and Karnataka. “Only 2.03 lakh people were vaccinated across the state on Sunday, as of 8pm. You can guess what would be the rate of vaccination over the four days of the festival. Only those awaiting their second dose are coming now,” said an official. Close to 3.3 crore doses were administered to males, while over 3.14 crore doses were administered to females. The 18-44 age group has received around 3.3 crore doses, the 45-60 age group has received 1.94 crore doses, while the 60-plus age group has received 1.21 crore doses. Calcutta leads the districts with nearly 74 lakh doses, followed by North 24-Parganas with nearly 67 lakh doses. At the bottom of the pile is the smallest district of Kalimpong, with 2.86 lakh doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
11-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal flyovers mooted to avert animal accidents||The state forest department will send a proposal to the Union ministry of road transport and highways for three flyovers along the stretches of two highways to avert the collision of wild animals, especially elephants, with vehicles. The proposal, to be forwarded to the Centre via the state government, has been drawn up because a number of accidents have been reported in north Bengal where wild animals have died after being hit by vehicles. “We have identified three stretches, one in the Terai and two others in the Dooars, which are elephant-crossing zones. That is why it has been decided to send a proposal to the Centre so that flyovers are built on these stretches. Animals can safely cross the road while vehicles move on flyovers,” said a source in the forest department. According to him, one of the stretches identified is on Asian Highway 2 between Bagdogra and Naxalbari of Siliguri subdivision in Darjeeling district. The second is near Lataguri on NH31 on the fringes of Gorumara National Park in Jalpaiguri. The third is on Asian Highway 48 near Madarihat close to Jaldapara National Park in Alipurduar district. Divisional forest officers (DFOs) concerned have been asked to provide details to the department to be added with the proposal to substantiate the need for flyovers, the source said. These include forest villages and tea gardens, elephant population and the intensity of vehicles. The department has also sought from Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) two railway overpasses in two stretches of Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary so that elephants safely cross the stretches. Around 80 elephants have died on tracks in the past 17 years when the stretch was converted to broad gauge from metre gauge. The sanctuary is located on the outskirts of Siliguri and stretches on till Sevoke, 25km away. The Dooars rail tracks that connects Siliguri Junction with Alipurduar Junction passes through this sanctuary. “We had submitted the proposal to the NFR which was sent to the National Board for Wildlife in due course for approval. The board recently approved the project and we hope it will be taken up soon,” said a forest officer. The elevated railway tracks, sources said, will come up in two stretches between Gulma and Sevoke stations at two ends of the sanctuary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
11-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 760 new cases, 734 recoveries, 15 deaths||The number of active Covid-19 cases shot up again on Sunday with the state logging 760 new infections, 734 recoveries and 15 deaths. This is for the 11th day in the past 15 days that the number of patients under treatment has increased. The number of active cases now stands at 7,649, which is a rise of 15 compared to Saturday, Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases on September 26. Calcutta logged 166 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 123, the only two districts to record three-digit figures of new infections on Sunday. Seven districts reported single-digit figures. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. Calcutta reported two, while North 24-Parganas logged four. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.76 lakh Covid cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
11-10-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling hotels brim with tourists ||Dashain (Puja) has arrived and so have tourists in Darjeeling after months of lull induced by the Covid-19 pandemic. Samir Singhal, the treasurer of the Darjeeling Hotel Owners’ Association, said almost all hotel rooms in the hill town were booked at least for the next 10 days. “Starting from today (Sunday), most hotels are fully booked. However, this tourism season is a short one and the flow is expected to taper off after October 22,” he said. There are around 370 hotels in the Darjeeling town. Since May, tourism had been badly hit with many hotels completely shutting down their business until recently following a surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic. The industry had suffered through the first wave in 2020. “However, after the number of positive cases went down at the end of 2020, Darjeeling had a record footfall of tourists in January and February,” said Singhal. It was a clear sign that people cooped up at their homes for months were looking for a getaway. Even though the tourist arrival went down drastically after the second wave swept the country, tourism stakeholders hope the industry has left its worst behind. “We have also started getting corporate enquiries for bookings right till January. Most of the people working in the corporate sector seem to have received their second dose of Covid vaccine. In fact, we already had a few corporate meetings at our hotel,” said Rajesh Rajak, general manager, Pinetree Spa and Resort. Travellers are required to produce either a two-dose vaccination certificate or a 72-hour-old RTPCR negative test report. Not only hotels but even homestays have received good bookings. “My bookings are good till October 24. Ninety per cent of the travellers are from Bengal,” said Shoyeta Chatterjee, owner of Pahari Soul homestay at Dali, Darjeeling. Homestays have mushroomed across the hills over the past few years. Kalimpong district has the maximum number of registered homestays in Bengal at 337, way ahead of South 24 Parganas’s 78 and Darjeeling’s 63, which come second and third on the list of Bengal districts with registered homestays. The state tourism department has allocated Rs 1.64 crore for disbursal of Rs 50,000 to each of the 328 homestays in Kalimpong district. Nine homestays in the district didn’t receive the benefit because of some technical reasons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
11-10-2021||West Bengal||Eight new police stations in Barrackpore soon||The Barrackpore police commissionerate has proposed to restructure its existing policing units by forming eight new police stations and appointing as many new assistant commissioners. “Police commissioner Manoj Verma sent a proposal to state home department in this regard and has claimed these measures are necessary for effective policing here,” said an official. Sources in Nabanna said  the state government “on principle” had accepted the proposal, and expected a formal announcement soon on them because the crime graph in the industrial zone had in recent times had “become an embarrassment”. Formed in January 2012, Barrackpore commissionerate at present has 17 police stations under its jurisdiction spanning 269.5sqkm. Once the new police stations get the nod from Nabanna, the commissionerate will have 25 in all. According to the proposal made by police commissioner Verma, the police stations would come up at Halisahar, Jethia, Sibdaspur, Basudebpur, Mohanpur, Kamarhati, Dakshineswar and Nagerbazar. The police stations will all come up close to the Kalyani expressway owing to criminal activities and accidents in the area, an official said. Sources in the Barrackpore commissionerate explained that a major part of the jurisdiction, particularly the industrial belt from Naihati to Ichhapur, had become a source of serious concern for the administration amid increasing criminal activities. “The objective behind sending a proposal for these new police stations is to quell criminal activities in the area and change its dubious reputation as a crime zone that it has earned. This image needs to change so that citizens can once again repose their faith in the police”, a senior commissionerate official said. Speaking to reporters earlier this week at the launch of the Puja guide, police commissioner Verma said, “Our aim is to ensure better service to people and to build up their confidence. In this endeavour, we have proposed to constitute the new police stations, which we expect will materialise soon.” According to the proposal, the jurisdiction under Bijpur police station will be restructured into two new police stations at Halisahar and Jethia in addition to retaining Bijpur police station in its present form. Sources said Naihati police station would be restructured, resulting in one new police station at Sibdaspur. “The jurisdictions of Bhatpara and Jagaddal police stations will also be restructured for a new police station in Basudevpur,” said a source. Titagarh police station will be restructured to form a new police station in Mohanpur area. Belgharia police station will be restructured into two more police stations in Kamarhati and Daskhineswar, where population growth has been notable along with increasing footfall at the Dakshineswar temple after the extension of the Metro service. “Increasing traffic and population in Dum Dum has also compelled police authorities to set up a new police station in Nagerbazar, restructuring the jurisdiction of the existing police station,” said an official. The commissioner has also stated that in order to ensure law and order during Puja week, 15 naka checking points had been set up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
11-10-2021||West Bengal||TMC leader hit with rod on head amid infighting in West Burdwan||Two factions of Trinamul clashed with iron rods and bamboo sticks in West Burdwan’s Laodoha block on Saturday night reportedly over the party’s clothes-distribution drive ahead of Durga Puja. Police said Nazimuddin Middya, general secretary of Trinamul minority cell in Laodoha, was hit with an iron rod on his head. He is getting treated at the critical care unit of Durgapur subdivisional hospital. Trouble started on Saturday morning when the two factions, one owing allegiance to Middya and another to block president Sujit Mukherjee, purportedly locked horns over the gifting of clothes at Lobnapara village. “Each claimed he organised the event... a scuffle ensued,” said a police officer. Police pacified the duo. But at night, sparring factions gathered at Mukherjee’s home in Durgapur town where the quarrel snowballed into a clash. “Both sides clashed with rods and sticks. Middya was hit on his head,” said an eyewitness. Police controlled the situation. Mukherjee on Sunday alleged some new party workers, all BJP turncoats, had created misunderstandings. “The incident was a result of a misunderstanding between the party’s old-timers and newcomers. Some party workers recently inducted to the Trinamul from the BJP sparked the trouble, unfortunately. However, it was a minor issue and was resolved,” said Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
11-10-2021||West Bengal||Temple of Bankim's characters rebuilt, to reopen soon||The temple of Devi Choudhurani and Bhawani Pathak, characters penned by Bankim Chandra Chatterjee in his 1884 novel Devi Choudhurani, which was gutted in 2018, has been rebuilt and will reopen its gates to people at Sikarpur of Rajganj block in Jalpaiguri district next month. For decades now, denizens of Sikarpur have been worshipping Devi Choudhurani and her associates as divinities in the temple located on a serene tea estate. However, on the night of February 16, 2018, the temple, which resembled a pagoda, as well as its idols made of wood, were gutted in a blaze. Then tourism minister Gautam Deb had taken up the task to rebuild the temple and make new idols from wood. The parks and gardens wing of the state forest department was assigned the job. Since then, a team of sculptors has been making the idols. A new temple building has come up on the same site. “We have set November 4 as the target to reopen the temple, Kali Puja day. Sculptors have confirmed that idols will be ready then. I will visit Calcutta and request chief minister Mamata Banerjee to inaugurate the temple,” said Khageswar Roy, Trinamul MLA of Rajganj. On Friday, officials of tourism and forest departments visited the workshop of Biswajit Ghosh, the sculptor, along with the MLA. “If everything goes right, we will host a puja at the temple that day (November 4). People of Sikarpur and nearby have been eagerly waiting (for the temple) for over three years,” Roy said. The sculptor said they had almost finished the job. He also added that along with Devi Choudhurani and Bhawani Pathak, idols of Rangalal (one of Devi’s associates), Ganga Devi and Teesta Buri (local deities venerated in the region) would be reinstated in the new temple. “In all, we are readying 10 idols,” said sculptor Ghosh. A researcher in Jalpaiguri said the temple, because of the uniqueness of idols, would also draw several visitors, both researchers and pilgrims, from across north Bengal and other parts of the state. “This is a one-of-its-kind temple where one can find characters from Bankim Chandra Chatterjee’s novel worshipped as gods. Devi Choudhurani was written soon after Ananda Math in 1882, a narrative of sanyasi vidroh (the uprising of monks against British rule),” the researcher added. The reopening of this temple would boost religious tourism in Jalpaiguri district, said officials of state tourism department. “We are trying to develop a religious circuit here. Once this temple is opened, it will surely help us to draw more visitors as people are interested because of religious as well as historical reasons,” said Jyoti Ghosh, a joint director of tourism posted in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
11-10-2021||West Bengal||IIT students in Sunderbans to plant mangroves||A group of students from IIT-Kharagpur planted 10,000 saplings of mangroves at a village in Satjelia island of the Sunderbans, which had suffered damage during Cyclone Yaas this year in May. For this venture, the students raised money through crowdfunding online. The students, mostly research scholars of various departments of the IIT, said they chose a place in a remote island of Gosaba in the Sunderbans as the area was severely affected by Yaas, which hit the Bengal coast. Sources said around 30 students of the IIT had formed a platform named Vision-Prabaha to focus on the environment and help people hit by natural calamities. In the aftermath of Yaas, the group of  students also helped out people in two affected islands, Ghoramari and Kumirmari of South 24-Parganas. “During our visit to this region after Yaas, we understood that we have to work towards a permanent solution. Then we came to know about Umashankar Mondal, geography teacher and activist who has been planting mangroves since Cyclone Aila (in 2009), and we were inspired by him. We planted 10,000 saplings for now and want to ramp it up in the future,” said Biswarup Mondal, a research scholar in chemical engineering  of IIT-Kharagpur. Biswarup, accompanied by three other research scholars Saptarshi Kumar Lahiri of civil engineering, Bijan Kumar Das of the Centre for Ocean, River, Atmosphere and Land (CORAL) sciences and Atanuka Paul of chemistry went to the Sunderbans on Friday for the task with the help of local people, mainly women, in and around Parashmani village under Lahiripur gram panchayat of Gosaba. This region falls under Satjelia island. The students planted three types of mangroves, locally known as byne (Avicennia alba), kankra (Bruguiera gymnorrhiza), and garan (Ceriops decandra), over a stretch of two hectares by the banks of the Garal river in the area. The students said they had purchased the 10,000 saplings for around Rs 70,000 from a nursery and carried them on a hired boat to reach the remote village of Satjelia. “We took help of a crowd-funding platform online, besides contributions from our friends and well-wishers. We have plans to continue the drive. We are the four who went physically to participate in the plantation, but the rest are with us, always,” said one of the four students. Umashankar, a geography teacher and mangrove activist who earned the soubriquet “Mangrove Man” for his contribution of 12 years in mangrove plantation, guided the group to get people for plantation and arrange the saplings. He also raised funds from various organisations to distribute new clothes among over 1,000women and children in the Sunderbans, who had actively participated in the mangrove plantation with him after Yaas. “I thought we should give some gifts to those who planted mangroves voluntarily with me the entire year. I am happy that students from institutions like IIT-Kharagpur came up to participate in mangrove plantation to save the habitat of these remotest pockets of the Sunderbans,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
11-10-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar municipality initiative to increase earnings||The Alipurduar municipality is exploring new avenues to increase earnings of the civic body. While on one hand the authorities of the civic body have installed a processing unit and making manure from the waste collected from across the town, they have also planned to introduce a public address system in the town which would be offered on rent for advertisement. Prasenjit Kar, the chairperson of the board of administrators (BoA) of the Alipurduar municipality, on Thursday had said that a garbage processing unit had been launched in ward IV of the town. “On an experimental basis, we produced around 26 quintals of manure from wet garbage and could earn over Rs 32,000. We now want to expand the scale of operations at the unit which will help us to make additional earning. Also through this initiative, we gave employment to a number of  people. We have employed 76 people at the unit,” added Kar. The initiative has also earned appreciation from the state municipal affairs and urban development department. “We have made a PowerPoint presentation of the project. It will be sent to 125 civic bodies across the state so that they too, can replicate the process,” he added. The BoA has also decided to install a public address system across the town. The idea is to install a network of sound boxes along Buxa Feeder Road and along Alipurduar-Kumargram Road — two prominent thoroughfares of the town — and in some major crossings which would be controlled by the civic body. It would be used by the civic body to make public announcements on various issues and services and during festivities and songs would also be played. Altogether, 80 sound boxes will be installed in the town and around Rs 7 lakh would be spent. “We have also come with a plan to let out the public address system for advertisements. People can pay us a fee and run their advertisements. This will also contribute in additional earning for the civic body,” said Kar. The civic body has also decided to open a musical fountain in Rabindra Sishu Udyan, a popular park of the town, ahead of the Diwali, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
11-10-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri Municipal Corporation takes initiative to beautify Lalmohan Moulik Ghat||The Siliguri Municipal Corporation has taken an initiative to beautify Lalmohan Moulik Ghat, the principal ghat for immersion of Durga idols, on the left bank of Mahananda river. The board of administrators (BoA) at the SMC engaged a group of artists from Calcutta and Siliguri to paint different stretches of the ghat, depicting important and popular installations and destinations in and around Siliguri. With myriad colours, the artists painted the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway’s iconic toy train, the famous Coronation Bridge over the Teesta river at Sevoke, the Bengal Safari Park (in picture) and the Siliguri Gate on NH31. “People are tired of watching commercial hoardings across the city. These paintings, we believe, can soothe their eyes. The paintings have also changed the ambience of the ghat ahead of the festival,” said Ranjan Sarkar, a member of the BoA at the SMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
11-10-2021||Opinion||Edtorial: Justice delayed||Time is of the essence, especially for those waiting for justice. The urgency of the adage becomes all the more evident when the highest court of the land has to remind a subordinate court of this. In view of the long pendency of criminal cases in the Allahabad High Court, the Supreme Court of India recently ordered the registration of a suo motu case to consider laying down guidelines to resolve the accumulating crisis. In fact, in this rare instance of the apex court censuring a high court, the former was scathing in its criticism and a strict deadline has been issued for the registration of the proceedings. The Supreme Court’s censure is not without reason. Data reveal that considering the fastest rate of case disposal at the Allahabad High Court, the average waiting period to get justice in criminal appeal against conviction by trial courts is around 35 years, since more than 1.83 lakh appeals are pending before it — this, assuming no new appeal, filed in the future, is entertained out of turn. Bail, the Supreme Court has reiterated time and again, should be the norm, not jail. But it is evident that not only elected governments but also crucial tiers of the judicial apparatus are not paying enough attention to this. Although the apex court has pulled up the Allahabad High Court in this instance, it must be stated that pendency is not unique to any one court in particular. It is an all-pervasive phenomenon. Around 70 per cent of prison inmates in India are undertrials. The worst sufferers, as always, are the marginalized communities — Dalits, religious minorities and adivasis. Their plight is often compounded by inadequate access to legal counsel. The apex court has, therefore, rightly advised the Allahabad High Court to put in place a mechanism such that if an accused approaches the high court for bail, the application, at the very least, gets listed. But the causes of delay need not lie at the door of the judiciary alone. The Centre has been notorious for sitting on collegiums’ recommendations for the appointment of judges, the net result of which is the clogging of the courts with an unprecedented number of cases. Pendency in Indian courts has reportedly touched the figure of 4.5 crore. The existing gaps must be addressed on a war-footing in order to ensure that the wheels of justice turn quickly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
11-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel's kisan andolan||Shocking parallel Sir — It is a travesty of the heroic kisan andolan helmed by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel at Bardoli that around a century later, peasants are still having to fight for their rights in an allegedly free country (“The kisan’s Sardar”, Oct 9). The government should not have pushed through the hastily framed farm laws. Marginalized farmers should have been encouraged to form cooperatives that could have eventually had bargaining power in an open market. After all, it is the government’s job to ensure a level playing field for all stakeholders. Technological interventions have led to an explosion in the production of agricultural goods. Now, good political leadership, quality training and other basic amenities need to be provided to create a new class of rural micro-entrepreneurs. R. Narayanan,Navi Mumbai Sir — Ramachandra Guha’s article, “The kisan’s Sardar”(Oct 9), presents an interesting historical parallel to the present day. It is ironic that another Gujarati is at the helm of the country when the farmers are dying on the streets fighting for their rights. So grave is the situation that the Supreme Court had to take suo motu cognizance of the matter and chastise the government. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam Splendid taste Sir — Khichuri is a Bengali favourite, but it cannot be denied that it tastes different when it is cooked as bhog for the goddess during Durga Puja. Although there are many permutations and combinations, I have always preferred the vegetarian version with moong daal and gobindo bhog rice with some cauliflower and green peas added. This should be served with labra — a mixed vegetable preparation. Some also prefer to eat fried hilsa with it. I once visited Tungnath in Uttarakhand and amidst 15 degrees Celsius was delighted to find an eatery serving steaming hot khichuri with papad and begun bhaja. I cannot put into words how delicious it was. Alok Ganguly,Kalyani Sir — Using garlic and onions is strictly prohibited in Puja dishes, even for fish or mutton curries. The mutton curry is thus called niramish-mangsho and cooked with cumin powder and ginger paste. Yet, nothing can beat the taste of bhoger mangsho-khichuri. Ritabrata Sen,Calcutta  Blank canvas Sir — A Danish artist, Jens Haaning, was given 534,000 kroner to recreate old artworks using the banknotes. Instead, he created blank canvases titled Take the Money and Run. The museum is now demanding the money back. Yet, all-white or “white-on-white” paintings often sell for millions and are indeed considered art. Why, then, should Haaning have to return the money? There is much to be said about passing off a blank canvas as art, but as long as people continue to buy this idea, Haaning is indeed an artist. Amar Sahu,Siliguri Parting shot Sir — The editorial, “Meet the real 007” (Oct 9), rekindled pleasant memories. It says that James Bond has always been brash, ostentatious, promiscuous and had a larger-than-life image. The latest Bond film is stated to have changed this. However, I found Sean Connery to be the smartest Bond and Roger Moore the most handsome one. At the end of the day, all I can say is long live Bond! Ashok Kumar Ghosh,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
11-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Blood returns||Is the spectre of militancy returning to haunt Kashmir Valley, once again? The recent spurt in killings of civilians has raised this chilling prospect. As many as seven civilians have fallen victim to terror attacks in the last few days; the figure has touched 28 this year. Among them are a pharmacist — he was a Kashmiri Pandit — educators as well as a food vendor. The targeted killings seem to be suggestive of a shift in the strategy of militants, with identity being the preferred motive of the bloodshed. What is pertinent is that those martyred belonged predominantly to such minority communities as Sikhs and Hindus. This is a calculated strike on the part of the nation’s adversaries at the very heart of pluralism and accommodation. The strain on kashmiriyat — an indigenous tradition of harmony and syncretism — is all the more unfortunate given the growing alienation between the Valley and the nation. The blame for that cannot be laid on non-State actors alone. The rhetoric of integration — the former state of Jammu and Kashmir was bifurcated by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government in the name of assimilation — and normalcy disseminated by the powers that be has been dismantled by the violence. While it is true that heavy military presence in the wake of the abrogation of Article 370 prevented major terror attacks, the unilateral nature of the abrogation of Article 370 as well as the sustained anti-Muslim narrative of recent times have soured the public mood in the Valley. There is a possibility that militants are keen on exploiting this disenchantment by targeting minorities in the Valley in the hope of unleashing retributive retaliation against Muslims in other parts of the country. The resultant vicious cycle can threaten inclusiveness in Kashmir and India. This must be resisted with a robust political response. The security apparatus, too, must be nimble in the face of the changing nature of the challenges. Many of these attacks, it is believed, have been carried out by faceless cadre, making it difficult to identify the perpetrators. There has also been an influx of firearms, say defence sources. While these issues need to be dealt with firmly, care should be taken that the response — whether administrative or military — is not disproportionate to the scale of the threat. The way to win the battle against militancy is through the heart of the people of Kashmir. Unfortunately, the Narendra Modi government’s ‘overtures’ have done nothing to alleviate the festering, subterranean, collective resentment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
11-10-2021||Opinion||Listen to those on the margins||Indian farmers, with an average farm-size holding of about 1.08 hectares, are vying for a regular revenue stream and a decent standard of living. They, especially the small farmer, remain under the watchful eyes of local traders, informal money lenders and those with larger farm holdings. Sceptics — experts — and critics are already talking about the need for an alternative to the Green Revolution as evidence suggests that its benefits have bypassed small farmers. Indian agriculture is definitely unfit for farm laws that seek to offer quick solutions. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh are flocking to the borders of the National Capital Region, while the bulk of cultivators from other states are conspicuous by their absence. We are being given to understand that these three states are affected the most. However, there is more to it than meets the eye. Data from the agriculture sector have not been encouraging. There has been a steady decline in the community often labelled as the ‘main cultivator’. Concurrently, there has been a rise in agricultural labour, particularly in states like UP, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal. What this means is that land-owning rights are depleting in the farming community. The average size of operational holdings, the Agriculture Census (2015-16) says, declined to 1.08 ha compared to 1.15 ha in 2010-11. Punjab and Haryana are relatively better placed but these states represent only 25 per cent of the total farming community of approximately 147 million. The plight of small farmers remains unrepresented; a case in point being the new farm laws. Problems of the past — access to credit, technology, quality agricultural inputs and, most of all, markets to sell produce — persist. A study by these authors in Farrukhabad and Kannauj — UP’s potato belt — revealed that farmers produce the entire season’s potato during September and October. Half of the produce is shipped to markets via the local mandi while the remaining half is stored for supply during the rest of the season. This is stored in cold storages that belong to transporters or affluent families. The problem starts once this half is ready for shipping to the market during spring and summer. The prices are often disparate to the ones during winter and the cost of production offsets the selling price. The hapless farmers have no option but to sell off their produce to cold-storage owners who are more than happy to oblige them. They then sell the entire produce at more than double or triple the price at the Azadpur mandi in the NCR. The farm laws fail to address the core and the tertiary problems faced by the small farmers pertaining to market access, infrastructure, access to technology, the vagaries of small farm holdings, the decline of the farming community and the corresponding rise in agriculture labour. Issues such as the unwillingness of future generations to take up farming, climate change and limited employment options beyond agriculture are causes of concern. ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’ remains a muted slogan amidst all the din over the new farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
11-10-2021||Opinion||Look and act East||Since the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan, the world’s attention, and that of India, have been focussed on that country. Global leaders are busy discussing Afghanistan. The nation was the top agenda at the recent deliberations in the United Nations General Assembly. The biggest casualty of this global attention on Afghanistan has been Myanmar and its democracy movement whose leaders fear that the world is forgetting their struggle to restore democracy. Afghanistan and Myanmar hold substantial geopolitical and geo-economic significance for India. The Taliban are seeking Chinese support to legitimize their forced takeover; the military junta in Myanmar also depends on Chinese support to not only defend its coup but also its atrocities on the Muslim Rohingyas in Rakhine. If India fears Chinese penetration into Afghanistan with Pakistan’s assistance can undermine New Delhi’s strategic and diplomatic interests, it should also worry about the all-pervading Chinese influence on Myanmar. Just as Afghanistan holds the key to India’s outreach to Central Asia, Myanmar holds the key to the success of India’s ‘Act East’ policy. If the Taliban’s triumph can heighten separatist violence in Kashmir, an unstable Myanmar, with the breakdown of ceasefires between the government and the ethnic rebel armies, can spike armed separatism in India’s Northeast. India has invested millions in development projects in both Afghanistan and Myanmar. The Chabahar port in Iran is being developed by India to reach Central Asia through Afghanistan bypassing Pakistan. Sittwe port in Myanmar’s Rakhine coast is not only part of the ambitious Kaladan Multi-Modal Transit Transport Project to connect to Mizoram and the rest of Northeast but also integral to an initiative to connect to Japan’s Dawei special economic zone as an alternative to the China-Myanmar Economic Corridor. If India’s interests in these two nations are so similar, why is the level of engagement so different? Maybe India is following the global cues. The UN General Assembly and the Security Council would continue to discuss Afghanistan, denouncing Taliban’s ‘victory’ in violation of the 2020 Doha accord. So why can’t the coup in Myanmar be accorded similar importance? Is the restoration of democracy in Myanmar less important than an inclusive government in Afghanistan? Daw Zin Mar Aung, a close associate of Aung San Suu Kyi and the foreign minister of the National Unity Government of Myanmar that claims to be the legitimate elected government, made several key points during an interaction with this author over Zoom. She said that the NUG expects a strong, proactive Indian role in promoting the cause of democracy in Myanmar. The role, she said, should befit India’s stature as the world’s most populous democracy and as a major Asian power now helming the UN Security Council. Indian policy on Myanmar, she added, is too defensive. India has backed the Asean initiative to find a solution but the NUG feels that India should take the initiative. Perhaps the NUG is worried that a number of Asean countries have a history of military rule and may not push the Burmese military too hard. The Western powers are backing the cause for democracy but they are too distant to make an impact. So it is India, the NUG feels, that should play a bigger role in democracy’s restoration in Myanmar, especially since peace and stability in Myanmar are crucial for India’s Act East policy. Daw Aung said that the NUG will welcome an Indian outreach involving consultation with major Burmese stakeholders that could establish an acceptable time frame for Myanmar’s return to democracy. India’s fears of driving Myanmar’s military junta into China’s embrace are unfounded because the nation is already a Chinese surrogate. The expectations of cooperation for counter-insurgency operations against northeastern rebels have been belied by reports that the Tatmadaw is using these rebels against Burmese resistance groups. India can ignore Myanmar and an engagement with its democracy movement at its own peril. Subir Bhaumik is a former BBC correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
11-10-2021||Opinion||Hybrid model||The Adi Shankara and Plato had a deep mistrust of change. While Plato called for arresting change, in Vedanta philosophy, change is relegated to Maya; it is also Brahman, with its quality of permanence, which is the ultimate reality. In contrast, change and progress are essential characteristics of modernity. However, there is a large gap between the pace of change in the West as compared to that in India. Over the years, there has been significant progress in India in terms of reducing poverty, expanding the health sector, spreading literacy, building infrastructure, creating affordability, and providing opportunities for and access to a better lifestyle. However, the rate of progress still remains far slower than it is in the West. This is frustrating for the promoters of progress — particularly the modern State — that would like to see India change as rapidly as some of the developed countries. While corruption and a lack of seriousness and professionalism are some of the obvious reasons for the variance in the pace of growth, we also need to explore the other underlying reasons. Unlike the modern West, a large part of India, especially the villages, still remains within the premodern domain. Cities — the metropolises — are India’s symbols of modernity, providing a higher quality of education, health and lifestyle. However, even these cities do not meet the criteria of a modern city in the West. They are more like “ancient cities”, that, according to Descartes, the father of modern philosophy, often grow “gradually” from “mere villages into large towns”. They are characterized by “ill-proportioned” buildings arranged in a haphazard manner — “a tall one here, a small one there”, making “the streets crooked and irregular”. In contrast, according to him, modern cities are “orderly towns which planners lay out” and “built with the will of men using reason”. Thus, most cities in India, except perhaps Chandigarh, cannot be considered modern when compared to modern cities in the West. In addition, Indian society consists of villages and communities, and follows customary morality, faiths and beliefs, and traditional habits. In contrast to this, individualism, instrumental rationality, and causality are the foundations of modernity in the West. Western society first followed the path of the premodern and then moved on to the modern in a sequential manner, with a clear disjuncture between the two, as noted by Descartes. The Social Contract philosophers’ idea of “state-of-nature” reiterates this. However, in India, the premodern is in conjunction with the modern. In his essay, “City and Village”, Rabindranath Tagore recognizes the coexistence of modern cities alongside premodern villages in India: “people have their home in the village and their offices in the city.” Thus, unlike the homogeneity between the premise and the conclusion in the West, it is heterogeneity that characterizes India. This is the reason for the difference in the pace of modernity between India and the West. It is important that we accept this dissimilarity and refrain from making direct comparisons with the West. India may want to emulate the West but it will always be different. Is there, however, a choice beyond either trying to seriously understand the situation in India or, upon finding it too big a liability, abandoning the pursuit of modernity altogether? Perhaps we may consider a third option: to reduce the liability and begin modernizing India. This would call for serious deliberation and the will to take on a colossal responsibility. The premodern has a dominant representation in India and needs to be studied extensively. This huge task is made doubly difficult by the lack of any reliable data. The West no longer has to face this issue in its own societies although it did deal with such issues in the past in its erstwhile colonies in Asia and Africa. However, the data that it generated through studies on India at the time are either outdated or insufficient. We need to identify important areas to study and devise methods to generate data on India, especially in agriculture and education. It will be futile to attempt modernizing Indian society without sufficient data on the premodern. It would be a tremendous resource for modern projects in India if educational institutions could focus on generating comprehensive data on various aspects of India. For instance, studying existing roads before laying highways will not only create better linear connectivity but also integrate already operational roads with the new construction for a more efficient, holistic roadway system. Similarly, a careful study of the current state of the primary education and healthcare systems before implementing any improvements will help integrate new reforms with the existing facilities for a more modern system. The premodern on the horizontal axis, therefore, needs to be connected to the modern projects on the vertical axis. This direction will also give us a clear sense of the country’s priorities like eradicating poverty, improving primary health and education, and developing the agriculture sector. These priorities are either inverted or are disproportionate in the developmental models followed in India today and the Indian State needs to urgently embark on a course correction. For instance, often, it is only after a modern project is initiated or built that people start finding out about it and finally begin to access it. This drastically lowers the pace and negatively affects the success of these projects. The people of India have energy, perseverance, and a remarkable ability to adapt to changing situations. Their strengths and skills need to be assessed and factored in while planning future growth. This may initially seem cumbersome and time-consuming. However, blindly borrowing modern models from the West without tailoring them for the Indian situation will only result in modernity at a superficial, elitist level akin to drawing conclusions from outside premises. But customizing modernity to suit the specific needs of Indian life can turn liabilities into assets and form a new unique model. This will ensure that we continue on the path of modern progress and, at the same time, avoid its pitfalls. A. Raghuramaraju teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
11-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand News Digest: State HC to get new justice from Allahabad||Ranchi: Jharkhand high court will soon get one more judge after President of India Ram Nath Kovind approved transfer of seven high court justices to different states. Allahabad high court judge Subhash Chand is transferred to Jharkhand. Union ministry of law and justice issued a formal notification. With new addition, the number of judges in the high court will be 20. Last week, the high court had got four judges inform of justice Gautam Kumar Choudhary, Ambuj Nath, Navneet Kumar and Sanjay Prasad. All were administered oath two days ago. Born on Jan 1, 1963, justice Chand joined Uttar Pradesh Judicial Services in 2001. He practiced as a lawyer in initial years. In 2016, he became a District and Sessions judge and four years later got elevated as an additional judge of the Allahabad High Court. Our correspondent Ranchi: Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC), a constituent of the coalition government in the state, on Monday staged a four-hour long silent protest outside Raj Bhavan. The protesters were seen carrying placards criticising the Union government, seeking suspension of union home minister (state) Ajay Kumar Mishra, along with his son Ashis, an accused in Lakhimpur Kheri killing. Eight persons died in the violence which was triggered after Mishra’s car allegedly mowed four farmers to death. Talking to reporters at Raj Bhavan, Congress state president Rajesh Thakur said, “Our demand is suspension of the minister from the union cabinet. How can a person, who is charged of breaking the law, continue in the ministry? His son was arrested only after Supreme Court swung into action, but those who died will only get justice when the minister will be shown the door and fair probe is done.” Hazaribagh: A herd of wild elephants which separated from its herd, killed three including two women and an elderly person on Sunday night in Katkamdag block of Hazaribagh. According to villagers of Kuba Chichi village which falls under Adra Panchayat in Katkamdag, said that the elephant entered the village around 8 am and got on a rampage, during which two women namely Kriti Kujur (35) and Sabutari Devi (36) were trampled to death near Kuba kabristan. In a nearby village Sirsi, one 59-year-old Vishnu Ravidas also caught by the same elephant and killed. Katkamdag officials on reaching the spot and sent the dead bodies for post mortem to Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital. Hazaribagh MLA Manish Jaiswal expressed grief over the deaths. Vishvendu Jaipuriar Dhanbad: The two accused held in Dhanbad judge Uttam Anand's death case was sent to judicial custody after their seven-day CBI remand ended on Monday. The 49-year-old district judge was allegedly hit by a heavy autorickshaw when he was out jogging near Randhir Verma Chowk in Dhanbad on July 28. The auto rickshaw driver had fled the scene immediately. A CBI team from Delhi produced auto driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma in the court of sub-divisional judicial magistrate and special magistrate, CBI, Abhishekh Srivastava, and pleaded for their judicial custody. The court, after hearing the plea of the agency, sent Lakhan and Rahul to Dhanbad Jail. Our bureau and PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
11-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand's folk singer spreads Covid-19 awareness ||Dhanbad-based folk singer, Harun Rashid (32) in continuation of his musical crusade against lack of medical awareness and ignorance in the state has shot a music video - Covid 19 se bachne ke liye tikakaran karana hai jan jivan ko bachana hai. The Hindi song sung by him has been shot with the help of local artists of Dhanbad, features the benefits of timely vaccination to prevent the spread of Covid. The video also features clippings of various people who have taken the jab including chief minister, Hemant Soren. Talking to The Telegraph Online Rashid, a teacher at a private B Ed College in Govindpur, Dhanbad, said, “The four-minute song shot at Bhuli, Dhanbad which was released by Art, Culture, Sports and Youth Affairs minister, Hafizul Hashan yesterday at his Jamtara residence.” He further added, “This is the second song composed and sung by me that aims at spreading Covid awareness as. During the first wave I had composed a similar folk song, apprising people about do’s and don’ts to prevent the spread of Covid 19, which was even used by the state public relations department.” “The basic aim of composing the song shot at local sites and in local language is dispelling the myth about side effects of vaccination and apprising people about the benefits of vaccination in keeping themselves, society and nation safe,” said Rashid. He added, “I have special love for the local culture, tradition, art and history of Jharkhand. I have been composing and singing songs on these issues since last 20 years” said Rashid and added that a Khortha song launched in 2013 focussing on the issues like tourist places, local festivals, wild life, forests and martyrs of Jharkhand was one of his best creations. Rashid, a Sangeet Visharad (equivalent to graduation) degree holder of Pracheen Kala Kendra, Chandigarh, who also imparts training in singing at Dhanbad said “I have composed over 20 albums in light vocal but majority of these are in khortha and Nagpuri languages and focuses of issues close to the heart to the common people of Jharkhand” Rashid however is unhappy over lack of recognition for his creativity. He said, “Despite my unique effort to raise awareness about Covid, the government machinery failed to felicitate the artist in order to recognize my effort.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
11-10-2021||Jharkhand||Threat of rain on Navami, Dashami in Jharkhand||The first three festive days of Durga Puja beginning with Shasthi on Monday will be bright and sunny. But Navami and Dashami (October 14 and 15) are likely to be cloudy with light to moderate rain, Ranchi Met Centre has forecast. " A study of various weather models suggested mainly clear sky and dry weather till October 13. Light and moderate rain is expected at isolated places over central, north-eastern and southern parts of Jharkhand on October 14 and 15, " said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He said that light rain or thundershowers are also expected at several places across the state on Saturday and Sunday (October 16 and 17) due to a system brewing over north Andaman Sea. Satellite pictures and chart analysis on Monday indicated formation of a cyclonic circulation over the north Andaman Sea, extending 3.1km above mean sea level. It is likely to intensify into a low-pressure area over East Central Bay of Bengal around October 13. The system is likely to move northwestwards and reach south Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh coast as a well-marked low-pressure around October 15. Monday's weather forecast also suggested no major changes in maximum temperature during the next four to five days over Jharkhand. During the past 24 hours, the weather remained dry over Jharkhand. The maximum temperature in Ranchi, Daltonganj, Jamshedpur, Bokaro, Deoghar and most other places was hovering between 31 and 34 degrees Celsius for the last two days. The southwest monsoon bade adieu to Jharkhand and neighbouring Bihar on Monday, Ranchi Met Centre said. IMD officials said conditions were favourable for further withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from most parts of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh neighbouring West Bengal and Odisha during the next 48 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
11-10-2021||Jharkhand||New archery champion from Jonah ||Dipti Kumari, who became the new women individual national archery champion, had more reasons than one to be happy. The girl, who will be 20 by the end of this year, not only became individual national champion at the 40th NTPC national archery championship that concluded in Jamshedpur on Saturday but also brought a recognition to the Birsa Munda Archery Centre, Jonah, a day boarding centre meant for imparting training to aspiring archers, that never had such a credit before. People who know Jonah for its majestic waterfall that draws huge number of tourists will now also come to know about the archery training centre that produced a national champion. “It’s a happy moment for all of us as the girl who had struggled a lot finally got the recognition she deserved,” said Rohit Koiri, the coach attached to that centre that found Dipti had potential and trained her since 2013. “It’s not the only laurel she won,” Koiri further said while speaking to this paper and added Dipti had bagged 2 gold medals and a silver in Cuttack in 2019 and was also a member of the gold winning team in the junior national championship in Uttarakhand earlier. “But Dipti had to struggle a lot,” he further said, adding she did not have a bow of her own and the centre, with its limited resources couldn’t help much. Buying her a bow was also beyond the capacity of her father, Kainath Mahto, who drives a pick-up van for a living, he added. Finally, after learning that Dipti was a very promising archer, Sudesh Mahto, Ajsu party chief and former deputy chief minister, donated her a good bow and required accessories in 2019, he informed. Though the bow helped her a lot, she couldn’t get over problems as she completed 18 years by the end of 2019 and became ineligible for the monthly stipend of Rs 500 that she would get as a trainee, Koiri informed. “I sometime even didn’t have the money to pay for an auto rickshaw to reach the training centre,” said Dipti who hails from Jonah village, a few kms away from the centre and added the new bow she got, however, helped her improve her archery skill. “Meanwhile, she also got a job with the Indo Tibetan Borader Police and that actually helped the family a lot,” Koiri further informed. “Yes, that’s true,” Dipti replied in the affirmative, adding she joined ITBP as a constable about five months ago and was now undergoing training in Haryana. “I hope so,” Dipti sounded positive when pointed out that her younger sister who also aspires to become an archer and undergoes training at the same centre wouldn’t face the same financial crisis as she did.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
11-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Assembly to host first Chhatra Sansad on October 31||The Jharkhand Assembly will convene a special session on October 31 to host the first-ever Chhatra Sansad or students’ parliament of the state. Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto said the event would be organised in association with PRS Legislative Research, a Delhi-based non-profit organisation. “The intention is to create an awareness about legislative processes among the youths and also to give them a first- hand experience through a mock session,” the Speaker further said, adding the youths have potential that need to be encouraged. Climate change is an important issue and some students have done remarkable job for creating awareness, he further said, adding the youths,  if given the chance, they can also become good parliamentarians in future. “The students have great potentials and some of them like Licipriya Kangujam of Manipur, Ridhima Pandey of Uttarakhand and Aditya Mukarji of Haryana have done remarkable job in creating awareness about environmental issues,” Speaker Mahto said, adding he was expecting the students to perform well in their upcoming Parliament. “This would be a mock session when both the treasury bench and the Opposition, selected from among the participating students,  will debate on a Bill that will be introduced in the House,” the Speaker further informed, adding the selected students would also be trained for the purpose at the new Assembly building the previous day (October 30). Nodal officers who would help in selection process were already appointed in all the six universities of the state so that they could coordinate preliminary selection of participants from across the state. “The interested students are required to submit write-ups between 500 and 700 words on any of the five given topics,” informed Assembly secretary Mahendra Prasad, adding the topics would cover issues related to climate change,  mining and environment, protection of forest resources, legal provisions for such protection and 75 years of Indian democracy. There will be an interview of selected candidates through video conferencing on October 27 when 24 students from as many districts would be short listed after they discussing their write-ups submitted b earlier, Prasad further informed, adding the students finally chosen by an expert panel would attend a workshop at the Assembly building on October 30 when they would be given a hands-on training before they participate in the event next day. “All the MLAs will be invited to attend the students’ parliament and we all will sit in the gallery that day,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
