12-10-2021||Business||No capacity restrictions for airlines from Oct 18, announces Centre||Airlines can operate domestic flights without any capacity restriction from October 18 onwards, the Ministry of Civil Aviation announced on Tuesday keeping in mind the "passenger demand for air travel". The carriers have been operating 85 per cent of their pre-COVID domestic services since September 18, according to the ministry's order. The capacity cap stood at 72.5 per cent between August 12 and September 18, 65 per cent between July 5 and August 12 and 50 per cent between June 1 and July 5. On October 9, the Indian carriers operated 2,340 domestic flights, which is 71.5 per cent of their total pre-COVID capacity. The ministry stated in its order that "it has been decided to restore the scheduled domestic air operation with effect from October 18, 2021, without any capacity restriction". The order noted that the decision was taken "after a review of the current status of scheduled domestic operations viz-a-viz passenger demand for air travel". When the government resumed the scheduled domestic flights on May 25 last year after a two-month break, the ministry had allowed the carriers to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic services. The cap was gradually increased to 80 per cent by December 2020. The 80-per cent cap remained in place till June 1 this year. The May 28 decision to bring down the cap from 80 to 50 per cent from June 1 onwards was taken "in view of the sudden surge in the number of active COVID-19 cases across the country, decrease in passenger traffic and the passenger load (occupancy rate) factor", the ministry had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
12-10-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 149 points to new record||Extending its gains to the fourth consecutive session, equity benchmark Sensex jumped around 149 points to mark yet another record close of 60,284 on Tuesday, tracking gains in primarily banking and consumer durables stocks. After a volatile trading session, the 30-share Sensex ended 148.53 points or 0.25 per cent higher at 60,284.31. Similarly, the Nifty rose 46 points or 0.26 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 17,991.95. Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 5 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, Bajaj Finserv, SBI, Nestle India, ITC, Axis Bank and Tata Steel. On the other hand, HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, UltraTech Cement, TCS and Sun Pharma were among the laggards. Following selling in IT stocks as a result of a weak start to the earnings season and weakness in global markets, the domestic market traded in the negative zone, said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. However, with strong support from PSU banks on revamped hopes of privatisation and continued buying interest in consumer goods, metals and auto, indices managed to end on a positive note. While global markets traded with cuts in fears of rising inflation due to soaring commodity prices and energy crunch," he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with losses. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a negative note in early deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.26 per cent to USD 83.87 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
12-10-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on choppy note||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a choppy note on Tuesday, tracking weakness in index heavyweights Infosys, ICICI Bank and HCL Tech amid a negative trend in global markets. After swinging over 200 points in the opening session, the 30-share Sensex was trading 34.62 points or 0.06 per cent lower at 60,101.16. Similarly, the Nifty slipped 2.45 points or 0.01 per cent to 17,943.50. HCL Tech was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by M&M, Infosys, Tech Mahindra, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, Titan, Dr Reddy's, SBI and ITC were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index closed 76.72 points or 0.13 per cent higher at 60,135.78, and Nifty rose 50.75 points or 0.28 per cent at its all-time closing high of 17,945.95. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,303.22 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, the resilience of the market in general, and the momentum in the broader market in particular, can be explained only by one factor - the exuberance and dominance of the newbie retail investors. Institutional selling is easily getting absorbed by retail investors who are not concerned about valuations, he noted. Weakness in IT and strength in banking which expectedly played out in the previous session need not become a trend. Results of Infosys, Wipro and HCL Tech may not disappoint the market like TCS, he said, adding that results of TCS were good - only fell short of market expectations. "Now, INR at 75.35 to the dollar is becoming a major tailwind for IT. So, investors should remain invested in IT and even buy on declines since the demand environment for the sector remains robust. Crude at USD 84 and its potential inflation fall out are areas of concern," he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges in the US too ended on a negative note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.07 per cent to USD 83.59 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
12-10-2021||Business||Future Group calls for vote on merger||Future group firms are convening meetings of their respective shareholders and creditors in November to seek approval to their proposed merger into Future Enterprises as part of the Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail. Several listed transferor firms, including Future Retail, Future Consumer, Future Enterprises, Future Lifestyle Fashions, Future Markets Networks and Future Supply Chain Solutions, have informed their shareholders and creditors about the meetings which will take place on November 10 and 11. The meetings of the equity shareholders, secured creditors and unsecured creditors will be held through video conferencing/other audio-visual means, said Future group companies, adding that remote e-voting facility will be offered to all participants. The scheme of arrangement between Future and Reliance Retail, announced in August last year entails consolidation of Future Group’s 19 companies operating in retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing assets into one entity — Future Enterprises Ltd. Future Enterprises is the transferee company to Reliance Retail. The meetings are being called in keeping with the order passed by the Mumbai Bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on September 28 that had asked the Future group to take approval from its shareholders and creditors for the scheme of arrangement. E-commerce giant Amazon, which is contesting the deal, did not respond to e-mailed queries seeking comments on the shareholders and creditors’ meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
12-10-2021||Business||Airtel and Vodafone moved telecom tribunal to challenge DoT fines||Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea have moved the telecom tribunal to challenge telecom department’s demand notices for payment of Rs 3,050 crore cumulative penalties in the points of interconnect matter, a source said. The department of telecommunications (DoT) had recently issued demand notices to both the telcos to pay cumulative Rs 3,050 crore in penalties in three weeks’ time for violating norms by denying Reliance Jio points of interconnect way back in 2016. Industry sources said that both Airtel and Vodafone Idea have now moved the Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) challenging the DoT’s demand notices and penalty and that the matter could come up for hearing on Tuesday. E-mails sent to Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea Ltd did not elicit a response. The DoT had slapped a penalty of Rs 2,000 crore on Vodafone Idea and Rs 1,050 crore on Bharti Airtel based on sector regulator Trai’s recommendation five years ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
12-10-2021||Business||Three US-based economists win Nobel prize||David Card, Joshua D. Angrist and Guido W. Imbens have made a career of studying unintended experiments — Card in labour economics and Angrist and  Imbens in analysing cause and effect. On Monday, their work earned them the 2021 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences. All three winners are based in the United States.  Card, who was born in Canada, works at the University of California, Berkeley. Angrist, born in the United States, is at MIT. and Imbens, born in the Netherlands, is at Stanford University. “Uncovering causal relationships is a major challenge,” said Peter Fredriksson, chairman of the prize committee. “Sometimes, nature, or policy changes, provide situations that resemble randomised experiments. This year’s laureates have shown that such natural experiments help answer important questions for society.” Card’s work has challenged conventional wisdom in labour economics — including the idea that higher minimum wages led to lower employment. He was a co-author of influential studies on that topic with Alan B. Krueger, who died in 2019, including one that used the natural geographical border between New Jersey and Pennsylvania to test the effect of a minimum wage change. Comparing outcomes between the states, the research found that employment at fast food restaurants was not affected by  an increase in New Jersey’s minimum wage. Angrist and Imbens have contributed to the way researchers think about and analyse natural experiments. They showed that it is possible to identify a clear effect from an intervention in people’s behaviour — like a subsidy that might encourage people to ride bicycles to work — even if a researcher cannot control who takes part in the experiment, and even if the impact varies across various individuals. The pair also came up with a transparent framework for such research that has increased  trust in it. “The challenge, for me, has always been trying to understand, when people do empirical work, what exactly the methodological challenges are,” Imbens said, speaking to the announcement’s news conference via telephone. Imbens said he was asleep when he received the call from the prize committee — around 2 a.m. —  and was “absolutely stunned” to hear the news. He noted that Angrist was the best man at his wedding. The award, formally called the Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel, has been given out since 1969. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
12-10-2021||Business||Nirmala Sitharaman embarks on week-long US trip||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has embarked on a week-long US trip to attend the annual meet of the World Bank and IMF as well as meetings of G20 finance ministers and a meeting of central bank governors. The visit which begins on Monday will be Sitharaman’s first overseas official trip after the Covid-19 outbreak. This is also the first time since the viral outbreak that the World Bank and International Monetary Fund are going for in-person annual meetings. The finance minister will co-chair the US India Economic and Financial Partnership Dialogue with US treasury secretary Janet Yellen. She will also address investors, including large pension funds and private equity players. Inflation worry The finance ministry in its monthly economic report said volatility in the prices of crude oil, edible oils and metal products could pose concerns for India’s economy even though inflation is expected to ease in the coming months. “The volatile prices in the international crude oil markets and upward-bound prices of edible oils and metal products may continue to pose concerns,” the report said. The economy is recovering fast from the pandemic. Strategic reforms and the rapid vaccination drive has placed the country on the path to swift recovery by enabling the economy to “navigate the ravaging waves” of the Covid-19 pandemic, the report said. Latest trends in high-frequency economic indicators in August and September also indicate a broad-based recovery evidenced in sustained improvement in power consumption, rail freight activity, e-way bills and robust GST collections, and highway toll collections. China trade meet Meanwhile, trade minister Piyush Goyal will have a one-on-one meeting with his Chinese counterpart on Tuesday at a G20 summit in Italy, the government said in a statement. Goyal will also meet other trade ministers, including those from the United States, South Korea, Australia, South Africa, Brazil and Canada, among others, the statement said on Monday. Relations between India and China have been strained due to border related issues. With inputs from Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
12-10-2021||Business||Invesco questions aspects of proposed Zee-Sony merger||Invesco, the largest shareholder of Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd (ZEEL), today raised questions over certain aspects of the proposed merger with Sony that it believed would enrich Subhash Chandra and his family at the cost of other shareholders. The institutional shareholder, which holds almost 18 per cent in Zee along with OFI Global China Fund LLC, has requisitioned an extraordinary general meeting where it intends to move resolutions seeking to remove the company's managing director and CEO Punit Goenka and induct a new slate of six independent directors. Zee has been stalling on the EGM, triggering a vicious legal dispute between the Chandras and Invesco. In an open letter to shareholders of Zee, Invesco said the Zee promoters had worked in a non-compete clause into the merger deal that entitled them to an additional 2 per cent stake which would give them a 4 per cent holding in the merged entity. Moreover, the promoters of Zee also have the option of raising their stake to 20 per cent at a later date. It added that the proviso was silent on how this would be done and whether it would change the majority control of Sony in the merged entity. “This is dilutive to all other shareholders, which we consider unfair. At the very least, we would expect such largess to be contingent on the MD/CEO leaving (the) said position (thus raising the scenario of “non-compete”) or be structured in the form of time vesting and performance-linked ESOPs, which we as shareholders welcome as a transparent way to reward performance and leadership,” the letter said. The two clauses in the deal, Invesco argued, would harm the interests of  the other shareholders. The institutional investor said the company’s current board and management had destroyed shareholder value. The fund’s chief investment officer, Justin M. Leverenz, said he wanted to reiterate the urgent need for “independent perspectives” on Zee’s board given its governance failures and prolonged underperformance. Goenka will stay on as the MD and CEO of the merged entity for the next five years -- an outcome that Invesco felt was entirely unjustified. Pointing out that it was prepared to evaluate the transaction constructively if additional information was made available, Invesco said the timing of the merger announcement and its non-binding nature was questionable. Invesco said if its proposal to overhaul the Zee board was approved by other shareholders, the  newly- constituted board would decide the future leadership of the company. “Should the Board so decide, it could appoint an interim CEO from among the exceptional talent available within Zee itself. In parallel, it might approve a formal search for a CEO from within the vibrant Indian media industry... The new board could appoint an investment bank to evaluate all proposals for strategic alignments that might be probable, including the Sony proposal in its current or any revised format, as Sony might choose to present,” the fund said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
12-10-2021||Business||Benchmark indices score new record; Nifty crosses 18000||Benchmark indices on Monday scored a new record with the broader Nifty hitting 18000 for the first time on optimism over the economy and corporate earnings. However, in the forex and bond markets, inflation concerns saw the rupee grinding to a 15-month low and bond yields rising to their highest level in 18 months. The rupee tumbled 37 paise to close at 75.36, dragged by rising crude oil prices and a strong greenback in the overseas market. This is for the first time in this year that the domestic unit is ending below 75. The benchmark 10-year bonds closed at 6.34 per cent, up from the previous close of 6.318 per cent. Stocks rose for the third consecutive session because of gains in banking, auto and power shares. Market circles said the mood remains positive despite taper concerns because of the steady decline in daily Covid cases, increasing vaccinations and relief measures by the government. Despite a lukewarm beginning to the results season with TCS, the expectation is that corporate India will report good earnings growth for the quarter ended September 30 and guide towards a better performance ahead. Reflecting this confidence, the broader Nifty on Monday  surpassed the 18000 mark for the first time in its history to touch an record high of 18041.95. The index later rose 50.75 points, or  0.28 per cent, to its all-time closing high of 17945.95. Similarly, the 30-share Sensex, which began in the green at 60099.68, scaled a new intra-day high of 60476.13. The gauge closed 76.72 points or 0.13 per cent higher at 60135.78 — a new closing high as well. “The Nifty touching an all time high level of 18000 is a journey. It is not a destination. The market is driven by the triveni sangam of positive sentiment, fund flow from domestic and global investors and improving corporate profitability. Festival season has begun with a bang and supported positive momentum,’’ said Nilesh Shah, group president & MD, Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company. Maruti Suzuki was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising nearly 4 per cent. However, TCS was the top loser on the Sensex, shedding over 6 per cent, as its second quarter earnings did not impress the Street. Analysts here said that expectations have risen for the technology sector and there could be correction in these counters if their performance does not meet expectations. Birla AMC debut Shares of Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC made a muted market debut on Monday and settled nearly 2 per cent lower against its issue price of Rs 712. The stock listed at Rs 712 on the BSE. Later, it touched a high of Rs 721 and low of Rs 696 during the day. It settled at Rs 699.65, lower by 1.73 per cent. On the NSE, it debuted at Rs 715, a marginal gain of 0.42 per cent from the issue price. The stock settled at Rs 698, registering a decline of 1.96 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
12-10-2021||Business||Nitish Kumar becomes first NDA ally to raise spectre of blackout||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday became the first NDA ally to raise the spectre of a blackout during the festival season a day after the Union power minister R.K. Singh claimed there was no coal crisis in the country. Kumar said not only Bihar but the entire country was facing a power crisis and the state was spending heavily on purchasing electricity from the open market. “It is a fact that electricity is not being supplied as per the requirement of the state. NTPC or the private companies are not able to supply power as per the agreement provisions. It is completely correct that there is a problem and not only Bihar but the entire country is affected,” Nitish said while talking to reporters on the sidelines of his janata durbar in the state capital. He  pointed out that the decrease in supply meant that the production of electricity was less and there must be “some reasons behind it”. “We are trying to meet the situation by buying electricity at high prices from the power exchange. We have bought 5.7 crore units at a cost of Rs 90 crore in the last five days. At present, we are getting around 5,500 megawatt (mw) to 5600mw during the peak hours,” he added. Nitish is the first chief minister of any National Democratic Alliance (NDA) ruled state to publicly and categorically accept the power crisis that has gripped the country for around a week now. However, the chief minister expressed optimism that the problem would be addressed soon. The Union government has fielded its ministers to assure people that there was nothing alarming about the power situation in the country and the shortage of coal for thermal power production was being addressed. Bihar government officials said that the peak hour demand in the state touches 6500mw. The deficient supply has led to blackouts in the rural areas across the 38 districts. Many parts are getting just around 10 to 12 hours of electricity supply these days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
12-10-2021||Business||Amit Shah meets power minister and coal minister||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday held a meeting with power minister R.K. Singh and coal minister Pralhad Joshi amid reports that the coal shortage in the country was worsening, officials said. During the hour-long meeting, the three ministers were believed to have discussed the availability of coal to power plants and the current power demands. Top officials of the power and coal ministries attended the meeting. Shah reviewed the situation and asked everyone present to ensure adequate supplies of coal to thermal power plants . Officials said the power and coal secretaries will make a presentation on the availability of power and coal at the Prime Minister’s Office on Tuesday. They would also present the steps being taken to boost the availability of coal at the power plant and meet the energy demand during the festive season. The meeting came in the wake of several states warning of a possible power crisis due to the shortage of coal, officials said. Latest data of the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) showed as many as 70 non-pithead plants having less than four days of stocks (supercritical stock) as of October 10 against 64 a week ago (See chart). The depleting coal stock has brought out fears of a total blackout that was witnessed in Lebanon and several cities in China. Several states, including Delhi, Punjab, Kerala, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Bihar, have warned of load shedding and called for judicious use of electricity. Coal India defence Coal India on Monday said that supply to power utilities has been scaled up to 1.51 million tonnes (mt) per day in the last four days amid concerns over low fuel stock at power plants. The PSU miner said that it has produced 126mt during the July-September quarter, posting a 9.6 per cent year-on-year growth. During the first 10 days of October, Coal India’s output was 6.5 per cent higher than a year ago. The miner expects production to further increase as attendance at coalfields improves after the festival holidays. “The aim is to ramp up supplies to the power sector even higher which we hope to achieve post Puja. Once the despatch rate is maintained the stock build up will help tide over the tight situation,” said S.N. Tiwary, director marketing, Coal India. Railway evacuation has been ramped up and during the first six months of the fiscal, loading to the power sector at 225.3 rakes per day was up 28 per cent  compared with 176.3 rakes of last year in the same period. The miner expects power demand to ease once October and major festivals are over. “With 40 MT stock at our pitheads and increasing production, availability of coal would not be a problem,” said a senior official of the company. The sharp rise in fuel demand coupled with imported coal based power plants scaling down their generation due to skyrocketing fuel prices in international markets meant that domestic coal based thermal power plants had to step in to fill in the generation shortfall. According to Coal India officials, this placed an unfactored load of around 10mt on the miner. Had this not happened the stocks at power plants would have been around 1718 mt instead of the bleak 7mt now. Coal India Ltd accounts for over 80 per cent of the domestic coal output.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
12-10-2021||India||Six lakh passports issued through post office seva kendras in last six months: Union minister||As many as 6,00,000 passports had been issued by the Post Office Passport Seva Kendras (POPSKs) in the country in the last six months, Union Minister of State for Communications Devusinh Chauhan said on Tuesday.  He was speaking virtually from Delhi while inaugurating a POPSK at Dombivli in the Thane district of Maharashtra.  "A total of 427 POPSKs, including the new one, are operating in the country and serving the citizens to the best of their ability. They handle important documents. In the past six months, as many as 6,00,000 passports had been issued by POPSKs, which comes at 3,000 passports per day," Chauhan said.  He said the services rendered by the Department of Post are the most trustworthy as the department has a large network throughout the country.  "The services were expanded under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The services of post offices are no more limited to handling posts and money orders but they are much more," he added.  The minister also said that when services are provided there should be some tolerance and the same is shown by the passport offices and the postal department.  Kalyan MO Shrikant Shinde and senior officials of the Department of Post were present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
12-10-2021||India||Indian economy to grow by 9.5 % in 2021: IMF||India's economy, which contracted by 7.3 per cent due to the Covid-19 pandemic, is expected to grow by 9.5 per cent in 2021 and 8.5 per cent in 2022, according to latest projections released by the International Monetary Fund on Tuesday. India's growth projection released by the latest World Economic Outlook remains unchanged from its previous WEO (World Economic Outlook) update of July this summer but is a three-percentage point in 2021 and 1.6 percentage point drop from its April projections. According to the latest WEO update, released ahead of the annual meeting of the IMF and the World Bank, the world is expected to grow at 5.9 per cent in 2021 and 4.9 per cent in 2022. The United States is projected to grow at six per cent this year and 5.2 per cent the next year. China, on the other hand, the IMF said is projected to grow at 8 per cent in 2021 and 5.6 per cent in 2022. Gita Gopinath, Chief Economist of the IMF, said that compared to their July forecast, the global growth projection for 2021 has been revised down marginally to 5.9 per cent and is unchanged for 2022 at 4.9 per cent. However, this modest headline revision masks large downgrades for some countries. "The outlook for the low-income developing country group has darkened considerably due to worsening pandemic dynamics. The downgrade also reflects more difficult near-term prospects for the advanced economy group, in part due to supply disruptions, she said. "Partially offsetting these changes, projections for some commodity exporters have been upgraded on the back of rising commodity prices. Pandemic-related disruptions to contact-intensive sectors have caused the labour market recovery to significantly lag the output recovery in most countries, the Indian-American economist added. Observing that the dangerous divergence in economic prospects across countries remains a major concern, she said aggregate output for the advanced economy group is expected to regain its pre-pandemic trend path in 2022 and exceed it by 0.9 per cent in 2024. "By contrast, aggregate output for the emerging market and developing economy group (excluding China) is expected to remain 5.5 per cent below the pre-pandemic forecast in 2024, resulting in a larger setback to improvements in their living standards, she added. Noting that a principal common factor behind these complex challenges is the continued grip of the pandemic on global society, Gopinath said that the foremost policy priority is therefore to vaccinate at least 40 per cent of the population in every country by end-2021 and 70 per cent by mid-2022. "This will require high-income countries to fulfill existing vaccine dose donation pledges, coordinate with manufacturers to prioritise deliveries to COVAX in the near-term and remove trade restrictions on the flow of vaccines and their inputs, she said. At the same time, closing the USD 20 billion residual grant funding gap for testing, therapeutics and genomic surveillance will save lives now and keep vaccines fit for purpose. Looking ahead, vaccine manufacturers and high-income countries should support the expansion of regional production of COVID-19 vaccines in developing countries through financing and technology transfers, she said. Gopinath said that another urgent global priority is the need to slow the rise in global temperatures and contain the growing adverse effects of climate change. This will require more ambitious commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at the upcoming United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) in Glasgow. "A policy strategy that includes an international carbon price floor adjusted to country circumstances, a green public investment and research subsidy push, and compensatory, targeted transfers to households can help advance the energy transition in an equitable way. Just as importantly, advanced countries need to deliver on their earlier promises of mobilising USD 100 billion of annual climate financing for developing countries, Gopinath said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
12-10-2021||India||Mayawati targets Congress over killing of Dalit youth in Rajasthan||Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati on Tuesday questioned the "silence" of Congress leaders over the lynching of a Dalit youth in Rajasthan and suggested that the Supreme Court should take suo moto cognizance of the case as it had done in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh.  She also questioned the silence of the Congress leadership over the "ruthless murder in Rajasthan" and accused the party of restricting its Dalit leaders from speaking on this topic.  In a tweet in Hindi, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president said, "In the latest incident in Congress-ruled Rajasthan, the ruthless murder of a Dalit was discussed and condemned all over the country, but the Congress leadership not only kept mum but also imposed restrictions on its Dalit leaders from speaking about it. This is very sad and shameful."  Alleging that Dalits hold no importance for the Congress party, she said, "This proves that in the eyes of the Congress party and their governments, there was no importance of Dalits in the past and now also there is no concern for their lives, properties and safety. The new CM of Punjab and the new leader of Gujarat have also maintained silence by adopting double standards."  "The FIR was lodged three days after the killing in Rajasthan due to which there are scant chances of the family getting justice from the government. Therefore, like the Lakhimpur Kheri case of UP, if the Supreme Court takes suo moto cognizance of this matter as well, it would be better," she said in another tweet.  The Dalit man, identified as Jagdish, was thrashed to death by the accused on October 7 in the Prempura area of Hanumangarh.  The accused also shot a video of the entire incident in which they are seen giving water to the victim to drink and then beating him up repeatedly with sticks.  Four people have been arrested and one minor detained in connection with the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
12-10-2021||India||Pakistani terror suspect arrested, arms recovered||Police have arrested a 40-year-old Pakistani national, who allegedly has ISI links and is involved in a plot to carry out a terror attack, from east Delhi's Laxmi Nagar area and seized arms and ammunition from his possession, officials said on Tuesday.  Mohammad Ashraf alias Ali, a resident of Pakistan's Punjab province, came to India via Bangladesh and had been staying in the country for 10 years after obtaining Indian identity cards through forged documents, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Pramod Singh Kushwaha said.  He was posing as a 'maulana' (religious preacher) and was arrested on Monday night, the DCP said.  Ashraf was recruited by the Pakistani spy agency ISI directly after he completed his schooling and was trained for six months, he added.  Officials said Ashraf was in contact with an ISI handler whom he identified as Nasir and was supposed to get information about the planned terror attack.  He has changed five-six locations in a span of 10 years, they said.  He never stayed at any specific location for long and to acquire documents, he also got married to a woman here, they said.  At his instance, an AK-47 and several other arms and ammunition have been recovered.  Ashraf has been arrested under relevant provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, Explosives Act and Arms Act, the police said.  Police suspect that he is part of a terror module.  Further investigations are on including if a lone wolf attack had been planned, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
12-10-2021||India||Mission 2022: Akhilesh launches 'rath yatra' from Kanpur||Kickstarting his party's "mission 2022" with a "rath yatra", SP chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday hit out at the BJP, saying it has "crushed farmers" and on return to power in Uttar Pradesh would "crush the Constitution" as well. The former UP CM launched the "Samajwadi Vijay Rath Yatra" from UP's Kanpur and it will cover all 403 Assembly segments ahead of the 2022 Assembly polls in the state. Meanwhile, Shivpal Yadav, who is Akhilesh's uncle and heads the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party, also launched a "Samajik Parivartan Yatra" from Mathura. Akhilesh launched the yatra after taking blessings of his father Mulayam Singh Yadav on Monday. The yatra was flagged off by "Khazanchi", a child who was born in a queue outside a bank during demonetisation days. A Mercedes bus has been transformed into the "rath". Besides Mulayam Singh Yadav, it displays photographs of Dalit icon B R Amdedkar, Acharya Narendra Deva, Ram Manohar Lohia, Jayprakash Narayan, former president APJ Abdul Kalam, party veteran Janeshwar Mishra and jailed MP Mohammad Azam Khan. The yatra will pass through Kanpur, Kanpur Dehat, Hamirpur and Jalaun in the first phase and promises to make people aware about the "corrupt, autocratic and suppressive" policies of the BJP government and establish "real democracy". Attacking the ruling party, Akhilesh said, "The BJP has crushed farmers and if they come back to power, they are all set to crush the Constitution." "Therefore, the Samajwadi Vijay Rath will go to people and throw the BJP out of power," the former CM said in apparent reference to the mowing down of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri last Sunday. "This rath will go on continuously for restoring the rights and honour of farmers," he added. Akhilesh exhorted party workers to reach out to people and seek their support. On the importance of Kanpur, Akhilesh said his party worked for its development. "It is a big and industrial city. Today, business establishments here have closed down. This city can not only give employment to the youth but can also improve the economy of the country and our party will work for it," he said. He recalled that his father Mulayam Singh Yadav had also started his "rath yatra" from this town and the party is following that tradition. "I am confident that people will give their support and the SP government will be formed with majority," Akhilesh remarked. Highlighting the significance of the yatra, an SP spokesman said whenever the party has taken out such a yatra, it has come to power. Exhibition of photographs of Samajwadi Party's Muslim face Azam Khan indicates the party efforts to cash in on his popularity among the minority community and also evoke their sentiment against the BJP for sending him and his son to jail in Rampur. Akhilesh's estranged uncle Shivpal Singh Yadav also launched a "Samajik Parivartan Yatra" from Mathura. Congress leader Acharya Pramod Krishnam was seen on his rath. The Congress leader told reporters in Vrindavan that he has come to give his "subhkamna" (good wishes) to Shivpal Yadav. Asked if he has come with a message from AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Krishnam said his visit "itself is a message". He took a swipe at Akhilesh Yadav and BSP president Mayawati, saying they were not connected with people while hailing Shivpal Yadav as "jameeni neta" (grounded leader). Shivpal's rath also showcased photographs of Mulayam Singh Yadav and Ram Manohar Lohia besides that of B R Ambedkar and Chaudhary Charan Singh. The yatras by both parties come amid confusion whether the two would join hands to fight the UP polls together. Shivpal Singh Yadav had recently said that he would wait till October 11 for the response of Akhilesh on a tie-up after which he would chart his own political course. In 1988, a rath yatra was taken out from Kanpur by SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav. In 2001 and 2011, it was started by Akhilesh Yadav from Lucknow and now again in 2021, it is being started from Kanpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
12-10-2021||India||Wreath-laying ceremony held for 5 soldiers killed in Poonch encounter||A wreath-laying ceremony was held in Rajouri on Tuesday to pay tributes to the five soldiers who were killed in a fierce gunfight with terrorists in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir. Naib Subedar (Junior Commissioned Officer) Jaswinder Singh, Naik Mandeep Singh, Sepoys Gajjan Singh, Saraj Singh and Vaisakh H were part of an Army search party that came under attack from the terrorists during the operation on Monday. All five were critically injured and later succumbed to their injuries. A solemn ceremony was held at a military camp at Rajouri where wreaths were laid by senior Army officers and civil dignitaries to pay homage to the fallen soldiers, a defence spokesperson said. The Indian Army salutes the sacrifices of its soldiers who laid down their lives in the service of the motherland, he said. "The nation will always remain indebted to our bravehearts for their supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty," he said. The spokesperson said that the mortal remains of the five soldiers will be sent to their respective hometowns on Wednesday. While the bodies of Jaswinder Singh, Mandeep Singh and Gajjan Singh will be taken to their respective hometowns in Punjab by road, the mortal remains of Saraj Singh from Uttar Pradesh and Vaisakh H of Kerala will be flown to their native places, officials said. After the wreath-laying ceremony, the mortal remains of all the five soldiers, wrapped in the tricolour, were moved to Jammu, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
12-10-2021||India||Expert panel recommends emergency use approval for Covaxin in 2 to 18 age group||An expert panel of India's Central Drug Authority has recommended granting emergency use authorisation to Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for children in the 2 to 18 years age group with certain conditions, sources said on Tuesday. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which completed the phase 2/3 trials of Covid vaccine Covaxin for use in children aged between 2 and 18 years, had submitted the data to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) for its verification and subsequent approval for emergency use authorisation (EUA) for the jab in the beginning of this month. The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on COVID-19 examined the data and deliberated on the EUA application on Monday. "After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended grant of market authorisation of the vaccine for the age group of 2 to 18 years for restricted use in emergency situations subject to the certain conditions," the SEC recommendations stated. The recommendations have been forwarded to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for final approval. The company had presented its proposal for grant of market authorisation of its Whole Virion, Inactivated coronavirus Vaccine (BBV152) in the 2 to 18 years age group for restricted use in emergency situation along with the interim safety and immunogenicity data of phase 2/3 clinical trial conducted. The committee noted that the interim safety data of the phase 2/3 clinical trial was reviewed in a meeting on August 26, the sources said. The overall geometric mean titre (GMT) for the paediatric population is comparable with GMT of the adult population in phase -3 efficacy study, the recommendations stated. After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended the grant of market authorisation of the vaccine for the 2 to 18 years age group for restricted use in emergency situations subject to certain conditions, they stated. According to the conditions, the firm should continue the study as per the approved clinical trial protocol and provide updated prescribing information/package Insert (Pl), Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and Factsheet, a source said. Besides, the firm should submit safety data, including the data on AEFI and AESI, with due analysis, every 15 days for the first two months and monthly thereafter and also as per requirement of New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019. Last week Bharat Biotech had stated that it had submitted data on vaccine trials on children. The Covaxin vaccine tested on children is the same formulation as used on adults, but separate trials were needed to guarantee safety and efficacy on younger recipients. Data on these trials has not been made public yet, but tests were conducted on 1,000+ children across the country. The panel, however, noted the trial on kids showed similar efficacy rates as that on adults, reported NDTV.com. When the final approval of Drug Controller General of India come-the nod is seen as mere formality, Covaxin will be the second vaccine cleared for use on kids. Zydus Cadila's three-dose DNA jab was allowed to be used on adults and children over 12 in August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
12-10-2021||India||Bail pleas must be taken up expeditiously, says SC||The liberty of an individual is sacrosanct and an application seeking bail must be taken up for hearing as expeditiously as possible, the Supreme Court has said. No time limit can be fixed for applications seeking pre-arrest or post-arrest bail but the minimal which can be expected is that such pleas be heard at the earliest, the apex court said. A bench of Justices Ajay Rastogi and A S Oka said this while hearing a plea filed by an accused, who was taken into custody in March this year in connection with a case registered at Patiala district in Punjab, urging the court that his application seeking bail which is pending before the Punjab and Haryana High Court be heard expeditiously. The bench noted that a sessions court had dismissed the bail application filed by the accused after which he had filed a plea seeking post-arrest bail before the high court on July 7. The petitioner's counsel told the bench that the matter was listed before the court several times but it could not be heard. "We are not going into the issue at the moment, but liberty of an individual is sacrosanct and we expect that if an application is filed either pre or post arrest, under sections 438/439 of the CrPC, it must be taken up as expeditiously as possible," the bench said in its order passed last week. Although, no time limit can be fixed, but that is the minimal which can be expected to give an audience at the earliest, the top court said. While Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) deals with the grant of bail to a person apprehending arrest, Section 439 relates to special powers of the high court or a sessions court regarding bail. While disposing of the plea, the bench requested the high court to consider the bail application filed by the petitioner as expeditiously as possible. The petitioner was taken into custody in connection with the case registered on March 30 this year for the alleged offences under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
12-10-2021||India||Massive search operation underway to neutralise hiding terrorists in JK's Poonch, Rajouri||Security forces continued a massive search operation on Tuesday in a forest area connecting the twin border districts of Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu and Kashmir, where five soldiers including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) were killed in a gunfight the previous day, officials said. There was no fresh contact with terrorists during the ongoing operation in the dense forest areas of Surankote in Poonch and nearby Thanamandi in Rajouri, the officials said. Five soldiers, including a JCO, lost their lives when a group of heavily-armed terrorists opened fire on an army search party in a village close to Dera Ki Gali (DKG) in Surankote early on Monday. After the initial encounter, the terrorists fled to nearby Panghai forest which falls in the jurisdiction of Rajouri's Thanamandi and were chased by the troops and engaged in another encounter, the officials said. The gunfight between the two sides stopped Monday evening after the terrorists took advantage of the dense forest and fled, the officials said, adding that the whole forest belt was cordoned off and a search operation is underway to neutralise the hiding terrorists. The officials said senior police and army officers also rushed to the area to supervise the operation. Earlier, a defence spokesman said on the intervening night of October 10 and 11, a counter-terrorist operation was launched by the Indian Army and Jammu and Kashmir Police in the area of Shahdara, near the boundary of Poonch-Rajouri districts. During the conduct of the operation, terrorists brought down a heavy volume of fire on Army troops leading to fatal injuries to one JCO and four soldiers, a defence spokesman had said in a statement here. He identified soldiers who made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty as Naib Subedar (JCO) Jaswinder Singh, a recipient of Sena Medal; Naik Mandeep Singh, Sepoys Gajjan Singh, Saraj Singh and Vaisakh H. The twin districts of Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine terrorists in separate encounters. Three soldiers also laid down their lives in the previous operations. Meanwhile, a group of youth staged an anti-Pakistan demonstration in Poonch town against the killing of Indian army soldiers. The youth, mostly belonging to the Sikh community, also set ablaze an effigy marked as Pakistan for its continued support to terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir, the officials said. "We condemn Pakistan for its continued support to terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. The time has come when the Indian government should teach Pakistan a lesson for sending terrorists who are killing innocent civilians and our jawans," Kamaljeet Singh, one of the protesters said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
12-10-2021||India||Congress delegation to meet President, present memorandum on Lakhimpur incident||A delegation of Congress leaders, including former party president Rahul Gandhi, will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday and present a memorandum of facts on the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, party sources said. The seven-member delegation will comprise Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, senior party leaders AK Antony and Ghulam Nabi Azad, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and KC Venugopal. Sources said the delegation will meet the President on Wednesday at 11.30 AM. The party had written to him seeking time in this regard. The Congress has been demanding the immediate dismissal of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra whose son Ashish has been named in the FIR and is accused of mowing down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, and strict action against the accused in the killing of farmers. Ashish was arrested on Saturday by the Uttar Pradesh Police in connection with the violence, in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed. Terming the mowing down of farmers as a "shocking incident of broad day massacre", Venugopal had said it has shaken the conscience of the entire nation. He said the Congress seek to present a detailed memorandum of facts on the Lakhimpur incident. He lamented that despite all round protests and intervention of the Supreme Court, no decisive action has been taken either against the guilty or against the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
12-10-2021||India||Some trying to dent country's image in name of human rights violations, alleges Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday slammed those who engage in "selective interpretation" of human rights and look at its violation with an eye on political loss and gains, saying such a conduct is harmful to these rights as well as democracy. Speaking at the 28th foundation day of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), Modi said similar incidents are seen differently by some people as they describe human rights keeping their own interests in mind. Some even try to dent the country's image in the name of human rights violation, and people should beware of them, he said. Though Modi did not name any person or organisation, the ruling BJP has been critical of a section of human rights groups, including those with a global presence, for allegedly highlighting cases of HR violations selectively and in a one-sided manner to target the government. In his speech, the prime minister cited a number of measures taken by his government to deliver basic needs like toilets, cooking gas, electricity and homes to the poor and said this give rise to their aspirations and make them more aware of their rights. He said by making a law against 'triple talaq', his government has bestowed new rights on Muslim women. The prime minister also spoke of the measures like 26-week maternity leave and more stringent law for rape to highlight his dispensation's empowerment of women. The commission was set up under the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993, on October 12, 1993, for the promotion and protection of human rights. The NHRC takes cognisance of human rights violations, conducts enquiries and recommends compensation to victims from public authorities besides other remedial and legal measures against the erring public servants. Modi said freedom struggle and India's history are a big source of inspiration and values for human rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
12-10-2021||India||India logs over 14,000 fresh Covid cases, 181 casualties in a day||India recorded 14,313 fresh coronavirus cases, the lowest in 224 days, taking the infection tally to 3,39,85,920 on Tuesday, while the national Covid recovery rate increased to 98.04 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. The death toll reached 4,50,963 with 181 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 18 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 107 consecutive days now. The active cases have declined to 2,14,900 comprising 0.63 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid recovery rate was recorded at 98.04 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 12,447 cases has been recorded in the active Covid caseload in a span of 24 hours. A total of 11,81,766 tests were conducted on Monday, taking the number of cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 58,50,38,043. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.21 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 43 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.48 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 109 days, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,33,20,057, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. Over 95.89 crore Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
12-10-2021||India||Three militants killed in JK's Shopian district||Three militants of The Resistance Front (TRF), including the one involved in the recent killing of a non-local street hawker here, were killed in an overnight encounter with security forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Tuesday. The security forces had launched a cordon and search operation in Tulran, Imamsahab area of Shopian, in South Kashmir on Monday evening, after receiving specific inputs about the presence of militants in the area, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after the militants fired upon the search party of the forces, who retaliated. In the ensuing gunfight, three militants were killed, the official said. The police said they belonged to TRF -- a front for Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). "#ShopianEncounterUpdate: 03 #terrorists of LeT (TRF) killed. Identification being ascertained. #Incriminating materials including arms & ammunition recovered. Search going on. Further details shall follow," the Kashmir Zone Police wrote on its Twitter handle. Kashmir IGP Vijay Kumar said one of the three militants was involved in the killing of non-local street hawker Virendra Paswan. "#ShopianEncounterUpdate: Out of 03 killed #terrorists, one terrorist has been identified as Mukhtar Shah of #Ganderbal, who shifted to #Shopian after killing one street hawker Virendra Paswan of Bihar," the Kashmir Zone Police quoted the IGP as having said. Paswan was shot dead in the Hawal area of the city on October 5 immediately after famous chemist M L Bindroo was killed near his pharmacy. Militants also killed Mohammad Shafi Lone, president of a local taxi stand in Naidkhai area of Bandipora district that day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
12-10-2021||India||Farmers accuse Narendra Modi of harbouring criminals||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Monday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of harbouring criminals and placing ego before morality, the statement coming six hours before the expiry of its deadline to sack and arrest junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni. “His (Teni’s) continuation as a minister in the Union council of ministers can be construed only as Narendra Modi’s harbouring of criminals, Narendra Modi’s readiness to erode further the credibility of India’s Union government, or Narendra Modi’s ego becoming more important than morality in public life,” the Morcha asserted. The Morcha wants action against Teni for his “communal speech that acted as a trigger for the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre”. Teni’s son Ashis Mishra has been arrested in connection with a convoy of cars mowing down four farmers and a journalist in Lakhmpur Kheri on October 3, days after Teni had threatened to fix the protesting farmers. The Morcha, which has been spearheading the nationwide movement against three farm laws, will wait till midnight for the government to meet all its demands. However, as of Monday evening, its protest programme over the coming weeks to build pressure on the government over the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage is on course. A formal announcement will come on Tuesday at the antim ardas (final prayers) to be held near the site of the October 3 carnage. “It is clear that in the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre itself he (Teni) had a role to play. It was his vehicles that were in the convoy that killed innocent people,” the Morcha said. “The fact that Ajay Mishra Teni had sought to promote enmity, hatred and disharmony is clear from his speech on September 25th against minority Sikhs of Terai region. His speech was of intimidation and threat, in a public meeting at that, where he was also proudly alluding to his criminal antecedents, and on the basis of this, stern action should have taken place by now, which could have prevented the entire episode of Lakhimpur Kheri massacre.” The Morcha alleged that Teni had tried to protect his son. Since October 3, the Morcha has been citing a speech Teni had purportedly delivered on September 25 targeting the Sikh farmers of Lakhimpur Kheri. As in the rest of the Terai region of Uttar Pradesh, Lakhimpur Kheri has a sizeable number of Sikh farmers who were settled there after Partition. Many of them had fled western Punjab, now in Pakistan. The Morcha’s contention is that with other efforts to discredit its movement having failed, the BJP and its ecosystem was now trying to use direct violence to break the agitation, and to weaken it by dividing the farmers along communal lines. This has been highlighted by BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi, who represents another constituency in the Terai region, Pilibhit, and is familiar with its demographic dynamics. “An attempt to turn #LakhimpurKheri into a Hindu vs Sikh battle is being made. Not only is this an immoral & false narrative, it is dangerous to create these fault-lines & reopen wounds that have taken a generation to heal. We must not put petty political gains above national unity,” Varun had tweeted on Sunday. Varun has repeatedly sought justice for the farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri, going against his party line.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
12-10-2021||India||Festivals to put Covid forecast and vaccines to test||The coming 10 weeks punctuated by festivals will put to test forecasts that Covid-19 in India is unlikely to flare up again into a fresh nationwide wave and the effectiveness of vaccines against severe disease and deaths, experts have said. Sections of experts believe the October-December period will serve as a “natural experiment” during which people’s behaviour is likely to provide the coronavirus opportunities to spread and the outcomes could illuminate both India’s proximity to endemic Covid-19 and vaccine efficacy. Health officials have exhorted the public to observe Covid-19 precautions through the coming weeks of festivals — Durga Puja, Dusshera, Milad-un-Nabi, Dhanteras, Diwali, Chhath Puja, Christmas and New Year’s eve — asserting that the Covid-19 threat persists. Union health ministry officials have outlined multiple options, including shopping online, celebrating festivals online, and avoiding travel to native places during festivals, to keep themselves safe and help avert any Covid-19 surges. “We have many options -- attend Durga Puja virtually, attend Ram Leela online, meet your loved ones through video calls to keep them and yourselves safe,” said Lav Agrawal, a joint secretary in the health ministry. “Covid-19 appropriate behaviour will be crucial over the three months.” Senior officials with the Indian Council of Medical Research, the apex health research agency, have also in recent weeks urged the public to avoid any non-essential travel and venture into large gatherings only if they are fully vaccinated. Such appeals reflect concerns that although India’s Covid-19 epidemic has shrunk steadily from the second wave’s peak in early May, clusters of infections if unchecked and allowed to spread could give rise to large localised outbreaks. India’s daily new Covid-19 infections -- that rose to a peak of over 97,000 in mid-September last year and to over 414,000 in early May -- now average about 20,000. But 56 districts across the country, including Calcutta, still have large infections and officials say the risk of fresh localised surges persists. Some public health experts, however, have predicted that the counts of people susceptible to Covid-19 across India has declined substantially with surveys indicating that over 67 per cent of the population is protected through natural infections or vaccination. “Because such a large proportion of the population is protected either through a history of the infection or through the vaccination, we should not see a large nationwide surge at all,” said T. Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “If the coronavirus does not change, I expect India is already heading into endemic Covid-19,” John said. Endemicity will be marked by a small number of new cases daily as the virus continues to infect susceptible people but is unable to cause large outbreaks. Aurnab Ghose, a biologist at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, who is among researchers involved in coronavirus surveillance efforts, said the coming festival season is likely to serve as a “natural experiment” to test forecasts of endemicity and vaccine effectiveness. “Despite the abundant messaging, we’d expect to see enhanced opportunities for virus transmission during the coming festival weeks,” Ghose said. Although Maharashtra had imposed restrictions during the Ganesh festivals, there was greater intermingling of people than in earlier weeks, but the state has so far not shown any significant post-festival surge. “We’ve also been looking at the viral genome sequences, and nothing stands out as yet,” Ghose said. Amid strong evidence that the current Covid-19 vaccines protect against severe disease and deaths, but not so much against the infection itself, experts say there exists a possibility that infection counts will increase if people crowd during festivals. But if vaccines work as they promised to do, a medical researcher said, any localised clusters of infections that emerge after the festivals should not be accompanied by a proportional increase in deaths. Even if the infection counts increase, the researcher said, the vaccines should keep the counts of severe disease and deaths in check. The vaccination campaign has so far administered 73 per cent of the estimated 944 million adults in India one dose and 28 per cent the two doses required for full vaccination. In 18 states or Union Territories, 80 per cent of the population has received at least one dose. Bengal is among five states where less than 60 per cent of adults have received a single dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
12-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Ashis Mishra in police custody for three days||A magistrate’s court on Monday gave the police three days’ custody of Ashis Mishra in the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre case, rejecting the police’s demand for 14 days’ custody of the son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni. Ashis’s police remand will begin from 10am on Tuesday and end at 10am on Friday, Lakhimpur Kheri chief judicial magistrate Chinta Ram said in his 4.45pm order. Special prosecution officer (SPO) S.P. Yadav told reporters the judge set three conditions for remand. The judge said:  “There should be adequate security when he is taken out (of prison or any police premises); he wouldn’t be harassed; and his lawyers may be present at some distance (during questioning).” A senior high court lawyer said these conditions were “routine”. After Friday 10am, Ashis will be back in judicial custody unless the special investigation team (SIT) succeeds in securing an extension of police remand. A police officer in Lucknow said the SIT might seek custody extension on Thursday. “Three days are not enough, but the SIT will collect as much evidence as it can and then seek extension of police custody.” Ashis is alleged to have been in a Thar jeep belonging to his father that, along with some other cars in a convoy it was leading, ran over and killed four farmers and a journalist at a farmers’ protest in Tikunia, Lakhimpur Kheri, on October 3. He was arrested at 10.48pm on Saturday, after nearly 12 hours of questioning, for “being non-cooperative”. Judicial magistrate Deeksha Bharti then sent him to 14 days’ judicial (jail) custody. Sources said SPO Yadav had told the court on Monday that the police needed custody of Ashis because he had stonewalled many of the SIT’s questions on Saturday. The defence argued the police planned to torture Ashis to extract a false confession. The magistrate asked the police not to harass the accused and the police said they would not. Awadhesh Dwivedi, counsel for Ashis, told reporters: “We argued in court that the SIT had grilled Ashish for 12 hours on Saturday and he had cooperated with the interrogators. The probe team had also seized his mobile phone and revolver. There was no point seeking police remand.” He said the defence told the court the police wanted custody “only to torture him, give him third degree and make him confess to something which he was not involved in”. Dwivedi added: “The police are groping in the dark; they have no evidence that Ashish was in Tikunia when the incident took place. He has furnished video clips to prove he was in his village of Banvirpur, 4km away, attending a wrestling programme. Besides, Ashis is in jail and the police could have interrogated him there.” The Lucknow officer who spoke to this newspaper said Ashis might be taken to the scene of the carnage to reconstruct the events. He said the SIT would also seek custody of Ashish Pandey and Luv Kush Rana, the two others arrested in the case, “so that the three of them can be brought face to face in front of the probe team”. Pandey and Rana, who are alleged to have been in the convoy of cars that mowed down the five victims, were arrested on Friday and sent to 14 days’ judicial custody. The murder FIR mentions 11 accused but names only six. Of the six, three have been arrested while the remaining three were allegedly lynched by the farmers after the cars crushed five people. While all the lawyers were present in the court physically on Monday, Ashis was connected from jail via videoconferencing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
12-10-2021||India||Silence on letter on Father Stan Swamy’s jail torment ||A three-month-old letter by three Elgaar Parishad co-accused alleging “institutional murder” of Father Stan Swamy and accusing then Taloja prison superintendent Kaustubh Kurlekar of mistreating him has yet to evoke any response from the Maharashtra authorities it was sent to. The letter alleged the 84-year-old Jesuit and tribal rights defender from Jharkhand was strip-searched “in front of the entire staff” when he was brought to the jail, and was kept in isolation so the Parkinson's patient could not receive any help from fellow prisoners. Father Stan’s health had deteriorated during the eight months he spent in Navi Mumbai’s Taloja Central Prison, and he died of post-Covid complications in a Mumbai hospital while under judicial custody on July 5. The Parkinson’s patient, unable to drink water from a glass, had had to move court for the use of a straw and a sipper, initially denied to him by the prison, then under the command of Kurlekar. Kurlekar was transferred just before Father Stan died. Translated excerpts from the Marathi letter — sent by jailed Pune lawyer Surendra Gadling and balladeers Sagar Gorkhe and Ramesh Gaichor to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on July 7 — were published by news website Newsclick last week The letter says: “In our book, he didn't die a natural death. It was a well-planned institutional murder. We are disturbed and sad at father's death. And we have decided to fast for a day as a mark of protest.” It adds: “He desperately needed a helper due to Parkinson’s. To ensure he doesn’t get any help from his co-inmates, he was kept in isolation. It was Kurlekar’s conscious attempt to emasculate him physically and mentally. To keep him away from his co-accused activists, there were three attempts made in four months to transfer him to Arthur Road Prison.” A lawyer associated with the case said copies of the letter had been sent to Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil, the chief justice of Bombay High Court, the Maharashtra state human rights commission and Kharghar police station under whose authority the jail comes. “We have received no response so far,” Nihalsing Rathod, lawyer for Gorkhe and Gaichor, told The Telegraph. Thackeray’s aide Harshal Pradhan did not respond to queries about the letter from this newspaper, sent on WhatsApp. Kurlekar, now attached to the IG Prisons office, told this newspaper: “As per provisions in the criminal procedure code and the directions of the honourable High Court, the Taloja prison authority itself has sent a letter for a magisterial inquiry.” A magisterial inquiry is routine when a custody death occurs. Gaichor had also filed a contempt petition against Kurlekar in the high court in August, after a poem he wrote to his sister was seized under Rules 17 and 20 of the Facilities to Prisoners Rules, which the high court had struck down as unconstitutional in 1992. Another Elgaar Parishad case co-accused, author Sudhir Dhawale, too had moved a sessions court against the seizure — during Kurlekar's tenure at Taloja — of his letter to colleagues at his publication Vidrohi. The letter contained a poem on Father Stan in Marathi titled “Pathalgadicha Father” (Father of Pathalgadi) — a reference to a movement to protect scheduled areas from government projects in Jharkhand. Neither case has been heard so far, a defence lawyer said. Father Stan had been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) last year for his alleged links to Maoists, who are accused of fomenting violence at an Ambedkarite pilgrimage near Pune in 2018. Fifteen others — mostly rights activists, lawyers and writers — have also been arrested in the case under the anti-terror Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). The treatment Father Stan faced in jail had prompted Congress leader P. Chidambaram - who had as Union home minister widened the scope of the UAPA — to slam the Maharashtra government in which his party is a partner. “Are the administrators of the jail department and especially the DG, Prisons so bereft of human compassion that they cannot provide straws to the old and ailing prisoner?” Chidambaram had tweeted. The state government has since ignored pleas from civil society to recommend — to high-powered committees mandated by the Supreme Court to decongest prisons during the pandemic — the release of the Elgaar prisoners, most of them elderly and ailing, on interim bail. Despite appeals from internationally renowned activists and human rights defenders every few weeks in the past three years, the NIA has consistently opposed bail pleas in the case. Father Stan's last public act before dying was to legally challenge Section 43D(5) of the UAPA as unconstitutional as it creates a de facto ban on the grant of bail, as well as the use of the term “front organisation”. The plea lapsed with his death. Forensic analysis by an American firm has indicated the planting of evidence on the computers of Gadling and Elgaar Parishad co-accused and human rights defender Rona Wilson. Father Stan had made a similar allegation before his arrest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
12-10-2021||India||LAC: China 'not agreeable' to withdraw troops at friction points||The Chinese army is “not agreeable” to withdrawing from India-claimed territory at the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh, the Indian Army said on Monday. The 13th round of India-China military talks held on Sunday “thus did not result in resolution of the remaining areas”, the Indian Army added. An Indian defence ministry official said in private that Sunday’s talks had “collapsed”. Beijing too indicated that the talks had failed, with a Chinese army statement saying: “The Indian side still persisted in its unreasonable and unrealistic demands, which added difficulties to the negotiations.” In a statement on Monday, the Indian Army said: “During the meeting, the Indian side, therefore, made constructive suggestions for resolving the remaining areas but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals. The meeting thus did not result in resolution of the remaining areas. “The Indian side pointed out that the situation along the LAC had been caused by unilateral attempts of the Chinese side to alter the status quo and in violation of the bilateral agreements. It was, therefore, necessary that the Chinese side take appropriate steps in the remaining areas so as to restore peace and tranquillity....” The two countries’ foreign ministers too had at their recent meeting in Dushanbe agreed that the two sides should resolve the remaining issues at the earliest. A statement from Senior Colonel Long Shaohua, spokesperson for the Chinese army’s Western Theatre Command, said: “During the meeting, the Chinese side made great efforts to promote the easing and cooling of the border situation and fully demonstrated China’s sincerity of maintaining overall interests of bilateral military relations. However, the Indian side still persisted in its unreasonable and unrealistic demands, which added difficulties to the negotiations.” It added: “China is firm in its resolve to safeguard national sovereignty. The Indian side should abide by the relevant agreements and consensus reached between the two countries and two militaries, show sincerity and take concrete actions to jointly safeguard peace and stability in the border areas with China.” Responding to China’s statement, military veteran Pravin Sawhney said in a tweet: “India’s demand of PLA going back to April 2020 positions is unacceptable to China — so the stalemate will continue with serious implications for India’s sovereignty.” India and China have been locked in a border standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since May 5 last year. The Chinese are estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. So far, the Chinese have disengaged “partially” in the Galwan Valley, Pangong Lake and Gogra while remaining well within India-claimed lines, but have refused to disengage from the Depsang Plains and Hot Springs. A security official attached to the Union home ministry said the Chinese appeared “adamant” at Sunday’s talks about not restoring the status quo of April 2020. A defence ministry official said the Chinese were “sticking to their stand that the occupied zones are their territory and that Indian troops should move further back as a precondition for disengagement”. An Indian Army officer said the Chinese were working to establish a “revised status quo”. He accused Beijing of going back on its word to disengage from the remaining friction points in Ladakh. Sunday’s talks took place against the backdrop of two recent border transgressions by the Chinese army, in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand and the Tawang sector of Arunachal Pradesh. Ahead of the talks, Indian army chief M.M. Naravane had on Saturday said the continued Chinese build-up in eastern Ladakh was “a matter of concern” and implied that “they are there to stay”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
12-10-2021||India||JNU teachers allege research fund misappropriation ‘cover-up’ ||The teachers’ association of Jawaharlal Nehru University on Monday accused the varsity administration led by vice-chancellor Jagadesh Kumar of covering up a case of alleged misappropriation of research funds. On September 30, an emergency meeting of the university’s Executive Council (EC) decided to suspend a professor and two officials and initiate criminal proceedings against them for alleged misappropriation of funds. The JNU Teachers’ Association has alleged a cover-up, saying the matter was not allowed to be discussed thoroughly in the EC meeting. The matter relates to additional expenditure of Rs 88 lakh by A.L. Ramanathan, professor with the School of Environmental Sciences of the university, under certain research projects. The professor allegedly raised bills beyond the sanctioned amount for the projects and the officials dealing with finance released funds from the consolidated research funds. “This mode allegedly involves procuring false bills of consumables from actual or shadow vendors, getting them approved, and pocketing of the payment made for the same by all those involved without anything being received in exchange by the university/project,” said JNUTA secretary Moushumi Basu. When contacted on the phone, Ramanathan said: “I cannot comment.” Surajit Mazumdar, former JNUTA secretary, said at a news conference here that during the EC meeting, the matter came up as an additional agenda item and was not discussed thoroughly. “Ideally, when there is a case of financial bungling of this nature, an enquiry is set up by the university. The accused persons are issued chargesheets and the enquiry committee recommends actions. The enquiry can widen the investigation too. But in this case, the decision was taken to send the case to the CVC (chief vigilance officer) without any discussion in the EC,” Mazumdar said. In the meantime, finance officer Samir Sharma, who had over two years of his tenure left, was relieved from his post last week. The JNUTA alleged that the move to relieve the finance officer should have been discussed in the EC meeting but it was not done to protect him and the vice-chancellor. “The bills are cleared at different levels. Bills of over Rs 2.5 lakh are sent to the vice-chancellor for clearance. In this embezzlement, it is not clear how many bills were approved by the vice-chancellor. Hence a proper enquiry is required at the level of the university,” said D.K. Lobiyal, former JNUTA president. An email was sent to VC Kumar on the issue and his response is awaited. The irregularities were brought to light by a fact-finding committee. The JNUTA alleged that apart from the Rs 88 lakh, more money might have been diverted from research project funds to non-academic purposes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
12-10-2021||India||State parties declare income through electoral bonds||The reliance on electoral bonds — which conceal the identity of the donor — as the main source of income extends not just to the main national parties but even to regional entities, a report released by the Association of Democratic Reforms has revealed. An analysis of the financial audit reports submitted by 42 state parties shows that 14 of them declared income from electoral bonds, which cumulatively accounted for 50.97 per cent of their total income in 2019-20. The report titled, “Analysis of Income & Expenditure of Regional Political Parties for FY 2019-20”, released by the ADR on Monday, listed the Telugu parties — Telangana Rashtra Samithi, Telugu Desam Party and the Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party — as the biggest beneficiaries of electoral bonds among state parties. The report says: “For the FY 2019-20, more than 62 per cent of the total income of seven National Parties came from Donations through Electoral Bonds (Rs 2,993.826 crore), wherein identity of the donor is not disclosed to the public. Of the Regional parties that have submitted their audit reports, 14 Regional Parties (TRS, TDP, YSR Congress, BJD, DMK, SHS, AAP, JDU, SP, JDS, SAD, AIADMK, RJD and JMM) have declared receiving donations through Electoral Bonds worth Rs 447.498 crore... TRS received the highest donations worth Rs 89.1529 crore or 68.34 per cent of its total income through Electoral Bonds followed by TDP declaring Electoral Bonds worth Rs 81.60 crore or 89.15 per cent and YSR-C (Rs 74.35 crore or 80.171 per cent).” The report, which uses the term “regional parties” instead of “state parties”, adds: “As per the data shared by SBI in response to ADR’s RTI application, Electoral Bonds worth Rs 3,429.5586 crore were redeemed by parties in FY 2019-20. Of this, 87.29 per cent was received by four National Parties — BJP, INC, AITC & NCP. The total amount of Electoral Bonds declared by National and Regional parties for FY 2019-20 so far is Rs 3,441.324 crore. The difference in the amount declared by political parties and data on Electoral Bonds redeemed received from SBI could be due to the manner in which parties report in their audit report.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
12-10-2021||India||J&K: Five soldiers die after being caught in militant ambush||An army operation to flush out militants in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Monday went horribly wrong after the troops got caught in an ambush leaving a junior commissioned officer and four jawans dead. Three slain soldiers were from Punjab, one from Uttar Pradesh and one from Kerala. Official sources identified the deceased soldiers as Naib Subedar Jaswinder Singh, Naik Mandeep Singh, Sepoy Gajjan Singh, all from Punjab, Sepoy Saraj Singh from Uttar Pradesh and Sepoy Vaisakh H. Kottarakara from Kerala. The gunfight, the deadliest in Jammu and Kashmir this year, has come amid an alarming surge in militancy in Jammu’s Pir Panjal region, which includes Poonch and Rajouri districts, in recent months. The border region, which was largely calm for nearly two decades, has seen at least half a dozen gunfights in the last few months. The army said the five soldiers died in a gunfight in Dera Ki Gali area of Poonch’s Surankote that began early on Monday. Reinforcements were rushed in to comb a large forest area where the militants are believed to be hiding. The defence spokesman in Jammu said an operation was launched early on Monday following intelligence inputs about the presence of militants in villages close to Dera Ki Gali. “The encounter with terrorists is going on. In the ensuing firefight during the ongoing encounter with terrorists, one JCO and four jawans suffered critical injuries. The critically injured were evacuated to the nearest medical facility but succumbed to their injuries,” the spokesman said. Defence sources said the militants ambushed the jawans as they were heading towards their hideout. “They (militants) were apparently watching the movement. An intense fire came from all sides and they succeeded in causing heavy casualties,” a source said. The forces had a tough time evacuating the injured as militants took advantage of the thick foliage to continue firing. The militants later escaped through the forest but efforts were underway to hunt them down. Later in the day, a fresh contact was established in Bhangai village of adjoining Rajouri, several kilometres away from the site of earlier clash, where militants are said to have fled. The security forces believe the militants had freshly infiltrated across the border and were apparently heading towards the Valley. The Line of Control in Pir Panjal region has seen multiple infiltration bids in recent months, giving a peek into how Pakistan has stepped up its activities after the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. The militants are increasingly targeting the minorities in the Valley with three men, including a Kashmiri Pandit and a Sikh woman, falling to the bullets of militants. The forces have detained some 900 people in the Valley in an unprecedented crackdown seeking to nab the killers, although their families alleged they are being targeted when they have no links with the attacks. In previous five gunfights in the Poonch-Rajouri belt, three armymen and seven militants have lost their lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
12-10-2021||India||Uttarakhand minister quits BJP, joins Congress||The Congress received a huge boost in Uttarakhand as veteran Dalit leader Yashpal Arya and his MLA son Sanjiv Arya joined the party on Monday ahead of the Assembly election in the state. Yashpal Arya, former chief of the Uttarakhand Congress unit, had defected to the BJP in 2017 and served as a cabinet minister in the Pushkar Singh Dhami government. He resigned on Monday and returned to the Congress along with his son Sanjiv who is also a dynamic leader with promise. The Congress is hoping to regain power in the tiny hill state with the BJP in disarray despite changing the chief minister twice within a span of a few months. The Congress had lost a large number of leaders to the BJP before the last Assembly election. With Arya’s return, the Congress hopes to win over a sizeable section of Dalit voters in the state. Arya was unhappy in the BJP after junior leader Dhami was made the chief minister. Arya, however, said: “I returned to my family because the Congress is the only party with a history of service, sacrifice and democratic tradition. The Congress respects all castes and every religion.” Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat said Arya’s return would immensely help the Congress as he was an organisational man who contributed a lot in strengthening the party in the past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
12-10-2021||India||Cong accuses Centre of buying oil from fugitive economic offenders||The Congress on Monday accused the Narendra Modi government of doing business with fugitive economic offenders who escaped from the country after looting banks, describing it as a unique scheme to sustain their financial status. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said: “Modi government purchased crude oil worth Rs 5,701.83 crore from Sandesara group. This detail was found through an RTI query. In September 2020, a special court declared Nitin Sandesara, Chetan Sandesara, his wife Dipti and one Hiteshkumar Narendrabhai Patel fugitive economic offenders, on the request of the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Evidence shows the business is continuing and the next consignment is expected to arrive on November 1.” Explaining how several fraudsters, including Mehul Choksi, Nirav Modi, Vijay Mallya and Sandesara brothers, were allowed to flee the country despite cases against them by the Modi government, Vallabh said: “This is Modi model of helping fugitives — facilitate their escape when they get embroiled in cases and do business with them to sustain their finances. Dupe banks, run away with public money, relax at foreign locations and sell goods and services from these locations to the Government of India. Common people are hounded for missing one EMI and this is how the Modi government deals with people who looted India.” Giving details, Vallabh said: “In October 2017, ED registered a money-laundering case against Sterling Biotech and its promoters, the Sandesara brothers. The brothers, promoters of Baroda-based Sterling Biotech, fled India just before the CBI and ED registered cases against them in 2017 for allegedly siphoning off loans of government banks worth Rs 15,000 crore. Instead of central agencies going after them, they seem to be rolling a red carpet for the Sandesaras. Instead of curbing or seizing their business and assets, the petroleum ministry is shamelessly indulging in business with the Sandesaras.” He added: “From January 1, 2018, to May 31, 2020, shipments worth Rs 5,701.83 crore of Okwuibome crude oil were received from a Sterling Biotech group entity (Sterling Oil Exploration and Energy Production Company Ltd — SEEPCO), Nigeria, by our oil public sector units. SEEPCO has been producing Okwuibome crude oil. PSUs like HPCL, BPCL and IOCL have been actively purchasing oil from SEEPCO. There is a vessel en route to Paradip from Nigeria that belongs to SEEPCO and is expected to reach Paradip on November 1, 2021. So far, no vessels of SEEPCO have been seized.” Vallabh said the expose of Pandora papers had revealed that the Sandesara brothers formed six offshore firms to increase oil trade with India. “Interestingly, all of these companies were formed between November 2017 and April 2018 (ED registered a money-laundering case in October 2017) and none of them have been investigated by central agencies.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
12-10-2021||India||Actor Nedumudi Venu dies at 73||Nedumudi Venu, rated as one of the most talented actors in Indian cinema, died at a private hospital here on Monday. He was 73. Having recovered from Covid-19, Venu had been unwell for quite some time and was admitted to the hospital after he complained of uneasiness. Shifted to the ICU, his condition worsened on Sunday. He breathed his last on Monday afternoon. He is survived by his wife and two children. Born in 1948 in Nedumudi in Kerala’s Alappuzha district, Venu began his career as a theatre artiste with famous dramatist Kavalam Narayana Panicker’s experimental theatre group. He entered films in 1978 with G. Aravindan’s Thambu. His most memorable performance that established Venu as a talent in Malayalam cinema was in Thakara in which he played the role of a village carpenter. He never had to look back after that. In his film career spanning over four decades, Venu acted in over 500 movies as hero, villain and character actor. According to film scholar N. Balagopal, Venu was one of the few actors in Indian cinema who excelled both as stylised actor and realistic actor, which in Indian theatre tradition is called Natya Dharmi and Lokadharmi, respectively. A recipient of national and state film awards, Venu did notable roles in movies such as His Highness Abdullah and Bharatham. Ente Mazha directed by Subrahmanyam was his last film.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
12-10-2021||India||Odisha Congress protest over Lakhimpur Kheri case  ||Odisha Congress leaders on Monday organised a silent protest — “maun brata” — from 11am to 1pm near the Raj Bhavan here demanding immediate resignation of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni for trying to shield his son Ashis whose vehicle had allegedly mowed down four farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh recently. The protest was organised on the call of All India Congress Committee (AICC). However, this silent protest caught the attention of all as it was completely different from the raucous and often loud demonstrations organised by the party on different issues in the past. The activists alleged that minister’s son was driving the vehicle that crushed the farmers to death. “We organised it on the call of the AICC. The Centre instead of withdrawing the anti-farmer laws is trying to stifle the voice of farmers. Here the minister’s son’s vehicle had run over the farmers. The minister should be immediately sacked and action should be taken against all the perpetrators of the crime,” demanded OPCC president Niranjan Patnaik. Former finance minister and Congress leader Panchanan Kanungo told The Telegraph: “The minister is the abettor. He had instigated others. Perhaps, the BJP had a plan to create a fear psychosis in the minds of people in UP so that no one would turn to support the ongoing farmers’ agitation. “They had thought of implementing the Gujarat model in UP and across the country by resorting to fear psychosis treatment. But they won’t be successful in stifling the voice of people.” On the issue of observing the “maun brata”, the Congress said the Prime Minister has so far maintained a stoic silence on the issue. “He talks on every issue and what has prevented him from opening his mouth on the issue. Why has the minister not been sacked so far? It should be answered. As the Prime Minister is more vocal, we decided we will observe the maun brata to listen to his voice,” said Kanungo. “Why did it take so many days for UP police to arrest Ashis? He is being treated with a kid glove. What has prevented the Prime Minister from sacking Ashis? If the Supreme Court had not intervened, even the UP police would not have acted on this issue,” said a senior Congress leader and eminent lawyer Sibanada Ray Carrying placards which demanded Mishra’s resignation, the protesters pointed that the nexus between Modi-Shah-Yogi has prevented the resignation of the minister and delayed the arrest of Ashis. One of the placards read, “Modi-Yogi-Ajay Mishra down down”. Another placard read, “Stop mowing down farmers under your wheels”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
12-10-2021||West Bengal||Murshidabad: 36 families homeless amid erosion||Some 36 families in Dhulian, a municipal town in Murshidabad’s Samserganj, turned homeless owing to erosion in the Ganga on Monday. Six houses so far have been swept away by the erosion that started three days ago. Apart from the six houses lost, 30 more are endangered. A 300-metre-long road made by the municipality is also gone. Lalpur and Raiganj, in the municipality, are the worst affected. The administration has sheltered homeless residents  at a local primary school. Those whose houses are on the verge of being swept away have moved to safer places with whatever they could salvage. People dismantled their houses to take away doors, window panes and bricks with the hope that they would need them to build new homes. Asharul Seikh, who lost his house,  said he had built his home only three years ago. He jas no hope of building another. “I’d toiled hard to build this house. Now all of it is gone. I’ll never be able to make another. I don’t even have any land left. My family will have to live on the streets now,” Seikh said. For erosion victim Badal Singha, Durga Puja is ruined. “Saving our lives is most important now. The erosion started three days before Durga Puja. Festivities for us have become a joke,” Singha said. He added he had been living in the area for around 40 years and seen erosion earlier as well, but nothing of this sort. Local sources said this was the first time in years that the Samserganj area had seen such devastating erosion. At present, two of the most endangered buildings are a mosque and the government-aided Amanat Memorial Primary School. “I’ve asked the BDO to provide temporary assistance like tarpaulin and food to people who have lost homes. The irrigation department has also been asked to arrange temporary prevention against erosion,” said Sharad Kumar Dwivedi, district magistrate, Murshidabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
12-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 606 new cases, 597 recoveries, nine deaths||Bengal on Monday reported 606 new Covid-19 infections, 597 recoveries and nine deaths, as the number of active cases stayed put at 7,649. This occurred as the number of recoveries and deaths put together equalled the number of new infections. In 16 days, Bengal recorded a rise in its total of active cases on 11 days, a fall on four days and status quo on Monday. It had snapped out of a 97-day streak of fall in the active cases, or Covid patients under treatment, on September 26. Bengal now has 3.67 per cent of India’s active cases, and is sixth among states with the most number of such cases. Calcutta logged 145 new infections and North 24-Parganas 109, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Eight districts reported a single-digit figure. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta reported one and North 24-Parganas two. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, while the national rate is 98.02. Its daily positive confirmation rate was 2.32 per cent on Monday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.77 lakh Covid-19 cases since March last year, including over 15.5 lakh recoveries and 18,914 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
12-10-2021||West Bengal||Intra-party clash kills 2 of Trinamul in Cooch Behar||Two persons died and five others got injured as two Trinamul factions clashed at Gitaldaha under Dinhata police station of Cooch Behar district on Sunday night. Both had bullet injuries, police said. Local Trinamul leaders admitted that the dead and the injured were party supporters who had clashed to gain control over the area. “They clashed over some local issue and two persons lost their lives. Five were injured. Four persons have been detained so far in this connection,” said SP Sumit Kumar. Gitaldaha, under Dinhata police station, comes under Sitai Assembly seat. But the clash has perturbed Trinamul’s district party leaders as internal rifts were again bared ahead of the October 30 bypoll in the Dinhata Assembly seat. Sources said around 10pm on Sunday, supporters of Jagadish Burma Basunia, the Trinamul MLA of Sitai and rivals of another lobby of district leaders including former district president Partha Pratim Roy had an altercation at Marakuti village under Gitaldaha-II panchayat. Deceased Mannan Haque and Muzaffar Hussain have been identified as MLA Basuria’s followers. The MLA on Sunday demanded a comprehensive probe. “All I can say that those who lost their lives and those injured are Trinamul supporters. Police should find out what led to the incident,” he said. Trinamul insiders pointed out that in Cooch Behar, infighting among different lobbies of the party has been one of the major reasons for the party’s miserable results at the elections held during the past few years. “Even Mamata Banerjee and Abhishek Banerjee have time and again alerted those who head these lobbies to refrain from clashing. But violence seems to be far from ending,” said a senior leader. Girindranath Barman, the district Trinamul chief, tried to downplay the issue. “As far I know, the clash was over differences among two families. There is no political issue,” Barman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
12-10-2021||West Bengal||Muslim outfit gifts new clothes to villagers in Bankura ||A group of Muslim youths at remote Lodda village in Bankura district on Sunday gifted new clothes to around 400 poor Hindu families after they held a survey on how many villagers could not buy any for Bengal’s biggest festival. The 20 youths, mostly farmers and small traders, held a meeting a fortnight ago to survey how many among the Hindu community in their locality needed new clothes. “Most of the Hindu families in our area are poor. We visited the homes to see if they were able to buy new clothes for their family members. Many could not. So we took details like age and gender of the family members, including children, as these were important before purchasing dresses. We distributed the clothes on Sunday,” said Sheikh Bapi, a member of the Lodda Muslim Yuva Sampradai that organised this event. On Sunday, during a cultural programme at the village grounds,  the members handed over new clothes to those who had enlisted their names. “We believe in amity and here both Hindus and Muslims live like brothers. We also celebrate our festivals together. For us, religion is a personal affair but festivity is for all,” said Sheikh Mojammel, a member. The youths said that to buy the new clothes they pooled their own money and from other philanthropic villagers to raise Rs 1 lakh. With this, they brought new clothes for the 400 families, including around 50 children and 200 women. Bablu Bauri, whose elderly parents, wife and child received new clothes from the Lodda Muslim Yuva Sampradai, said he was in deep financial crisis and was in no position to buy clothes. “I am a daily wage earner and used to work as a mason’s helper here. I have not been earning regularly since the pandemic started. I had no money to buy new clothes for my family during Durga Puja this year,” Bablu said, thanking organisers for the gesture. Lodda is a village in Khalagram gram panchayat in Taldangra block area of Bankura. The village is the only one in the area with a sizeable Muslim population. The village has around 400 Muslim families, most relatively better-off. In Bankura district, the Muslim population is only 8.08 per cent as per 2011 census. This is not the first time that the Muslim youths have come forward to help needy Hindu families. During the lockdown, they helped villagers who had lost their jobs with dry ration like riceand pulses. “When there was partial lockdown or curbs during the second wave of the pandemic we used to serve cooked food to the needy families,” added one of the youths of the group. The organisers said they will continue similar drives in the future too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
12-10-2021||West Bengal||Faith no bar for Durga Puja festivities in Cooch Behar ||Residents of Suktabari, a tiny village on the outskirts of Cooch Behar town, have been hosting a community Durga Puja for around 55 years now. A homely affair, it doesn’t have the glamour of the major pujas in the district. But it stands out because of the feeling of amity. In Suktabari, Hindus are a minority and this puja is held with the help of hundreds of Muslim families of the area. The village on the banks of the Torsha has a market where thousands visit every day. The puja is held at a temple in the market near the mosque and madrasa. In all, there are 400 shops at the market and only five are owned by Hindus. “For decades now, Durga Puja has been held at the local temple. We join hands together to celebrate the occasion. In Suktabari, we have never seen any religious differences cropping up,” said Abul Hossain, president of the Suktabari Bazaar Byabsayee Samiti. Traders like Harinath Saha and Manoj Saha, whose families have been staying at the village for generations, said they never felt “different.” “We often hear people giving tall talks on amity but doing things that create differences among communities. They should visit Suktabari. We can organise the puja only because we get immense help from all the Muslims here,” said Harinath. Beauty, his wife, the secretary of the puja committee this year, echoed him. “Muslims are the majority here and their enthusiasm for Durga Puja encourages us. We went to collect chanda and no one denied us,” she said. The Durga Puja organised at a taxi stand in Malda town since 2007 tells a similar story. Known as Gazole Taxi Stand Sarbojanin Durgotsab, it unites Muslims and Hindus. Bobby Ahmed, secretary of the puja committee, said they felt the need to organise the puja as they found some lower caste Hindus were aloof from the festivities. “Their deprivation and humiliation prompted me to start this puja. Thankfully, some well-to-do residents of the locality stood by me,” he said. Sankar Dutta, the puja committee president, said it was only because of Ahmed’s endeavour that they could host the puja at the taxi stand. “Ahmed is very scrupulous about holding the rituals minutely. He has set an example for us,” said Dutta. Ahmed, a trader, also bears the cost of a Kali Puja at his ancestral village in Englishbazar block near the India-Bangladesh border. “If one practises religion truly, one can’t resort to violence or any form of disharmony,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
12-10-2021||West Bengal||Bus injures teen, mob ire erupts on NH2||Angry residents ransacked several vehicles and blocked two service lanes of NH2 in Durgapur town for over three hours after an Asansol-bound Volvo bus knocked down and injured a 19-year-old at 10.30am Monday. The mob also manhandled policemen who had gone to the spot to control the situation. The incident happened at busy Muchipara crossing when the market on both sides of the service lanes was crowded on the first day of Durga Puja. Witnesses said the bus that usually uses the overbridge of the highway was on the Asansol-bound service lane as the bridge was closed for repairs. “The Volvo overtook a bus at Muchipara crossing and suddenly took the wrong route. The youth, Amit Prasad, standing beside the Calcutta-bound service lane, was hit,” said Chandan Gorai, an eyewitness. As Amit slumped, the bus driver and helper fled. Angry residents, who blocked the crossing and hurled stones at vehicles, alleged that most of the time no traffic policeman stayed on the accident-prone crossing. Traffic on the busy Calcutta-Delhi highway was held up till at least 2pm . Protesters finally dispersed after police promised to bear the cost of Amit’s treatment and deploy traffic police on the crossing. Rushed to Durgapur subdivisional hospital, Amit was shifted by police to a private hospital. The protesters also demanded compensation and money for the treatment of the injured and compulsory police posting at the crossing. The police said the NHAI was repairing cracks on the overbridge and had closed the bridge for traffic. That’s why vehicles, including trucks and buses, are using narrow service lanes to negotiate the busy crossing. “The closure of the bridge has made it difficult for us to manage the traffic bottleneck on both sides of the service lanes. Sometimes buses and other small vehicles take the wrong route to avoid the snarl,” said a police officer. “We will bear the entire cost of the treatment of the injured youth and ensure police posting here. We will also urge the national highway authorities to finish repair work fast,” said Dhrubajyoti Mukherjee, assistant commissioner of police (Durgapur).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
12-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP’s Khardah bypoll candidate ‘attacked’||The BJP’s Khardah bypoll candidate, Joy Saha, was allegedly attacked, along with others, by suspected Trinamul supporters during a clash over putting up banners near Girja More in Khardah on Sunday night. Allegedly, ruling party supporters forced BJP supporters to leave. Three injured BJP supporters are in hospital. Saha has lodged a complaint with Khardah police. But no one was arrested in this connection till Monday night. Saha termed the incident as a planned attack to kill him and terrorise party workers. The party has told the Election Commission about the attack. Police and local sources said trouble broke out at Girja More around 10pm on Sunday when some Trinamul supporters allegedly removed BJP  banners and set them on fire. “Our party workers were putting up banners when a group of  20 Trinamul activists backed by goons attacked them. They removed our banners, flags and buntings and began beating our people. I rushed to the spot,”  Saha said. “I was checking the gutted flex when they began to hurl stones at me and ransacked my car. I alerted police, but they were mute spectators.” Local Trinamul leaders denied the charge. “None of our party workers was involved. I learnt it was a fallout of BJP’s internal bickering,” a Trinamul leader in Khardah said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
12-10-2021||West Bengal||Centre calls tripartite meet to discuss ST status in hills||The demand to grant Scheduled Tribe status to 11 communities in the Darjeeling hills and Sikkim is likely to be discussed at the tripartite meeting that the Centre has convened in New Delhi on Tuesday to discuss “issues related to Gorkhas”. The hills were on Monday abuzz with murmurs that the Narendra Modi government would finally take up the ST demand after Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista said the registrar general of India (RGI) and the secretary of the Union tribal ministry would attend the meeting. “The registrar general of India and the secretary of the Union tribal ministry have been asked to attend the tripartite meeting, which means the issue of granting tribal status to 11 communities will be discussed tomorrow,” said Bista. The meeting will be chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah. Even though both the Bengal and Sikkim governments and the BJP, which is in power at the Centre, have agreed to the demand of granting the ST status to 11 communities, no concrete action has been taken about it as yet. The 11 communities are Bhujel, Gurung, Mangar, Newar, Jogi, Khas, Rai, Sunuwar, Thami, Yakka (Dewan) and Dhimal. “There is an understanding that bureaucrats are not in favour of according the ST tag to the 11 hill communities as they believe certain modalities are not fulfilled by many communities,” said an observer. The Union ministry of tribal affairs had formed a committee in 2016 to examine the demand for the ST tag. “The determination has to be done as per the modalities of the government. ORGI is the competent authority to determine if a community is as per its yardstick for listing as Schedule Tribe,” read the report filed by the panel. Interestingly, even before the report was submitted by the committee, the ORGI had rejected twice on various grounds the proposal sent by the Bengal and Sikkim governments to bestow the ST tag on the 11 communities. An RTI reply in 2019 had said the ORGI was of the opinion that there would be similar demand from people of Nepalese origin from other states, apart from Bengal and Sikkim, in the country. A letter had also been written by the additional registrar general to joint secretary in the ministry of tribal status on March 24, 2017 stating “inflow of Nepalese immigrants will further increase if the said communities are granted ST status”. Another important observation of the ORGI read: “The consequences of specifying all these (Gorkha )communities as STs will be, that almost all the permanent residents of Sikkim will be Schedule Tribes, and the more backward communities like Lepcha and Bhutia (who are Schedule Tribes) would be disadvantaged and deprived.” The list of attendees at the meeting remained hazy as there was no confirmation from the state government that it had been invited to the talks. Bista has, however, said Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi has been invited to the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
12-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Many colours||Durga Puja — it begins today — is a wonderful amalgamation of the divine and the secular. The religious fervour is notable. Even during an era of sweeping social and cultural transformations, around this time of year, Bengalis — in Calcutta, all over the country and the world — try their best to adhere to certain traditions that have been passed down the ages. Tarpan, anjali and that other Bengali favourite — bhog — are manifestations of a continuum that is both illuminating and educative. Yet, it would not be correct to view Bengal’s biggest festival as a purely orthodox religious occasion. For instance, it has distinct material benefits. A first-of-its-kind study commissioned by the Bengal government has come up with some significant findings: the annual festivity contributes 2.58 per cent to Bengal’s gross domestic product. Allied activities also generate supplementary seasonal employment while the economic worth of art and decoration is worth Rs 860 crore. What is also significant is that Durga Puja serves as a mirror of the times. Like every other year, the ‘theme’ of many community Pujas will be echoing contemporary concerns this year too. For instance, the ‘anxiety of the refugees’, underscoring New India’s sudden willingness to view citizenship from a religious perspective, is being explored — aesthetically — by one particular club. The farmers’ protest features in another Puja in the northern part of the city. More importantly, there are numerous examples of the festival functioning as a crucial bridge to plug the chasms that are being opened up in ties between communities. In an inspiring example at a time of intense communal strife in the country, Muslims and Hindus are known to join hands to organize festivities, reinforcing Durga Puja’s truly representative nature. This strange but important assimilation of seemingly contradictory forces — secular and faith, private and political — makes Bengal’s festival absolutely unique.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
12-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor:  India on brink of huge power crisis||Crisis ahead Sir — India is on the brink of a huge power crisis. More than half the country’s plants are on alert for outages after surging electricity demand and a slump in local coal output led to the erosion of stockpiles. Although coal-powered plants are required to maintain 15 to 30 days of stocks, over half of the country’s 135 coal-fired power plants, which supply around 70 per cent of the nation’s electricity, have fuel stocks of less than two days, as per data from the grid operator. The situation is alarming and the Central government must solve this problem on a war-footing. A shortage of power will be calamitous and bring several industries to a standstill. Manisha Panwar,Ujjain Sir — An energy crisis is looming in many states as a result of excessive rainfall hitting coal movement and imported coal-based power plants generating less than half of their capacity because of record high rates. As such states are expected to feel an acute shortage in the upcoming days. India is heading towards a massive disaster and its repercussions will be felt for months to come. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — India is on the brink of an energy crisis. Coal is now being diverted away from key buyers such as steel mills and aluminium smelters. The nation needs to ramp up production and, if the coal crunch prevails, import it at a significant cost. Either way, the impact on the economy will be significant. Seetharam Basaani,Hanamkonda, Telangana Due recognition Sir — At a time when journalists in India are languishing in jail, it was heartening to see the Nobel committee award the Peace Prize to two journalists, Maria Ressa and Dmitry Muratov, for their commitment to safeguarding the freedom of speech and expression. This recognition comes at a crucial juncture in history when the freedom of press is being curtailed. But the question is whether this will change the ground reality. Journalists are jailed or killed for raising their voice against injustice. The government must not penalize journalists for speaking the truth. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee, Faridabad Sir — The Nobel committee has given due recognition to the role of journalism by awarding Maria Ressa and Dmitry Muratov the Nobel Peace Prize for their efforts to “safeguard freedom of expression, which is a precondition for democracy and lasting peace”. This will boost the morale of all working journalists. Our heartfelt congratulations to Ressa and Muratov. Md. Yousuf Kamal,Muzaffarpur, Bihar  Festive fever Sir — In Joy Baba Felunath — the adventure is set during the Durga Puja — Feluda had asked the artisan making the idol whether it would be finished by Shashti. One can no longer imagine an unfinished idol till Shashti — inauguration of pandals starts on Mahalaya, so does pandal-hopping. There was a time when Saptami marked the beginning of festivities. This would have been a good thing if this meant that the crowds thinned out a little. But the number of people on the streets have gone up too. Evidently, baro mashe tero parbon is no longer enough for Bengalis. Ananya Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
12-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Welcome back||The Maharaja — the tubby, puckish and, sometimes, leery mascot of Air India — is not the only battered, anachronistic image that the Tatas will have to buff when they take over the troubled State-owned airline. The impish caricature that was created in 1946 by the former commercial director, Bobby Kooka, embodying the ambitions of the airline that wished to be counted among the best in the world, may seem a little out of touch with today’s grim realities in the world of aviation. The bigger worry is that Air India is hobbled by debt and grappling with the problem of restive, unpaid employees who have already started to fret about their future under the new owners. The Tatas will have to stump up Rs 27 billion in cash for the airline and assume Rs 153 billion in debt when they seal the deal with the Narendra Modi government by the end of December. Air India will taxi in with another airline in tow: the low-cost Air India Express that operates flights to 13 overseas destinations, mostly in the Gulf, and 16 cities in India. The State-owned airline has 153 planes, 12,085 employees, and a consolidated loss that was quantified at Rs 85.56 billion at the end of 2018-19. The Tata Group already has interests in two other airlines: AirAsia India, where it has an 84 per cent stake with a call option to buy up the rest, and Vistara, in which it has 51 per cent interest. Singapore Airlines owns the remaining 49 per cent. The three airlines have a combined market share of 25.7 per cent against IndiGo’s 56 per cent. At some point, the Tatas will look to merge them into one gigantic airline after they have taken all the gremlins out of the Air India balance sheet. The immediate tasks for the Tatas will be to find a new set of executives who can draw up a plan to restructure the airline, pare the debt burden, and raise cash to keep it afloat. Bombay House will then need to wield a hatchet to slash ballooning costs and overhaul a sloth-ridden work culture. This will be harder to achieve as it has guaranteed to keep all employees on the rolls for at least a year. It has the option of offering a voluntary retirement scheme to reduce the bloated workforce. The aviation industry has been mired in losses since the outbreak of the pandemic. As demand seeps back, rivals will be looking to grab customers. The Indian aviation industry has placed orders for over 500 planes that will come in over the next four years, exacerbating pressure on yields and profit margins. There is one saving grace: if anyone can overcome these formidable challenges, it has got to be the Tatas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
12-10-2021||Opinion||Honour the dead||India ranks 78 among all countries when it comes to the deceased organ donation rate. India’s 10-year average (2009-2019) is 0.42 per million compared to 40 in Spain, 33.7 in Croatia, 30.23 in Portugal and around 28.5 in Belgium and the United States of America, respectively. At the same time, 500,000 Indians die annually because of the non-availability of organs. Between 2014-2019, there were approximately 0.5 donors per million per year: that is a little over 800 deceased donations took place annually. According to the World Health Organization, around 0.01 per cent of Indians donate their organs after death. What explains these abysmally low numbers? Organ donation is a complex process involving five key players: the donor, the agency that registered the donor, the hospital where the donor expires, the recipient hospital, and the donor’s family members. It appears that there is a disproportionate focus on the first four at the expense of perhaps the most crucial decision-maker — family and next-of-kin of the donor. Their consent and active participation, under the current set-up, make donations possible. Let me elaborate this with a personal experience. My father had pledged his organs upon his death and informed his decision to his family and friends. However, no one remembered his pledge when he died. By the time we remembered, crucial hours had been lost in organizing the cumbersome logistics of contacting other hospitals and transporting him for organ-donation. As a result, the organs could not be transplanted. We could only donate his body for research and medical purpose to another hospital. Although the exact number of individuals who have pledged their bodies upon death is difficult to come by, one organization estimates that between 1985-2020, more than a million individuals registered for organ donation but only 4,000 successful donations took place. A large part of failed donations occur owing to poor infrastructure in hospitals or the reluctance of family members. A significant number of pledged cadavers are not donated because of a simple flaw in the system — lack of information flow. Several steps can be suggested to simplify the process for the family and the next-of-kin of the deceased to give their consent. The donor should be able to share information with a central database, say the UIDAI, or with an agency. The database must be updated so that as soon as a patient is admitted to hospital, the information is already available with the latter. The information is important in the event of an unaccompanied patient being admitted to hospital. The death of a patient can be an overwhelming experience, preventing family members from remembering the pledge of organ donation. A simple reminder by the hospital for consent will suffice. As part of the protocol, the doctor in charge of informing the family must seek their consent to proceed with organ transplantation and transport. Finally, the onus of transplantation and transport must not be put on the family members. A hospital help desk that coordinates between the agency that sought the initial donation and other hospitals that will be part of the organ transplantation link must be set up. While there are suggestions for India to adopt Spain’s ‘opt out’ model, this may not work given the prevailing religious and social sentiments that often prevent family members from donating a pledged body. However, making the process simpler for family members willing to donate the body of the deceased is the right step to honour the dead and help the living.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
12-10-2021||Opinion||An enduring system||Even as intra-party dissension simmers within the Congress in Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and elsewhere, the political dominance of the Bharatiya Janata Party reflects, at least electorally, the numerical preponderance of the Congress during the nascent years of independent India. In his paper for Asian Survey, the political scientist, Rajini Kothari, had termed this the “Congress System”, to denote, at once, a well-oiled party machinery, party-government interlinkage, and the facilitative factors behind the sustenance of the ‘system’. That seminal paper may now be consigned to the exclusive attention of those interested in the historical-political dynamics of the period, but there are certain parallels that can be drawn to make fuller sense of today’s politics and derive lessons by contextualizing the current occurrences within a broader historical frame. In a democratic structure marked by a competitive party system, leaders from the ruling party populate the executive, assuming ministerial positions as well as holding important posts in the party organization. This dual role has increasingly come to be an unquestioned trait of India’s parliamentary system. However, there have been exceptions. After the 2004 general elections, contrary to popular expectations, Sonia Gandhi, the president of the Congress, opted out of prime ministership. While Gandhi managed the party organization and the internal dynamics of the United Progressive Alliance, the prime minister, Manmohan Singh, headed the executive machinery. The seeds of this arrangement were laid during the ‘Congress System’. There has always been festering tension between party and government. Jawaharlal Nehru’s towering personality diluted this phenomenon at the national level but states witnessed frequent tussles between the chief minister and the Pradesh Congress Committee. Towards the end of Nehru’s rule, as the organization started to weaken, the ‘Kamaraj Plan’ was floated, directing senior ministers to step down and take up organizational roles. This attests to the fact that although congruence between government and ruling party is necessary to translate popular demands into policies, a distinction needs to be maintained between the two. The recent tussle in Punjab between Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu is a case in point. The Congress high command appointed the former cricketer amidst stiff opposition and handed an 18-point agenda to the state government. Ultimately, the ‘Captain’ was edged out, paving the way for the appointment of Charanjit Singh Channi as chief minister. Friction between the incumbent chief minister and the PCC chief remains an enduring phenomenon, notwithstanding the Congress’s depleted fortunes. Even the BJP has had to placate dissenting groups, with chief ministers being replaced in Karnataka, Uttarakhand and Gujarat. However, the BJP offers far lesser scope for chief ministers to nurture their own power base. The ‘Congress System’ was a political umbrella accommodating numerous shades of opinion, unified by the attachment to ideals like nationalism and secularism. What sustained the system was the party’s ability to embrace the views and interests of the opposition, akin to a “thermostat” as Kothari put it. This underlines the imperative of political parties to be receptive to diverse views and self-rectification. The Congress has a mixed record on this front, with prominent leaders like Sharad Pawar and Mamata Banerjee leaving the party and carving out separate political entities. But the induction of Hardik Patel into the Congress in Gujarat and his subsequent elevation to the post of working president of the state unit reveal an accommodative approach. One of the factors which underlines the uniqueness of the Congress System was its sustained electoral success. However, even that invincibility got dissolved — exemplified by such moments as Nehru’s demise, the first set-back during the 1967 elections and the split in the party itself thereafter. This shows that political dominance is not perennial. The present pan-India dominance of the BJP at the parliamentary level, with faltering success in state elections, indicates an interesting resonance with the Congress System. While the BJP has not had to grapple with succession crises at the national level, its internal decisions indicate a smooth mechanism of transition. When Amit Shah passed the mantle of national presidentship to J.P. Nadda, it signalled the party’s ability to bring about changes without substantial spill-over effects. Kothari’s essay evoked mixed responses. While scholars like Morris Jones saw it as further confirmation of the strength of India’s democratic credentials, Yogendra Yadav has offered a more modest appraisal — “anything between a quarter to a half of India was never covered by the Congress system”. Nevertheless, the academic and practical relevance of the Congress System as a unique mode of socio-political structural set-up endures, offering lessons for all parties competing in the electoral fray.  Ritabrata Chakraborty is a student in Hindu College, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
12-10-2021||Opinion||Carnival’s here||Perhaps it is easier for smaller towns to dedicate themselves completely to a festival for a few days than it is for big cities. My first experience of this was in 1975: at the age of fifteen, I got to tag along with my parents when they were invited to the bi-annual theatre festival in Nancy in northeastern France. I had never been to France or anywhere else in the West before but I knew a tiny bit about Paris. After a couple of eye-popping days in the legendary city, where I happily struggled to collate the reality of the place with the many received images and stories, we were driven by car to Nancy. The difference of scale between capital and provincial town was immediately evident. Within minutes of hitting the outskirts, we were in the city centre. Everything here was taken over by the festival, with huge posters for plays and outdoor performances, large signage that pointed you to the delegate centre, the ticket counters and buffet for delegates. There were several venues for performances, all of them quite easy to reach, either on foot or by a short bus ride. The cafes and restaurants all seemed to have something to do with performances and recitals, either officially part of the festival or maverick ones. There were numerous exhibitions of theatre posters and photographs. Alongside these were visible markers for the jazz festival, the other jamboree the city hosted every alternate year. With the theatre addicts, the buzz began at some point around noon — once everyone was awake — and continued into the early hours of the morning with people alternating among shows, talks and copious beverage breaks. Memories of specific performances aside, what stayed with me was the sense of an entire town completely focused on the serious, yet joyous, celebration of theatre. Since then, I’ve been lucky enough to experience other towns as they immerse themselves completely in cultural festivals. There is Edinburgh that gives over every August to its famed, multi-layered celebration of theatre, literature and all kinds of other things; Adelaide, which alternates every year between a huge literature festival and a festival of ideas; there is Basel where, in the middle of winter, the whole town stops what it’s doing for three days and dives into the traditional Fasnacht and where in summer you have the internationally renowned Art Week; in the visual arts, there are obviously Venice with its Biennale and Kassel in western Germany, with the massive Documenta show every four years. In India, I am yet to visit the Kochi Biennale, but I have been to the Serendipity Arts Festival in Goa and the eponymous literature festival in Jaipur, both of which transform areas of the respective cities, Panjim and Jaipur, without necessarily involving a wide section of local people. As the Durga Puja comes around at the (still-not-quite) end of two years of epidemic, thoughts arise of an entire city being somehow released from the quotidian, of a genuine cross-section of the populace coming out into the streets to celebrate something together, of a period of days when Kolkataiyas and visitors alike can perhaps dare to breathe a bit differently, a little bit more freely. For many of us Calcuttans, over the last few years, the Pujas have become a time of stress. It’s a good time to leave the city, or, failing that, a good time to hole up at home and avoid going out into the crazed traffic and unbearable din. Now what if this were to be completely reversed? What if, somehow, this period, say the fortnight around the Durga Puja (which is, of course, also a cultural festival), became a time to organize and participate in a wider festival, with varying themes but with the Puja at the centre of it? What if normal activity in the city came to a complete halt for a few days and was replaced instead by a time of both slowness and whirling celebration? What if the city was to take a breather for two weeks? Calcutta is a massive urban agglomeration, the extreme opposite of a small town. And, yet, Calcutta has always shown itself capable of going against the grain. If certain calculations are to be believed, while other cities are growing, we are actually losing population. As other Indian mega-metros are increasing the industrialization in their immediate greater urban areas, we might actually be reducing ours. If Bombay or Bangalore were to shut down their offices for a couple of weeks, the losses would probably run into thousands of crore, whereas shutting down Calcutta for a few days may make no major difference to the corporate world. As the pandemic showed, not having cars clogging the roads radically improved the air quality of the city. In fact, if there were to be a properly conceived and organized festival or even several small concurrent festivals, it might well draw visitors and revenue to the city. The big challenge (and this is where we would really need to go against the grain and venture where no major city has perhaps gone before) is to make sure it’s a festival for all classes of Calcuttans and not just the so-called middle and upper classes. This would entail seriously innovative thinking, from how to counter the loss of earnings for those who depend on daily work to making sure that the most marginalized sections are involved with the festival. Corporate and marketing involvement would be necessary but equally crucial would be keeping those in check; central to the conception would be protecting the anarchic and the unexpected, while organizing just enough to create a festival unique in the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
12-10-2021||Jharkhand||Crackdown: Rims suspends 18 students from hostel over brawl||In a major crackdown, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) has opted to debar as many as 18 medical students from the hostel for a year, in connection with a brawl that took place inside the hostel premises. The state-run medical college formally made an announcement on Tuesday on the basis of a report submitted by a special investigation committee. According to the official notice from Rims, five out of the 18 students will be out of hostel campus for a period of one year, while the remaining 13 will not be allowed to enter the hostel area for three months. “During the punishment period, the students will not be allowed to avail mess service or share rooms with other classmates or medical fellows within the Rims campus,” read the order. “Students who are facing disciplinary action are from MBBS 2016 and 2019 batch and MS eye 2018-21 batch,” informed an official. Brawls between junior and senior students isn’t a new thing in Rims, but it is probably for the first time in recent years that such a major disciplinary action has been initiated by a state run medical college. “The medical college management as well as the health department is working to overhaul the image of Rims as a major tertiary health care body of the state and such incidents leave a bad impression. Therefore, it has been decided to adopt tough measures to better student discipline inside the college and hospital,” added the official, unwilling to be named. On Sep 5, a brawl broke out between two groups of undergraduate medical students at Rims hostel over an alleged post-exam celebration by junior students which became “too loud” for seniors preparing for PG NEET. Cops from the Bariatu Police Station had to rush to the college campus and pacify the two groups of students and prevent the situation from escalating.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
12-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand archers Komalika and Ankita in India squad for Asian Championship||Two women archers from Jharkhand, Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat, have secured berths in the 8-member national recurve squad for the Asian Championship to be held at Dhaka, Bangladesh between November 11 and 18. Other members in the women's squad include Ridhi and Madhu Vedwan. Purnima Mahato, coach of Jamshedpur-based Tata Archery Academy (TAA), has been appointed coach of the women's side. Both Komalika and Ankita are cadets of elite Tata archery cradle and have represented the country in international competitions. Komalika is being considered as an Olympic medal prospect thanks to her splendid performances in international events. She became the world junior champion after clinching the gold medal at the World Youth Archery Championship in Wroclaw, Poland in August this year. Earlier in June, Komalika and Ankita, along with Jharkhand mate Deepika Kumari, made the country proud by bagging gold in the World Cup Stage 3 in Paris. The men’s recurve side, on the other hand, include Kapil, Parth Sushant Salunkhe, Olympian Pravin Jadhav and Sukhchain Singh. W Ranjan Singh (Jr) is the coach of the men's outfit. The men’s compound team comprises Abhishek Verma, Rishabh Yadav, Mohit and Amit Saini while the women's side include Jyoti Surekha, Muskan Kirar Parneet Kaur and Priya Gurjar. Lokesh Chand and Richpal Singh Salaria will accompany as coaches of the men's and women's compound side, respectively. The national recurve and compound outfits were picked after a two-day selection trials conducted by the Archery Association of India (AAI) at the JRD Tata Sports Complex in Jamshedpur on October 11 and 12. The selected archers were part of the 40th NTPC Senior National Archery Championship in the steel city. “It's a balanced side which is expected to perform well at the Asian Championship,” said Sanjeeva Kumar Singh, member of the AAI selection panel. Badminton Jharkhand Badminton Association is organising the state senior (men and women) and junior (under-19 boys and girls) championships in Dumka and Hazaribagh, respectively. While the senior event (men and women) is scheduled from October 17 to 20, the junior championship will be staged between October 22 and 24. Shuttlers without Badminton Association of India (BAI) IDs will not be allowed to participate in either tournament. “Points from the senior and junior events will be added for the upcoming zonal and national championships,” said JBA secretary and BAI’s joint secretary K. Prabhakar Rao.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
12-10-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad collector exhibits his unique Air India collection||As Tata Sons acquired Air India after the bidding opened, a Dhanbad based philatelist and numismatist of national repute, Amrendra Anand, proudly flaunted some memorabilia related to Air India. His unique collection includes tokens provided to the passengers during pre-independence time, key rings provided to the passengers’ way back in 1932 and more. Anand, a retired development officer of Life Insurance Corporation of India, also has a collection of postage stamps issued in India as a special series of stamps after independence besides the air ticket purchased by him in 1992. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Anand said, “I have the habit of collecting unique things since the early stage of my career. So, I procured the token, key rings and postage stamps etc from different places and exhibitions.” The token issued during the pre-Independence era by Tata Airlines bore the monogram of Maharaja on one side and the sun’s monogram on the other. “Two key rings issued by Air India to passengers including the one of 1932 are also part of my collection, along with my Air India ticket in,” said Anand and that his collection also include the air ticket purchased by 1992. Divulging more details, Anand a native resident of Darbhanga, Bihar said, “While rummaging through my collections today I looked back at some of the articles issued during pre-independence for Air India when it was operated by Tata Airlines.” Anand’s personal numismatic museum at his home has 18 files of different varieties of coins, currency notes, cheques, hukum namas, hundi, khadi hundi, error notes, fancy notes, etc besides demonetized currency notes etc. His collection also includes Rs 1000 notes issued by George VI in June 1938 and demonetized in April 1946, Rs 1000 currency notes issued in 1954 and demonetized in 1978 and Rs 1000 notes issued in October 2000 and demonetized on November 8 this year. Anand, a member of about a dozen Philatelic societies across the country both the pre-independence and Post-Independence Period Stamps, including both the Feudatory Stamps used by independent princely states and Conventional stamps bearing the symbols of both the respective state and the British Empire. Anand, who has a separate museum for coins and stamps at his house, also talked about his other collection of postal stationeries that includes envelopes, post card, inland letters and registered letters ranging from 1862 to 1981 i.e from the era of Queen Victoria to King George VI in the pre Independence era. His postal stationery also has postcards of Queen Victoria and of Princely states like Jaipur and Travancore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
12-10-2021||Jharkhand||Bengal dhakis rue bad business in steel city||This Durga Puja, dhakis (traditional drummers) from West Bengal are having to face the brunt of the pandemic. Most of them travelling to steel city in search of work were in for a disappointment as the number of bookings have been reduced due to a sharp cut down in the Puja budgets. Despite arriving here in comparatively much less number, these traditional drummers who happened to be an integral part of any public Puja are distressed as they are not going to get proper remuneration from the organisers. From a grand event to being hosted as a small function for the second consecutive year due to the pandemic this year, the organisers have not been able to collect contribution and donation from the public. Hence, the organisers are not in a position to pay the dhakis their normal fees. “Most of the Puja organisers in Jamshedpur used to get paid around Rs 20,000 for a four-day-long drumming in a Puja pandal. But this time, the organisers not ready to pay the group even half the amount,” said Rabindra Patro, one of the dhakis while talking to The Telegraph Online, near Tatanagar station. A resident of West Midnapore’s Debra village, Patro (50) said last year he didn’t come to Jamshedpur due to the pandemic. “But this year having gathered that Puja is being celebrated with traditional gaiety in Jamshedpur, we reserved tickets in Ispat Express three days ago and travelled to Tatanagar on Monday morning. But there was no taker for us, " deplored the drummer. He said some of the Puja organisers had contacted them at the railway station, but offered too paltry an amount as remuneration. About 400 dhakis in groups of four, three or two used to come to the Tatanagar station from various parts of Bengal by 'Shasti' every year. Most of puja organisers would contact the dhakis at the station and would take them along after fixing their remuneration which would range between Rs 15,000 to Rs 25,000. Significantly, this year maximum 200 dhakis come to Tatanagar, but several groups are still waiting to get hired at a workable fee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
12-10-2021||Jharkhand||Nod to 26ft Durga idol in Jharkhand with conditions||The East Singhbhum district administration in Jharkhand has given conditional approval to an idol which is 26 feet high despite the state government’s Covid guidelines capping the height of idols at 5ft. The Anand Ashram Durga Puja and Kali Puja Samity at Rocky Maidan area in Kagalnagar under Sonari police station will worship the goddess who stands 26ft tall. “The organisers had to submit a written affidavit on the compliance of Covid guidelines including not closing the pandal on all four sides and barricading it to prevent the entry of visitors. “The affidavit also states that only the main organiser and his family members will be allowed to perform rituals inside the pandal. We had to take it as a special case as it pertained to a special vow of the main organiser. “However, they would have to make a separate idol of 5ft height for the other committee members,” said Dhalbhum sub-divisional magistrate Sandeep Kumar Meena. The founder president of the puja committee, Ashit Moitra, a resident of Adarshnagar in Sonari, explained the reason for building the idol in violation of the Covid guidelines stipulated by the government. “We had hired sculptors from Kumartuli in Calcutta and had started making the idol in May this year. The work was 90 per cent complete by August. “The state government guidelines for Durga Puja came out only on September 15. I had made a religious vow when I began the committee in 2012 that on the 10th year of the festivity I would make a huge idol of goddess Durga. I had to fulfil that vow. I got the support from several political leaders and the Jharkhand Central Durga Puja Samity who approached the district administration. “I am thankful to the district administration which has allowed me conditional approval,” said Moitra. He reiterated that the puja committee would be abiding by all directives of the district administration. “We have made two pandals with one hosting the main idol of 26ft which has been closed from all sides and barricaded. Only my family members are allowed to worship the main idol. “We have a separate pandal with a 5ft high idol for the other committee members. The local police station has deputed personnel to ensure that no other person enters the pandals,” said Moitra. The main idol costs nearly Rs 2.65 lakh while the other idol has been made for only Rs 13,000. Sources said that local Jamshedpur West MLA and Jharkhand  health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta helped the puja committee in getting the district administration’s approval. Gupta’s residence at Uliyan in Kadma is around 3km from the Rocky Maidan area in Sonari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
12-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Congress demands minister Ajay Mishra be sacked||Over 200 Congress Jharkhand state-level leaders, including several cabinet ministers, sat on a three-hour-long silent protest near Raj Bhavan in Ranchi on Monday demanding the sacking of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra whose son is charged for mowing down farmers in Uttar Pradesh. The Congress leaders led by party state president Rajesh Thakur demonstrated holding a placard demanding the dismissal of Union minister Mishra. The protest also had state rural development minister Alamgir Alam, state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh and state finance minister and former state president Rameshwar Oraon. Though the Congress workers did not raise any slogans but while speaking to the media, party spokesperson Rakesh Sinha said, “Even the Supreme Court has chided the present UP government on the issue and the manner in which the BJP government is trying to save the culprits of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, it is clear that justice cannot be achieved till Ajay Mishra is not sacked as the home minister.” Thakur condemned the manner in which the current BJP-led government is treating the agitating farmers who are raising their legitimate demands. “The Congress party is agitating for the arrest of the accused and justice for the victims and sacking of the Union minister. The BJP government has clearly shown its anti-farmer face. Recently when we from Jharkhand had gone to UP to join our national leader Priyanka Gandhi seeking justice for the farmers, we were stopped at the UP border. This shows that the UP government is scared of Congress agitation,” said Thakur. Badal Patralekh said that the three black agricultural laws that the Modi government has brought are death warrants for the farmers. “The Congress party has demanded an inquiry into the entire incident. The minister of state for home under whom the investigation has to be done is the father of the accused involved in the incident. It is a clear cut case of clash of interest in the path of fair investigation and we demand that the minister is sacked till the investigation is completed,” said Patralekh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
12-10-2021||Jharkhand||Expert advises Covid caution in Jharkhand during festivities||The Covid-19 situation in Jharkhand is under control but people should be cautious during the festive season so that the infection does not spread further, an expert has said. “The infection rate is very low but people should behave in a responsible manner so that Covid-19 doesn’t spread further during the festive season,” state epidemiologist Dr Praveen Kumar Karn said on Monday. He said special focus, according to the government guidelines, was needed in areas with higher positivity rates. Places with positivity rate of 5 per cent or more for over two weeks need special focus, he said, adding that Jharkhand did not have any such place at present. The positivity rate in Jharkhand remained much below 1 per cent during the first ten days of October. Though it slowed a slight increase on October 7, it was still limited to only 0.075 per cent, which again improved to 0.024 per cent on Sunday. The active caseload of the state also increased slightly during the period. Though only 87 active cases were there on October 1, it went up to 108 on Sunday. Ranchi and East Singhbhum are two districts that had most of the active cases while nine other districts recorded 2 to 6 cases in each. Ranchi district on Sunday had 45 active cases, four down from 49 on October 1, which accounted for 41.66 per cent cases in the state. But the number of cases increased in East Singhbhum during the period — from 8 to 32 cases, which accounted for 29.62 per cent of the state’s total active caseload. Barring these two districts, not a single of the remaining 22 districts of the state had recorded any positive case on Sunday. People from across and even outside the state visit Ranchi and Jamshedpur in large numbers, making these two cities vulnerable to Covid-19 infection. “The situation is certainly not alarming at the moment but the entry points must be kept under vigil to put a check on further spread of Covid-19 infection,” Dr Karn said, adding that people should also practise Covid-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. On the top if it, vaccination of people will also help check the spread of infection, experts believe. But the vaccination drive was found to have slowed down, perhaps due to Durga Puja, during the period, they said. While 79,489 people got their first dose of vaccine on October 1, the number was reduced to 41,714 on October 9. But the vaccination number pick up will again after Pujas, said many who are associated with the inoculation programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
12-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand workers to return from Himachal Pradesh||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren’s prod has set the stage for the safe return of 150 migrant workers from the state who had been allegedly assaulted in Himachal Pradesh. The workers are scheduled to return in batches. Nearly 150 workers, mostly from West Singhbhum and Khunti districts of Jharkhand, had been working in power projects in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh for nearly four decades. However, some of them had indulged in fights with local supervisors over unpaid dues and other issues and had been allegedly assaulted by assailants instigated by the supervisors between October 2 and 3. The plight of the workers was shared by the villagers with the labour superintendent of Khunti, who tweeted to the Jharkhand chief minister. “On the instruction of the chief minister, the state migrant control room of the labour department interacted with Dharmendra Rathi, the owner of Norven Company located in Lumber, Kinnaur. Norven had employed the workers. “The state migrant control room coordinated with the Himachal Pradesh authorities to ensure that the company provides medical treatment for the injured workers,” said an official in the state migrant control room. Company owner Rathi assured the officials of proper medical treatment for the critically injured workers. Frightened workers who were demanding a return to Jharkhand were allowed to fill up the form. “We have train tickets for the first batch of 16 migrant workers and also the second batch of 24 workers. Gradually, we would be bringing back all the workers in batches. The workers do not want to stay in Himachal Pradesh after the incident,” said the official. The first batch will reach Koderma in Jharkhand by train by Tuesday and will be brought to their home districts. “The company has accepted the demand of sending one month’s salary and arrears to the workers in their bank accounts. An FIR has been registered at Kinnaur in the matter,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
