13-10-2021||Business||Air India under Tata Group will be real challenge, says IndiGo CEO||A revamped Air India under the Tata Group will be a real challenge while new airline Akasa Air will be a far less competitive force for the next two-three years, IndiGo CEO Ronojoy Dutta said on Wednesday. Akasa Air, which is backed by former IndiGo president Aditya Ghosh, ace investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala and former Jet Airways CEO Vinay Dube, got the no-objection certificate (NOC) from the Ministry of Civil Aviation on Monday. “Akasa is a far less competitive force for now or for the next two-three years. They will have to grow and grow slowly, get the slots, get the planes. They are not going to come out of the box, raring to go. There will be a slow build,” he said. "And against that, I think we have good defences. We are the lowest cost carrier. It will be tough for anyone to get their costs lower than us," Dutta said in a pre-recorded interview at an event organised by aviation consultancy firm CAPA. Whatever numbers anyone looks at, "we are running a damn good airline" with very low costs and with a great network, he added. "In the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, we opened nine new domestic stations," Dutta said. "So, for a new entrant, it will be tougher to compete with us. But (new) Air India -- that is the real challenge for us," he added. On October 8, the government announced that Talace Private Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tata Sons, has beaten a consortium led by SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh by offering Rs 18,000 crore to win the bid to acquire debt-laden Air India. Dutta said Air India will be a formidable force under the Tata Group and IndiGo does not take it lightly at all. “Internationally, they will be a strong competitor. Domestically, they have now three carriers -- Vistara, AirAsia India and Air India -- all put together. So they will be tough competition. I see them as a formidable force," he noted. Dutta said IndiGo is currently operating approximately 85 per cent of its pre-Covid domestic flights and around 40 per cent of its pre-Covid international flights. "We are not growing a lot in the next 18 months or so. After that, we start growing," he stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
13-10-2021||Business||Global debt has jumped to new peak of $226 trillion, says IMF||Due to the COVID-19 and policies put in place to respond to it, the global debt has jumped to a new high of USD 226 trillion with India's dues projected to rise to 90.6 per cent in 2021, the International Monetary Fund said on Wednesday. Advanced economies and China contributed more than 90 per cent to the accumulation of world-wide debt in 2020. The remaining emerging economies and low-income developing countries contributed only around seven per cent. "Because of COVID 19, and of policies put in place to respond to it, debt levels increased fast and reached high levels. High and rising levels of public and private debt are associated with risks to financial stability and public finances," IMF Director of Fiscal Affairs Department Vitor Gaspar told reporters during a release of the 2021 Fiscal Monitor Report. "The debt of governments, households and non-financial corporations added up to USD 226 trillion in 2020 USD 27 trillion above 2019. This increase is, by far, the largest on record," he said. This figure includes both public and non-financial private sector debt. In its 2021 Fiscal Monitor report, the IMF said India's debt increased from 68.9 per cent of its GDP in 2016 to 89.6 per cent in 2020. It is projected to jump to 90.6 per cent in 2021 and then decline to 88.8 per cent in 2022, to gradually reach 85.2 per cent in 2026. Constraints on financing are particularly severe for poorer countries, Gasper said. Noting that in 2020, fiscal policy proved its worth, he said the increase in public debt, in 2020, was fully justified by the need to respond to COVID-19 and its economic, social, and financial consequences. But the increase is expected to be one-off, he said. Gasper said debt is expected to decline this year and next by about 1 percentage point of GDP per year. After that it is projected to stabilise at about 97 per cent of GDP. These debt dynamics are driven by a strong contribution from nominal GDP growth, accompanied by a much more gradual reduction in the primary deficit, he said. In its report, the IMF said risks to the fiscal outlook are elevated. A scaling up of vaccine production and delivery, especially to emerging markets and low-income developing countries, would limit further damage to the global economy. On the downside, new variants of the virus, low vaccine coverage in many countries, and delays in some people's acceptance of vaccination could inflict new damage and increase pressures on public budgets. The realisation of contingent liabilities including from loan and guarantee programmes may also lead to unexpected increases in government debt, it said. Further pressures could come from social discontent, with the crisis estimated to have thrown between 65 and 75 million people into poverty in 2021 relative to pre-pandemic trends. Large government financing needs are a source of vulnerability, especially in emerging markets and low-income developing countries, where financing conditions are sensitive to global interest rates and central banks have begun to raise short-term reference rates, IMF said. Fiscal policy will need to respond nimbly to these challenges and facilitate the transformation of the global economy to make it more productive, inclusive, green, and resilient to future health or other crises, it said. At the same time, it will be crucial to ensure transparency and accountability, plot a medium-term path to rebuilding fiscal buffers, and make progress toward the Sustainable Development Goal, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
13-10-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 453 points to new peak||Equity benchmark Sensex soared 453 points to touch a new closing high of 60,737 on Wednesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, ITC and Infosys amid a positive trend in global markets. After scaling a record peak of 60,836.63 during the session, the 30-share Sensex settled 452.74 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 60,737.05, taking its winning run to the fifth consecutive day. Similarly, the Nifty rallied 169.80 points or 0.94 per cent to 18,161.75. It touched an intra-day record of 18,197.80. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, zooming over 5 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, ITC, L&T, Tech Mahindra, Titan and Tata Steel. On the other hand, Maruti, HUL, Nestle India, Axis Bank and SBI were among the laggards. "Domestic equities remained steady and witnessed sharp up-move with benchmark Nifty and Sensex recording fresh all-time highs amid mixed cues from global equities," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Sustained rebound in financials and Reliance Industries supported broader indices. Tata Group stocks were in focus especially Tata Motors after company announced USD 1 billion investment from TPG in Electric Vehicle division valuing EV business strong at USD 9.1 billion. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul ended with gains, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.54 per cent to USD 82.97 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
13-10-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 300 points||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 300 points in opening trade to hit a fresh lifetime high on Tuesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and M&M despite a weak trend in global markets. After touching a record of 60,621.72, the 30-share Sensex was trading 261.17 points or 0.43 per cent higher at 60,545.48. Similarly, the Nifty surged 97.75 points or 0.54 per cent to a new intra-day peak of 18,089.70. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 3 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, Bharti Airtel, L&T, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank. On the other hand, Nestle India, HUL, HCL Tech, SBI and Tata Steel were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 148.53 points or 0.25 per cent higher at record 60,284.31, and Nifty rose 46 points or 0.26 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 17,991.95. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 278.32 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. Domestic equities look to be good as of now, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Sharp contraction in CPI print at 4.35 per cent for September despite elevated oil prices and sustained IIP growth (11.5 per cent growth for August) certainly offer comfort. We also believe that 2QFY22 corporate earnings are going to be quite crucial for the market, he stated. Retail inflation fell to a five-month low of 4.35 per cent in September from 7.27 per cent in the year-ago period as prices of vegetables and other items declined. Industrial production grew 11.9 per cent in August mainly due to a low-base effect and good performance by manufacturing, mining and power sectors that surpassed the pre-COVID level. In the US, the equity market contracted for the third consecutive day in a choppy trading day ahead of crucial inflation data and September quarter earnings. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Seoul was positive. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.31 per cent to USD 83.16 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
13-10-2021||Business||Domestic flights can operate at full capacity from October 18||The government on Tuesday said airlines can operate domestic flights without any capacity restrictions from October 18, with  daily traffic crossing the 3-lakh mark over the weekend. The cap had been in force on domestic flight capacity since May 2020 and currently it stands at 85 per cent. The ministry of civil aviation announced revoking the cap “after a review of the current status of scheduled domestic operations viz-a-viz passenger demand for air travel”. Airlines will be allowed to not just return to pre-pandemic levels but go beyond that as well depending on demand. This means that from the winter schedule — that comes into effect at the end of next month — airlines can have a full complement of domestic flights. “After review of the current status of scheduled domestic operations viz-a-viz passenger demand for air travel... it has been decided to restore the scheduled domestic air operations with effect from October 18, 2021, without any capacity restriction,” the government said in the official notification. “The airlines/airport operators shall, however, ensure that the guidelines to contain the spread of Covid are strictly adhered to and Covid appropriate behaviour is strictly enforced by them during the travel,” the circular added. The capacity cap stood at 72.5 per cent between August 12 and September 18, 65 per cent between July 5 and August 12 and 50 per cent between June 1 and July 5. On October 9, the Indian carriers operated 2,340 domestic flights, which is 71.5 per cent of their total pre-Covid capacity. When the government resumed the scheduled domestic flights on May 25 last year after a two-month break, the ministry had allowed the carriers to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic services. The cap was gradually increased to 80 per cent by December 2020. The 80-per cent cap remained in place till June 1 this year. The May 28 decision to bring down the cap from 80 per cent to 50 per cent from June 1 onwards was taken due to “sudden surge in the number of active Covid-19 cases across the country”, the ministry had said. From next week, the restrictions will be relaxed and domestic flights can operate at full capacity. International flights are being operated under air bubbles. With the government allowing foreign tourists on charters from this month and non-charters next month, airlines are wondering if the restrictions on international flights will also partially ease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
13-10-2021||Business||Govt increases fertiliser subsidy by another Rs 28,655 crore ||The government on Tuesday increased the fertiliser subsidy by another Rs 28,655 crore to insulate the farmers from the spike in global prices for the winter crop (rabi season) 2021-22. “Cabinet approves Nutrient Based Subsidy (NBS) rates for Phosphatic & Potassic (P&K) Fertilisers for the year 2021-22 (from 1st October, 2021 to 31st March, 2022). Net subsidy of Rs 28,655 crore for Rabi 2021-22,” an official release after the meeting of the cabinet committee on economic affairs (CCEA) said. The release said this will enable the smooth availability of all P&K fertilisers to the farmers during Rabi Season 2021-22 at the subsidised  / affordable prices of fertilisers and support the agricultural sector by continuing the present subsidy levels and giving special packages of additional subsidy for DAP and three mostly consumed NPK grades. The subsidy on of di-ammonium phosphate is being raised by Rs 438 per bag and Rs 100 per bag for nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium fertilisers so as to maintain prices of these fertilisers affordable to the farmers, the release said. The increase in subsidy is an attempt to win over farmers agitating against the three farm laws that allow private businesses to procure agricultural produce directly. The support of the peasants are crucial for the ruling BJP to win the key polls in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab next year. With this, fertilisers subsidy for the current fiscal has touched Rs 122,960 crore. The government has increased the fertiliser subsidy outlay for the year by 14,775 crore in May to soften the impact of global prices.  In the budget fertiliser subsidy outlay for 2021-22 was Rs 79,530 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
13-10-2021||Business||Edtech startup Creative Galileo raises $2.5 million ||Edtech startup Creative Galileo on Tuesday said it has raised $2.5 million (around Rs 19 crore) in a funding round led by Kalaari Capital. Kalaari Capital has invested $2.1 million in the funding round. Angel investors such as Harish Bahl, Shashin Shah, Jinesh Patel, Atul Nishar, Ashwin Puri and Giridhar Malpani also participated in the round. Creative Galileo, which focuses on early learning of children, plans to use the funds for scaling, product development and enhancement, creating new engaging content, forging partnerships with leading animation houses, and hiring talent. “We are also looking to expand business overseas, particularly in South East Asia. Our company has already started developing content in local languages for some of the markets,” Creative Galileo founder Prerna A Jhunjhunwala said. Creative Galileo app has seen over four million downloads in the first 12 months of its launch, she added. Apart from the Indian subcontinent, the app is gaining traction in international markets, with 10 per cent downloads recorded from Nepal, Bangladesh, UAE, the USA and other countries, she added. "We are also looking at going deeper in the Indian market with vernacular content," she said.     The app provides content by mixing education and entertainment to create personalised, integrated learning experiences for children. It provides narrative videos using famous cartoon characters and gamifies content for the learning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
13-10-2021||Business||RBI issues SFB licence to Centrum and BharatPe consortium||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday issued a Small Finance Bank (SFB) licence to the consortium of Centrum Financial Services Ltd (Centrum) and Resilient Innovations Pvt Ltd (BharatPe). The development is likely to clear the decks for the merger of PMC Bank with the SFB. In September 2019, the RBI had superseded the board of PMC Bank and imposed various regulatory restrictions after financial irregularities came to light. In June this year, it granted an in-principle approval to the Centrum BharatPe combine to acquire the cooperative bank through a merger with the small finance bank. Speaking to reporters at the customary post monetary policy press conference, RBI deputy governor Rajeshwar Rao said once the final licence for the SFB is approved, the RBI will proceed with the scheme of amalgamation and obtaining the approvals. While the new SFB has been incorporated as ‘Unity Small Finance Bank’, a statement from the Centrum group said the proposed business model is one of collaboration and open architecture that will unite all its stakeholders to deliver a seamless digital experience. “We are delighted to receive the license and excited to partner with BharatPe to create this new age bank, with a strong team. We aspire to be India’s first digital bank,’’ Jaspal Bindra, executive chairman, Centrum Group, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
13-10-2021||Business||TDSAT asks DoT to not encash bank guarantees in Voda, Airtel case||Telecom tribunal TDSAT on Tuesday asked the department of telecom to put on hold the encashment of bank guarantees in the penalty case of Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea till the next date of hearing. The Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) bench headed by Justice Shiv Kirti Singh listed the matter for hearing on October 26. “... No encashment of bank guarantee shall be resorted to till the next date,” Singh said. As per the Department of Telecom, companies are required to pay the penalty by October 21. The telecom tribunal did not grant a stay on the penalty notice. Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea moved the telecom tribunal to challenge Telecom Department's demand notices for payment of Rs 3,050 crore cumulative penalties in the points of interconnect matter. The Department of Telecom (DoT) has slapped a penalty of Rs 2,000 crore on Vodafone Idea and Rs 1,050 crore on Bharti Airtel based on sector regulator Trai's recommendation five years ago, for violating norms by denying Reliance Jio points of interconnect (PoIs) way back in 2016. The PoI are required to interconnect networks of telecom operators. Lawyers representing Vodafone Idea argued that the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) recommended a penalty based on just one day reading of quality of service data and even did not average it over the period of 30 days as per the norms. In October 2016, Trai had recommended imposing a total penalty of Rs 3,050 crore on Airtel, Vodafone and Idea (now merged) for allegedly denying inter-connectivity to Reliance Jio. The regulator had, at that time, stopped short of recommending cancellation of their telecom licences saying it may lead to significant consumer inconvenience. Trai's recommendation had come on a complaint by Reliance Jio that over 75 per cent of calls on its network were failing as incumbents were not releasing sufficient numbers of PoIs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
13-10-2021||Business||Tata Motors to raise up to $1 billion in passenger EV business||Tata Motors is raising up to $1 billion (Rs 7,500 crore) in its passenger electric vehicle (EV) business from TPG Rise Climate and its co-investor ADQ at a valuation of up to $9.1 billion. The investors will take a stake of 11-15 per cent in the arm that will be newly incorporated. While 50 per cent of the committed amount will come in by March 2022 after setting up of the EV company, the balance will flow in by the third quarter 2022 on achieving certain actions, Tata Motors said on Tuesday. They will be subscribing to compulsory convertible preference shares which will convert to ordinary shares in the EV unit after achieving certain revenue thresholds. Tata Motors said that the new company will leverage all its existing investments and capabilities and will channelise the future investments into electric vehicles, dedicated BEV (battery electric vehicle) platforms, advanced automotive technologies and catalyse investments in charging infrastructure and battery technologies. The company added that over the next five years, this arm will create a portfolio of 10 EVs and in association with Tata Power Ltd, catalyse the creation of a widespread charging infrastructure to facilitate rapid EV adoption in India. “I am delighted to have TPG Rise Climate join us in our journey to create a market-shaping electric passenger mobility business in India. We will continue to proactively invest in exciting products that delights customers while meticulously creating a synergistic ecosystem. “We are excited and committed to play a leading role in the government’s vision to have 30 per cent electric vehicles penetration rate by 2030,’’ N. Chandrasekaran, chairman of Tata Motors, said. Speaking to reporters, Shailesh Chandra, president-passenger vehicle business unit, Tata Motors, said EV adoption has risen in India over the last five years. He pointed out that the growth drivers have been favourable government policies, launch of aspirational mainstream EVs, positive word of mouth by existing customers, increase in prices of internal combustion engine vehicles and huge rise in fuel prices. He added that Tata Motors has been leading the EV revolution in India and it now has a market share of 70 per cent in India’s electric vehicle segment. It has also increased its reach to touch more than 2,500 customer touch points, set up more than 700 charging stations, expanded to 60 cities from 22 earlier. Last month, the company had said that its electric vehicles achieved a cumulative sales milestone of 10,000 units. P Balaji, chief financial officer, Tata Motors here added that while Tata Motors wants to lead the EV charge in the Indian market, it is also looking to catalyse charging infrastructure and invest proactively in drive trains, products and platforms. Explaining the rationale for roping in investor like TPG Rise Climate, he said that the growth plans in EV will require $ 2 billion of investment over the next five years. While its passenger vehicle subsidiary will be constrained to support the aggressive EV aspirations, given the latter’s core net zero emission credentials, a different segment of investors who focus on the long term, carbon free world are accessible. Moreover, there is also a potential for significant value unlock and ability to fund the requirements of the business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
13-10-2021||Business||RBI bars Srei auditor from undertaking any assignments ||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday barred the chartered accountant firm Haribhakti & Co LLP from undertaking any type of audit assignments for entities regulated by it for a period of two years beginning April 1, 2022. The central bank took this action under Section 45MAA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. This is the first time that it has acted against an auditor using this provision of the RBI Act. Back in June 2019, the RBI had barred SR Batliboi & Co from carrying out audit assignments in commercial banks for an year, citing lapses identified in a statutory audit assignment carried out by the firm of a bank. Haribhakti & Co LLP was the auditor of Srei Infrastructure Finance Limited (SIFL), whose board was superseded by the RBI and insolvency proceedings were initiated last week. The term of the firm expired with the conclusion of the 35th Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on September 19, 2020. The banking sector regulator said in a statement that it has taken this action against the firm for failure to comply with a specific direction issued by the RBI with respect to its statutory audit of a Systemically Important Non-Banking Financial Company (NBFC), Section 45MA of the RBI Act deals with powers and duties of auditors. ``Where any auditor fails to comply with any direction given or order made by the Bank (RBI) under section 45MA, the Bank (RBI), may, if satisfied, remove or debar the auditor from exercising the duties as auditor of any of the bank regulated entities for a maximum period of three years, at a time,’’ says Section 45MAA. The RBI added that its action will not impact the audit assignments of Haribhakti & Co LLP in regulated entities by it for the financial year 2021-22. On October 4, the RBI had superseded the boards of Srei Infrastructure Finance Ltd (SIFL) and Srei Equipment Finance Ltd (SEFL) citing governance concerns and defaults by the  companies in meeting their various payment obligations. The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Friday admitted the insolvency pleas moved by the RBI against the two Srei group firms and appointed an administrator to run the companies. This came a day after the Bombay high court rejected a writ petition filed by the Srei group against the banking regulator’s move to supersede the boards of the two NBFCs. The company’s total liabilities reportedly amount to around Rs 18,000 crore of bank loans and another Rs 10,000 crore through external commercial borrowings and bonds. Earlier, the RBI had constituted a three-member advisory committee to assist Rajneesh Sharma, administrator of SIFL and SEFL in discharge of his duties. The members of the panel include R. Subramaniakumar, former MD & CEO, Indian Overseas Bank, T.T. Srinivasaraghavan, former managing director, Sundaram Finance Ltd, Farokh N Subedar, former chief operating officer and Company Secretary, Tata Sons Ltd. In November 2019, the Reserve Bank had superseded the board of directors of DHFL owing to governance concerns and defaults by DHFL in meeting various payment obligations. It was the first finance company to be referred to NCLT by the RBI using special powers under Section 227 of the IBC. Recently, the Piramal group had completed the acquisition of the housing finance firm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
13-10-2021||Business||Industrial production grows 11.9 per cent in August||Industrial production grew 11.9 per cent in August mainly due to a low-base effect and good performance by manufacturing, mining and power sectors that surpassed the pre-Covid level. Retail inflation declined to 4.35 per cent in September, mainly due to lower food prices, according to government data released on Tuesday. The manufacturing sector, which constitutes 77.63 per cent of the Index of Industrial Production (IIP), grew 9.7 per cent in August, according to the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Tuesday. The mining sector output rose 23.6 per cent in August, while power generation increased 16 per cent. In August 2021, the IIP stood at 131.1 points compared with 117.2 points in the same month last year. The index stood at 126.2 points in August 2019, as per the NSO data. The data showed that industrial production recovered and surpassed the pre-pandemic level of August 2019. The IIP had contracted by 7.1 per cent in August 2020. The output of capital goods, which is a barometer of investment, grew 19.9 per cent in August 2021. It had witnessed a contraction of 14.4 per cent in the year-ago period. Consumer durables manufacturing increased 8 per cent in the month under review against a decline of 10.2 per cent in August 2020. Consumer non-durable goods production grew 5.2 per cent in August over a 3 cent contraction in the year-ago period. Consumer price The consumer price index-based (CPI) inflation was at 5.30 per cent in August and at 7.27 per cent in September 2020. As per the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO), the inflation in food basket eased to 0.68 per cent in September 2021, significantly down from 3.11 per cent in the preceding month. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), which mainly factors in CPI-based inflation while arriving at its bi-monthly monetary policy, has been tasked by the government to keep it at 4 per cent, with a tolerance band of 2 per cent on either side.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
13-10-2021||Business||If states sell electricity on power exchanges, Centre to curb supplies||The Centre on Tuesday warned states that power PSUs will curb their supplies if they are found selling electricity on power exchanges to cash in on surging prices. On Tuesday, the power ministry asked utilities, reliant on local coal, to import up to 10 per cent of coal needs to blend with the domestic grade to meet increased power demand. The power ministry on Tuesday also asked states to utilise unallocated power of the central generating stations (CGS) to meet the requirements of their own consumers amid the ongoing coal shortage crisis in the country. “It has been brought to the notice of the Ministry of Power that some states are not supplying power to their consumers and imposing load shedding. At the same time, they are also selling power in the power exchange at high price,” a power ministry statement said. As per the guidelines for allocation of power, 15 per cent power from CGS is kept as “unallocated power” which is allocated by the central government to needy states to meet the requirement of power of the consumers. The responsibility to supply power to the consumers is of the distribution companies and they should first serve their consumers who have the right to receive 24x7 power. Thus, the distribution companies should not sell the power in the power exchange and starve their own consumers, it stated. “The states have therefore been requested to use the unallocated power for supplying electricity to the consumers of the state. In case of surplus power, the states have been requested to intimate to the government of India so that this power can be reallocated to other needy state,” it said. In case any state is found that they are not serving their consumers and selling power in the power exchanges at higher rate, the unallocated power of such states shall be withdrawn and allocated to other needy states, it added. PMO meet Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on Tuesday reviewed the coal supply and power generation scenario as the government looks at ways to defuse the energy crisis being faced by several states. At the meeting over coal shortage at power plants which have led to blackouts in some states, power secretary Alok Kumar and coal secretary A.K. Jain made a presentation on coal and power availability, sources said. NCP fumes The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Tuesday alleged the Modi government was responsible for the current shortage of coal in the country, which has caused a shortfall of the fuel supply to several power plants, according to PTI. Talking to reporters, NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said many power plants are not operational due to the shortage of coal. Despite importing the fuel, the shortfall remains. This is also leading to spending the foreign exchange, he said. During the tenure of the erstwhile UPA government, the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had come up with a coal policy keeping in mind the electricity requirements of the country in the future, he said. But the BJP, then in the Opposition, alleged a coal scam and the policy had to be rolled back, said Malik, a senior minister in the Maharashtra government. India is the world’s second largest coal producer, with the world’s fourth largest reserves, but a steep surge in power demand that has outstripped pre-pandemic levels means state-run Coal India’s supplies are no longer enough. Increased economic activity after the second wave of the pandemic has driven up demand for coal leading to a supply shortage, forcing north Indian states like Bihar, Rajasthan and Jharkhand to undertake power cuts for up to 14 hours a day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
13-10-2021||India||Isolated populations in India are vulnerable to Covid-19: Researchers||Scientists from the Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics here and Banaras Hindu University (BHU) have found that several isolated and indigenous people such as Andaman Islanders with long DNA segments (homozygous) in their genome are most likely to be more susceptible to Covid-19. A press release from CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) said the infection of coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) has impacted various ethnic groups all over the world and recent studies suggested that the indigenous groups in Brazil have been massively affected by Covid-19. The research carried out by Kumarasamy Thangaraj, Director of CDFD, part of CCMB, here, Prof Gyaneshwer Chaubey of BHU and others was published online recently in the journal Genes and Immunity. Thangaraj, who traced the origin of Andaman Islanders, said, "We have investigated a high-density genomic data of more than 1,600 individuals from 227 ethnic populations. We found high frequency of contiguous lengths of homozygous genes among Onge, Jarawa (Andaman Tribes) and a few more populations who are in isolation and follow a strict endogamy, making them highly susceptible for Covid-19 infection". The researchers have also assessed the ACE2 (Angiotensin Converting Enzyme 2) gene variants that make individuals susceptible for Covid-19. They found that the Jarawa and Onge populations have high frequency of these mutations, the release said. "There have been some speculations on the effect of Covid-19 among isolated populations. However, for the first time, we have used genomic data to access the risk of Covid-19 on the small and isolated populations", Prof Chaubey said. Results obtained from this study suggest that there is a need to have a high priority protection and utmost care for the isolated populations, so that there would not be any loss of some of the living treasures of modern human evolution", Vinay Kumar Nandicoori, Director, CCMB said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
13-10-2021||India||Ex-PM Manmohan Singh admitted to AIIMS||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here Wednesday evening after he complained of weakness following a fever, sources said. They said the 89-year-old had a fever on Monday and had recovered from it, but turned weak and is currently on fluids. All India Congress Committee secretary, Pranav Jha tweeted about Singh’s condition being stable. “There are some unsubstantiated rumours with regards to former PM, Dr Manmohan Singh ji’s health. His condition is stable. He is undergoing routine treatment. We will share any updates as needed. We thank our friends in media for their concern,” he tweeted. In April this year, Singh was admitted to the hospital due to the coronavirus infection. Prayers for the early recovery of the former prime minister poured in from a host of leaders across party lines. "Praying for quick recovery and good health of former Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji who has been admitted to AIIMS," said Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, former Union minister Ashwani Kumar, Congress leader Mukul Wasnik and Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi also wished Singh a speedy recovery. Among others, former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi and NCP's Nawab Malik also prayed for the ex-prime minister's good health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
13-10-2021||India||Government scraps basic customs duty on crude palm, soya, sunflower oil||The government on Wednesday scrapped basic customs duty on crude varieties of palm, sunflower and soyabean oils as well as cut duties on refined edible oils to ease retail prices of cooking oils and provide relief to consumers during the festive season.  Edible oil industry body SEA said the retail prices of cooking oils, which are ruling at a very high level, could now come down by up to Rs 15 per litre.  The cut in import duty and cess, effective from October 14, will remain in force till March 31, 2022, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) said in two separate notifications.  Agri infrastructure development cess (AIDC) has also been reduced on crude palm oil, crude soyabean oil and crude sunflower oil.  Crude palm oil will now attract AIDC of 7.5 per cent, while the cess will be 5 per cent each for crude soyabean oil and crude sunflower oil. Earlier, the cess was 20 per cent, while basic customs duty was 2.5 per cent.  Post reduction, the effective customs duty on crude palm oil will be 8.25 per cent. The effective duty on crude soyabean oil and crude sunflower oil will be 5.5 per cent. Earlier, the effective duty on these three crude items was 24.75 per cent each.  The basic customs duty on refined varieties of sunflower, soyabean, palmolein and palm oil too has been slashed to 17.5 per cent each from 32.5 per cent. Refined versions do not attract AIDC.  Commenting on the development, Solvent Extractors' Association of India (SEA) Executive Director B V Mehta said: "The government has slashed import duties on edible oils because of high retail prices in the domestic market and the festive season."  However, he said the timing of the decision is not correct as it may impact farmers' income.  "Harvesting of soyabean and groundnuts has started. The decision to reduce import duties may bring down market prices and lower price realisation by farmers," Mehta said.  Asked about the impact of the decision on retail prices, Mehta said: "The retail prices of refined palm oil can can come down by Rs 8-9 a litre while that of refined sunflower and soyabean oil can come down by Rs 12-15/ litre post this duty cut".  Generally, the international prices rise after India reduces its import duties, he observed.  This is the fourth round of duty cut by the government in the last few months, as part of its efforts to reduce cooking oil rates in domestic retail markets. The government has also taken other steps including imposition of stock holding limits.  Edible oil prices in the domestic retail markets have shot up sharply by up to 46.15 per cent in the last one year due to global factors and tight supply locally.  India meets more than 60 per cent of its edible oil demands through imports.  As per SEA data, imports of edible oils rose 63 per cent to a record 16.98 lakh tonne during September, due to all-time high shipments of palm oil.  Earlier in October 2015, India had imported 16.51 lakh tonne.  Palm oil import in September 2021 at 12.62 lakh tonne is the highest in any single month since India started importing palm oil in 1996.  As per the data maintained by the Consumer Affairs Ministry, average retail prices of soya oil were ruling at Rs 154.95 per kg on October 9 this year, 46.15 per cent higher than Rs 106 per kg in the year-ago period.  Similarly, average mustard oil prices rose by 43 per cent to Rs 184.43 per kg from Rs 129.19 per kg, while that of vanaspati by 43 per cent to Rs 136.74 per kg from Rs 95.5 per kg in the said period.  In case of sunflower, its average retail price rose by 38.48 per cent to Rs 170.09 per kg on October 9 this year from Rs 122.82 per kg in the year-ago period, while palm oil prices rose 38 per cent to Rs 132.06 per kg from Rs 95.68 per kg in the said period.  Indonesia and Malaysia are the major suppliers of RBD palmolein and crude palm oil to India.  The country imports crude soybean degummed oil mainly from Argentina followed by Brazil, while crude sunflower oil is mainly imported from Ukraine followed by Russia and Argentina.  Abhishek Jain, Tax Partner, EY, says "Given, the surging edible oil prices, the Government has reduced the basic customs duty rates on crude as well as edible grade oils. The decision would be highly appreciated by the industry and would also help in reducing price burden on ultimate consumers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
13-10-2021||India||Ashish Mishra, accused in Lakhimpur Kheri violence, denied bail||Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, was denied bail by a court here on Wednesday in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case. Senior prosecution officer (SPO) SP Yadav told PTI that Chief Judicial Magistrate Chinta Ram rejected the bail applications of Ashish Mishra and his alleged accomplice Ashish Pandey. Ashish Mishra, who was arrested on October 9 by the special investigation team after 12 hours of questioning, had been sent to three days in police custody from Tuesday. The court also remanded Shekhar Bharti, arrested on Tuesday, in police custody for three days. Police have so far arrested four people in connection with the case -- Ashish Mishra, Luvkush, Ashish Pandey and Bharti. One Ankit Das, who is said to be a close friend of Ashish Mishra, appeared before the SIT at the crime branch office in Lakhimpur earlier in the day. The investigators had summoned Das for questioning in connection with the October 3 violence that had left eight people, including four farmers, dead. Das is the nephew of former minister Akhilesh Das and the black SUV which allegedly knocked down the four farmers is said to be owned by him. At around 11 AM, Das along with a team of lawyers arrived at the crime branch office in the reserved police lines area, the police said. On Tuesday, Das and one other identified as Latif had moved an application for surrender before the chief judicial magistrate. Earlier on Wednesday, a Congress delegation including former party president Rahul Gandhi, met President Ram Nath Kovind demanding the immediate dismissal of Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, and an impartial judicial probe by two sitting judges of the Supreme Court. The delegation of senior Congress leaders also presented a memorandum of facts about the Lakhimpur Kheri incident to the President. Gandhi told reporters after the meeting that he conveyed to the President that the MoS Home should resign to ensure an impartial probe in the Lakhimpur violence as his son Ashish is an accused in the matter. "There cannot be an impartial inquiry and justice cannot be given till the time the MoS Home is sacked. This is the voice of not just the families of those killed but of all the farmers and this voice is being suppressed," he said. The Congress delegation included A K Antony, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mallikarjun Kharge and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Asked whether they have received any assurances from the president, Priyanka Gandhi claimed, "he (President) has assured us that he will talk to to the government in this regard today itself". The Congress memorandum said the situation is unlikely to change without any intervention given that BJP leaders, including UP CM Yogi Adityanath, continue to make conciliatory statements towards Ajay Mishra. The party hoped that the President will treat this matter with the urgency it deserves and take appropriate action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
13-10-2021||India||No Covid checks, restrictions on those arriving from UK||The government has withdrawn a travel advisory that added COVID-19 related additional checks and restrictions on those arriving from the UK after the British government ordered discontinuation of mandatory testing and quarantine norms for those vaccinated with Covishield travelling from India. In an official memorandum issued on October 11, the health ministry said that based on the evolving scenario, it has been decided that the revised guidelines stand withdrawn and the earlier guidelines on international arrival issued on February 17 shall be applicable to all travellers arriving in India from the UK. Earlier this month, India had said that all British nationals arriving in India from the UK will have to undergo a mandatory 10-day quarantine even if they are fully vaccinated against Covid-19. India had made this announcement after the UK recognised Covishield vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India but retained the 10-day quarantine period for fully vaccinated travellers from India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
13-10-2021||India||Karnataka Congress members link unit chief to scam, video goes viral||The Congress in Karnataka on Wednesday found itself in a tight spot after a video showed a purported conversation between the party media coordinator M A Saleem and former Lok Sabha member V S Ugrappa attributing the Congress State president D K Shivakumar's involvement in a scam when he was a Minister. Taking strong exception to the clipping that went viral, Shivakumar said he cannot deny that the conversation did not take place and rejected the content of the conversation. Acting swiftly, the party expelled Saleem from the party for six years and served a show-cause notice to Ugrappa, who is Congress spokesperson, seeking an explanation in three days. The conversation is said to be related to the scams in the Irrigation Department in which Shivakumar was allegedly involved when he was Irrigation Minister in the coalition government of Congress- JD(S), which ran for 14 months and collapsed in June 2019. However, Ugrappa clarified Saleem was only briefing him what the BJP people have been talking about the raids carried out by the Income Tax (I-T) Department since October 7 against three major contractors executing irrigation and highway project on 47 premises in four States, including Karnataka and Maharashtra. The search and seizure by the I-T officials have resulted in detection of undisclosed income of about Rs 750 crore, the I-T Department said in a statement on Tuesday. Minutes before the press conference by Ugrappa on Tuesday, Saleem sat next to him and started whispering about the scams. "Earlier, it was eight per cent. He increased it to 12 per cent. These are all adjustments by DKS," Saleem is heard saying in the purported video. "Uppar and G Shankar, the one from Hospet in Ballari, whom you know. Uppar is from Bengaluru," Saleem was seen explaining. When Ugrappa corrected that Uppar is from Vijayapura, Saleem said Uppar's house is right opposite to former Chie Minister S M Krishna's in Bengaluru. "It's (Irrigation) a big scandal. If dug properly, his (D K Shivakumar) role will also come out. You don't know, sir, the three made Rs 50-100 crore. If they had made so much (of wealth), then guess how much he (Shivakumar) would have made. He is a collection 'giraaki' (extortionist)," Saleem is heard saying. In reply, Ugrappa said he did not know those things. "I don't know this. We all made a point to make him (Shivakumar) State president. That's why I am not saying anything. These are the reasons...," Ugrappa is heard saying. Further, Saleem said Shivakumar stammers these days. "He stammers these days, maybe because of low BP or something else," Saleem said to which Ugrappa agreed. Saleem also wondered whether Shivakumar drinks and even gets emotional these days. He then hailed Siddaramaiah for his strong body language. Shivakumar said the conversation has actually taken place. Reacting to it, he said the media has shown Saleem and Ugrappa speaking against the party State chief. "You have shown that they have spoken ill against me. I will not deny it. They have spoken against me. Ugrappa has give a statement in a press conference," Shivakumar said. He said he has no connection with the content of the conversation. "I am unrelated to what they have spoken. I was never part of any 'percentage' (share in contracts) and I don't need it. I have no connection with it (share in contracts)," Shivakumar said. Clarifying his position, Ugrappa held a press conference today and said Shivakumar and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah are like two eyes and both were dear to him. Ugrappa said Saleem was briefing him about what the BJP leaders were talking outside. However, the place chosen by him was wrong and he could have spoken in private and not before the media, he clarified. The developments come well ahead of the crucial bypolls to Sindagi and Hanagal Assembly segments on October 30. Also, it has come at a time when the party has geared up for the Assembly elections, which is one-and-a-half years away. The party had also seen in the past the show of strength between the factions of Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah. Ugrappa and Saleem are considered as Siddaramaiah's close aides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
13-10-2021||India||Probe reveals Aryan Khan's role in conspiracy and procurement of drugs, says NCB||The Narcotics Control Bureau on Wednesday opposed the bail plea filed by Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, arrested in connection with the seizure of banned drugs on board a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast, saying the probe so far has revealed his role in the conspiracy and illicit procurement and consumption of drugs. The NCB in its affidavit also said that Aryan Khan was in touch with some persons, who appear to be a part of an international drug network for procurement of drugs. Further probe is on with regard to financial transactions done abroad, the agency said. During initial investigation, some international linkages pertinent to this applicant (Aryan Khan) have been unearthed which prima facie indicate towards illicit drug procurement. The investigation requires sufficient time so as to approach the foreign agency concerned, the affidavit said. The NCB also submitted in the affidavit that the case of each of the accused cannot be considered individually or separately, as prima facie investigation reveals that there is a close link/nexus among all the accused, including Aryan Khan, for conspiracy to commit offences. "It is not feasible to dissect or separate each from the other. All ingredients of crime, that are preparation, intention, attempt and commission, are present for this applicant (Aryan Khan)," the affidavit said. The NCB submitted its affidavit in response to the bail plea filed by Aryan Khan before special judge V V Patil, designated to hear matters related to the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The judge is currently hearing the bail plea. Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 following a raid on the Goa-bound cruise ship and is presently in judicial custody. He is lodged at the Arthur Road prison in Mumbai. He approached the special court seeking bail after a magistrate's court rejected the same last week. "It is prima facie revealed that accused No 1 (Aryan Khan) used to procure contraband from accused No 2 (Arbaaz Merchant) and the sources connected to accused No 2, from whose conscious possession six grams of Charas was recovered," the NCB said in its affidavit. It further said the material collated during investigation primarily revealed that Aryan Khan has a role in illicit procurement and distribution of contraband. "As per investigations carried out so far, accused Aachit Kumar and Shivraj Harijan had supplied Charas to Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant," the anti-drug agency said. "The role and involvement of this applicant (Aryan Khan) in the commission of grave and serious offences under the NDPS Act, including illicit drug trafficking, is apparent considering the nexus and connection of this applicant with the other accused in the case," the NCB said. "All the accused are inextricably connected and hence, it is not possible to dissect the role of each accused from the other," it added. "Prima facie investigation reveals a close nexus between all the accused persons and their involvement in conspiracy to commit illegal acts cannot be ruled out," the agency further said. "The case of each applicant cannot be considered in isolation. All these persons are an integral part of a common thread which cannot be separated or dissected from one another. In such a situation, the quantum of recovery (of drugs) from one accused becomes inconsequential," the NCB said in the affidavit. "Even though from some of the accused there is no recovery or less recovery of contraband, the participation by acts of such persons, who have acted in concert, conspiracy forms the basis of the investigation," it said. From the investigation, it is revealed that all the accused persons form a part of a "larger chain/nexus" and their involvement in the conspiracy to commit illegal acts and violations under Section 29 of the NDPS Act cannot be ruled out, the affidavit said. Section 29 of the NDPS Act pertains to abetment to commit an offence or criminal conspiracy. The NCB further said there have been several seizures of intermediary quantities of drugs from Aryan Khan's co-accused and there has also been seizure of commercial quantities of Mephedrone from one accused Abdul Sheikh. It said the allegations that the accused have been falsely implicated are untrue and misleading, as there is sufficient material in the form of WhatsApp chats and photographs which show the ingredients of conspiracy. "Considering the influence that Aryan Khan holds in the society, it is very much possible that he may tamper with evidence and influence other witnesses whom he personally knows," the affidavit said, adding there is also a possibility of the accused fleeing justice. The court is also hearing the bail pleas filed by Arbaaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha, Nupur Satija, Aachit Kumar, Mohak Jaiswal, Shreyas Iyer and Avin Sahu. So far, 20 people have been arrested in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
13-10-2021||India||Central agencies like ED, CBI, NCB being misused, says Sharad Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Wednesday claimed that central agencies, including the CBI, the Enforcement Directorate and the Narcotics Control Bureau, were being misused to target the opposition. Referring to the Income Tax department's raids on entities linked to Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, the NCP president while addressing a press conference here said personnel of the agencies have been conducting raids for the sixth day on Wednesday, which is very unusual. "Central agencies, including the ED, CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) and NCB, are being misused," he claimed. He also said the Mumbai Police's Anti-Narcotics Cell has done a better job than the NCB. The NCP, which shares power in Maharashtra with the Shiv Sena and Congress, had earlier said it will face the onslaught of central agencies on its leaders and workers will full vigour. The I-T department had raided entities linked to relatives of Ajit Pawar, a senior NCP leader, in the state. Senior NCP leader and former state minister Anil Deshmukh is also facing probe by central agencies on multiple charges. The NCB recently conducted a number of raids, including on some high-profile people. Apart from the recent drugs bust onboard a cruise liner off the Mumbai coast, that led to the arrest of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, the NCB last year investigated a drug case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and several other matters related to narcotics involving high-profile people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
13-10-2021||India||Kerala man awarded life sentence for killing wife using cobra||A sessions court in Kerala on Wednesday awarded life sentence in the Uthra murder case to the victim's husband for killing his wife using a cobra. On October 11, the court had held the husband -- Sooraj S Kumar -- guilty of murder, poisoning, destruction of evidence and also attempt to murder for his first try at killing his then 25-year old wife -- Uthra -- by using a viper. Additional Sessions Judge-VI Manoj M, who pronounced the sentence, said the case was a rarest of the rare, but looking at the age of the convict -- 28 years now -- it decided to award him life sentence instead of death, Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) G Mohanraj told reporters outside the court. Besides life for murder, Kumar was also awarded life sentence for the offence of attempt to murder, 10 years for poisoning and seven years for destruction of evidence, the SPP said. He also said that the court has specifically directed that the convict will first serve the sentences awarded for poisoning and destruction of evidence -- total 17 years -- and thereafter, his life imprisonment will commence. Additional Public Prosecutor A K Manoj also confirmed the order and told PTI that the court has said the two life terms awarded to Kumar would run concurrently. He also said that the court has imposed a total fine of Rs 5.85 lakh on the convict. Another reason cited by the court for not awarding death was the lack of criminal antecedents of the convict, he said. After the sentence was pronounced, the victim's mother told a news channel that she was not satisfied with the decision as she had expected death would be awarded to the convict. Sooraj had killed his wife Uthra by letting a cobra bite her in her sleep in May last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
13-10-2021||India||Union coal minister reassures there will be no power crisis||Amid the country's power plants grappling with coal shortages, Union Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi on Wednesday assured that there will be no crisis to meet the supply of coal for power generation. He was talking to reporters after arriving at the Bilaspur airport before heading to neighbouring Korba district where he is scheduled to take stock of Gevra, Dipka and Kusmunda mines of the South Eastern Coalfields Limited (SECL), a Coal India subsidiary, and chair a review meeting with officials. Asked if the Congress was creating a hype claiming shortage of coal, the coal and mines minister said, "I don't want to do politics over this. We have already been meeting the total requirement." "Today, the requirement is 1.1 million tonnes of coal for power generation and we have already supplied two million tonnes. The stock is also rising because of it. I assure that there will be no problem in meeting the supply for power generation in the country," he said. Joshi said he was going to visit the mines of SECL to take stock and hold discussions to expedite the production there. As far as the requirement is concerned, the power ministry had put forth the demand for supply of 1.9 million tonnes (for power generation units) and after 20th (October), two million tonnes. Today only, we have supplied two million tonnes and rest of the things I will discuss after the review (of mines), he added. On Tuesday, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) reviewed the coal supply and power generation scenario, as the government looks at ways to defuse the energy crisis being faced by several states. The coal ministry has been asked to ramp up the supply of coal while the Railways has been asked to make available rakes to transport the fuel to power plants, sources earlier said. The shortage of coal -- which makes up around 70 per cent of India's electricity mix -- has forced rotational power cuts in states from Rajasthan to Kerala. About two-thirds of the coal-fired power plants had stockpiles of a week or less, but the coal ministry earlier said, "any fear of disruption in the power supply is entirely misplaced". States have been forced to buy power from exchanges at high rates to meet the demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
13-10-2021||India||Bangalore building tilts following torrential rains||Close on the heels of two buildings collapsing in Bengaluru, a residential building at Kamala Nagar in the city tilted dangerously late on Tuesday night while the side wall of a house in Nagarathpet collapsed on Wednesday morning following torrential rains, the civic agency said. It added that no one was injured in these incidents. As the building started tilting in Kamala Nagar near Shankar Nag Bus Stand on Tuesday night, residents ran out of their houses for safety leaving behind their belongings. Karnataka Excise Minister K Gopalaiah, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta along with the team of fire and emergency services personnel rushed to the spot following the incident. Later, the BBMP issued a statement saying, "All the people who lived in those houses and the surroundings were shifted elsewhere. Accommodation and food have been arranged for such families." Meanwhile in Nagarathpet, the side wall of an old house collapsed. Quoting neighbours, the BBMP said, no injuries occurred as no one is staying in the house for the past six years. It also said that debris removal will be started immediately. A week ago, a house had tilted in Kasturi Nagar and a residential quarters on the premises of Bangalore Milk Union Limited (BAMUL) came down crashing due to heavy downpour. In both the incidents, no casualties were reported as people were evacuated well in time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
13-10-2021||India||Narendra Modi launches Rs 100 lakh crore Gati Shakti national master plan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday launched a Rs 100 lakh crore national master plan for multi-modal connectivity that aims to develop infrastructure to reduce logistic costs and boost the economy. PM Gati Shakti targets to cut logistic costs, increase cargo handling capacity and reduce the turnaround time, Modi said at a function to launch the plan. The plan aims to lend more power and speed to projects by connecting all concerned departments on one platform, he said, adding the infrastructure schemes of various ministries and state governments will be designed and executed with a common vision. Modi said taxpayers' money in the past was 'insulted' through a lethargic approach to development work, with departments working in silos and there was no coordination on projects. Development, he said, is not possible without quality infrastructure and the government has now resolved to develop it in a holistic manner. Gati Shakti joins different departments for the coordinated development of projects from road to railways, aviation to agriculture, the Prime Minister said. Stating that high logistics cost in India at 13 per cent of GDP was impacting competitiveness in exports, he said PM Gati Shakti is aimed at reducing logistic cost and turnaround time. This, he said, will give a boost to India as an investment destination. The Prime Minister said the speed and scale that India is witnessing under his government was never seen in the previous 70 years of independence. Giving examples, he said the first inter-state natural gas pipeline was commissioned in 1987. From then to 2014, 15,000-km of the natural gas pipeline was built. Currently, more than 16,000-km of the new gas pipeline is being constructed. "What was done in 27 years, we are doing in it in less than half that time," he said. In five years prior to the BJP government coming to power in 2014, 1,900-km of the rail line was doubled, while in the last 7 years 9,000-km of rail line doubling has happened. Similarly, against 3,000 km of railway line electrification in five years prior to 2014, 24,000 km rail line doubling has happened in the last 7 years. From 250-km of metro in 2015, the metro rail network has expanded to 700-km and work is on another 1,000-km, he said, adding 1.5 lakh village panchayats have been connected with optic fibre network in last 7 years as compared to only 60 village panchayats in five years prior to 2014. Vessel turnaround time at ports has been reduced from 41 to 27 hours and attempts are being made to reduce it further, he said, adding 4.25 lakh circuit km of power transmission line have been laid against 3 lakh circuit km in five years prior to 2014. Renewable energy has expanded the times, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
13-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri incident condemnable, but such issues happen elsewhere too: Sitharaman||The Lakhimpur Kheri violence, in which four farmers were killed, is absolutely condemnable, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said, emphasising that there are issues of such nature happening in other parts of India equally which should be raised "when they happen and not when it suits others" because there is a BJP government in Uttar Pradesh. Sitharaman, who is on an official visit to the US, was responding to a question during a conversation at Harvard Kennedy School on Tuesday about the killing of four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri and the arrest of Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra. She was asked why there is no word on this from the prime minister, senior ministers and why there is a defensive reaction when somebody asks questions about such things. "No, absolutely not... It's nice of you to have picked up that one incident which is absolutely condemnable, every one of us say that. Equally there are instances happening elsewhere, is my concern. "India has issues of such nature happening in very many different parts of the country equally. I would like you, and many others, including Dr Amartya Sen, who all know India, to raise it at every time when it happens, not just raise it when it suits us because it's a state where BJP is in power, one of my cabinet colleague's son is in probably trouble, and also assume that it's actually them who did it and not anybody else. Due course of justice will also have a complete inquiry process to establish it," she said. "And it's not being defensive about my party or my Prime Minister. It's being defensive about India. I will talk for India, I will talk for justice for the poor. I will not be mocked at. And if it is mocking, I will be defensive to stand up and say Sorry, let's talk on facts'. That's my answer for you," she said. Ashish Mishra was named in an FIR following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down four farmers protesting over UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit on October 3. To a question on the farmers' protests, Sitharaman said that the three acts which the government brought in were discussed by the various parliamentary committees over a decade. She said all the three acts have been discussed variously by the State governments, by the Center after the BJP came into power in 2014. "This has been in the making for a decade now. Every stakeholder has been consulted," she said. "When the farm laws were brought in the Lok Sabha, there was an elaborate discussion and the agriculture minister gave his reply as well. It was only when it came to the Rajya Sabha, there was a lot of noise and disturbance," she said. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and several other states have been protesting on various borders of Delhi since November 26 last year, seeking repeal of three farm laws enacted in September. Dubbing these laws as "anti-farmer", these farmers claim that the newly enacted legislations would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. Sitharaman said the protesters belong to one state and some parts of other states - Punjab, Haryana and some parts of western Uttar Pradesh." She said the government has been saying that it is willing to talk with the protesters and has been engaging with them. "The government has asked pointedly what is that one aspect in any one of the three laws which have been passed to which the protesters object, she said. We are willing to talk about it, tell us that one particular aspect in any one of the three laws. "Till date, we have not had even one particular aspect which is being questioned. And therefore, the protesters are not sure on what score they are protesting, what is it that they are objecting. "Then there's this issue about the minimum support price to be given to farmers," she said, adding that the MSP are announced well in time and the farmers can decide whether they want to grow a crop or not and they can otherwise choose to grow something else. She said once the farmers choose to grow any of these, for which a minimum support price is announced and procurements are done, through direct benefit transfer using technology, money is deposited as a lump sum into their accounts. The highest amount of procurement, the largest ever payment per farmer under the minimum support price which is declared has happened in the last seven years after Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi has come. Highest ever. The number of farmers, the total quantum of money, total quantum of grain procured in each one of them - the highest as has happened season after season in the last seven years," she said. Highlighting that there are recorded conversations which you can see of farmers even from Punjab, even from Haryana , she said farmers have got the entire amount into their account. "This is verifiable, not a claim which I'm making. You can go and check it out. Highest amount and the entire amount is given into the account directly the day after procurement is done. No staggering, no delaying," she said. "So we have not been told what it is that they're protesting against as yet and the minister is willing to talk even today," she added. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
13-10-2021||India||Congress delegation meets President, demands dismissal of Ajay Mishra||A delegation of Congress leaders, including former party president Rahul Gandhi, on Wednesday met President Ram Nath Kovind demanding the immediate dismissal of Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, and an impartial judicial probe by two sitting judges of the Supreme Court. The delegation of senior Congress leaders also presented a memorandum of facts about the Lakhimpur Kheri incident to the President. Four farmers were among eight people killed in the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. Gandhi told reporters after the meeting that he conveyed to the President that the MoS Home should resign to ensure an impartial probe in the Lakhimpur violence as his son Ashish is an accused in the matter. Ashish Mishra, who has been named in the FIR and is accused of mowing down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, was arrested on Saturday by the Uttar Pradesh Police. Gandhi demanded that to ensure justice, two sitting Supreme Court judges should probe the incident and those who have committed the murders should be punished. "There cannot be an impartial inquiry and justice cannot be given till the time the MoS Home is sacked. This is the voice of not just the families of those killed but of all the farmers and this voice is being suppressed," he said. The Congress delegation included A K Antony, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mallikarjun Kharge and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Asked whether they have received any assurances from the president, Priyanka Gandhi claimed, "he (President) has assured us that he will talk to to the government in this regard today itself". The Congress memorandum said the situation is unlikely to change without any intervention given that BJP leaders, including UP CM Yogi Adityanath, continue to make conciliatory statements towards Ajay Mishra. "Ajay Mishra's role is also yet to be investigated and the same is unlikely while he continues in office. Furthermore, which police official would dare to fairly investigate the son of Union MoS Home Affairs with the father occupying a position of such high influence and who enjoys continued endorsements from both the Central and the State governments. In these difficult circumstances, we call upon you as the custodian of our Constitution and the moral compass to this Government to immediately dismiss Union MoS Home Affairs and to direct an independent judicial investigation by a Commission comprising of two sitting judges of the Supreme Court of India or the high court," the Congress memorandum said. The party hoped that the President will treat this matter with the urgency it deserves and take appropriate action. The Congress memorandum also mentions that like crores of other Indians, the President is also "deeply affected" by the "unforgivable and merciless murder" of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. "The incident has scarred the soul of India. This deliberate act of murder, in broad daylight followed by the audacious reactions of the State and Central governments, has completely eroded the people's faith in those tasked with bringing these perpetrators to justice," the party said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
13-10-2021||India||Delhi didn't face outage due to power shortage: Power ministry||The Power Ministry on Wednesday said that there was no outage on account of power shortage in Delhi. "As per the information received from Delhi discoms, there was no outage on account of power shortage, as the required amount of power was supplied to them," a ministry statement said. It stated that the maximum demand of Delhi was 4683 MW (peak) and 101.9 MU (Energy) on 11 October, 2021. A factsheet on power supply in Delhi showed that there was no energy deficit in the city from September 26 to October 11. On October 11, in Delhi, 101.9 million units (MU) electricity was available against a requirement of 101.1 MU. The energy requirement and availability was same in Delhi from September 26 to October 10. On Monday, energy availability was higher than the requirement. It also showed that peak power demand and peak power demand met (supply) was also remained same during the period. The discoms in Delhi had drawn less power than made available to them, as per the data. It showed that NTPC (coal) offered 15.67 MU to Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd (DDL) against the allocated 19.03 MU. But the Tata Power DDL had drawn 10.77 MU which is 68.74 per cent of the energy made available to it by NTPC (coal). Similarly, power made available by Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) and NTPC (gas) to the discoms in Delhi was more than drawn by these utilities. The other two discoms that supply power in Delhi are BSES Rajdhani Power Ltd and BSES Yamuna Power Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
13-10-2021||India||India records 15,823 new Covid-19 cases, 226 new deaths||India added 15,823 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 3,40,01,743 on Wednesday, while the national Covid recovery rate increased to 98.06 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. The death toll reached 4,51,189 with 226 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 19 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 108 consecutive days now. The active cases have declined to 2,07,653, the lowest in 214 days, comprising 0.61 per cent of the total infections while the national Covid recovery rate was recorded at 98.06 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 7,247 cases has been recorded in the active Covid caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.19 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 44 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.46 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 110 days, according to the ministry. A total of 13,25,399 tests were conducted on Tuesday, taking the number of cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 58,63,63,442. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 33342901, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. Over 96.43 crore Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 226 new fatalities include 106 from Kerala and 43 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,51,189 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,621 from Maharashtra, 37,906 from Karnataka, 35,814 from Tamil Nadu, 26,448 from Kerala, 25,089 from Delhi, 22,896 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,924 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
13-10-2021||India||BJP national general secretary frowns on modern educated women||BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi has frowned on modern educated women who, under “western influences”, choose to stay single and avoid giving childbirth. His comments came as he defended Karnataka health minister K. Sudhakar, who had said that well-employed young women preferred not to give childbirth and that this was “not good”. Asked to react to Sudhakar’s comment, Ravi told news agency ANI on Monday: “Not all women are like that. Even today family values are respected in our country, which is not like America or England.” But he added: “Some of the educated, particularly those working in IT-BT (information technology-biotechnology), have ‘progressed’ too much. This is happening because of western influences and micro-families. This is something that needs to be taken seriously.” Sudhakar, a medical doctor, had sparked controversy on Sunday by saying modern Indian women were refusing to conceive and often opted for surrogacy to have children. Speaking at a World Mental Health Day event at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurological Sciences, Sudhakar had spoken of a “paradigm shift” in the way modern Indian women saw the family. “Sorry to say this, a lot of modern women in India want to stay single. Even if they are married, they don’t want to give birth. They want surrogacy. So there is a paradigm shift in our thinking, which is not good,” the health minister had said. Sudhakar, castigated for his remarks, later clarified that his comments were based on a survey. “First of all I would like to convey that I’m myself a proud father of a daughter and I’m also a medical doctor by training. So I fully understand the sensitivities around women and also the mental health issues that are concerning us,” he said in a statement. “My statement about (the) younger generation shying away from marriage and reproduction is based on a survey. The findings of YouGov-Mint-CPR Millennial Survey show that, among millennials, 19 per cent aren’t interested in either children or marriage. Another 8 per cent want children but are not interested in marriage. Among post-millennials (or Gen Z adults), 23 per cent aren’t interested in either children or marriage. As in the case of millennials, 8 per cent want children but are not interested in marriage.” Trying to douse the controversy, Sudhakar added that even modern men preferred to stay single. “There are very little gender-wise differences in these trends. It is applicable to both boys and girls.” Responding to these comments, Congress worker Lavanya Ballal tweeted: “Here are some people who stayed single to pursue their career @narendramodi, @myyogiadityanath, mohanbhagawath, umabharathi.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
13-10-2021||India||UGC puts off PhD rule for varsity teachers recruitment ||The University Grants Commission has put off by two years a new rule that makes a PhD mandatory for direct recruitment as assistant professor at any university. The rule was to be implemented from July this year but was not. It will now come into force from July 2023. A UGC official said that many PhD students have been unable to submit their thesis on time because of the Covid outbreak. “The UGC had received representations from students and teachers’ organisations on the difficulty faced by research scholars in completing their work on schedule,” the official said. “They said that enforcing the new rules would deprive good scholars of the opportunity to apply. The UGC considered the issue and deferred the enforcement.” The UGC has amended the UGC (Minimum Qualifications for Appointment of Teachers and Other Academic Staff in Universities and Colleges and Measures for the Maintenance of Standards in Higher Education), Regulation, 2018, to give this relaxation. Currently, candidates who clear the National Eligibility Test (NET) or earn a PhD are eligible to apply for an assistant professor’s job in the universities. The new regulations allow those who clear the NET but have no PhD to be recruited as teachers at colleges but not at universities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
13-10-2021||India||Modi 'cautions' against selective interpretation of human rights||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday deplored what he felt was a tendency among some to view human rights violations through “the prism of politics” and sounded a “caution” against the selective interpretation of human rights to undermine the country’s image. “On this occasion, I wish to caution countrymen against the selective interpretation of human rights and the use of human rights to diminish the image of the country,” Modi said while inaugurating the 28th foundation day celebrations of the National Human Rights Commission here. “Of late, some people have started interpreting human rights from their own angle, according to their selfish interests. The biggest infringement of human rights takes place when they are seen from the prism of politics and political profit and loss. “The tendency to see infringement in one situation and not in a similar situation has damaged human rights a great deal. This selective behaviour is equally damaging for democracy too.” While dignitaries such as the NHRC chairperson, judges and legal experts were at the auditorium at Vigyan Bhavan, the Prime Minister addressed the gathering through a virtual link. Modi said that duties were as important as rights and that the two should not be discussed separately as they complement each other. “Rights and duties are two tracks on which the journey of human development and human dignity takes place,” he said. Modi said India’s freedom movement and history had been a great source of inspiration for human rights and that the whole world saw Mahatma Gandhi as a symbol of human rights and human values. “As a nation, as a society we resisted injustice and atrocities, we fought for our rights for centuries. At a time when the whole world was engulfed in the violence of World War I, India suggested the path of ‘rights and non-violence’ to the whole world,” he said. “Not only India but the whole world sees our Bapu as a symbol of human rights and human values.” The Prime Minister said the “concept of human rights is closely related to the dignity of the poor”. He said the question of rights arose when the poorest of the poor did not receive an equal share of the benefits of government schemes. “When a poor person gets toilets ensuring freedom from open defecation, he gets dignity. Similarly, a poor man who was hesitant to enter a bank gets a Jan Dhan account, which ensures dignity,” he said. He said that measures like the Rupay card, Ujjwala gas connections, and pucca houses for women were steps in the same direction. “We have also given new rights to Muslim women by enacting a law against the triple talaq,” Modi said. “India has ensured 26 weeks of paid maternity leave for career women, a feat that even many developed nations could not achieve.” Union home minister Amit Shah and NHRC chairperson Justice Arun Mishra too spoke on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
13-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Ashis Mishra to be taken to massacre site||The police took Ashis Mishra into custody from Lakhimpur Kheri jail at 10am on Tuesday and will be taking him to the massacre site on Wednesday for a reconstruction of the October 3 events, sources said. On Tuesday, Ashis was being questioned at the crime branch office in the police lines, barely 500 metres from the prison gates. A source at the home department in Lucknow told The Telegraph the special investigation team (SIT) was asking the same questions that Ashis had deflected on Saturday before he was arrested. “The questions are simple, such as why he had decided to drive to the place where the farmers were protesting and what made him plough his Thar jeep into the farmers,” the official said, asking not to be identified. “Even if the accused repeats the same answer that he was not there, the interrogators will be repeatedly asking these questions. They have found that Ashis gets irritated very quickly, and that’s a positive sign for the interrogators.” The official added: “The SIT will take Ashis to the massacre site on Wednesday.” Ashis, son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, is accused of driving a Thar into a farmers’ protest in Lakhimpur Kheri, killing four farmers and a journalist. The Thar was leading a convoy of SUVs, including a Fortuner, which too is alleged to have run over farmers. Ashis says he was elsewhere at the time. Ashis’s counsel Awadhesh Singh, who was waiting at the gate of the crime branch office on Tuesday, told reporters: “The court has allowed five defence lawyers to remain wherever the SIT takes Ashis. We will not go near them or not disturb them. We cannot influence the inquiry.” A police source told reporters in Lakhimpur Kheri that Ankit Das, the owner of the Fortuner, and his associate Mohammad Latif had applied to the district court saying they wanted to surrender. On Tuesday a man named Shekhar Bharati, who had allegedly dropped Ankit near the Darchula border in Nepal, barely 10km from the massacre site, was arrested and sent to judicial custody for 14 days. Besides Ashis, the police had earlier arrested two of his associates, Ashish Pandey and Luv Kush Rana, who were allegedly in the convoy. On Monday, the court gave the SIT custody of Ashis for three days from Tuesday 10am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
13-10-2021||India||LAC: Congress alleges Modi's 'lie' harmed India's strategic interests||The Congress has alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement about nobody having intruded into Indian territory has severely harmed India’s strategic interests, with China now refusing to vacate the land it had encroached on last year. On June 19 last year, four days after a clash in the Galwan Valley on the India-claimed side of the LAC had killed 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops, Modi had said that no one had entered Indian territory or occupied Indian posts. China had seized on the comment to claim ownership of the areas it had occupied within India-claimed lines in eastern Ladakh. “Mr 56 inch, lal aankh dikha kyon nahin dete (why don’t you show red eyes)?” Rahul Gandhi, who has been harping on Modi’s failure to deal firmly with the Chinese aggression, said sarcastically on Tuesday. He was alluding to Modi’s boast before he became Prime Minister that India should deal with China by showing it “red (angry) eyes”. However, since assuming the hot seat, Modi has avoided any muscle-flexing on China — a country he refuses to even name in the context of the 17-month-old border standoff. “The Prime Minister has refrained from mentioning China by name as the aggressor, and has stipulated that ‘not an inch of Indian territory’ had been ceded,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said. “What was discussed at the 13 rounds of military talks? And the army chief did say, ‘China is here to stay….’” Khera said the Chinese had entered Indian territory and Indian soldiers were fighting them “but this government, and especially the Prime Minister, is scared of even taking the name of China and holding them accountable”. He mentioned the “fresh Chinese incursions” seen recently in Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh. “This, added to the extensive infrastructural build-up along the Hot Springs region (in Ladakh) — including a logistical facility, artillery units and an air defence base among others — poses a potential threat to India’s strategic interests.” The Congress recalled Monday’s external affairs ministry statement that said the situation along the LAC had been caused by “unilateral attempts of the Chinese side to alter the status quo and in violation of bilateral agreements”. “It was therefore necessary that the Chinese side take appropriate steps in the remaining areas so as to restore peace and tranquillity,” the ministry had said. “Why did Modi lie to the country stating that no Chinese had entered Indian territory? Haven’t this government and its agencies failed at protecting India’s national security and sovereignty?” Khera asked. He argued that the implications of the Chinese incursions were critical, especially when the Chinese weren’t even open to discussing de-escalation in the strategic sectors of the Depsang Plains and Daulat Beg Oldi. “After the 12th round of military talks in August, it was mutually agreed that there would be a mutual troop pullback from the Gogra area, (but) what did happen rather was a massive troop consolidation by China along the Daulat Beg Oldi sector,” he said. “Not just has the PLA (Chinese army) consolidated troops but it has upgraded its weapons systems in the region too. They now have the advanced S-400 air defence missile system deployed at least in one location along the Demchok sector. This poses a threat to aircraft within a 400km (radius), which covers almost all of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.” Khera said Modi had told the nation there was no transgression into Indian territory because to him, national security didn’t seem as important as maintaining his image. “This strategy has now harmed India’s strategic interests,” Khera said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
13-10-2021||India||Covid: CDSCO expert committee approves Covaxin for use in kids ||India’s drug regulatory panel has approved Covaxin in children two years or older, making this home-grown Covid-19 vaccine the country’s first to be ready for use in children below 12, Hyderabad-based vaccine maker Bharat Biotech announced on Tuesday. The subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has reviewed data from a clinical trial of Covaxin in children aged 2 to 18 years and approved the vaccine for use in this age group, the company said. It said it was now waiting for regulatory approval from the CDSCO to be able to market the vaccine for this age group. The SEC is a panel of medical experts that advises the CDSCO, the apex regulatory authority that has to grant the market authorisation. Covaxin is one of the two main vaccines used by India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign since its beginning in mid-January this year, but the vaccination policy makers will need to open the campaign for children before paediatric immunisation can begin. The CDSCO had in August this year approved another home-grown Covid-19 vaccine from the Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila for people aged 12 years or older, or adolescents and adults. For now, the vaccination campaign remains open only for people 18 years or older. A decision to vaccinate children between 2 and 18 years will add around 398 million potential recipients to the current estimated adult recipient population of 944 million. Senior health officials have said that while vaccinating all adults — who are at greater risk of severe Covid-19 — will remain the current priority, paediatric immunisation may be introduced for select sets of vulnerable children. Health officials have said that when paediatric immunisation opens, children with lung disease, kidney disease, malignancies or other chronic health disorders are likely to be prioritised for the vaccination. Covaxin’s paediatric clinical trial involved 525 children aged 2-18 years. It was conducted in July this year at the All India Institutes of Medical Sciences in Delhi and Patna, and in one hospital each in Hyderabad, Kanpur, Nagpur, and Mysore. The clinical trial was designed to evaluate the vaccine’s safety and capacity to generate immune responses, including antibodies that block SARS-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19 — in the paediatric population, experts familiar with the trial said. An earlier clinical trial of Covaxin on 25,800 adults had found nearly 78 per cent efficacy against symptomatic Covid-19 and 93 per cent efficacy against severe disease. The vaccine uses inactivated (killed) virus to immunise people against Covid-19. India had till Tuesday morning administered nearly 964 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines — 690 million single doses and 274 million second doses. Only 29 per cent of the estimated 944 million adults have received the two doses required for full vaccination. Limited vaccine supplies had constrained the pace of India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign during its early months while the country waited for manufacturers to ramp up production. Although vaccine supplies have increased over the months, Health experts say the campaign’s current pace is unlikely to achieve full vaccination of all adults by December 31 — the goal set by the Centre. The immunisation campaign will need to administer 11.5 million doses daily over the next 80 days to meet that goal. But it crossed 10 million doses only on three days over the past one month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
13-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Final prayers for slain farmers and journalist||The antim ardas or last prayer for the four farmers and one journalist mowed down in Lakhimpur Kheri was held in front of a gurdwara at Tikunia village on Tuesday, with thousands of farmers arriving at the event from various states. Family members of the dead farmers — Daljeet Singh and Gurvinder Singh of Bahraich, Nachhattar Singh and Lavpreet Singh of Kheri — and of slain journalist Raman Kashyap of Kheri sat on the dais holding their photographs. Urns containing the ashes of the five men were placed in front. The antim ardas began at 8am and ended at 3pm. The granthis read out passages from the holy scriptures as gurdwara members honoured the five families by giving them saffron saropas (scarves). The Samyukta Kisan Morcha gave them green scarves. The five men were returning from a farmers’ protest on October 3 when they were mowed down by a convoy of cars led by a Thar jeep belonging to local MP and Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni. The minister’s son Ashis, who was allegedly in the Thar, is in police custody. (See Page 3) Kisan Morcha leader Darshan Pal Singh, who conducted the programme from the dais on behalf of the gurdwara, announced that urns containing the ashes of the dead had been given to a few select people who had arrived from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Punjab, Delhi and Madhya Pradesh. “They will organise processions in their respective districts before immersing the ashes in rivers,” Pal said. He announced that the gurdwara committee had decided to build a memorial to the five men on land the committee owns in Tikunia. Morcha leaders Rakesh Tikait and Joginder Singh Ugrahan attended the event. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rashtriya Lok Dal president Jayant Chaudhary were present too, but they were not on the dais.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
13-10-2021||India||Odisha officers protest against minister Bishweswar Tudu||The Odisha administrative service officers in Mayurbhanj district are protesting against Union minister of state for jal shakti and tribal affairs Bishweswar Tudu’s allegedly disrespectful remarks about them in Mayurbhanj recently. Tudu is the Lok Sabha member from Mayurbhanj district. The officers with black badges organised a silent protest on Monday evening on their office premises at Baripada (district headquarters of Mayurbhanj). They urged the minister to behave with the government officials in a “decent and dignified manner.” Additional district magistrate Rudra Naryan Mohanty told The Telegraph: “The minister’s official had called me to allot three rooms and accordingly three rooms were allotted, including a suite and a VIP cottage, for his visit to Mayurbhanj on October 9. The annual repair and maintenance work was going on in other parts of the building of the district circuit house. “On that day (October 9) at 4.26pm, the minister called and abused me and asked why repair work was on during his visit.” Mohanty said: “Though I tried to explain that it was an ongoing annual maintenance work, the minister was in no mood to listen. Suddenly the hon’ble minister started using abusive language and threatened physical assault in the event of a similar situation arising in future.” Another Odisha Administrative Service official, now a tehsildar in Mayurbhanj, said: “I was attending a review meeting in Baripada. When we pointed out our difficulties, the minister suddenly flew into a rage and started abusing us. He even threatened to physically assault us and beat us with slippers. This was one and a half months ago.” Repeated calls by this paper to Tudu’s mobile phone to seek his reaction went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
13-10-2021||West Bengal||Durga Puja fervour at peak on ‘Mahaashtami’||Devotees across West Bengal offered 'pushpanjali' on Wednesday morning, on the occasion of Mahaastami, and rituals such as 'Kumari puja' got underway, as priests chanted mantras over loudspeakers and organisers tried their best to manage crowds at the Durga puja pandals. Thousands of revellers descended on the streets to visit the big-ticket puja marquees in the city and elsewhere, with festivities reaching a crescendo on the eighth day of the ten-day festival. Unlike last year, several people, having taken double doses of Covid-19 vaccine, also queued up outside restaurants and roadside food stalls. Many were seen removing masks to take selfies or simply to breathe easy amid the humid weather conditions. “People needed some respite from the restrictions that were imposed on their movements over the past one-and-a-half years,” said Partha Ghosh, a founding member of Forum for Durgotsab -- the apex body for the city's community puja organisers. "The number of visitors to pandals is definitely more this time when compared with last year, as people, after taking their vaccine doses, no longer fear COVID-19 the way they did in 2020," Ghosh, who is also an office-bearer of Shiv Mandir Puja committee, stated. Organisers and police personnel, however, were in some places seen urging revellers to avoid crowding, and wear masks at all times, amid speculation that COVID cases might rise after the festival. "Please follow COVID-19 protocols for your own safety. You need not see all pandals this year. Try keeping celebrations low-key. Don't be out of home all day," an organiser of Baghbazar Sarbojonin Durga Puja Committee, one of the most popular marquees in north Kolkata, was heard telling people over microphones, even as individuals jostled for space as they tried to catch a glimpse of the traditional 'ek-chala pratima' (idols of deities mounted on one frame). Similar scenes were also witnessed at Sreebhumi Sporting, this year's big draw, despite the suspension of the laser show at the pandal, which is a replica of Dubai's Burj Khalifa. Authorities at Belur Math, the global headquarters of Ramakrishna Mission (RKM), did not allow any visitor on its premises, quite like last year, as monks performed 'Kumari puja' (a girl child is worshipped as goddess). RKM units in Jayrambati and Kamarpukur also followed suit. The step-by-step rituals were streamed live on the official website of Belur Math. Women, during the day, were seen making preparations for 'Sandhi puja' (prayers offered at the juncture of Mahastami and Mahanabami). Mahastami puja was also observed with fanfare at the iconic Sovabazar Rajbari and other aristocratic households in the city, but visitor entry was barred at many such places. Cricket icon Sourav Ganguly offered 'pushpanjali' at Barisha Players Corner marquee. Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari visited a community pandal at Kanthi in Purba Medinipur district to offer prayers, while TMC spokesman Kunal Ghosh gave 'pushpanjali' at the Rammohan Sammilani puja pandal in north Kolkata. The Maddox Square Puja, a favourite meet-and-chat point for pandal hoppers, wore a forlorn look for the second year in a row, as organisers allowed people inside the complex only in batches. The Calcutta High Court has ordered that all Durga Puja pandals in West Bengal be made no-entry zones for the public, as was directed last year, to curb the spread of COVID-19. The court has this year permitted puja rituals like 'Anjali', 'Arati' and 'Sindur Khela' inside the marquees, while directing that the relaxation will be subjected to a cap on the maximum number of persons allowed, and compliance with conditions like double vaccination and wearing of masks. Most Durga Puja organisers had planned their marquees keeping in mind last year's high court order, thus allowing visitors to view the idols and the artwork from a distance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
13-10-2021||West Bengal||‘Bengal CPM did not see BJP threat or communalism’ ||The Left, primarily the CPM, is passing through an ideological and practical crisis. Can it overcome this crisis and add to the strength of a united Opposition challenging the BJP? Political scientist Sobhanlal Dattagupta explores the subject in this interview. The Bengal CPM has taken a 360-degree somersault. It’s not equating Trinamul with the BJP any longer and has said its main enemy is the BJP and it will cooperate with Trinamul at the Centre to oust the BJP. What provoked this change? That the West Bengal CPM’s stand on BJP and Trinamul was at variance with the line of the central committee was made unambiguously clear by Sitaram Yechury in his recent statement and in the stand taken by the central leadership of the party. While these criticisms have led the West Bengal CPM to admit it was wrong to coin the “Bijemul” slogan and, thereby, virtually equate the TMC with the BJP, I’m not sure whether this necessarily is a sign of a serious rethinking within the party in West Bengal. In fact, this is related to a larger question. The West Bengal Left, in general, has been prone to believe that the virus of communalism has been predominantly absent from the Bengali psyche and that this is explained by Bengal’s cultural heritage. Consequently, it has never taken into consideration the apparently invisible undercurrent of communalism that flows through the veins of the average Bengali. This led to a feeling of complacence in regard to the threat of the BJP and its consequent underestimation. In other words, there is no use in simply admitting that a mistake was committed unless appropriate corrective measures are adopted. As regards the possibility of an all-India anti-BJP alliance where the TMC and the Left can join hands, there is nothing unusual about it. This can certainly happen because of the situational compulsion. The process has already started at the central level although there are many knotty issues to be resolved involving Congress-TMC-Left equations. Does this mean that the CPM has, after a baffling delay, accepted the political position of the CPIML whose leader, Dipankar Bhattacharya, has said everything possible should be done to unseat the fascist BJP? The question is a bit misconstrued. Dipankar Bhattacharya’s interviews on the eve of the Assembly elections gave the impression as if he was pleading for a tie-up with the TMC, the main consideration behind being “no vote to BJP”. The CPM, obviously, was sharply critical of this position. In the post-poll situation, however, a careful reading of Deshabrati (the CPIML mouthpiece) shows that it is taking a critical position on a number of misdeeds of the TMC. So I would rather suggest that if the West Bengal CPM considers the BJP the main danger and the CPIML does not spare the undemocratic and authoritarian practices of the TMC, a new chemistry involving the Left Front and the CPIML may unfold in West Bengal. Will the CPI, RSP and the Forward Bloc follow the changed policy of the CPM and try to build a cohesive Leftist block that would cooperate with other secular parties that also profess socialism? The CPI, RSP and the Forward Bloc harboured sharp differences with the CPM on the stand the West Bengal CPM took on the issue of the BJP and Trinamul. But for the sake of Left unity they accepted it. While I agree that all of them should cooperate with other secular forces to ensure the successful functioning of such a front, what is more important is the coming together of all Left forces, at least in West Bengal, for two reasons. One, the ideological position of the non-Left-yet-secular parties on socialism is rather vague and ill-defined. Two, the Left parties alone, despite their many differences, have the necessary resources to challenge the BJP ideologically. This is especially explained by the fact that it is the non-Left parties from where the maximum migration to the BJP has taken place. In West Bengal, on the eve of the Assembly elections, the migration from the TMC to the BJP reached almost the height of absurdity and thereafter a reverse flow has started. In West Bengal, the Left has to constitute the core and show the road ahead. What are the specific areas in which the Left can engage itself powerfully to retrieve the space it has lost? I would very specifically focus on four such areas: (a) to build up a leadership that would command respect at the central as well as regional level, because the leadership vacuum is being fully utilised by the BJP; (b) to build a truly meaningful communication network that would forge a real tie-up between the party and the masses and abjure bureaucratic practices in realising this objective; (c) to present an alternative model of governance, shunning populism and bureaucratism, that would reach out to the masses; and (d) to work out an alternative cultural strategy to fight the BJP ideologically. The battle lines are drawn. We have the fascist BJP which, many say, is keen to sell the country to corporate bigwigs, and on the other hand we have the Opposition, which should think in terms of a progressive, united and vibrant social democracy. This fundamental cleavage prompts the last question: why don’t the CPM and other Leftist parties call themselves social democratic rather than communists? While I certainly agree that the battle lines are clearly drawn, I do not think that for the survival of the Left the road ahead is the acceptance of a robust social democracy and rejection of communism. Let me briefly state three explanatory factors. One, the vision of social democracy and that of communism are entirely different in the sense that social democracy does not call for any fundamental alternative to capitalism. Two, one model of socialism has been practised in history and despite some of its positive elements it has ultimately proved a failure, the basic reason being its adherence to an authoritarian style of functioning. Three, an altogether different model of socialism is called for, the constituents of which would be humanism and self-rule of the labouring masses as the highest manifestation of revolutionary democracy. This was the projected vision of Marx, and its echoes are to be found in the ideas of Rosa Luxemburg, Antonio Gramsci and Nikolai Bukharin, to name a few. In the intellectual history of Marxism, one comes across these alternative visions but the history of socialism did not provide any opportunity to test them in practice. History is yet to give its verdict on this unexplored understanding of socialism. The problem with the mainstream Left across the world is that, while at the theoretical/ intellectual level these alternative possibilities are subjects of animated discussion, at the level of political practice there is hardly any effort to incorporate them in political struggles. This involves a larger strategic question, namely, revisioning the Left rather than a renewal of the Left, which envisages a break with the past in many respects. This understanding demands a new reading of the legacy of Marxism from the basics. In India this is the need of the hour if the Left has to move ahead, for the simple reason that in the absence of any projected alternative it would be impossible to draw the younger generation ideologically towards the cause of socialism. The Left has to clearly state that it does not endorse the authoritarian model of socialism which, though it prevailed for a long time, was ultimately proved wrong. Further, that it is prepared to harbour a better, alternative vision the resources of which have remained unexplored.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
13-10-2021||West Bengal||New mobile women police squad for Siliguri||A new mobile women police squad was launched by Siliguri Metropolitan Police in association with the Siliguri Municipal Corporation here on Tuesday. The squad, which will be engaged in patrolling, will move in two-member groups on two-wheelers to curb crimes against women. “We want to enhance women’s safety in and around Siliguri. That is why the squad has been launched. All members of the squad are combat trained and will carry sophisticated equipment of communication, body cameras and some other gadgets to ensure that they do not face any problem in discharging their duties,” said Gaurav Sharma, the commissioner of police. The SMC provided 11 two-wheelers to the police. “We had approached the chairman of the board of administrators at the SMC and he readily agreed to provide this help to us. It is because of this help that we could launch the squad so early. The squad members will patrol the city, especially during festive days,” added Sharma. Gautam Deb, the chairman of the board of administrators at the SMC, said such a squad was necessary for the city. Every day, millions of people visit Siliguri on different errands, along with tourists. “Also, during Durga Puja and Kali Puja, we find lakhs of people visiting the city from neighbouring districts and states. This squad would be effective to prevent crimes against women,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
13-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 768 cases, 735 recoveries, 10 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday reported 768 Covid-19 cases, 735 recoveries and 10 deaths. The total of active cases rose by 23 to 7,672. In the past 17 days, Bengal recorded a rise in the total of active cases on 12 days and a fall on four days. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total active cases on September 26. The state now has 3.7 per cent of the national total of active cases and is sixth on the list of states with the highest number of Covid patients under treatment at present. Calcutta logged 180 infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 126 on Tuesday. These are the only two districts with three-digit figures of new infections in Bengal. Eight districts reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate is 98.31 per cent, while the national rate is 98. The daily positive confirmation rate, which had been nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.56 per cent on Tuesday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported no death from Covid on Tuesday. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas logged two deaths each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.78 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.51 lakh recoveries and 18,924 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
13-10-2021||West Bengal||Freight train overturns near Raghunathbari station ||Tourists and residents bound for East Midnapore’s Digha on the first day of the Puja were halted on the tracks on Tuesday morning when a freight train overturned near Raghunathbari station and stalled the movement of Howrah-Digha Tamralipta Express. The South Eastern Railway had to cancel all trains between Digha and Haldia for Tuesday. According to railway police, a coal-laden freight train from Haldia to Jharkhand overturned around 8am between Tamluk and Panskura. “The Tikiapara-Haldia special local train also got stuck near Panskura station and the Asansol-Haldia Intercity Express was left stranded near Kharagpur station,” said a source. Passengers on the Tamralipta waited expectantly for almost four hours before being informed that the train would be returning to Howrah, leaving holidaymakers with no alternatives given that the closest town, Mechheda, is poorly connected by road. Kaustab Mukherjee, 42, a businessman from Ballygunge in Kolkata, said his two-year-old child and elderly parents were all going to Digha for a holiday. “As the train was cancelled midway, we had to call off the tour and return home. It was not possible for us to walk on the road with children and the elderly,” he said, adding that the area had no bus services. Other passengers tried to reach Digha by road. But the extra fare charged by private cars as well as the lack of seats on buses forced many to return to Howrah. Navneeta Roy, a homemaker from Behala in Calcutta, said: “My husband and wife were going to visit Mandarmoni. As the train stopped in the middle, I tried to get into the long-distance bus from Mechheda. But the bus was so crowded that it was not possible to board. Private cars were asking for Rs 5,000-6,000. It was not possible for us to spend this money. So, we came back home. Saptami’s joy turned to dust,” she exclaimed. Bipradas Chakraborty, joint secretary of the Digha Shankarpur Hoteliers Association, termed the situation “unfortunate”. “The railways didn’t give us a special Puja train. Instead, the freight train overturned and our only train service on the long route was completely stopped,” he said. A railway official said the freight train had overturned and had damaged the railway line and electricity poles as a result. “Once the line is repaired, train movement will be restored,” said an official who could not give a time-frame for the return of normality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
13-10-2021||West Bengal||Several Puja committees choose Lakshmir Bhandar as theme||Several Durga Puja committees across Bengal have chosen the theme of Lakshmir Bhandar (Lakshmi’s treasure) — the flagship scheme of the state government that envisages to empower women through direct cash transfer — to attract pandal-hoppers as the project has gained popularity since its launch on July 1. The scheme was promised by chief minister Mamata Banerjee during her campaign rallies in the run up to the Assembly polls this year. A section of political scientists and Trinamul Congress leaders believe the promise for Lakshmir Bhandar had played a significant role in bringing back the party to power for the third consecutive time. According to the proposed scheme, the state government is providing a monthly aid of Rs 1,000 to women heads of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe families and Rs 500 to those belonging to the general categories. Officials said around two crore women across the state had already started receiving the monthly dole from this month. The government has estimated that Rs 11,000 will have to be spent from the state exchequer annually to run the scheme. Sources said in most of the districts in both north and south Bengal, there were at least one Puja pandal where the theme of Lakshmir Bhandar was adopted. Puja organisers said they chose the Lakshmir Bhandar theme mainly for two reasons. First it was a huge hit with women and second, it reflected the Mamata Banerjee’s wish to have women at the centre stage of government schemes. “Women from all the tiers of the society have responded to the scheme in great numbers. So, we decided to make Lakshmir Bhandar as the theme of our Puja this year,” said Bishal Kahar, secretary of Azad Hind Club of Hooghly’s Chinsurah. Most of the Puja committees used clay idols to showcase the scheme as it happened in real-life at Duare Sarkar camps. At a few places, organisers highlighted several other schemes of the state government. Some pandals used a giant “Lakshmir ghot” (traditional earthen pot used to save money) as a prop to uphold the scheme. Some have used Lakshmir Bhandar scheme to showcase women empowerment. “Durga Puja celebrates women’s empowerment. If you look at the scheme, it is nothing but a way to empower women through direct financial benefit. When we witnessed the response of women to the scheme, we chose it as our theme,” said Moloy Paul, joint secretary of Ghourdourchatti Sarbajanin Durga Puja committee in Burdwan town. In Malda, the Baluchar Kalyan Samiti has raised the pandal on the theme and has been drawing large crowds since Sunday. A giant “ghot” (traditional earthen pot used for cash savings), along with hundreds of smaller pots, adorn the pandal. Also, 13 other popular social welfare schemes run by the state government have also found place at the pandal. When pointed out that the theme was being criticised for being overtly political, Amitava Seth, the secretary of the Puja committee, said: “This has nothing to do with politics. Seeing the response of the people, we thought of taking it up as our Puja theme.” Opposition leaders said most of the Puja where the theme of Lakshmir Bhandar had been adopted had direct involvement of local Trinamul leaders and accused them of using the festival to influence people. CPM central committee member, Ram Chandra Dom, said: “Puja committees are getting money from the state exchequer and that has led them to use the festival to campaign for government scheme. This should not have happened. The present government is bringing politics into festivities as well.” Samik Bhattacharya, chief spokesperson for Bengal BJP, said: “The Trinamul Congress is an all-devouring group of people. It isn’t even a political party. For Trinamul Congress religion, culture and politics are all the same. They have made Bengal a society of puppet politics." Jayatu Subhas Ghosthi, which organises Durga Puja in Birbhum’s Sainthia, had also made Lakshmir Bhandar the theme and the secretary of the group is Trinamul leader Debasish Saha. The Trinamul leader’s wife Nilabati Saha is the party MLA from Sainthia. “The response of the women showed how the scheme has been successful and people have benefited. We thought such a move would help rural women know more about the scheme. The Assembly elections have also proved how people trust and support our chief minister,” said Debasish. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Dutta Majumdar, Soumya De Sarkar and Kousik Sen||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
13-10-2021||West Bengal||No decision at Delhi talks on Gorkhaland issues||The much-awaited meeting involving Gorkha stakeholders and central and Bengal governments was convened in New Delhi on Tuesday but no concrete decision was taken. The Centre had invited the Bengal chief secretary but the state was represented at the talks by its resident commissioner in Delhi Krishna Gupta. The meeting “to resolve issues related to the Gorkhas and of the region” was chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah. “The home minister said that another rounds of talks would be held in November after Diwali and a decision would be taken after hearing the Bengal representative,” Bista said. The Gorkha stakeholders in the Darjeeling hills, Dooars and the Terai were represented mostly by BJP law-makers and leaders of its allies even though these regions have elected representatives from other parties, too. Bista, who spoke on behalf of the region’s “representatives”, said the Bengal government did not send a senior official because of Durga Puja. The statement of Darjeeling MP indicated that the Centre did not want to take a unilateral decision regarding Darjeeling, probably fearing repercussions in the rest of Bengal, an observer said. The ruling Trinamul Congress in Bengal is opposed to Gorkhaland, the main demand of Gorkhas. Bista said the meeting was called to discuss “permanent political solution” for the region and the demand of granting tribal status to 11 hill communities. Both had been promised by the BJP in its manifesto for the 2019 general election. “… Amit Shah said that the Central Government under the leadership of Prime Minister, Narendra Modi is constantly making efforts to resolve issues related to the Gorkhas and of the region. The Union Home Minister listened to all the parties concerned and has decided to call for the second round of talks in the presence of the senior officials of the Government of West Bengal in November 2021. The West Bengal Government has been specifically asked to send their senior officials for the next round of talks…,” reads a press statement issued by the Union home ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
13-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Tatas take over Air India||Take flight Sir — The takeover of the habitually loss-making airline, Air India, by the Tatas is one of their boldest steps, especially considering the overall gloom pervading the aviation sector (“Welcome back”, Oct 12). There are many challenges to restoring Air India’s past glory — an image makeover, bringing about a change in the mindset of employees, lowering the operating costs. Now the Tatas have four aviation brands: two low-cost carriers — Air India Express and AirAsia India — and two full-service airlines — Air India and Vistara. Not all of these have an impressive record. But Air India does have trained pilots and crew, prized slots at airports both at home and abroad as well as a fleet of over 130 planes. The Tatas could use these assets to consolidate their position in the aviation sector. The fact that all employees must be retained for at least a year might make the training of staff difficult. But given the Tatas’ experience in running big organizations, this is not impossible. This deal may open up the floodgates of disinvestment or majority or even complete takeover by private players of loss-making government undertakings. It might, thus, help reduce the burgeoning debt burden of the country. Chanchal Nandy,West Burdwan Sir — The history of Air India came full circle with the Tata group emerging as the winning bidder for India’s premier carrier. This is an occasion for the employees, patrons as well as the public to rejoice. J.R.D. Tata, the first licensed pilot of India and pioneer of the Indian aviation industry, had launched Tata Airlines in 1932. Later listed as Air India, it was nationalized in 1953. In the wake of its merger with Indian Airlines, things started going downhill for the national carrier, with losses mounting each year. Eventually, the government decided in favour of a disinvestment. Now that the Tatas have got it back, they will hopefully bring back the glory days for Air India with their experience in the industry. A new horizon of hope is expected to open up before the 12,000 Air India employees whose future, until now, hung in the balance. Tapash Chatterjee,New Barrackpore Sir — It was heartening that the Tata group emerged as the highest bidder for Air India. On account of the faulty policies of the government, the airline caved in to competition from private airlines. Further, the aviation industry globally faced significant losses — $314 billion — owing to the pandemic. As such, the Tatas have set a positive example by acquiring the airline with a debt of Rs 61,562 crore. This is praiseworthy. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly At long last Sir — The development of the long-awaited and much-needed anti-malaria vaccine is a major breakthrough in medical science. The RTS,S/AS01, developed by the British pharmaceutical company, GlaxoSmithKline, is sold as Mosquirox. Approved by the World Health Organization and recommended for widespread use among children, it holds out the hope of saving millions of lives. Although the vaccine has shown limited efficacy until now — it prevents 39 per cent of malaria cases and 29 per cent of severe malaria cases — it can prove to be beneficial. One study found that when children were given both RTS, S and anti-malarial drugs, there was a 70 per cent reduction in hospitalization and death. Malaria has been a scourge for millennia; claiming innumerable lives, especially in sub-Saharan Africa. It poses a serious threat to India as well. It will take a lot of political will and funding to roll out the vaccine from the lab to the field. The global vaccine alliance, Gavi, should step in. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — Good news has finally arrived with the WHO approving the RTS, S malaria vaccine. Its development has taken over 40 years. Malaria claims around four lakh lives every year. The situation is worst in sub-Saharan Africa; the new vaccine should be able to help the people there. Mankind’s struggle against diseases seems unending. By the time we are able to contain one disease, a new one emerges. If only more research on knowledge science were devoted to healthcare — some countries focus on creating bioweapons instead — our struggle with diseases would not have been so one-sided. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur  Different game Sir — Following the findings of a survey across seven countries, the toy-manufacturing company, Lego, has promised to make its products “free of gender bias and harmful stereotypes” by shifting the focus to “passions and interests”. This is indeed a positive step. However, one cannot help but doubt the actual motivation behind this decision. The fact that children are affected by gender roles normalized through playthings is not new. In fact, other toy companies — Mattel and its gender-neutral and progressive Barbie models, for example — have already shown the way. Is this, then, merely a marketing tactic to increase sales by earning people’s trust? Adrita Bhowmick,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
13-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Short life||The recent worldwide outage experienced by customers of social media platforms like WhatsApp and Facebook revealed a surprising fact about the relative importance of these means of communication against more traditional ones such as short messaging service. Yet, during the six hours of outage, people did not fall back on SMS to communicate. It shows that public reliance on SMS has dropped drastically in the last few years — a trend that telecom companies are well aware of — because of a sharp drop in revenue. SMS, which accounted for 10 per cent of total revenue at its peak, has fallen to only 0.55 per cent of total revenue. SMS is now used only for receiving ‘one time passwords’ for making online transactions. Banks, particularly, are still quite dependent on SMS. One reason for this is that internet access is still not adequate in remote areas where they operate. But the other modes of messaging are far more popular. According to one estimate, out of more than two billion WhatsApp users, an estimated 400 million people in India are increasingly using WhatsApp as the primary mode of communication. Customer behaviour during the outage also points to the way technology engenders dependence. Social media technologies are far more enabling in creative communication with pictures, emojis, voice messages and group texting and calling. The SMS, thus, appears relatively archaic. There are many other considerations too for the strict preference. Data security that platforms like WhatsApp officially promise is an attractive feature. According to some experts in psychology and communications, emojis may become a new form of language, or at least an integral part of communications. Verbal, face-to-face communication allowed people to factor in tone of voice or body language. Even purely voice messages allowed the receiver to discern the intonations of the voice of the speaker. In purely written messages on the digital medium, the only way to communicate emotions and reactions with speed and efficiency may be the emojis and the emoticons. What happened during the outage is an interesting instance of how technology shapes mass culture. For addictive forms of communications, outages would become extremely costly for the companies that own the platforms. Data usage has multiplied dramatically during the past four or five years. It might be interesting to analyse and estimate — with the help of meta-data — how much of the communications is essential, how much is useless, and how much of it constitutes fake news.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
13-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Truth triumphs||Journalism’s obituary has been written quite a few times. For instance, in the modern world, the plummeting revenues of traditional journalistic platforms — the print media, for instance — intimidatory intervention, legal or otherwise, against digital news networks to stifle free speech and, equally important, the capitulation of the media fraternity before the powers that be — be it the government or big business — are being cited as the principal causes that would lead to journalism’s demise. Yet the vocation has turned out to be a rather stubborn species, proving the pundits wrong repeatedly. The conferring of this year’s Nobel Peace Prize on two courageous, proficient scribes — Maria Ressa of the Philippines and Russia’s Dmitry Muratov — shows that journalism can, indeed, be resurrected in spite of such formidable threats as State repression as well as the public vulnerability to — enchantment with? — false narratives. The path to renewal for individual journalists and news organizations, as Ms Ressa and Mr Muratov have shown, lies in the ability to refresh journalism’s commitment to the original charter of the fourth estate: to report the truth without fear or favour and uphold the primacy of free speech. This is, of course, not a road for the faint-hearted. Real journalistic work is considered to be a dangerous profession: in 2020, a report compiled by the director-general of Unesco had found that only 13 per cent of cases filed against newspersons around the world had been resolved — the figures were 12 and 11 per cent, respectively, for the previous two years. Incarceration, intimidation, threats of bodily violence and trolling — these are especially true for women journalists — and even death — India is witness to Gauri Lankesh’s murder — are some of the ‘occupational hazards’ in the journalistic tryst with truth. The pressures on journalism have, undoubtedly, been intensified by transformations in global politics and society. The rise of authoritarian regimes — democratic India is not an exception — and the carefully calibrated assault on the institutions mandated to honour truth — the latter is integral to the idea of justice — have endangered the vocation. The Philippines, Ms Ressa’s country, was ranked 138 among 180 countries that were evaluated by the World Press Freedom Index 2021. Her views on India — it ranks lower than the Philippines on the register — are particularly illuminating in this context. The Nobel Peace Prize should not be an occasion to indulge in smugness. It should be viewed by practising journalists and news organizations as a solemn reminder to be unrelenting in their pursuit to inform the public of the truth by defying monumental odds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
13-10-2021||Opinion||Play the federalism card||The impressive electoral performance of the regional parties in the assembly elections held in the first half of 2021 has had major ramifications on national politics. Emboldened by the results, which reaffirmed the view that the balance of power within the Opposition has been shifting towards their outfits, regional satraps have now taken the lead in floating a nationwide anti-BJP front to challenge the saffron party and its allies in 2024. In the last few months, several meetings have been held by prominent leaders in the Opposition to discuss ways in which it can challenge the Bharatiya Janata Party’s hegemony in electoral politics. The Congress was forced to convene a virtual meeting in August that was attended by 19 Opposition parties. While attempts by India’s Opposition to prop up a formidable front to take on the BJP and the prospects of such an initiative have been widely discussed, another interesting development that can potentially impact the health of India’s democracy in the long run has not received the same kind of attention. Ever since the BJP’s crushing defeat in Bengal and the victory of regional leaders — Mamata Banerjee, M.K. Stalin and Pinarayi Vijayan — in their respective states, the Opposition has been growing more vocal over the Narendra Modi government’s overarching ways, its scant regard for India’s federal structure as well as its tendencies to encroach upon the rights of state governments. Interestingly, supposedly ‘neutral’ chief ministers like Naveen Patnaik and Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy have also shown signs of supporting their counterparts in the Opposition advocating greater rights for the states. Barely a few weeks after coming to power, the M.K. Stalin government stirred the proverbial hornet’s nest by referring to the Modi government as “Ondriyam Arasu” (Union government) instead of “Mathiya Arasu” (Central government), thereby raising pertinent questions about the very nature of Indian federalism. The BJP accused the state government of being confrontationalist and harbouring ulterior motives. The raging debate — as to whether India is a Union of states or whether the states are merely administrative units with the Union empowered to override their authority — may resemble political shadow-boxing but there is much more to it. The debate on the nature of federalism and the advocacy for federalism and rights of the states has not been restricted to Tamil Nadu. It is also timely: for it comes in the aftermath of the pandemic laying bare the fragility of India’s federal set up. The Centre and the state governments bitterly crossed swords on nearly every issue that required them to work together in the spirit of cooperative federalism, including vaccine policy, the plight of migrant workers during the national lockdown, goods and services tax rates on essential commodities and life-saving drugs and so on. Over the years, successive Central governments have encroached upon the rights of the states. The Modi government, too, has been riding roughshod over states by adopting a centralized and unilateral approach to policy-making. In recent times, the Centre has bolstered this centralization spirit by unilaterally framing laws — the farm laws, the electricity (amendment) bill, the Major Port Authorities Act, 2021 — on subjects on the state and concurrent lists. Odisha, West Bengal, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh have been fiercely resisting such moves aimed at usurping the constitutionally guaranteed rights of states. Opposition leaders exhibiting a willingness to form an anti-BJP front and the renewed focus on federal politics and rights of states are crucial for the health of Indian democracy. In fact, these two developments are interlinked. If Opposition leaders commit themselves to the cause of federalism and greater authority for the states, it will strengthen the prospects of the proposed federal front that aims to confront the BJP. A political movement resisting the current dispensation’s high-handedness to ensure greater federalization can become the rallying point for Opposition forces by acting as a glue that can hold disparate elements of the alliance together. Such a move will also bolster the chances of the alliance by generating wider acceptance for it, especially among fence-sitters, by countering the long-standing criticism of such an initiative being nothing but an example of the ambition of the regional satraps. The success of the Opposition will depend on its ability to make 2024 a ‘Modi versus what’ instead of a ‘Modi versus who’ battle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
13-10-2021||Opinion||Silence is grey||On the face of it, asking a question appears to be a simple act of responding to things with curiosity. Except for what linguists call ‘phatic communication’, such as ‘how are you?’ Or ‘is everything okay?’ Questions arise in one’s mind out of the quest to know. They also arise out of concern for matters that one thinks are important. At a higher pitch, they are born out of philosophical anxiety, as in Hamlet’s ‘To be or not to be’ or the upanishidic ‘Ko aham? — Who am I?’ There are times when questions arise out of a collective desire to be assured that all is well with the State. When such questions are asked in Parliament, the technical term used to describe them is ‘interpellation’. When asked outside Parliament and the assemblies by people who are imagined to be silent observers, they reflect the popular perception of government functioning. I list only a few of the questions that people have asked but have remained unanswered. When the coronavirus pandemic broke out, the prime minister made an appeal to contribute funds to a new trust called ‘PM-Cares’ created for relief. Citizens wanted to know if PM-Cares was a government entity or a private entity. It continues to remain surrounded by studied ambivalence. During the NDA-I government, a committee was appointed to review the history of India for the last 12,000 years, a time span matching the beginning of the Holocene. Why was no representation given in that committee of experts to anyone from the Northeast tribal communities or from the southern Dravidian communities or to women? There was no answer. In view of the India-China border clashes, one would have expected to know if the People’s Liberation Army had crossed into Indian land and how deep. That information is not available with any clarity. When the international media started talking about snooping by the spyware, Pegasus, citizens wanted to know if the government had authorized the Israel-based firm to mount surveillance on private individuals. The answer is not known to citizens yet. Media reports say that the Sabarmati Ashram is to be renovated and made into a world-class tourist destination. On discussing with the trustees of the ashram, this writer was told that they do not have a clear idea of what is involved in the plans. Again a question without a clear answer. In the gruesome killings at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, did the police think of it as a case of murder to be treated under the Indian Penal Code? Why were the suspected killers not arrested immediately? Why were political leaders detained without disclosing the reasons for their detention? These questions were in the minds of not just the citizens of India but even of the highest court of the country. Yet, no clear answers could be elicited. Recently, two instances of drug-trafficking and consumption shot into news, one involving a few grammes of a narcotic and the other nearly three thousand kilogrammes. Why the incident in Bombay received so much attention as opposed to the one in Mundra port is a question that is not likely to be answered. In normal times, the government is expected to answer these questions inside Parliament as well as outside. However, if Parliament is transformed into a space where the term, ‘interpellation’, is no longer respected as part of its constitutional duty, it cannot be expected to satisfy citizens’ quest to know the answers. The last session of Parliament had practically ruled out the ‘question hour’ and Opposition benches had to literally struggle to get at least half an hour every day for questions. If elections — they cost so much to the country and to the taxpayers and take so much of the media’s time and the nation’s attention — do not ultimately result in a means of generating well-informed debates and providing answers, the form of the government that we have today calls for a name other than democracy. In democratic countries, the media are expected to flag issues of interest, seek answers, and form perspectives around them and orient people’s response to the functioning of public representatives. Barring several courageous individuals and a few honourable media organizations, the electronic and print media in India have clearly moved far away from this age-old media dharma. The symptoms of the abdication of their duty are too well-known for me to list them here. The causes of this condition that require our attention. Independent media require financial independence for media houses. The costs involved are so high that it is no longer possible in our time to even dream, let alone think, of a financially self-sufficient media. Gone are the times when the print media was ruled by the editorial and opinion desks. For more than half a century now, they are being run by media companies or business houses. At this juncture of a fierce war between social media platforms and the print industry, to keep a print media venture afloat is close to a financial miracle. If, on top of the acute financial uncertainty made worse by the worldwide pandemic, there is the fear of intimidation of media workers and the trolling of opinion writers, it is not surprising that the media like to fend for their own safety. Electronic media ventures are costlier and, for the same reasons, tend to plunge more willingly for their own safety. Although one may not like the idea, the catch-phrase in financial markets is ‘the media and entertainment industry’, used to describe a rapidly growing combination of cinema, video games, entertainment, print and electronic media. There is the rather naive hope that if the constitutional democratic fora and the media no longer can play their traditionally defined roles, the social media — on the fingertips of citizens — will salvage democracies from the current aberrations. However, these generate chaotic noise rather than well-searched information. Surrounded by so much noise, we live in an era without conversation, a political arrangement that can probably be called the ‘No-question Regime’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
13-10-2021||Jharkhand||Wild elephant injures 25 at Daru block puja pandal||A wild elephant, separated from its herd after killing five persons, reached Daru block Puja Pandal. The jumbo’s sudden appearance triggered panic among the devotees, forcing them to take refuge at the Durga mandap. Around 25 people were injured during the rampage caused by the sudden appearance of the elephant. Elephant, which was moving in a herd of 17, had first killed two women and an elderly man in Katkamdag block on Monday morning. By night, it reached the Demotand and Pauhta area under Muffasil police station killing two men and injuring a woman. At Daru, the pandal was packed with hundreds of devotees when it walked there creating a stampede.Many took refuge at the Durga Mandap, where they were forced to spend the entire night fearing attack by the elephant. Puja pandal organisers played smart by blowing a music system in loud sound making the elephant move to an adjoining field. Eyewitnesses said that the elephant had tried to attack devotees but on hearing the loud music, it moved out. They said a huge attendance was at a mela (village fair) when the jumbo entered the fair. Forest department officials said, “Elephant which get separated from their herd always become dangerous.” They said that they were studying the behaviour of the jumbo. “If the killing spree continues, we will consider the option of gunning it down,” he said. Divisional forest officer R.N Mishra said, “There is a provision in The Forest Act which allows the killing of violent elephants.” Forest department is working on the plan to minimise human and elephant clashes in Jharkhand, he mentioned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
13-10-2021||Jharkhand||Old town Jharia carries on century-old tradition of Royal Puja||Devotees from different parts of Dhanbad throng Jharia Raj Durgabari (Goddess Durga Temple) situated at Purana Rajagarh or old fort of erstwhile Jharia princely estate to seek the Goddess’ blessings. Here, Puja is still performed as per the old tradition of the  Royal family. The day began with the Belbharani Puja or Kolabau Puja, which is performed early in the morning at around 5.30 am. The women folks of the royal family, under the leadership of Rani Snehlata Devi carried out navpatrika snan (bath)  in the royal pond, called the Raja Talab, situated near the old fort. Notably, during the early hours of Saptami, (seventh day of Puja)  goddess Durga is invoked in a group of nine plants bunched together and tied with the twigs of Aparajita  which is given a pre-dawn bath in holy water of a river or pond. In Jharia the Belbharni Puja or navpatrika snan of around 100 community puja is performed in Raja Talab only after the completion of navpatrika snan Puja of Jharia estate. “After the Belbharni Puja the puja was performed in  our Kothri Ghar of Shira Ghar where the Royal Sword Puja was also performed followed by Chandipath etc,”  said Rani Snehlata Devi wife of Kunwar Raja Bisheshwar Prasad Singh. Notably, Durga Puja began in Jharia estate over 300 years back during the reign of former Jharia King, Late Sangram Singh who constructed the Durgabari near the old fort. Not  only is the  puja of Jharia estate but the Dura Puja of four other vassals of Jharia estate based at Poddar Para, Mishir Para, Amla Para and Jharia main Road also began almost at the same time when the puja of Jharia estate began. And they are still performed in strict adherence with the old tradition. While the Puja at three of these places including Mishra Para, Poddar Para and Main Roa is performed by the descendants of three different priests; Durga Puja at Amla Para locality of Jharia is performed by ten different courtiers of Jharia estate. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Sujit Mishra, a descendant of the Sujit Mishra, a descendant of Late Nand Kishore Mishra, the chief priest  of Jharia estate who started Puja at Mishra Para in mid 19th Century, said,  “The puja at all the five places assumes special significance for the history of district and especially the residents of Jharia and despite the huge Pandals lighting arrangements at different places people do not forget to take the blessings of Jharia Rajbari puja before venturing on visit to see different Puja Pandals.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
13-10-2021||Jharkhand||Tourists head to Dalma Sanctuary for Durga Puja||This Durga Puja, the scenic Dalma wildlife sanctuary has turned out to be the most favoured get-away destination, with a huge number of tourists from Ranchi and Calcutta booking the cottages and rooms. According to sources in the sanctuary, the 192 sq km elephant abode is chock-a-block with this puja. Be it the plush air-conditioned cottages, non-air-conditioned rooms, bamboo cottages or the mud cottages in Makukalakocha or the three staff quarters at Pinderabera at the hilltop, all are booked till October 19. Majority of tourists who have preferred to spend quality time with their families in the lap of nature are from Calcutta, Ranchi and Jamshedpur. According to Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra, accommodations are booked till October 19, but they are open to entertaining requests for more bookings at a later stage. “It’s Puja rush at the sanctuary. All accommodations are booked till October 19. Tourists from Ranchi have booked the air-conditioned cottages till October 15 and visitors from Calcutta have reserved the facility (when it falls vacant) till October 19,” he informed. A staff at the Dalma range office in Mango said, “Calcuttans are already holed up at other accommodations, including the bamboo house and the mud house. Some families from Jamshedpur are also staying at the staff quarters in Pinderbera.” According to him, tourists from Calcutta booked accommodations at the beginning of this month. “We are not entertaining further requests as there are no rooms till October 19. But the enquiries are still pouring in for bookings post October-19,” he informed. Currently, there is no water or electricity crisis at both Pinderbera and Makulakocha facilities. Tourists enjoy spending time near a dozen-plus big and small watering holes, including Majhla Bandh, Chotka Bandh and Bijli Ghati, where the animals come to quench their thirst. However, the hilltop is presently sans elephants, some of whom are stationed downhill on their way to the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in neighbouring Bengal. Tourists also visit the Shiva temple located around 4km from the Pinderbera facility. The visitors can also enjoy a safe and comfortable ride to the top of Dalma Hills. Guard walls have been put up at vulnerable points along the 17km unmetalled road leading to the 900ft summit of the sanctuary. The roads, which have been repaired with patches of plain concrete cement, are also in good condition. Tourists can also hire trackers (village youths who work as daily wage earners) to visit the scenic spots. Visitors are needed to stock up on rations before dropping anchor at Pinderbera. However, they don't need to do the same at Makulakocha, thanks to a full-fledged kitchen and a cafeteria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
13-10-2021||Jharkhand||Left backed farmers pay homage to martyred cultivators, soldiers||Farmers backed by the Left parties held candlelight marches in Jharkhand and lit candles at their homes in memory of the martyred soldiers and the farmers killed in recent violence. “It was an impromptu decision taken by farmers associated with the All India Kisan Sabha (farmer’s outfit of the CPI) and we agreed to join hands in it. In all the 24 districts of Jharkhand, farmers along with the Left parties staged candle light marches in memory of the farmers killed on October 3 and the soldiers martyred on Monday,” said  Sufal Mahato, state coordinator of Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangarsh Samanway Samity (an outfit spearheading  the farmers’ agitation in the state since November 2020). Five army soldiers were killed in an encounter that broke out in the forest area of Poonch sector in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday. Four farmers were mowed down by a convoy led by an SUV owned by Union minister of state for home, Ajay Mishra Teni, in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 when they were returning from a protest. The minister’s son Ashish Mishra was allegedly in the SUV. “Through the candlelight march we want to pay our homage to the martyred soldiers and also to the farmers who have died during the course of the protest against the new farm laws. We want to raise again the slogan of yesteryears ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’,” said Bhagwan Singh, a Sikh leader from Jamshedpur and a representative of the Mango Gurudwara Committee. The farmers outfit also threatened to burn effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah on October 15 if the Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra is not sacked by then. “As long as the Union minister of state for home is in office we do not feel that the police, which functions under the home ministry, will do a fair probe into the killing of farmers. If the Prime Minister and the home minister do not sack Mishra, then we will burn both their effigies on October 15. We will also stage a rail roko (stopping rail) agitation on October 18 in support of our demand for repeal of three new farm laws,” said Sufal Mahato. The three laws — The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 — were passed by Parliament in September last year. The farmers across the country have been seeking the repeal of the three agriculture laws. The protesting farmers along Delhi borders have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations. The government, however, has rejected these claims stating that the laws will only give farmers more options to sell their produce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
13-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand app for civic complaints||Jharkhand got its first mobile app of a civic body to address the complaints of residents. Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) — the state-owned civic body that supervises civic utilities in non-Tata Steel command areas in the city of Jamshedpur — on Tuesday launched the ‘Citygen’ app funded and developed by ICICI bank. “It would be the first such app for a local urban body in Jharkhand incorporating all civic utilities in one app. In the first phase, the civic body supervisors and officers will use the app and each of the establishments (commercial and residential) will be provided with a unique identity. We also plan to roll out for the residents of the city soon,” Krishna Kumar, JNAC special officer, said. Sources in the JNAC informed that at the moment the ‘Citygen’ app would be on a hybrid platform, but would be available on public domain for download by masses in December. “As of now it would be on a hybrid platform and can be accessed only by JNAC staff and supervisors. However, we plan to roll it out for common masses by this year-end. By then each of the beneficiary houses will get a unique identity and can fill up detailed information about problems pertaining to civic problems. Be it drinking water, septic tank cleaning, doorstep waste collection, street lights, clogged drains etc after downloading the app,” Kumar said. Significantly JNAC caters to over 50,000 residents in 10 wards outside Tata Steel company command areas. Those residing in Tata Steel command areas have utility services provided by Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited. JNAC solid waste management expert, Saurabh Kumar said that supervisors and staff through the app would get exact information about the residents, their locations and the problems plaguing them in terms of civic amenities. “As of now we do not have proper data about our beneficiaries. We would be assigning each of the beneficiary households with a unique identity, which would be available with the supervisors and staff. This will help the staff can plan out redressal of waste collection, drinking water, spraying of fogging machines and other problems,” Saurabh said. After the app is available on a public platform, residents can download it and enter their unique identity to log into the app. “Residents will be able to track the locations of doorstep waste collection vehicles. Lodge any complaint pertaining to civic problems seamlessly through their smartphones and get the problem addressed within a stipulated time frame. They can also download pictures of civic menace on the platform,” he said. There are over 44 local urban bodies and few nagar panchayats in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
