14-10-2021||Business||Moritz Herbert: 5 Lessons to Learn from Both Successes and Failures||As you gain life experience, you’ll learn life lessons along the way. Both your successes and your failures can teach you things about the world and yourself. Moritz Herbert is a crypto enthusiast who runs a YouTube channel called CryptoMo, and he wants to share what he’s learned during his journey. Do what you’re passionate about If you’re passionate about something, Moritz Herbert thinks you should go for it. “You can’t get your time back if you do a job you hate,” he said. “Work towards living the sort of life you’ll love.” Don’t let obligations hold you back from your dreams Moritz Herbert was running a successful YouTube channel, but he felt held back by high school. He stopped going and watched his success on YouTube and in crypto skyrocket. “Of course, you can’t abandon everything, but don’t be limited by what’s going on in your life right now. Look forward to the future.” Invest your money when you can Herbert is an expert cryptocurrency trader, and he’s quickly learned how important it is to invest your money so it can grow. He’s made huge trades and secured millions of dollars simply by investing. “Crypto is amazing, but it’s not for everyone,” he said. “Even just investing in some mutual funds and your retirement account can be helpful.” Failure is normal Over time, Moritz Herbert had trades that didn’t go well or sold currency before its peak. However, he knew that failure didn’t have to make him quit or set him back. “Don’t give up simply because you’ve had some setbacks. Really believe in yourself and your journey.” Don’t forget to have fun with your money Many investing experts want you to invest every penny and spend nothing. Moritz disagrees. “I’ve spent money on private jets and parties,” he said. “I wanted to live it up while I was a teenager and lived that dream. Don’t forget to have fun!” Moritz Herbert is an expert crypto trader, and you might notice more prosperity in your life if you implement his advice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
14-10-2021||Business||Rahul Kaul, an eminent entrepreneur offers some advice for a thriving business start-up||Today, the markets are crowded leaving no space for any new business to enter. There is cutthroat competition between already existing companies. In such a scenario, not only market entry becomes a challenge but so does survival. However, there are always a few exceptions who know how to play well. Rahul Kaul is one such remarkable player who is the business owner of multiple ventures. He is a jack of all trades. This Dubai-based entrepreneur knows how to mount a cash cow. He is well versed with the art of starting a new company and he shares a few tips too. Kaul says, “An extensive market research will give you a glimpse of what the actual demand of people is. When you know the problem pitch your business as a solution.” Besides, one should also learn about his competitors and their market strategies. As sometimes lessons from one become an experience for others. He also asks to study the target audience so that the company knows where exactly to drop the bomb. Startups require enormous funding. However, the story has changed today. With the advent of digital media, the cost of working space could be reduced. Rahul adds, “There are banks , sponsors & investors who will only fund a business which is already money making. Your idea / business needs to be unique and need to find the perfect market gap”.   Rahul Kaul being an eager beaver realised the increasing demand for influencer marketing and therefore he founded IMDDXB Influencer Agency that connects influencers and brands. He started this company during the lockdown when big brands were struggling to stand still. He created employment opportunities for thousands. He also owns Dejavu Entertainment and Events, Wrecking Ball Dubai and  The Dejavu Yacht. He is the person behind the most famous B-Town parties in Dubai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
14-10-2021||Business||Sensex zooms 569 points to fresh record||Extending its winning run to the sixth straight session, equity benchmark Sensex rallied 569 points to close at a new peak on Thursday, driven by gains in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and ITC amid positive macro cues and upbeat global markets. Closing above the 61,000-mark for the first time, the 30-share Sensex settled 568.90 points or 0.94 per cent higher at 61,305.95. Similarly, the Nifty surged 176.80 points or 0.97 per cent to a new lifetime closing high of 18,338.55. ITC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by HDFC Bank, PowerGrid, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank and NTPC. On the other hand, TCS, HCL Tech, Bajaj Finance and Asian Paints were among the laggards. "The Indian market sustained its upbeat mood supported by positive global market, favourable inflation data and upmove in IT stocks following strong earning scorecards by sector majors, Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services, said. The wholesale price-based inflation eased to 10.66 per cent in September, helped by moderating food prices even as crude petroleum witnessed a spike. Retail inflation in September too slowed to a five-month low of 4.4 per cent on moderating food prices. "Banking stocks also contributed to the rally and remained in focus as the sector is set to kickstart its earnings season," Nair added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Tokyo ended with strong gains, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.02 per cent to USD 84.03 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
14-10-2021||Business||Important for India to focus on green investment post-pandemic, says IMF||As the Indian economy recovers from the COVID-19 pandemic that hit it hard, it is important for the country to focus on public investment, particularly in green sectors, the International Monetary Fund said Wednesday. "As we move towards the recovery, it is also important to focus on public investment, particularly on green investment, so that the recovery can be inclusive and green," IMF's Fiscal Affairs Department Deputy Director Paolo Mauro told reporters during a news conference here. He said India's debt is at the ratio of about 90 per cent, and it is important to give a signal that there is a medium-term fiscal framework in place that ensures investors that the debt ratio will decline in the medium term. Responding to a question, Mauro said the situation is improving when it comes to the epidemic. It is very different from a few months ago, he said, adding, fortunately, the number of cases is declining and the vaccination is becoming more widespread. On the economic front, therefore, even though the situation is improving, the priority remains to address the health emergency. It remains to provide ample support, particularly to the poorer segments of the population through social protection, employment benefits, and so on, Mauro said. In terms of more recent reforms, one that I would like to highlight is the National Asset Reconstruction Company, the so-called bad bank. This is potentially very promising because it is important to tackle non-performing loans, he said. This has been a long-standing drag on credit, and potentially this is very promising, he added. It is very important that both the governance and the independence of such so-called bad banks be in place so that the costs to public finances can be kept under control and one can go back to promoting inclusive growth, Mauro said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
14-10-2021||Business||Wholesale price-based inflation eases to 10.66 per cent in September||The wholesale price-based inflation eased to 10.66 per cent in September, helped by moderating food prices even as crude petroleum witnessed a spike. WPI inflation remained in double-digit for the sixth consecutive month. In August, it was 11.39 per cent. In September 2020, inflation was 1.32 per cent. The high rate of inflation in September 2021 is primarily due to rise in prices of mineral oils, basic metals, non-food articles, food products, crude petroleum & natural gas, chemicals and chemical products etc. as compared the corresponding month of the previous year, the Commerce and Industry Ministry said in a statement. Inflation in food articles eased for the fifth straight month, recording (-) 4.69 per cent in September from (-) 1.29 per cent in August, mainly due to easing vegetable prices. Pulses prices continued to spike at 9.42 per cent. Inflation in the fuel and power basket was 24.91 per cent in September, against 26.09 per cent in the previous month. The rise in crude petroleum and natural gas prices was 43.92 per cent in September over 40.03 per cent in the previous month. In manufactured products, inflation stood at 11.41 per cent during the month. The RBI, which mainly takes into account retail inflation in its monetary policy, earlier this month kept interest rates unchanged at record lows. Retail inflation in September too slowed to a five-month low of 4.4 per cent on moderating food prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
14-10-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 350 points to hit 61K for first time||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 350 points in opening trade on Thursday to cross the 61,000-mark for the first time, driven by gains in index heavyweights Infosys, HDFC Bank and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets. After touching a record of 61,159.48 in the opening session, the 30-share Sensex was trading 356.73 points or 0.59 per cent higher at 61,093.78. Similarly, the Nifty surged 119.75 points or 0.66 per cent to a new intra-day record of 18,281.50. L&T was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Infosys, SBI, NTPC, HDFC Bank, Maruti, ITC and Titan. On the other hand, HCL Tech, TCS, M&M, IndusInd Bank and Bajaj Finance were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index settled 452.74 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 60,737.05, taking its winning run to the fifth consecutive day, and Nifty rallied 169.80 points or 0.94 per cent to 18,161.75. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market, as they purchased shares worth Rs 937.31 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. "Strong results from Infosys, Wipro and Mindtree indicate that the market disappointing results from TCS was a one-off. Even though high attrition is a challenge for the sector, strong deal wins and robust demand are clear positives, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. IT is likely to resume its leadership position since the prospects of the sector look bright for the next many years on the back of accelerating digitisation by businesses globally, he said, adding that the strong performance of HDFC Bank indicates good Q2 results and the banking major joining the bull rally. Globally, the US FOMC minutes indicate that tapering is on course, possibly starting November and ending by mid-2022. This is a known event, hence, markets are likely to discount it before the actual announcement, he noted. Since there are no known triggers for a sharp correction in the short run and the market momentum continues to be strong, the exuberant retail investors are likely to drive the markets further up even though seasoned investors are worried about the excessive valuations," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with strong gains in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges on Wall Street too ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.61 per cent to USD 83.69 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
14-10-2021||Business||Finance minister categorically denies any power crisis in India||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has categorically denied any power crisis in India — even as grid data showed the situation to be the worst in five years. Amid reports of the ongoing coal shortage in the country, Sitharaman stressed that there is no shortage and termed these as “absolutely baseless”, saying India is a power surplus country. “Absolute baseless! There is no shortage of anything. In fact, if I recall the minister’s (power minister R.K. Singh) statement, every power producing installation has the next four days’ stock absolutely available within their own premises and the supply chain has not broken at all,” Sitharaman said here at Harvard Kennedy School on Tuesday. However, a Reuters report said India’s power supply fell about 750 million units short of demand during the first 12 days of October, largely due to a coal shortage, a deficit of 1.6 per cent that was the worst since March 2016, data from grid regulator POSOCO (Power System Operation Corporation) showed. The October shortfall was already the biggest in absolute terms for a single month since November 2018, even with 19 days of October still left. Northern states such as Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, and the eastern states of Jharkhand and Bihar, were the worst affected, registering supply deficits of 2.3 per cent to 14.7 per cent. Increased economic activity after the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic has driven up demand for coal leading to a supply shortage, forcing northern states such as Bihar, Rajasthan and Jharkhand to cut power for up to 14 hours a day. India has asked power producers to import up to 10 per cent of their coal needs to blend with domestic coal and has warned states of electricity supply curbs if they are found selling on power exchanges to cash in on surging prices. read more India’s dependence on coal-fired power increased to 69.6 per cent in October from 66.5 per cent in September, the data showed, exacerbating the coal shortage amid a decline in output from other sources such as wind and hydro. More than 60 per cent of India’s 135 coal-fired power plants have fuel stocks of less than three days. The share of output from renewable energy so far in October fell to 8.34 per cent from 11.33 per cent in September, while hydro energy output fell by 1.3 percentage points, the data showed. With inputs from Reuters and PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
14-10-2021||Business||Govt scraps basic customs duty on crude palm, soya and sunflower oil||The government on Tuesday scrapped basic customs duty as well as slashed agri cess on crude varieties of palm, soyabean and sunflower oil till March 2022. This is expected to help cool prices and increase domestic availability in the festive season. However, industry players said the timing of the duty cut is likely to impact domestic farmers and consumers may not benefit much as exporters have factored in and hiked the prices. The duty cuts will be effective from October 14 and will remain in force till March 31, 2022, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) said in a notification. Crude palm oil will now attract cess of 7.5 per cent, while the cess will be 5 per cent each for crude soyabean oil and crude sunflower oil. Earlier, the cess was 20 per cent, while basic customs duty was 2.5 per cent. B.V. Mehta, executive director, Solvent Extractors’ Association of India said “the timing of reduction of import duty is a cause of concern as farmers are now harvesting record kharif soya and groundnut crop and reduction in import duty may affect the farmers’ realisation for their produce.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
14-10-2021||Business||narendra Modi launches 'PM GatiShakti - National Master Plan'||In a move to fast-track infrastructure project implementation worth Rs 100 lakh crore across the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday  launched the ‘‘PM GatiShakti - National Master Plan’’ for multi-modal connectivity. “We are laying a foundation for the next 25 years. This national master plan will give ‘gatishakti’ to development plans of the 21st century and will help in the timely completion of these plans,” Modi said, unveiling the GatiShakti National Master Plan. PM Gati Shakti targets to cut logistic costs, increase cargo handling capacity and reduce the turnaround time, Modi said at a function to launch the plan. The plan aims to lend more power and speed to projects by connecting all concerned departments on one platform, he said, adding the infrastructure schemes of various ministries and state governments will be designed and executed with a common vision. Officials said the projects being targeted in the first phase includes a network of 2 lakh km of national highways, trains handling cargo of 1,600 million tonnes (mt), doubling gas pipeline network to 35,000 km, and having total 220 airports, airstrips and aerodromes. The plan encompasses a 25000-acre area developed for industries, including 11 industrial corridors, achieving a Rs 1.7 lakh crore turnover in defence production and having 38 electronics manufacturing clusters and 109 pharma clusters by 2024-25. Ashish Gupta, deputy MD, Texmaco Rail and Engineering, said: “The institutional approach in the shape of one central portal will help in cutting down costs, give a big fillip to supply chains, and provide an integrated approach for the movement of people and goods.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
14-10-2021||Business||Twin Reliance deals in renewable energy||Reliance Industries Ltd continued to strike deals in its clean energy push. Its 100 per cent subsidiary Reliance New Energy Solar Ltd (RNESL) will be a strategic lead investor in a German firm making photovoltaic solar wafers. RNESL has also entered into a separate deal with a Denmark based firm to make hydrogen electrolyzers in India. In a late evening announcement on Tuesday, RIL said that its arm will invest $45 million in NexWafe GmbH. In a separate statement, NexWafe announced the induction of RNESL as a strategic lead investor in its euro39 million Series C financing round with an investment of euro25 million in the first phase. The other investors joining Reliance in the funding round include InnoEnergy, Lynwood, Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures and other incumbent and new investors. Reliance and NexWafe also entered into an India strategic partnership agreement providing for joint technology development and commercialisation, of high-efficiency monocrystalline “green solar wafers.” Reliance said that through this partnership, it will secure access to NexWafe’s proprietary technology and that it also plans to build large-scale wafer (which goes into making solar cells) manufacturing facilities in India using the NexWafe processes and technology. Mukesh Ambani, chairman, RIL  said that the partnership with NexWafe is a step towards meeting the affordable green energy needs of India's rapidly growing economy. “Our investment in NexWafe signals an important step towards accelerating India's green energy transition and positioning India as a global leader in photovoltaic manufacturing,’’ he added. In another move, RNESL has signed a co-operation agreement with Denmark-based Stiesdal A/S (Stiesdal) for technology development, and manufacturing of the latter’s hydrogen electrolyzers in India. Electrolysers are used for producing green hydrogen, through the electrolysis of water where the hydrogen is separated. RIL said that Stiesdal’s new technology for hydroGen electrolyzers has the potential to deliver significant cost reduction compared with currently available methods thereby paving the way for rapid decarbonisation and commercialisation of affordable green hydrogen which will be a key enabler in achieving India’s green energy transition. Ambani had earlier announced ambitious plans of setting up a giga factory for manufacturing of hydrogen electrolysers in Jamnagar, Gujarat. Through this agreement, RNESL and Stiesdal will combine their strengths and capabilities and collaborate to further advance the technology development of hydroGen electrolysers and scale it up to set up manufacturing facilities, RIL disclosed. As part of this agreement RNESL and Stiesdal have also agreed to extend their collaboration to the development and implementation of other climate change technologies which include offshore wind energy, next generation fuel cells for conversion of hydrogen to electricity for mobile and static electricity generation, long duration energy storage and production of carbon negative fuels among others. The announcement comes just days after Reliance said that its subsidiary will be picking up 40 per cent in Sterling and Wilson Solar for Rs 2,845 crore. RNESL is also acquiring REC Solar, Europe’s largest solar panel manufacturer for $ 771 million or Rs 5782 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
14-10-2021||Business||Wipro posts 17 per cent jump in consolidated net profit||IT company Wipro has posted a 17 per cent jump in consolidated net profit to Rs 2,930.6 crore for the quarter ended on September 30, 2021. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 2,484.4 crore in the same period a year ago. Wipro said that it has surpassed $10 billion (around Rs 75,300 crore) annualised revenue run rate. The consolidated revenue of Wipro increased by about 30 per cent to Rs 19,667.4 crore during the quarter compared with Rs 15,114.5 crore it registered in the corresponding quarter of 2020-21. “The Q2 results demonstrate that our business strategy is working well. We grew at over 4.5 per cent organic sequential growth for a second quarter in a row, resulting in a 28 per cent YoY growth in the first half of this financial year. I thank our customers, partners and colleagues as we surpassed the $10 billion milestone of annualised revenue run rate,” Wipro CEO and MD Thierry Delaporte said. Mindtree profit Mindtree on Wednesday posted a 57.2 per cent increase in its net profit to Rs 398.9 crore in the September quarter. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 253.7 crore a year ago. Consolidated revenue from operations increased 34.27 per cent to Rs 2,586.2 crore from Rs 1,926 crore in the year-ago quarter of FY21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
14-10-2021||Business||Infosys beats estimates, raises revenue guidance for full year||Infosys on Wednesday beat Street estimates for the quarter ended September 30 and raised revenue guidance for the full year as it benefited from enterprises going digital and from large deal wins. The country’s second largest IT services firm on Wednesday reported a net profit of Rs 5,421 crore for the period ended September 30, 2021 compared with Rs 4,845 crore in the year ago quarter — a rise of almost 12 per cent. Analysts were expecting the company to report net profits in the region of Rs 5,200 crore. With the second quarter continuing with the strong trend seen at the beginning of the fiscal, Infosys raised the constant currency guidance for the full year to 16.5-17.5 per cent from 14-16 per cent earlier. However, the company retained the margin guidance at 22-24 per cent. During the quarter, Infosys reported a 20.5 per cent growth in revenues at Rs 29,602 crore against Rs 24,570 crore in the same period of the previous year. In constant currency terms, it showed an increase of 19.4 per cent over the preceding year. The company added that revenues from digital offerings such as cloud showed a rise of 42.4 per cent and it now accounts for 56.1 per cent of the total revenues. Speaking to reporters from its headquarters in Bangalore, Salil Parekh, MD & CEO of Infosys, said the company has upped its revenue guidance as it expects a strong growth ahead. “We feel that the deal pipeline looks strong today and that has given us the confidence, in addition to what we have done in the past, to increase the guidance,’’ he said. While the company saw large deal signings of $2.15 billion in the July-September period compared with $2.6 billion in the preceding three months, Parekh was of the view that this trend is unlikely to go away soon. Citing a good pipeline ahead, he added that this is more evident in digital transformation areas like cloud which are witnessing a good traction. Parekh also disclosed that after being with the company for 35 years, Pravin Rao, chief operating officer will retire. “This will be the last full quarter before Pravin retires,’’ he said, while adding that Infosys will announce a new structure before he steps down. The quarter saw most of the verticals reporting a solid performance. While financial services saw a growth of 21.8 per cent in revenues, it stood at 18.8 per cent in the case of retail and 44 per cent in manufacturing. Geographies like North America, Europe, rest of the world and India also posted higher growth during the period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
14-10-2021||Business||Invesco tried to forge Zee-Reliance merger and retain Punit Goenka||The battle between the founders of Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd and activist shareholder Invesco blew up into a massive controversy on Wednesday after a string of revelations showed that the institutional shareholder had tried to mediate a merger with Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance group back in February that promised to retain Punit Goenka as MD and CEO of the merged entity. The latest developments ripped to shreds Invesco’s claim that it had been driven by a well-intentioned desire to remove Goenka as MD and CEO of the company because of weak leadership and poor corporate governance standards at Zee. Invesco’s claim sounded even more hollow when the sordid details of Invesco’s overture made on February 23 this year tumbled out, triggered by Goenka’s letter to the Zee board on Tuesday that the company promptly revealed in a regulatory filing with the bourses. The Invesco plan — made in a hard-nosed, take-it-or-leave-it manner — offered terms in the proposed merger with Reliance group entities that mirrored provisions worked into the non-binding merger pact reached last month between Sony and Zee. Late in the evening, the Reliance group tried to distance itself from the escalating war when it admitted that it had been approached by Invesco to discuss a merger but claimed the discussions had broken down over Zee’s demand for the issue of preferential warrants to raise its stake in the merged entity. Strategic investor In his letter to the Zee board, Goenka said he had been approached by Aroon Balani and Bhavtosh Vajpayee, representatives of Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund LLC, with the offer of a merger with a “large strategic group”. Goenka said he was “surprised” that a public shareholder, holding around 18 per cent in Zee, was “negotiating a merger deal on behalf of the company without any authority or involvement of the board”. The Zee chief  executive did not reveal the name of the strategic group. The Reliance group’s name tumbled out later when Invesco came out with its response to Zee’s shocking revelations. Goenka said Invesco had negotiated the commercial terms of the merger and told him that these could not be re-negotiated when he expressed strong reservations about the valuations. Under the terms of the offer, the strategic group would hold a majority stake in the company but Goenka would stay on as MD and CEO. Zee was valued at Rs 21,129 crore at a share price of Rs 220 per share — at a premium of roughly 9 per cent above the prevailing market price. The entities of the strategic group that would be part of the merger were valued at Rs 17,500 crore. The strategic group offered to invest Rs 14,000 crore in cash in the merged entity which would give the new owner a 60 per cent stake. The Zee founder group would hold 3.99 per cent and would be offered employee stock options without any vesting period for another 4 per cent, which would raise their stake to roughly 8 per cent. The Zee MD also claimed that he was asked to obtain the board’s approval “within a period of just five days”. Goenka claimed that the valuation of the strategic group’s entities was inflated by about Rs 10,000 crore. When he baulked, the Invesco representatives said the deal would be consummated “with or without me”. In his letter to the Zee board, Goenka said subsequent developments including Invesco’s demand for an extraordinary general meeting seeking to pass resolutions to oust him as MD and CEO of the company and induct six new independent directors into the Zee board “was a blatant attempt by Invesco to assume de facto control of the company in violation of applicable takeover regulations”. Invesco responds On Wednesday, Invesco disclosed the strategic group was none other than Reliance . The fund said that its role was only to “facilitate” a possible deal between Reliance and Zee. Invesco, however, rejected claims it had pushed for the transaction at a lower valuation. “We wish to make clear that the potential transaction proposed by Reliance (the strategic group referenced but not disclosed in the 12 October 2021 communication by Zee) was negotiated by and between Reliance and Goenka and others associated with Zee’s promoter family. The role of Invesco, as Zee’s single largest shareholder, was to help facilitate that potential transaction and nothing more,” the fund said. It added that various sincere efforts were made over the last two years to bring Zee back to good health and that discussions around strategic alignments have been just one part of this effort. “Zee’s (October 12) disclosure is yet another tactic to delay an EGM that will give shareholders their right under Indian law to vote for a slate of independent trustees and pave the way for a healthier future for Zee,” Invesco said. Reliance riposte In a statement, Reliance expressed regret over the manner in which it had been dragged into the dispute between Zee and Invesco. Reliance disclosed that it made a broad proposal for the merger of its media properties with Zee at fair valuations. The note said that Invesco had assisted it in arranging discussions directly between its representatives and Goenka. “The valuations of Zee and our properties were arrived at based on the same parameters. The proposal sought to harness the strengths of all the merging entities and would have helped to create substantial value for all, including the shareholders of Zee,” RIL said. The Reliance note said differences between Goenka and Invesco when the Zee founding family wanted to raise their stake by subscribing to preferential warrants. The Reliance group turned that request down as it believed the “founders could always increase their stake through market purchases”. In his letter, Punit Goenka said the Zee promoters had offered to pump cash into the merged entity against the issue of warrants “at the same value which the strategic group attributed to the company (Zee)”. Reliance wasn’t prepared to offer these warrants at existing valuation — and the deal fell apart.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
14-10-2021||India||Centre plans to announce on flights, trains when 100cr Covid-19 jabs are administered||Announcements will be made on airplanes, ships, metros and at railway stations to mark the moment when India achieves the target of administering 100 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Thursday. The 100 crore doses target is expected to be achieved by October 18 or 19, he said while launching a coffee table book on Covid warriors. The total vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 97 crores on Thursday with 73 per cent of all adults having administered the first dose and 30 per cent having received both doses. "The nation is rapidly approaching the 100 crore vaccination mark! 97 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses administered to date. Keep it up India, let us fight corona," Mandaviya tweeted. "After 100 crore doses is achieved, we will go in mission mode to ensure that those who have taken their first dose take their second dose too to ensure they are protected against COVID-19," he told reporters. Mandaviya said that Spicejet will wrap planes with posters of one billion vaccine with images of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and healthcare workers on the day the target of 100 crore doses is achieved. He launched 13 videos on COVID-19 warriors and a coffee table, published by the health ministry, to pay tributes to them. From eight states, 13 Covid warriors, including doctors, ambulance drivers, volunteers and other healthcare staffers have been identified as 'Sentinels of the Soil'. The coffee table book pays tribute to the ambulance driver, who without waiting for the last rites of his loved ones to be completed, rushed to resume his duties. "As the vaccination drive picked up in India, the challenge was not only demographic but topographic too. The credit goes to the team of healthcare and frontline workers who took it upon themselves to ensure that everyone was covered. It was not an easy task as deep-rooted hesitancy had to be overcome and rampant myths about vaccination had to be countered," Mandaviya said. The book salutes the doctors and nurses in a remote tribal area, who worked tirelessly to overcome the entrenched hesitancy against vaccination in his community, so that science could prevail over superstition. The book celebrates the young volunteers, 'Sathiyas' (friends) of Rashtriya Kishor Swasthya Karyakram, for finding ingenious new ways to bust myths and for taking the lead in making their community understand the importance of vaccination in keeping them safe from COVID-19. One of the most critical aspects during the COVID-19 pandemic and the vaccination drive was to provide factual information on a real-time basis to people. Community radio stations played a significant role in disseminating correct information to people at a time when they were mostly confined to their homes. The book also pays tribute to some of these community radio station announcers who enthused communities to take the vaccine and walked the talk by being the first to do so themselves. On Biological E's vaccine, Mavdaviya said due to delay in receiving raw materials Biological E's vaccine got delayed but by November end the data would be submitted..||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
14-10-2021||India||India resumes Covid-19 vaccine supply, says MEA||Coronavirus vaccines have been sent to Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Iran according to the government's decision to resume their supplies, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the government has decided to send the supplies to the neighbourhood initially. India, the world's largest producer of vaccines overall, suspended exports of COVID-19 vaccines in April to focus on inoculating its own population following a sudden spike in infections. Last month, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya announced that India will resume the supplies abroad. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi said recently at the UN General Assembly that India will resume supply of coronavirus vaccines. We have decided to start with the neighbourhood," Bagchi said. "As far as I know, vaccines have already gone to Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Iran. We are constantly monitoring and reviewing the situation," he said. Bagchi said the decision on further supplies will be based on India's production and demand. "We will decide on further supplies based on our production and demand," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
14-10-2021||India||BJP leader accuses Ajay Mishra Teni of being behind Lakhimpur violence||BJP leader Ram Iqbal Singh on Thursday accused Union minister Ajay Mishra of being behind the Lakhimpur violence and sought his sacking from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He said that questions are also being raised about the prime minister for not sacking the minister. Singh alleged that Mishra was behind the Lakhimpur violence. His "threatening statement" added fuel to the fire. "He should have apologised to farmers but he only tried to defend his son. He has not regretted the incident yet. This incident is a blot on humanity," Singh, BJP state executive member, told reporters. "His son crushed farmers to death under his car. He was arrested after the intervention of the Supreme Court, but even today the minister is sitting on the chair. In such a situation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi should sack him immediately," he said. In response to a question, Singh said that the image of the BJP government has been "tarnished" by the Lakhimpur incident and the Gorakhpur businessman murder case. He said that BJP workers have also been killed in the Lakhimpur incident and the government should also take care of them. "Activists across the state are angry due to the callousness of the government on this incident. Like the farmers, the government should also provide financial assistance to the relatives of the deceased workers and a job to their family members," he said. The former MLA claimed that the condition of dedicated party workers in the BJP has become like a "bonded labourer". The BJP leader has been criticising the government through his statements. He had earlier said that bureaucrats are running the government in the state and had also raised a question mark on handling of the second Covid wave by the Yogi Adityanath government. Eight people died in the October 3 violence and of them, four were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Infuriated farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. In the incident, a journalist was also killed. Farmers claimed that Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. Ashish Mishra 'Monu' was arrested in the case on October 9 after 12 hours of questioning, and a court has accepted his police custody from October 12 to 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
14-10-2021||India||Pragya Thakur, out on bail over health grounds, seen playing kabaddi||BJP leader and Bhopal MP Pragya Thakur, who was confined to a wheelchair for a long time and had obtained bail in the 2008 Malegaon blast case on medical grounds, is purportedly seen playing kabaddi in a viral video. Earlier, a video of her taking part in a Garba dance during the ongoing Navratri festival had also emerged. But her sister said her spine problem can give her trouble any time. A video which went viral on social media showed Thakur playing a game of kabaddi on the premises of a Kali temple on Wednesday. Another video had shown her dancing at a Garba program at the same venue during the ongoing Navratri, while an earlier clip had shown her shooting hoops on a basketball court. Madhya Pradesh Congress spokesperson Narendra Singh Saluja posted the latest videos on Twitter. "It is a matter of happiness to see you healthy. Today you were seen playing Garba. But whenever people are in distress and they are calling you, you are seen sick, on a wheelchair or walking with support. It really hurts. God should always keep you healthy, he tweeted. Defending the Bhopal MP, her elder sister Upma Thakur told PTI over phone that she suffers from a spine problem. "You never know at which moment it can create problems for her. There is a problem with her L4 and L5 bones (vertebrae) as they got dislocated because ATS Maharashtra (investigators) threw her on the floor. Whenever these problems occur, the lower portion (of her body) is left with no sensation....It can happen even when she sits or gets down from a vehicle, Upma said. MP Congress media department's vice president Bhupendra Gupta said, There are different faces of Bhopal MP. Sometimes she is seen in a wheelchair, sometime she plays Garba and kabaddi too. She has many faces. Her past claims of defeating coronavirus with cow urine are worth publishing in international journals, he said in another jibe. "People of Madhya Pradesh want to know which is her right face one playing garba or kabaddi or that of a wheelchair-bound person?" he asked. The 51-year-old BJP MP is out on bail in the Malegaon blast case on health grounds and had sought exemption from personal appearance in the trial court citing her physical condition. She was in prison for almost nine years and was granted bail in 2017. The case against her relates to bomb blasts at Malegaon in Maharashtra on September 29, 2008, in which at least six persons died. The case was probed by the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took it over.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
14-10-2021||India||Red-carpet arrest of Ashish Mishra has angered farmers: Rakesh Tikait||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait expressed dissatisfaction over the ongoing investigation into the Lakhimpur violence case on Thursday and said the "red-carpet arrest" of MoS Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish has fuelled anger among protesting farmers. Demanding dismissal of Ajay Mishra, Tikait said there cannot be a fair investigation in the case if the accused person's father continues to hold the chair. The minister's son Ashish Mishra, alleged to be in one of the cars that mowed down the protesters in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, was arrested after 12 hours of questioning last week. "The red carpet arrest of the minister's son who is the main accused in the incident has fuelled anger among the protesting farmers," the BKU leader told newspersons here. "The whole world understands that no justice can be given if the minister whose son is being investigated continues to hold his chair," Tikait said at a function in Tappal town. Expressing dissatisfaction over the ongoing probe, he claimed that the minister was influencing the SIT investigation. He reiterated that the protest against the Lakhimpur violence would intensify if Ajay Mishra was not removed from his post. The Bhartiya Kisan Union leader said 'rail roko' protest would be held for six hours on October 18. He said the BKU will hold a big kisan panchayat in Lucknow on October 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
14-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan's bail plea to be heard on October 20||Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, was a regular consumer of drugs, the NCB on Thursday told a special NDPS court here while opposing his bail plea in a case of alleged seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship. Aryan (23), arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 3, will have to remain in jail for at least six more days as the court, after hearing arguments, posted the matter for orders on October 20. Khan and two others -- Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha -- have sought bail from the court of V V Patil, special judge for cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Appearing for the NCB, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Anil Singh claimed that there was evidence to show that Aryan Khan was a regular consumer of drugs for the last few years. He also reiterated the charge of conspiracy against Aryan, based on his WhatsApp chats. Since his arrest, the NCB has maintained that though nothing was recovered from him personally, Aryan's WhatsApp chats revealed his links with drug peddlers. The ASG further contended that drugs were seized from Merchant at the docks, and they were meant for consumption by both Aryan and him. The NCB has also been claiming that Aryan was in contact with members of an international drug racket. The NCB was in touch with the External Affairs Ministry to identify them, the ASG said. Singh also cited a high court ruling in another case that if an accused is shown to be in touch with drug dealers, bail cannot be granted even though there is no drug recovery. Drug abuse is affecting youngsters, and being college-going boys should not be a consideration for bail, the NCB lawyer said, adding that the future of the country depends on this generation. "This is not what our freedom-fighters had in mind. This is the land of Mahatma Gandhi and Buddha. The investigation is at preliminary stage, this is not the stage for grant of bail," he added. Senior Advocate Amit Desai, representing Aryan Khan, said the NCB was pointing to international trafficking racket, but if the consumer states from where he procured drugs, then "the chain is complete". The NCB itself had alleged that Aryan disclosed the name of Achit Kumar, another arrested accused, he said. The agency can continue the probe, but the allegation of links to international racket against Aryan is "inherently absurd and false", he said. "I don't think there can be a debate that the entire world is fighting the drug menace. We got our freedom and we must protect it and save the younger generation from the drug menace," the lawyer said. On Aryan's WhatsApp chats, Desai said today's youth have different ways of expressing themselves which might be a "torture" for the older generation. The language could seem like something different than what ought to be (expected) in a court of law and might lead to suspicion, advocate Desai said. "These are private moments which are being investigated. You can go ahead and investigate...But it has nothing to do with illicit behaviour, illicit drug trafficking," he added. Aryan Khan had lived abroad for some time, and lot of things are "legitimate" in other countries, the lawyer added. Earlier, Aryan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, who were among those arrested by the NCB on October 3, had been denied bail by a magistrate's court which said it can not hear the pleas in a case triable by a special NDPS court. While Aryan and Merchant are lodged at Arthur Road jail, Dhamecha is at Byculla women's prison in the city. Based on a tip-off that a rave party was scheduled on the ship off the Mumbai coast, an NCB team, led by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, raided the Goa-bound Cordelia cruise on October 2 evening and allegedly seized drugs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
14-10-2021||India||Closure of coal mines, inundation led to crisis, says minister||Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi on Thursday said closure of some mines, and inundation of a few others due to monsoon led to the crisis but there is no need to panic as the situation is improving. Visiting the Ashoka mine of the Central Coalfields Ltd (CCL) at Piparwar in Chatra district of Jharkhand, Joshi said the power plants in the country will continue to receive the required amount of coal. "We are witnessing an improvement now," he said, asked about the current situation. The minister held discussions with officials of CCL and Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL) on the prevailing situation. "We can produce two million tonnes of coal per day," he said, asserting the need for producing more coal. Closure of some coal mines and inundation of a few others due to monsoon led to the hindrance in coal supply to power plants, Joshi told reporters. The minister also discussed the issue related to the availability of land for mining at the meeting. A solution will be found with the cooperation of all, including the district administration, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
14-10-2021||India||NCPCR seeks action against Delhi govt over Covid norm ad||Apex child rights body NCPCR on Thursday sought action against a promotional Delhi government video that purportedly shows a large gathering of schoolchildren shooting for an advertisement without wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) also said that it is a violation of the Centre's COVID-19 protocols and also endangers the lives of schoolchildren. In a letter to Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Kumar Dev, the commission said that it has received a complaint against a promotional video which features Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. "The said promotional video involves a large gathering of schoolchildren shooting for the advertisement without wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing, amidst breakout of COVID-19 pandemic, which is violation of Covid protocols issued by the government of India and also endangering the lives of minor schoolchildren of Delhi," the NCPCR said. The commission said the video is in violation of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, and aguidelines issued by the Centre in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. "In view of the sensitivity of the matter, it is requested that the matter may kindly be looked into for necessary remedial measures and an action taken report be shared with the commission within seven days," the letter issued on Thursday said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
14-10-2021||India||Purujit Singh India’s Youngest Entrepreneur & fashion organiser||Being successful is the desire of all of us residing over this lovely planet but Success doesn't comes handy, It has to be achieved. Purujit Singh born in 2000 & raised in Lucknow , Uttar Pradesh , India is one of the greatest example of Success. From his childhood he showed his interest in Music & Acting. In year 2013 , he was selected for India’s Best Dramebaaz ~ Zee TV show but hard time & family situation were the obstacles & he couldn’t make it. After getting such hit he continued to show his interest in Music & Acting. In 2014 he created his Youtube Chanel by the name of Big Projects & started uploading Guitar covers & after getting requests for Orginals he wrote his first song “ Tera Attitude mera Jutta “ & released it on 9th jan 2016 & got 18k hits. After receiving good response from Lucknow he got opportunities for Live shows & concerts. Purujit was not satisfied because of financial issues & fixing in competitions. So he took step to convert Big Projects Music label to Event Management & Advertising firm. Big Projects is surely creating a sensational buzz in the industry. The organisation is giving exposure to many young enthusiasts as well as famed talents of India. Relying on just one project is not a way of such brilliant minds. The same goes with our entrepreneur Purujit, and he is the proud owner of the prestigious International Film Making Institute that is located in the city of Nawab’s- Lucknow. In 2018 when he was just 18 years old he organised YouTube Talent Showcase Season 1 with Bollywood known Assitant Director Vibhas Joshi. & after that he did work with tons of artists & even produced his Music Video with Bollywood artists like Arham Abbasi & Zuber Hashmi. Purujit's aim was to become the person to give award via his hand , not to receive from other & he proved it in 2019 only. He organised Big Projects Title Talent Awards in which he gave award to Team Amit Badhana , Santosh Shukla , Nazia Hussain , Amandeep Singh Khayal & tons of known artists. After that success he did the biggest one of his career of 2019 with Rannvijay Singha & after that he got awarded by Priyank Sharma , Karan Kundra , Himanshi Khurana , Raju Srivastava , Parul Chauhan & tons of other celebrities from industry. Presently he is 21 years old & Nevertheless, he has over 200 accolades to his credit. Isn’t the numbers, Astonishing? Yes it is and still counting!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
14-10-2021||India||Opa themed nights brings something new for you every day ||The times of just dancing away the night are gone. Today people need new and different things to pass away their time, while they nimble on their favorite snacks. Keeping this in mind, Opa! Mondays at Opa! begin with the big guns. The best of board games are pulled out, as people drink the night away. Whether you’ve monopoly on the table, or you and your friends like to play Jenga. Everything is available at your beck and call. Talk about a round of Uno with some loaded fries and some freshly poured beer. The Tuesdays see equal times fun too. With ladies coming in for complimentary drinks - Opa! Becomes the talk of the town for all the glitz and glam. The cafe is known for throwing the craziest of parties. Wednesdays are strictly for the bar lovers, with exciting offers across the menu, both on food and drinks. Opa! provides for the perfect setting for mid-week breaks with your colleagues. Catch up in an informal setting with your coworkers as you listen to some great music, and feast on even greater food. Thursdays are the ones who like to keep it calm -  our acoustic guitar strums are paired with melifulous performers for the perfect evenings. Whether you like to sing along to bollywood music, or groove to Punjabi beats, we have got everything covered. With only one day short to the weekend, Fridays are brought in with style. Many famous DJs make trips to our dance floor, and get the party going. Themed nights like Arabian nights, for instance, have live belly dance performances. Opa! has hosted other parties like Error, One Night in Amsterdam, Who’s Your Daddy, and Marhaba Nights. Saturdays are sundowners at Opa! with our resident host DJ Rohit making you swing to his beats. Wash down your weekday blues with our upbeat music, mouth-watering food, and some amazing cocktails. For the last day of your week, Opa! has an elaborate brunch planned out for the party-goers. As you prepare for Mondays, you need to replenish yourself with the right kind of food, and fruity cocktails. Which is why Opa! chefs put on their best food forward while preparing a special spread for you.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
14-10-2021||India||How Nick Gomez Empowers People to Invest in Crypto Currency as a Public Speaker||Nick Gomez has developed a unique understanding of how to educate people on the fundamentals of cryptocurrencies.  As a renowned Speaker, Nick teaches people of all ages and backgrounds in the new age of digital currencies through myswipecoin. Banking on more than 7 years of being in the game, he mentors thousands of students worldwide to make money in the crypto space. Nick believes that helping people change their lives is the most noble thing he can do with his skillset, and has already helped thousands of people around the world change their situations for the better. Coming from humble beginnings, Nick learned to appreciate the value of money having grown up with it being a scarcity. He was raised by a single mother who worked very hard to provide for her family, which has further fueled his drive to succeed today. The moment he became versed in the nature of crypto and the power it holds, he developed his drive to help other people take advantage as well.. He became a Cryptocurrency Master Educator and Trader, running an educational app and website with over 40,000 students. In Nick's opinion, having a strong mindset will get you most of the way to your goals, but ultimately success is a never-ending process. Once you have reached a state where you can implement your idea, you are unaffected by the ups and downs. Nick stayed calm despite criticism from friends and family as he stepped into a new industry. As a young investor and trader, Nick felt compelled to teach others about crypto currencies as a Public Speaker. But he had to overcome mental barriers and lack of confidence as he began. According to Nick, the key is consistency and a genuine concern for the success of others. "Fear is the illusionary barrier that stands between you and your greatest accomplishments," he explains. Nick’s next venture will to grow a crypto hedge fund, as he still continues to travel the world and educating the masses on the crypto markets. You can follow Nick on Instagram @nickkgomez.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
14-10-2021||India||Delhi riots: Court frames charges against accused||A Delhi court has framed charges of rioting and arson against nine accused in a February 2020 riots case, saying that it would be a miscarriage of justice to throw out the prosecution's case merely because the statements of the public witnesses were recorded after a delay. Additional Sessions Judge Virender Bhat said that the delay in recording statements of the witnesses by the police was not deliberate or contumacious and was occasioned on account of the situation which prevailed in Delhi's northeast area during and after the alleged rioting. The nine accused were allegedly part of the unlawful assembly and caused damage, looted properties worth crores of rupees, burnt a large number of houses, shops, schools, and vehicles on February 25, 2020, as per the police. It relied on the statements of four public witnesses. The judge took exception to the submission made by the defence counsel that the public witnesses were not trustworthy and were planted as their statements were recorded one month after the date of the alleged incident. The judge noted that there was an atmosphere of terror and trauma for several days even after these riots and the public witnesses were terrified and reluctant to present their version of the incident before the investigating agency. Keeping these circumstances in view, it would be a miscarriage of justice to disbelieve the statements of these witnesses at this very stage and throw out the prosecution case merely for the reason that their statements were recorded after about one month of the incident, ASJ Bhat stated in an order dated October 11. He added, In the opinion of this court, the delay in recording of the statements of witnesses does not appear to be deliberate or contumacious. It appears to have occasioned on account of the situation which prevailed in the area during and after the incident of rioting and therefore, the accused cannot claim discharge in this case merely on this score. During the course of the hearing, Delhi Police apprised the court that the nine accused created disharmony in the society by threatening and terrorizing the public at large and that their action was not only anti national but also a challenge to Rules of Law in Delhi. The defence counsels, however, submitted that CCTV video footage which forms part of the charge sheet in the case pertains to the date February 24, whereas the incident admittedly took place on February 25, 2020. The counsels pointed out that there was no CCTV video footage on record which pertains to the date February 25, a fact not disputed by the senior public prosecutor, according to the court's order. However, the prosecutor said that they did not rely on the CCTV video footage and that their case is based on other evidence on record, including the ocular version of the witnesses. After considering the entire material on record, the judge said that it is prima facie evident that the charges under Sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with a deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 380 (theft), 427 (mischief), 436 (arson), 452 (house-trespass) of the Indian Penal Code are liable to be framed against all the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
14-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: SIT takes Ashish Mishra to recreate sequence of events||The SIT probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Thursday took Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son and three others arrested in the case to recreate the sequence of events leading to the incident in Uttar Pradesh's Tikonia village. Amid tight security, the three accused were taken to the site of the incident on the Tikonia-Banbirpur road, around 60 km from district headquarters Lakhimpur city, police said. Eight people died in the October 3 violence and of them, four were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Infuriated farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. In the incident, a journalist was also killed. Farmers claimed that Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. Ashish Mishra 'Monu' was arrested in the case on October 9 after 12 hours of questioning, and a court has accepted his police custody from October 12 to October 15. The other three -- Shekhar Bharti was arrested on October 12, and Ankit Das and Latif alias Kale were arrested on October 13. Ashish, son of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni, was allegedly driving a Thar jeep at the head of a convoy of SUVs that had ploughed into protesting farmers at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, killing four farmers and a journalist. “Monu (Ashish) has still not admitted committing the crime and is insisting he was in his village Banvirpur (4km from Tikunia), attending a wrestling programme,” a state home department official said, requesting anonymity. “He says his associates had gone to receive deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, the chief guest at the event. But he has failed to explain why the Thar was travelling on that road (where the farmers were protesting) when it was public knowledge that Maurya’s route had already been changed.” Das, Latif and Bharti are in police custody from October 14 to October 17. On Thursday, investigators reached the district jail premises in the morning to take Das, Latif and Bharti into police custody. The trio were taken to the crime branch's office at the Reserve Police Lines, which is near the district jail where main accused Ashish Mishra is lodged. They were taken to Tikonia village by the special investigation team (SIT) amid heavy security for further investigations, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
14-10-2021||India||Narendra Desai, a lifestyle influencer who loves traveling to new places||Imagine waking up to the most scenic view and taking pleasure in every sip of your coffee while feeling the fresh ooze of winds and vibrant sunup on your face. Only picturing such words brings utter calmness to the mind, what if you could sense that in person? On the other hand, not everyone is fortunate enough to explore the world. Because of social media, the world now can be accessible with few clicks, but it cannot replace the notion of visiting physically places. Narendra Desai, a lifestyle influencer has made sure to achieve his bucket list by exploring the corners of the world. Such is his lifestyle that has motivated thousands of people to work hard and fulfil their dreams too. Mr. Desai is also a thriving entrepreneur and an automobile freak. His travel stories can be seen through his Instagram feed.  Along with touring around the world, he is also a very adventurous person. Horse riding, shooting, sky diving, swimming are some of the more vigorous activities that he is into. One should live a life in their own conditions and Mr. Desai seems to be a true follower of this sentence. He says, " When you take a tour to a country or city or a place, you are discovering a new culture, meeting new people and then you begin to find your inner peace at that very place." What further he believes in is, going local and trying toothsome dishes and interacting with the regional people, comprehending their lifestyle and colours altogether. Being an explorer not only introduces you to new realms but also opens your mind and make you feel fresh. So there is no chance you wish to withdraw from being a true wanderlust.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
14-10-2021||India||Rajnath hails Indira Gandhi at Shanghai Cooperation Organisation's seminar||Former prime minister Indira Gandhi not only led the country for a number of years, but she also did so during times of war, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday, in an apparent reference to her role in the 1971 war with Pakistan. In an address at a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) seminar on the role of women in the armed forces, the defence minister also talked about Rani Laxmi Bai and former president Pratibha Patil, and said India has a positive experience in harnessing women's power in national development. Singh said though it is justifiable to discuss the role of women in the armed forces, their wider contribution in all spheres of security and nation-building must also be recognised and reinforced. "There are a number of examples of women taking up arms to protect their country and the rights of the people through history. Rani Laxmi Bai is amongst the most revered and respected amongst them," he said. "India's former prime minister Indira Gandhi not only led the country for a number of years, she also did so during the times of war. And more recently, Pratibha Patil was the president of India and the supreme commander of the Indian armed forces," the defence minister added. Under Indira Gandhi's prime ministership, India won the 1971 war against Pakistan that resulted in the birth of Bangladesh. Singh said the tradition of women as both caregivers and protectors has continued over the centuries and remains deeply embedded in the customs and traditions of the region. "If Saraswati is our goddess of knowledge, wisdom and learning, mother Durga remains associated with protection, strength, destruction and war," he said. Singh said India is amongst a very few countries that took an early initiative in terms of women's participation in the armed forces and that women are now being accepted for permanent commissioning and shall be commanding Army units and battalions in the near future. "Women have been serving with pride in the Indian Military Nursing Service for over 100 years now. The Indian Army had commenced commissioning women officers in 1992. It has now moved to inducting women officers in most of the branches of the Army," he said. "Women are now being accepted for permanent commission and shall be commanding Army units and battalions in the near future," he added. Singh said women will be able to join the premier tri-service pre-commissioning training institute, the National Defence Academy, from next year. Describing the induction of women in the military police in the Army as a major milestone, he said India's approach to their induction in the police, central police, paramilitary and armed forces has been progressive. "We have taken the evolutionary path of moving from support to combat support and thereafter, to combat arms within the armed forces," he said. "We have found that the process of induction, given its broad-based and progressive path, has also simultaneously prepared the society and the armed forces for this change. This is an important aspect to ensure a smooth and successful transition," the defence minister added. Referring to women's role in the Navy, he said from humble beginnings in the Air Traffic Control in 1993, the women officers graduated to being pilots of maritime reconnaissance aircraft in 2016 and are now being appointed onboard warships since last year. "The Indian Coast Guard has been employing women officers in combat roles, which include pilots, observers and aviation support services. In the Indian Air Force, women are inducted in all roles, including combat and support roles," Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
14-10-2021||India||Chidambaram: Congress will win 2022 Goa polls, 2024 Lok Sabha elections||Congress veteran P Chidambaram on Thursday expressed confidence that his party will win the Goa Assembly elections due next year and also the next Lok Sabha polls in 2024. Chidambaram, who is the AICC Goa poll in-charge, was addressing party workers after inaugurating the state election campaign office in Panaji. "Let me say one thing from history...whoever wins Goa wins Delhi. In 2007 we won Goa...in 2009 we won Delhi. In 2012, we unfortunately lost Goa, in 2014 we lost Delhi. In 2017, you (referring to party workers) won Goa, but our legislators lost Goa," he said, while noting that the Congress was defeated in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The former Union minister said this time, his party is moving forward with courage and confidence and "will win Goa in 2022 and Delhi in 2024". In the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, the Congress emerged as the single largest party by winning 17 seats in the 40-member House. But, the BJP at that time forged an alliance with some regional outfits and independent legislators to form government. The Congress currently has only four legislators in the state. Chidambaram said, "The history is ours...we are beginning today on an auspicious day and our office has been inaugurated by a valuable statesman and former chief minister Pratapsingh Rane." Addressing the Congress workers, he said they should remember the "golden years" when Goa moved forward, progressed and developed in the fields like industries, schools, colleges and roads. "We will bring back that golden age of Goa, beginning 2022. I wish you go forward with courage and confidence," he said to the Congress workers. Chidambaram also said Goa will not be colonised by "some political party". "Goa cannot become a political colony of any invader. Goa will be governed by Goans. Goa is of Goans, by Goans and for Goans. Goa will be ruled by Goans, he said, without naming any political outfit. Notably, former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro quit the Congress last month and joined the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamul Congress. Chidambaram said the Congress has presented before the state the faces of its leaders. And in the days ahead, the party will come up with more young leaders, including from among women, Schedule Tribes, fishermen community and Dalits, to govern Goa, he said. Chidambaram also said he will be guiding the party workers on how to convert election offices into "vibrant election offices". Every block committee will have an office and every block committee office will function as the block election campaign office, he said. He also said that they had spent enough time on planning and discussions and now is the time to go out in the field and start the work. "Between now and 100 days from now, there will be elections. I don't know the date of elections, but let me count a 100 days from today. Everyday we must move forward, win more hearts and minds," he said. The Congress should win more votes and send a credible message to the whole of Goa and the country that the coastal state will see the Congress government in 2022, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
14-10-2021||India||Centre launches 'One Health' consortium to monitor viral, bacterial infections||The Department of Biotechnology has launched a 'One Health' consortium that envisages carrying out surveillance of important bacterial, viral and parasitic infections of zoonotic as well as transboundary pathogens in the country. The project also looks into the use of existing diagnostic tests and the development of additional methodologies for the surveillance and understanding the spread of emerging diseases, the DBT said in a statement. Dr Renu Swarup, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology, launched the First 'One Health' project of the DBT through video conferencing on Thursday. The consortium envisages carrying out surveillance of important bacterial, viral and parasitic infections of zoonotic as well as transboundary pathogens. Noting that the COVID-19 pandemic showed the relevance of 'One Health' principles in the governance of infectious diseases, specially efforts to prevent and contain zoonotic diseases throughout the world, Swarup emphasised on a holistic approach to understand the health of human, animals and wildlife to minimise the damage caused by future pandemics. Swarup said the 'One Health Consortium consisting of 27 organisations led by DBT-National Institute of Animal Biotechnology, Hyderabad, is one of the biggest health programmes launched by the government in post-Covid times. The consortium consists of AIIMS, Delhi, AIIMS Jodhpur, IVRI, Bareilly, GADVASU, Ludhiana, TANUVAS, Chennai, MAFSU, Nagpur, Assam agricultural and veterinary university and many more ICAR, ICMR centres and wildlife agencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
14-10-2021||India||Mermaid & The Ghostnet raises awareness about the plastic pollution||After producing 2 successful educational underwater shows - “The Mermaid Encounter” in early 2021 and late 2019, VGP Marine Kingdom presents “Mermaid & The Ghostnet: Taming the Silent Killer of the Ocean. An educational play to raise awareness about the great garbage patches around the world that are filled with large, small and micro plastics. Just like the previous parts, the show will feature a professional underwater performer from Europe playing a real life mermaid, telling a story about the perils of man-made pollution. This part has an emphasis about the damage to marine life caused by ghostnets. Ghost nets are fishing nets that have been abandoned, discarded or lost , at sea and on beaches. They are a major contributor to the bigger problem of ghost gear, which refers to all types of fishing gear, including nets, lines, traps, pots and fish aggregating devices, that are no longer actively managed by fisheries. Each year, ghost gear is responsible for trapping and killing a significant number of marine animals, such as sharks, rays, bony fish, sea turtles, dolphins, whales, crustaceans and sea birds. They can cause further destruction by smothering coral reefs, devastating shorelines, and damaging boats VGP Marine Kingdom will also host a Ghostnet Recycled Art Exhibition in association with The Tree Foundation, an conservation NGO whose primary mission is protecting the fragile marine ecosystem and the marine turtle population by developing education. Starting on the 14th of October on the auspicious day of Ayodhya Pooja, the stage is set within India’s first underwater tunnel aquarium, VGP Marine Kingdom containing over 3 million litres of saltwater. This walkthrough themed aquarium depicts the multiple ecosystems of our environment and is filled with over 1000 exotic fish, sharks and rays. Previous shows include Hydroman, Scuba Ganesha and Scuba Santa. The location has also been hired for many film shoots. If you are in Chennai or planning to visit in the coming week, Don’t miss the “Mermaid & The Ghostnet” Show. Catch this one-of-a-kind underwater educational show to raise awareness about plastic pollution between the 14th to 17th October, 2021. 4 Shows daily at 11:30AM, 3:30PM, 4:30PM & 5:30PM. Show is free with the entry ticket which costs Rs 600 for Adults and Rs 500 for Juniors (Between 90 to 125cm) Visit www.vgpmarinekingdom.in or call +918939932222 to learn more.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
14-10-2021||India||IMTS Institute Will Help You to Take the Step in The Right Direction, 16 Years Of Experience in Providing Quality Education||IMTS Institute is Known for its powerful distance learning program, IMTS Institute is a dream comes true for highly career-oriented students who want to leave their imprints on the world. 98% of students receive their diplomas on time. Furthermore, over 26,000 students have benefitted from the IMTS institution up till now. IMTS provides outstanding career counseling, with professionals advising students on a wide range of topics. IMTS Institute packs an adroit team of more than 350 teachers and career counselors that are incredibly committed to the success and well-being of their students. With more than 16 years of experience providing quality education, IMTS is on the fastest track to become India's topmost 'Distance Learning Institute.' History of IMTS Institute Back in 2005, IMTS’ founders recognized that the quickly changing business demanded that professionals constantly upskill themselves, as learning for professionals comes to a standstill once they enter a working environment. This was when IMTS was founded to make a difference in the lives of working professionals by assisting them in upskilling and learning while they work. The Institute continues to develop online learning in order to provide quality education to the future workforce through its UG and PG programs. By working with students all over the world, students of different races, genders, and colors, IMTS meets its objectives of global diversity as well. What has IMTS Institute got to offer? IMTS Institute provides students with the finest available assistance in order for them to enhance their professional and personal talents. 98% of students receive their Certificate on time. Furthermore, over 26,000 students have benefitted from the IMTS institution up till now. IMTS provides outstanding career counseling, with professionals advising students on a wide range of topics. After completing their Class 12 examinations, students can live a stress-free life as they hand over the responsibility of their careers at the Institute. IMTS Based on a student's ability, IMTS expert’s help students choose their field of studies and help them make the big decision. In addition to that, the Institute provides an excellent atmosphere for people who want to grow and succeed in their chosen field. Moreover, in the end, the Institute even promises ( as per exp.) to get its students a job in the MNC of their choice. Upskilling with IMTS Institute So, what exactly is upskilling, and how can it benefit your job prospects? It is the process of filling a skill gap by enrolling in a course from a reliable and trustworthy platform, such as IMTS, to assist your organization and you in succeeding now and in the future. Both the company and the employee benefit from this arrangement. IMTS Institute Promotes Diversity Through Its Distance Learning Nothing stops you from enrolling in the IMTS Institute, not even your geographical location; that's the beauty of IMTS' distance learning program. Students in India regard the Institute highly. As part of the distance learning program, 40% of students in IMTS are from the UAE, Oman, Kuwait, the United States, and the United Kingdom. In the past, out of this 40%, all students scored at least 60-70% marks in their examinations and are currently working at top MNCs. IMTS ASPIRES IMTS ASPIRES to Inspire its students to reach the pinnacle of their success. The Institute believes in: Insight into IMTS Institute IMTS allows you to connect with its alumni, who can help you take the step in the right direction. Yes, IMTS is backed by proper alumni support who are now working with the companies of their choice. From these alumni, you can get a first-hand insight into the Institute. The Institute also has a news section on its website that keeps its students always on board with the latest updates. Moreover, if you're still having your doubts, you can Google ‘IMTS Institute’ and see what the people have to say about the Institute through their heartwarming reviews. You won't regret your decision!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
14-10-2021||India||Varun Gandhi shares clip of Vajpayee's speech in support of farmers||BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Thursday posted on Twitter a short clip of a speech of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee from 1980 in which he warns the then Indira Gandhi government against repressing farmers and extends his support to them. Gandhi tweeted, "Wise words from a big-hearted leader..." The BJP MP has been vocal in empathising with farmers agitating against the three agri laws enacted by the Modi government and sharing Vajpayee's speech is seen as his message to the central government. In the video clip, Vajpayee is heard telling a gathering that farmers cannot be scared. "If the government will suppress (farmers), misuse laws and repress a peaceful agitation, then we will not shy away from joining the farmers' struggle and standing with them," he is heard saying. Gandhi has also sought stringent action against those responsible for the death of four farmers after vehicles, allegedly linked to BJP leaders, ran over them in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri. He was recently dropped from the BJP national executive in what was seen as an indication of the party leadership's unhappiness with the Pilibhit MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
14-10-2021||India||NSHM Asha Jyoti Scholarship enters 11th year with 20 Crore scholarship aid||NSHM Knowledge Campus’s Asha Jyoti Scholarship has been founded to promote the idea of "Power of Education for All". Currently, in its 11th year, the CSR activity has extended learning opportunities to more than 3000 students since its inception, for scholarships worth INR20Crore.In 2020, scholarship worth INR 3.5 Crore was awarded to 499 students on the basis of merit across NSHM’s Durgapur and Kolkata campus. In today’s era when the world is discussing Artificial Intelligence, Robotics and Data Science, India is still struggling to achieve basic education among the underprivileged segment.NSHM, through the Asha Jyoti Scholarship promises to bring the light of education to every household, which would make the society to grow at large. With the growth of education, a sustainable future can be created for the youth of our country. Mr. Cecil Antony, Chief Mentor & Managing Trustee, NSHM Knowledge Campus said,“We at NSHM Knowledge Campus not only believe in providing holistic education to our students but also aim to eradicate lack of education as a challenge from our country. Providing the light of education is a cause which all of us feel is our foremost responsibility, which can contribute to the growth of the nation. “Asha Jyoti Scholarship” is an initiative to extend learning opportunities to meritorious students, underprivileged and students coming from certain special backgrounds. Through this programme, we plan to build a vibrant economy that will be driven by educated and skilled individuals” The Asha Jyoti Scholarships are offered across four categories and the scholarship amount ranges between 25% to 100% of the course fees. Mayukh Mondal, a student, pursuing his Hotel Management course at NSHM Durgapur Campus is extremely happy since he has been able to follow his dream career. He comes from a very humble background and it was not possible for his parents to afford the college fee. However, at NSHM we feel that if there is a will, there is always a way. Mayukh is a proud recipient of Asha Jyoti Scholarship of 2020 batch. The institute always looks forward to having more such happy faces like Mayukh and extend learning opportunities to all. A pioneer of professional degree courses aligned to industry needs, NSHM Knowledge Campus is one of Eastern India's top educational institutions. From its inception in 1996, NSHM has provided quality education and training in West Bengal in the fields of Business & Management, Health Sciences, Computing & Analytics, Media & Communication, Design, Engineering & Technology, and Tourism & Hotel Management. With cutting-edge knowledge imparting techniques, lifestyle education, and exposure to multiple domains, NSHM is widely known for its world-class learning environment. Experience plays a major role in NSHM Knowledge Campus, where a friendly and open atmosphere fosters the free flow of information and ideas. It is a "Knowledge Hub of Global Excellence" in which students learn, share, learn from each other. To know more visit: NSHM||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
14-10-2021||India||JEE Main 2022 Preparation: Merits and Demerits of Online Preparation - EntranceZone||The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main is India’s biggest engineering entrance exam in which lakhs of students appear for the exam. In order to crack the exam, candidates have to go through intense preparation. Candidates appearing for the exam must be well equipped with the syllabus, the preparation strategy like books, study materials. Often students get pressured with the topics in the subjects. In order to have smooth preparation candidates look for the study material online and offline. So a focused mind is required to prepare for the national level exam. Check the article for detailed information about the JEE Main 2022 Preparation.   Benefits of JEE Main Preparation Starting the preparation early is better for the candidates who are appearing for the exam. 1.   The earlier the preparation, the more timing is there to cover the topics and revise them. Candidates are not in a rush to complete the chapters. If someone hurries in preparation then most of the time they land in a confused state because the concept remains unclear. Hence each and every chapter requires time and practice with better understanding. 2.   Hold on to the Basics of the Topics. Clearing the national level exam is not an easy task where everyone dreams of admission to a prestigious college. With the correct concept of the basics, candidates have a great hold on the twisted questions. 3.   Making notes is very important while doing the preparation as it acts as revision material for the students in the end time. Have a separate note for all the subjects in order to not get confused. What Is The Mode To Prepare For The JEE Main Exam? There are mainly two-approach candidates can have in order to prepare for the exam i.e Online and Offline mode. Both modes have merit and demerits. Let’s check in detail. Merits and Demerits of the Online Preparation  Merits Demerits Merits and Demerits of the Offline Preparation Merits Demerits  Benefits Of The Four Times JEE Main Exam In A Year. In 2020, due to the COVID situation in the country, NTA decided to take the JEE exam four times a year. i.e February, March, April, and May.  How To Calculate The JEE Main Score? Candidates must be aware of some important terms in order to understand the calculative measure of the JEE Main 2022 NTA score = P Total Number of Students =N Percentage of students below or equal to your marks = P For example: if you have secured an 80 percentile in JEE Main, which means that 80% of the candidates who appeared for JEE Main are below or at the same level as you are Percentage of students above your marks = 100 - P Number of students above your marks = ((100 – P)/100)*N Hence the formula to know the estimated rank from the percentile is ((100 – P)/100)*N + 1||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
14-10-2021||India||Petrol, diesel prices hiked again||After two days of lull, petrol and diesel price on Thursday was again hiked by 35 paise per litre, sending retail pump prices to their highest ever level across the country. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 104.79 a litre and Rs 110.75 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 101.40 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 93.52. This is the 13th time that petrol price has been hiked in two weeks while diesel rates have gone up on 16 times in three weeks. There was no change in rates on October 12 and 13. While petrol price in most of the country is already above Rs 100-a-litre mark, diesel rates have crossed that level in a dozen states including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chattisgarh, Bihar, Kerala, Karnataka and Leh. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. Shedding the modest price change policy, state-owned fuel retailers have since October 6 started passing on the larger incidence of cost to consumers. This is because the international benchmark Brent crude has jumped to near USD 84 per barrel for the first time in seven years. On September 13, Brent was trading at USD 73.51. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rates on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 4.9 per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 3.9. Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
14-10-2021||India||Actor Nora Fatehi appears before ED in money laundering case||Actor Norah Fatehi on Thursday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here for recording her statement in connection with a money laundering case filed against alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekar, officials said. Fatehi, 29, appeared before the investigating officer of the case at the agency office here. Sources said her statement is being recorded under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in connection with a money laundering case filed against Chandrashekar and his actor wife Leena Maria Paul. The agency had earlier questioned actor Jacqueline Fernandes in this case. She is expected to depose again before the agency on Thursday. Both the actors are understood to be helping the agency in taking the probe forward as they themselves had been allegedly conned in the racket run by Chandrashekhar and his wife. The two were recently arrested by the ED while they were already lodged in jail after they were arrested by the Delhi Police on charges of cheating some people including some high-profile individuals including former Fortis Healthcare promoter Shivinder Mohan Singh's wife Aditi Singh. In August, the ED had raided some of Chandrashekhar's premises and seized a sea-facing bungalow in Chennai, Rs 82.5 lakh cash and over a dozen luxurious cars. It had claimed in a statement that Chandrashekhar is a "known conman" and is being probed by the Delhi Police in a case of alleged criminal conspiracy, cheating and extortion to the tune of about Rs 200 crore. "Chandrasekhar is the mastermind of this fraud. He has been part of the crime world since the age of 17. He has multiple FIRs against him and is presently lodged in Rohini jail (in connection with the Delhi Police case)," the ED had said. Despite being in the jail, it said, Chandrashekhar "did not stop conning" people, the ED said. "He (with a cellphone procured illegally in prison) with the help of technology, made spoofed calls to dupe people as the numbers displayed on the called party's phone number belonged to senior government officers. "While speaking (from prison) to these persons, he claimed to be a government officer offering to help people for a price," the ED had claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
14-10-2021||India||Kejriwal plea to LG to allow Chhath puja celebrations in Delhi||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday wrote to LG Anil Baijal, urging him to allow Chhath puja celebrations as the Covid situation in Delhi is under control. He requested Baijal to call a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) as soon as possible to grant permission for Chhath celebrations. In its order on September 30, the DDMA had prohibited Chhath celebrations at public places, including riverbanks, waterbodies, and temples, in view of the threat posed by COVID-19, leading to protests by the Delhi BJP. Kejriwal said the Covid situation in Delhi is under control for the last three months and he believed that the permission to celebrate Chhath should be given with protocols for the pandemic. He said other states, including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, and Rajasthan, have allowed Chhath celebrations with reasonable restrictions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
14-10-2021||India||Active Covid cases in India lowest in 215 days||India logged 18,987 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 3,40,20,730 on Thursday, while the national Covid recovery rate increased to 98.07 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. The death toll climbed to 4,51,435 with 246 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 20 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 109 consecutive days now. The active cases have declined to 2,06,586, the lowest in 215 days, comprising 0.61 per cent of the total infections while the national Covid recovery rate was recorded at 98.07 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 1067 cases has been recorded in the active Covid caseload in a span of 24 hours. A total of 13,01,083 tests were conducted on Wednesday, taking the number of cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 58,76,64,525. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,33,62,709, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.46 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.44 per cent, according to the Health Ministry. Over 96.82 crore Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 246 new fatalities include 123 from Kerala and 49 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,51,435 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,670 from Maharashtra, 37,916 from Karnataka, 35,833 from Tamil Nadu, 26,571 from Kerala, 25,089 from Delhi, 22,897 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,935 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
14-10-2021||India||PM Modi wishes Manmohan Singh speedy recovery||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday wished his predecessor Manmohan Singh, who has been admitted to the AIIMS, a speedy recovery. The 89-year-old former prime minister was admitted to a private ward of the cardioneuro centre of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Wednesday and is under the care of a team of cardiologists led by Dr Nitish Naik, the doctor said. Singh had a fever on Monday and had recovered, but turned weak and was on fluids. Modi tweeted, "I pray for the good health and speedy recovery of Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji." Earlier, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday met former prime minister Manmohan Singh, who has been admitted to the AIIMS here after complaining of weakness following a fever, and enquired about his health. "Singh's condition is stable," a doctor at the hospital said. In a tweet in Hindi, Mandaviya said that he met former prime minister Manmohan Singh at AIIMS, New Delhi and enquired about his health. The health minister wished Singh a speedy recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
14-10-2021||India||Covid: Centre plans to light up monuments for 100 crore jabs||The Centre is planning to celebrate the feat of administering 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses by lighting up 100 monuments across the country in the colours of the national flag. Around 96.6 crore vaccine doses have been administered till Wednesday and the 100-crore mark is expected to be achieved on October 15 — on Dussehra. “Altogether 100 selected monuments across the country are going to be lit in the Tricolour to mark 100 crore Covid vaccine doses being administered in the country. We are working on it,” ASI director (monuments) N.K. Pathak told The Telegraph. Pathak, who is based in Delhi, said ASI media consultant Manu Sharma would give the details. Sharma said the monuments will be lit on the evening of October 14 and again on the day the 100-crore doses mark is achieved. “The monuments will be ready on October 14 and lit in the evening. They would be lit again on the day we are asked by the Union health ministry officials,” Sharma said. Asked about the expenditure for lighting the monuments, Sharma said he was not allowed to give out such information. The 100 monuments include 17 Unesco World Heritage Sites, including the Red Fort, Humayun’s Tomb and Qutub Minar in Delhi, Agra Fort and Fatehpur Sikri in Uttar Pradesh, Konark Temple in Odisha, Mamallapuram Rath temples in Tamil Nadu, St Francis of Assisi Church in Goa, Khajuraho, the forts of Chittor and Kumbhalgarh in Rajasthan, the excavated ruins of the ancient Nalanda University in Bihar and Dholavira (recently accorded world heritage status) in Gujarat. Metcalfe Hall and Currency Building in Calcutta is also on the list. “We have been asked to light the excavated ruins of Nalanda Mahavihara, Sher Shah’s Tomb in Sasaram, and the ancestral house of the first President Rajendra Prasad,” ASI Patna circle superintending archaeologist Goutami Bhattacharya said. Other officials pointed out that the ASI was working on a shoestring budget of just Rs 1,043 crore during the current financial year 2021-22 and was still being made to indulge in such extravagance, which will cost a few crores of rupees. A senior official asked:   “Why is Covid vaccination being considered such a big deal in our country when it is being undertaken all over the world?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
14-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Three held in massacre case ||The police have arrested three more suspects in the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre, taking the number of arrests to six, with sources saying prime accused Ashis Mishra was still stonewalling questions two days into his police custody. Ashis, son of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni, was allegedly driving a Thar jeep at the head of a convoy of SUVs that had ploughed into protesting farmers at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, killing four farmers and a journalist. “Monu (Ashis) has still not admitted committing the crime and is insisting he was in his village Banvirpur (4km from Tikunia), attending a wrestling programme,” a state home department official said, requesting anonymity. “He says his associates had gone to receive deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, the chief guest at the event. But he has failed to explain why the Thar was travelling on that road (where the farmers were protesting) when it was public knowledge that Maurya’s route had already been changed.” Ashis, in three days’ police custody from 10am on Tuesday, was to be taken to the massacre spot on Wednesday but this was not done. While Ashis and two associates, Ashish Pandey and Luv Kush Rana, had been arrested last week, the special investigation team (SIT) has now arrested Shekhar Dubey, Ankit Das and Mohammad Latif. All six are alleged to have been in the convoy and are being questioned, but separately, sources said. The SIT obtained three days’ custody of Pandey and Rana on Tuesday afternoon. Awadhesh Singh, one of the lawyers of Ashis, Rana and Pandey, told reporters at the gate of the district court in Lakhimpur Kheri: “We will oppose it if the SIT seeks extension of custody.” Shekhar, believed to have been driving a Fortuner that the police say followed the Thar in ploughing into the farmers, had surrendered on Tuesday. The SIT obtained three days’ custody of him on Wednesday. Ankit, the owner of the Fortuner and an associate of Teni, arrived at the crime branch office in Lakhimpur Kheri with Latif, his security guard, at 10am on Wednesday in answer to an SIT summons. After a few hours of questioning, they were arrested around 4pm. Special prosecution officer S.P. Yadav told reporters that Ankit and Latif would be in three days’ police custody from 10am on Thursday. Ankit’s lawyer Pawan Srivastava told reporters: “I think it’s unnecessary as my client has nothing to share with the SIT — he was not in the convoy that crushed people.” The home department source said Shekhar had turned out to be very useful. “Shekhar has confirmed that Monu was in the Thar along with Sumit Jaiswal Modi, a BJP councillor from Lakhimpur Kheri. They jumped off the jeep and escaped after crushing the farmers and the journalist,” he said. He expressed surprise that the SIT had so far not shown any interest in Sumit. “Das has denied being in the Fortuner and claimed that he was at the function in Banvirpur,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
14-10-2021||India||AISA protests over ‘torture’ of students in Delhi||Several women activists and members of the All India Students Association, affiliated to the CPIML-Liberation, protested outside the Delhi police headquarters on Wednesday against the alleged torture of two AISA members during a protest against Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni on Monday. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha — which is leading the movement against the new farm laws — also supported the demand of the students to remove a police officer who supervised the action against the protesters. In a memorandum to Delhi police commissioner Rakesh Asthana, AISA and women activists Annie Raja of the CPI and Kavita Krishnan of CPIML-Liberation said: “Women personnel of the Delhi police lifted the clothes off one of the woman protester. They kicked another protester in her vagina while dragging her through road. After they were pushed inside the police bus for detention, and thus were already in custody, the police brutally and repeatedly kicked one of them in her private parts, telling them, ‘We will show you your place (sic)’.” Demanding regulations against such assault, the memorandum said: “We demand that ACP (assistant commissioner of police) Chanakyapuri, Pragya Anand, who clearly instructed the personnel on site to assault the women protesters, be sacked and all the personnel who carried out the sexual assault either as perpetrators or voyeurs be suspended and reprimanded.” On Monday, 12 AISA members were detained and held at Mandir Marg police station for about six hours, after they attempted to gather near Union home minister Amit Shah’s residence on Krishna Menon Marg to demand that he sack Teni, whose son was allegedly in an SUV that mowed down at least four protesting farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. The two AISA activists named in the memorandum — Shreya Kapoor Banerjee, 22, and Neha Tiwari, 25 — told this newspaper that they were beaten up first on the road, and then separately inside police buses by women personnel of the Delhi police. Banerjee has been prescribed medication for infection and pain in her private parts, and Tiwari is taking over-the-counter painkillers for blows on her chest, abdomen, back and left foot, which she said was trampled upon repeatedly by an officer, allegedly after Anand reprimanded the cops for struggling to contain the small protest. The police spokesman did not respond to queries from this newspaper on the allegations. Banerjee and Tiwari have not sought the registration of an FIR for fear of further legal action by police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
14-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Nirmala Sitharaman breaks silence in US||The Narendra Modi government has broken its long silence on the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre, its first comment on the atrocity eventually coming in the US after a visiting Nirmala Sitharaman was asked a pointed question she could not have evaded. The Indian finance minister acknowledged that the incident —  five people being run over allegedly by a Union minister’ son — was “absolutely condemnable” but in the same breath claimed that such things happened also in states not ruled by the BJP. Sitharaman’s comments seemed in line with Prime Minister Modi’s fulminations on Tuesday against “selective outrage” over human rights violations, and appeared to bear out the questioner’s suggestion that India’s government reacted defensively to uncomfortable questions. “No absolutely not.... It’s nice of you to have picked up that one incident which is absolutely condemnable, every one of us says that. Equally there are instances happening elsewhere, is my concern,” PTI quoted Sitharaman as telling a questioner at a conversation at Harvard Kennedy School, Boston, on Tuesday. “India has issues of such nature happening in very many different parts of the country equally. I would like you, and many others, including Amartya Sen, who all know India, to raise it every time when it happens, not just raise it when it suits us because it’s a state where BJP is in power.” It was unclear what Sitharaman meant by “issues of such nature”. In recent memory, there is no other instance in India of protesters being mowed down as happened in Lakhimpur. A Union minister’s jeep led the convoy that hit the farmers from behind and ploughed through them and his son is accused of having been in the vehicle. Days earlier, the same minister had warned protesting farmers that he could fix them in two minutes. The questioner had asked why the Prime Minister or any other senior minister had not spoken on the massacre, and why there was a defensive reaction from the government when asked about “such things”, PTI reported. “And it’s not being defensive about my party or my Prime Minister. It’s being defensive about India. I will talk for India; I will talk for justice for the poor,” Sitharaman was quoted as saying. Modi had on Tuesday said that “selective outrage” at rights violations hurt the country’s image. Despite Sitharaman’s claim of being “defensive about India”, her contention that incidents like Lakhimpuri Kheri happen in “very many different parts of the country equally” would be unlikely to do much for that image. Former diplomat K.C. Singh had in a tweet on Tuesday cited Modi’s reference to “selective outrage” and said the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage was not comparable to other atrocities such as the lynching of a Dalit man in (Congress-ruled) Rajasthan. A mob beat a Dalit man to death in Hanumangarh, Rajasthan, on October 7 after accusing him of an illicit relationship with a married woman. Four people have been arrested. “PM Modi alleged opposition selective in picking up human rights issues. Condemnable as is dalit’s lynching in Rajasthan, does political guilt compare with #Lakhimpur massacre by BJP MOS (Home) son & gang using cars?” Singh asked. Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashis is accused of driving his car through a peaceful farmers’ protest, killing four farmers and a journalist. Singh highlighted that Teni had still not been sacked. “In any case, arrests in Raj(asthan) made, while MOS still not sacked,” he added. In the US, Sitharaman said: “I will not be mocked at.” She added: “One of my cabinet colleagues’ son is probably in trouble, and also assume that it’s actually them who did it and not anybody else.... Due course of justice will also have a complete inquiry process to establish it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
14-10-2021||India||Rajnath Singh's claim on Savarkar triggers outrage||Defence minister Rajnath Singh has claimed that Hindutva icon V.D. Savarkar had submitted a mercy petition to the British authorities on Mahatma Gandhi’s advice, triggering outrage, with the Opposition accusing the government of rewriting history. “A lot of falsehood has been spread against Savarkar. It was repeatedly said that he filed multiple mercy petitions before the British government. The truth is he did not file these petitions for his release,” Rajnath had said at the release of Uday Mahurkar and Chirayu Pandit’s book, Veer Savarkar: The Man Who Could Have Prevented Partition, on Tuesday. “Generally, prisoners have a right to file mercy petitions. Mahatma Gandhi had suggested that he file a mercy petition. It was on Gandhi’s suggestion that he filed a mercy petition. Mahatma Gandhi said the way we are carrying out the freedom struggle peacefully, so would Savarkar,” Rajnath added. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury described the minister’s claim as “preposterous rewriting of history”. “Savarkar’s mercy petitions are in 1911 & 1913. Gandhiji enters Indian freedom struggle in 1915. Such distortions cannot mislead. The fact is RSS was never part of the freedom struggle. Often collaborated with British,” he tweeted. Yechury also posted an image of Savarkar’s mercy petition of November 14, 1913, and quoted from it: “Therefore if the government in their manifold beneficence and mercy release me I for one cannot but be the staunchest advocate of constitutional progress & loyalty to the English government ....” The Congress wrote on Twitter in Hindi: “Fact: On August 29, 1911, Savarkar wrote his first mercy petition. On January 9, 1915, Mahatma Gandhi returned to India from South Africa.” The documents that Rajnath and others with a similar view rely on were a reply from Gandhi on January 25, 1920, to a message from Savarkar’s brother N.D. Savarkar, and an article titled “Savarkar Brothers” that Gandhi wrote for Young India four months later. Both these references were cited by Vikram Sampath, who has written a book on Savarkar, in a tweet that said: “For the doubting Toms & asinine commentators, asking source etc pls refer ‘Collected Works of Mahatma Gandhi’ vol 19, pp 348 & Vol 20, pp 368-371 https://gandhiashramsevagram.org/gandhi-literature/collected-works-of-mahatma-gandhi-volume-1-to-98.php. I hope u don’t say Gandhi Ashram has doctored these letters.…” S.N. Sahu, officer on special duty to former President K.R. Narayanan and a keen student of Gandhi’s writings, told The Telegraph: “The truth is that when in 1920 a list was released by the British government that some prisoners would be released from the (Andaman) Cellular Jail because of clemency shown by the British authorities on them, Savarkar’s brother sent a telegram to Gandhi stating that his brothers’ names were not part of that list. “Savarkar’s brother sought Gandhi’s advice.... It is shocking that lies are being invented by top BJP ministers by invoking the name of Gandhi to cover up the truth that Savarkar submitted not one but six mercy petitions to the British authorities for his release from the Cellular Jail. “In fact, on 26th May 1920, Gandhi wrote an article, ‘Savarkar Brothers’, in Young India and referred to their written statement that they never wanted independence from British rule and so based on that statement Gandhi pleaded for their release.” In the Young India article, Gandhi wrote: “Both these brothers have declared their political opinions and both have stated that they do not entertain any revolutionary ideas and that if they were set free they would like to work under the Reforms Act…. “They both state unequivocally that they do not desire independence from the British connection. On the contrary, they feel that India’s destiny can be best worked out in association with the British. Nobody has questioned their honour or their honesty, and in my opinion the published expression of their views ought to be taken at its face value.” Although aware of the Right-wing ecosystem’s strategy of diverting attention from bread-and-butter issues by making controversial comments, Rajnath’s statement was not something the Opposition could have left unchallenged. “Rajnath Singh-ji is amongst the few sober & dignified voices in Modi Sarkar. But he doesn’t seem to be free of RSS habit of rewriting history. He has given a twist to what Gandhi actually wrote on Jan 25 1920. Here is that letter to Savarkar’s brother,” tweeted Jairam Ramesh of the Congress with an image of the January 25, 1920, document. BJP parliamentarian Rakesh Sinha tweeted: “Congress opposes Savarkar ji who never integrated with British administration and exhibited the highest sacrifice for the Mother land. However, some people had regular dining at Mountbatten’s home!” AIMIM parliamentarian Asaduddin Owaisi posted Gandhi’s reply to N.D. Savarkar and asked: “Sir @rajnathsingh you said that Savarkar’s grovelling mercy petitions were on Gandhi’s advise (sic). 1. Here’s the letter to Savarkar from Gandhi. No mention of petition to British begging for leniency, mercy & promising to be a faithful servant of the crown....” Later, Owaisi told news agency ANI: “They (BJP) are presenting distorted history. If this continues, they will remove Mahatma Gandhi and make Savarkar, who was accused of the murder of Mahatma Gandhi and was pronounced complicit in the inquiry of Justice Jeevan Lal Kapur, the Father of the Nation.” Savarkar’s grandson Ranjit Savarkar said a single person like Gandhi cannot be called the Father of the Nation. “Thousands of people have contributed towards the creation of this nation which has a history of more than 5,000 years. I don’t think Mahatma Gandhi is the Father of the Nation,” he told reporters in Mumbai, a PTI report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
14-10-2021||India||BSF enters deeper into Bengal, Punjab and Assam||The Union home ministry has extended the areas over which the BSF has jurisdiction in Bengal, Punjab and Assam, giving it the powers of arrest, search and seizure in places up to 50km from the Pakistan and Bangladesh borders. Punjab’s Congress chief minister, Charanjit Singh Channi, condemned the decision as “a direct attack on federalism” and his deputy Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa underlined that the Centre had not secured the state’s consent. The Bengal government had not reacted till late evening. Earlier in these states, the BSF had jurisdiction only over a 15km-wide belt inside the borders. This range was 80km from the border in Gujarat, which the Centre has now reduced to 50km in the BJP-ruled state. In Rajasthan, it stays 50km as before. In the northeastern states of Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura and Manipur, and the Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, the BSF has jurisdiction across their territories. Channi tweeted: “I strongly condemn the GoI’s unilateral decision to give additional powers to BSF within 50 KM belt running along the international borders, which is a direct attack on the federalism. I urge the Union Home Minister @AmitShah to immediately rollback this irrational decision.” The Shiromani Akali Dal too slammed the move “to hand over almost half of the state to the BSF” as “the imposition of the President’s rule through the back door in nearly half of Punjab”. Senior home ministry officials declined comment on the reason behind the decision, conveyed in a notification on Monday. Sources said Section 139 of the Border Security Force Act, 1968, empowers the Centre to notify the area and extent of the border force’s operational mandate from time to time. “Revision of any order under Section 139 must be laid before each House of Parliament which can either modify or annul it,” a government official said. A senior BSF official said the latest notification was issued because of a rise in smuggling and drug trafficking in the border areas of Bengal, Assam and Punjab. “Now our personnel can carry out searches, seizures and arrests over a larger area in these three states,” the official said. Asked why the BSF’s jurisdiction had been reduced in BJP-ruled Gujarat, where 3,000kg of heroin was seized on September 15 from the Adani-operated Mundra port in Kutch, the official declined comment. Valued at Rs 21,000 crore, the drug haul has been described as the largest anywhere in the world in recent memory. The border force has the powers to search, seize and arrest under various laws such as the Passport (Entry into India) Act, Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, Customs Act, Foreigners Act and the Criminal Procedure Code. According to the home ministry notification, the “amendment... establishes uniformity in defining the area within which Border Security Force can operate”. Amarinder Singh, recently forced to resign as Punjab chief minister, supported the move. “We’re seeing more & more weapons & drugs being pushed by Pak-backed terrorists into Punjab. BSF’s enhanced presence & powers will only make us stronger,” read a tweet by his media adviser.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
14-10-2021||India||India, China spar over Venkaiah Naidu's Arunachal visit||India and China on Wednesday verbally sparred after Beijing objected to Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu visiting Arunachal Pradesh. India said that “objecting to the visit of Indian leaders to a state of India does not stand to reason and understanding of Indian people”. In Beijing, asked for a response to Naidu’s Arunachal visit, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said: “China’s position on the China-India boundary issue is consistent and clear-cut. The Chinese government has never recognised the so-called ‘Arunachal Pradesh’ established unilaterally and illegally by the Indian side and firmly opposes the Indian leader’s visit to this above-mentioned area.” Reacting to this, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “We have noted the comments made today by the Chinese official spokesperson. We reject such comments. Arunachal Pradesh is an integral and inalienable part of India. “Indian leaders routinely travel to the state of Arunachal Pradesh as they do to any other state of India.” On China’s effort to blame India afresh for the escalation of tensions across the Line of Actual Control, he said: “Further, as we have mentioned earlier, the current situation along the LAC in the western sector of the India-China border areas has been caused by unilateral attempts of Chinese side to alter the status quo in violation of the bilateral agreements. “Therefore, we expect the Chinese side to work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols rather than trying to link unrelated issues.” The Chinese spokesperson had urged India “to earnestly respect China’s major concerns, stop taking any action that would complicate and expand the boundary issue, and refrain from undermining mutual trust and bilateral relations”. Further, China had said, India should take “real actions” to maintain peace and stability in the border areas and help bring bilateral relations back on the track of sound and steady development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
14-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Cong asks Kovind to intervene and ensure justice||A Congress delegation on Wednesday appealed to President Ram Nath Kovind to intervene and ensure justice for the victims of Lakhimpur Kheri, contending a fair investigation was impossible as long as Ajay Mishra Teni remained part of the Union government. The delegation told the President the central and Uttar Pradesh governments were sympathetic to the accused and that the administration had refused to register an FIR until Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra mounted pressure by visiting the victims’ families. On October 3, a convoy led by a Thar jeep — Teni’s son Ashis Mishra was allegedly in the vehicle — had ploughed into protesting farmers in Tikunia, Lakhimpur Kheri, killing four farmers and a journalist. Ashis was arrested on October 9. The Congress delegation told Kovind that Teni, Union minister of state for home, was himself an accused in an old murder case. For the past 10 days, the Congress has been pressuring the government on the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre, challenging the perception that the party is incapable of fighting a battle to the end and tends to cry off after creating an initial impact. Before taking the matter to the President, the party’s top leadership had visited the victims’ families in Lakhimpur. The party had organised a public rally in Varanasi to seek justice, and held a countrywide “maun vrat” (silent protest) against Teni’s continuance in the ministry. Priyanka had returned to Tikunia to attend the final prayers for the dead. Although Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah have remained silent about the massacre, signs of unease have emerged within the BJP with the Congress pressure beginning to influence the climate of opinion. The President promised the Congress delegation that he would talk to the government on Wednesday itself. Apart from Rahul and Priyanka, the delegation included Mallikarjun Kharge, Ghulam Nabi Azad and A.K. Antony. After the meeting, Rahul said: “The families had told us they want two things: the person who committed this crime should be punished and the central minister should be removed. (As long as) the person is in the ministry, justice is impossible. “We told the President that this is not the sentiment of only the families of those killed, this is the demand of every farmer of the country. This minister threatened the farmers a few days ago.... Now we want removal of this minister and a judicial probe by two sitting Supreme Court judges.” Priyanka too said that justice would be impossible if Mishra remained in the government. Priyanka said: “Every right-thinking citizen understands that the hope for justice should not be stamped out.” “What the government is doing today is sending a message that you won’t get justice. They are telling people that the law doesn’t apply to BJP ministers and leaders. We have full confidence that the President will do his best to ensure justice.” The letter they handed over to the President said: “We write to you on a matter of grave and urgent public interest. Like crores of other Indians, we are certain that you are also deeply affected by the unforgivable and merciless murder of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh. The incident has scarred the soul of India. “This deliberate act of murder, in broad daylight followed by the audacious reactions of the state and central governments, has completely eroded the people’s faith in those tasked with bringing these perpetrators to justice. “As Your Excellency is no doubt aware, lakhs of farmers have been protesting (against) the three ‘black farm laws’ at the doorstep of Delhi for close to a year now. They have braved extreme weather — rain, extreme heat and cold — yet their resolve remains undiminished. Close to a thousand farmers have lost their lives but their determination to seek justice in a Gandhian way remains firm. “The Modi government has refused to relent or have a meaningful conversation with them. Their policy appears to be ‘tire and retire’ the annadatas (food givers), a strategy doomed to failure.” The letter described the Lakhimpur carnage as “one of the most gruesome and premeditated acts of bone-chilling murder ever seen and caught on camera”. “Multiple eyewitnesses have confirmed that the minister’s son Ashish Misra was in the vehicle. Two of the vehicles involved were owned by the minister,” it said. The letter requested the President to ensure the minister’s removal for the sake of a fair investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
14-10-2021||India||Kanimozhi Karunanidhi meets Naveen Patnaik||DMK leader Kanimozhi Karunanidhi met Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik  here on Wednesday to hand over a letter of Tamil Nadu chief minister M.K. Stalin on the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test. Kanimozhi also explained the problems faced by the students from rural areas and poor households in clearing NEET. In his letter, Stalin has drawn the attention of Naveen to the problems faced by students of rural base in clearing NEET UG examination and the need to make the exam inclusive. Naveen had earlier raised this issue with the Centre and stressed the importance of making national exams inclusive and suggested the central Union government take steps in this regard. The two leaders are of the view that the NEET in its current form does not provide a level-playing for students across financial backgrounds and discriminates against the poor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
14-10-2021||West Bengal||ACKO brings moving pandals to Kolkata for ease and safety of Darshan||Hey Kolkata, this Durga Pujo, you don’t need to step out for the darshan. ACKO Insurance is bringing a unique pandal experience to Kolkata. Traditionally during Durga Puja Kolkata comes alive with many puja pandals across the city and devotees, natives and tourists go pandal hopping, visiting each for the goddess’s blessing, and the visual treat it has to offer. With the on-going COVID-19 pandemic however, the culture of visiting pandals and celebrating these auspicious days outside with family and friends will be more restricted this year. Hence ACKO Insurance has launched a special initiative, 'Baadi Ashlo Maa' with the intent of bringing the pandals closer to people for ease and safety of worship. These 2 Pandals are set up on a moving truck with an idol of the goddess, a priest and dhakee (traditional Bengali drummers) and are moving through the city of Kolkata availing darshan. This activation is being done in partnership with various Resident Welfare Associations and Housing societies. Two moving pandals are visiting 10+ RWAs and 12+ housing societies daily,  inviting residents to participate in fun activities and take blessings. The moving pandal will cover many neighbourhoods in South and East Kolkata, visiting 15+ residential societies. Further updates about the pandal’s location and movement are being given on radio Big FM 92.7. In addition to the RWAs and Housing societies, the pandals will also visit old age homes. At the old age homes, ACKO Insurance is hosting an array of activities and providing giveaways to all those living at the venue. This campaign will be carried out through various channels and platforms, i.e. On ground (RWAs and Housing Societies),  Radio Channel Big FM 92.7 and engagement on Digital Platforms. ACKO Insurance is one of India’s leading digital insurance policy providers with its entire operations offered through the digital platform. Founded in 2016 by Varun Dua and Ruchi Deepak, ACKO’s entire process is designed to provide a better customer experience. ACKO executes primarily through a digital platform with no offline hassles - zero paperwork from purchase, claims to renewals. ACKO’s innovative products and smart technology offerings make it stand out. The company uses a direct-to-consumer approach for distributing traditional products, allowing for favorable risk selection and underwriting. ACKO also offers innovative and bite-sized insurance products such as rider insurance, mobile and appliance protection, ticket cancellation etc in  partnership with 35+ leading players in the internet ecosystem such as Ola, Oyo, redBus, Zomato, HDB Financial Services and Urban Company. In a span of 3 years of operations, the company has distributed insurance policies to over 68+ Mn unique customers and issued 1 Bn+ insurance policies. For more information, visit www.acko.com or follow us on Facebook and Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
14-10-2021||West Bengal||TMC hits out at Centre for extending BSF's jurisdiction||Hitting out at the Centre over its decision to extend the jurisdiction of the BSF, the Trinamool Congress on Thursday said it was an "infringement" on the rights of the state and an attack on the federal structure of the country. The Centre has amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of the existing 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. Demanding its withdrawal, the TMC claimed the decision was taken without consulting the West Bengal government. "We oppose this decision. This is an infringement on the rights of the state. What was the sudden need to enhance the BSF's jurisdiction without informing the state government?" TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said. "If the BSF has to conduct any search, they can always do it along with the state police. This has been the practice for years. It is an attack on the federal structure," he added. Senior TMC MP Sougata Roy alleged that the BSF doesn't have a good track record on human rights in border villages. "The Centre and Home Minister Amit Shah are trying to weaken the states. BSF doesn't have a good track record when it comes to human rights in border villages," he said. State Congress president Adhir Chowdhury warned the Union Home Ministry of "consequences" over the move. "The expansion of #BSF area of jurisdiction upto 50 km from border of some states amounts to brazen infringement upon the territory of states. @HMOIndia (Home Ministry), you should not indulge any 'Chherkhani' (meddling) else will face the consequences," he said in a tweet. The state BJP slammed the TMC for its criticism, saying that its Opposition to the changes is aimed at appeasing its vote bank. "The TMC government has failed to check cross-border infiltration and smuggling. The TMC's opposition is aimed at appeasing its vote bank," said Sayantan Basu, the BJP's state general secretary. Yesterday, Punjab’s Congress chief minister, Charanjit Singh Channi, condemned the decision as “a direct attack on federalism” and his deputy Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa underlined that the Centre had not secured the state’s consent. Channi tweeted: “I strongly condemn the GoI’s unilateral decision to give additional powers to BSF within 50 KM belt running along the international borders, which is a direct attack on the federalism. I urge the Union Home Minister @AmitShah to immediately rollback this irrational decision.” The Shiromani Akali Dal too had slammed the move “to hand over almost half of the state to the BSF” as “the imposition of the President’s rule through the back door in nearly half of Punjab”. The Union Home Ministry issued a notification in this context on October 11, amending a July 2014 enabling provision for the BSF personnel and officers while they operate in the border areas. BSF officials said the amendment will help them in effectively curbing trans-border crimes and the new amendment brings in "uniformity" for its operations in the borders states of Punjab, West Bengal, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Assam where it can now operate within 50 km area from the border. In Gujarat, which shares border with Pakistan, the same limit has been reduced from 80 km to 50 km, while in Rajasthan, it has been kept unchanged at 50 km.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
14-10-2021||West Bengal||Probe into Alapan Bandyopadhyay’s ‘absence’||The Centre has set up an inquiry committee to find out whether Alapan Bandyopadhyay, former chief secretary and now chief advisor to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, had violated norms by “not attending a meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi” at Kalaikunda on May 28 sources said. The committee, sources said, asked Bandyopadhyay to appear before it in Delhi on October 18. Bandyopadhyay was not available for comment as he could not be contacted, but sources in the administration said the former chief secretary had the liberty to move to the central administrative tribunal against the order issued by the department of personnel and training (DoPT). “A decision on moving the CAT would be taken by Bandyopadhyay soon,” said a source. Earlier, the Centre had issued a showcause to Bandyopadhyay, asking him to reply why charges would not be framed against him for not attending a review meeting of the Prime Minister at Kalaikunda on May 28, which was considered as violation of the service rules of all India service officers. Modi had come to Bengal to assess the destruction caused by Cyclone Yaas. Bandyopadhyay, who was the chief secretary then, had reached the meeting with chief minister Mamata Banerjee and he had left along with her to visit Digha to attend a review meeting after the cyclone had hit three coastal districts. “In a reply to the showcause, Bandyopadhyay had said he had attended the meeting along with the chief minister but he had to leave the meeting with the CM after taking permission of the PM. But the Centre is clearly not happy with the reply,” said a source. Mamata had said the state government had asked for two packages of Rs 10,000 crore each, for the development of Digha and the Sundarbans, two areas that were devastated extensively by the cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
14-10-2021||West Bengal||771 fresh Covid cases in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday reported 771 Covid-19 cases, 775 recoveries and 11 deaths. The total of active cases fell by 15 to 7,657. Out of the past 18 days, Bengal recorded a rise in the total active cases on 12 days and a fall on five days. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total active cases on September 26. Calcutta logged 203 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 128, the only two districts to record three-digit figures on Wednesday. Eight districts reported single-digit figures. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday. Calcutta reported three and North 24-Parganas reported four. The state now has 3.8 per cent of the national total of active cases and is sixth on the list of states with the highest number of patients under treatment at present. The state’s recovery rate is 98.32 per cent, while the national rate is 98. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.74 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.78 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.52 lakh recoveries and 18,935 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
14-10-2021||West Bengal||Three die in separate accidents in south Bengal||Three persons, including a five-year-old, died in separate mishaps in the past 24 hours in south Bengal. An electrician died because of electrocution when he was busy ensuring power supply to a microphone set at a Durga Puja venue in Sauli Battala, Chandernagore, on Wednesday morning. Shyamal Ganguly, 59, a resident of Kantapukur area of the town, got entangled with a live wire of the main power supply. Some local residents disconnected the power supply to rescue him and rushed him to a Chandernagore hospital where he was declared brought-dead. Chandernagore police started a case of unnatural death. His cousin Soumen Ganguly said: “My brother was the only bread-earner of the family and had been trying hard to earn a few extra bucks during the festive season. He had been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdowns.” Earlier on Tuesday evening, a five-year-old boy died at Barasat in North 24-Parganas when a piece of mangled metal container that some boys used to burst crackers pierced his neck. The bizarre incident occurred at Baropole. The deceased Sayan Sen was standing at a distance when boys were bursting crackers. Police and local sources said some children were bursting crackers in the area and playfully placed a cracker inside a metal container and lit it. “The mangled parts of the container went off like splinters as the cracker exploded and a metal part pierced Sayan’s neck injuring him fatally,” an eyewitness said. He was rushed to Barasat district hospital, where he succumbed to the injury. In another incident, a helper of a Calcutta-bound state government bus coming from Cooch Behar died as he slipped off the vehicle on NH12 on Tuesday afternoon. The incident occurred at Awalsiddhi in Amdanga police station limits in North 24-Parganas district. Kartick Gosail, 43, was taken to Amdanga rural hospital, but succumbed to the injuries on the way. Conductor of the bus Susanta Mitra said: “It is not clear how he slipped off the footboard while crossing the congested area of Amdanga. I was inside the bus and suddenly heard a hue and cry that someone had slipped off the bus. The bus stopped and I rushed out to find Kartick lying unconscious in a pool of blood. With the help of local residents, we took him to the Amdanga rural hospital, but he died on the way.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
14-10-2021||West Bengal||Venkaiah Naidu to visit Darjeeling on October 22 ||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu will visit Darjeeling on October 22. “A programme has been scheduled at the Himalayan Mountaineering Institute the same day. The Vice-President will leave Darjeeling the following day,” said a senior district official. HMI officials couldn’t be contacted to know which programme Naidu would attend. Initially, there were plans that Naidu would hold talks with Tea Board of India officials but the same has not been finalised. “In all probability, the Tea Board meeting will not take place,” said a source. Naidu will arrive in Sikkim on October 20. Sources said he would inaugurate the Bhaichung Bhutia Football Stadium at Namchi in South Sikkim. Namchi is from where the legendary footballer started his successful soccer journey. The place is 20km from Bhutia’s birthplace of Tinkitam. The Vice-President’s visit has become public close on the heels of a meeting the Centre convened in New Delhi on Tuesday with Gorkha stakeholders. It wasn’t, however, clear if any political leaders from the hills would meet Naidu in Darjeeling. “We are yet to receive the final minute-to-minute itinerary from the Vice-President secretariat,” said an official. Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar reached Darjeeling on Tuesday for a two-week stay in the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
14-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Fading green||The Centre has read the message wrong, once again. Environmental activists have been urging the government to ‘go green’ by protecting India’s forests. But it seems more interested in protecting the ‘green’ in the wallet instead. Consider a recent instance. The Union environment ministry has proposed an amendment to the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980. This seeks to exempt certain categories of infrastructure project developers from requiring the Centre’s permission to use forest land for ‘non-forestry’ purposes. Although advertised as a green move, the proposal is riddled with contradictions. While the ministry claims that the intervention would incentivize afforestation on private lands, it concedes that it seeks to clear the path for land-holding agencies — the railways and the road and highway ministry included — to deforest lands acquired before 1980 as well as allow constructions for ‘bona fide’ purposes. What the government seems to ignore, however, is why the definition of ‘forest’ had been broadened in the first place. Has this been done to facilitate profiteering at the cost of India’s green cover? This is not idle speculation. India’s forests have been suffering for long: ‘very dense forests’, capable of absorbing copious amounts of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, constitute only three per cent of the country’s geography. If the aim is indeed for India to meet its environmental goal of increasing forest and tree cover to 33 per cent, paying lip-service to the protection of ‘pristine’ forests — yet another objective of the amendment — would not be enough. The amendment would also allow non-invasive exploration or extraction of oil and natural gas. Given that illegal depredations threaten the forests in spite of protective laws in place, it is not difficult to imagine their fate without strict oversight. India’s forests, with all their local variation and ecosystems, cannot be managed using singular, Central legislation — involving local bodies in case-specific inspection would be more effective. In fact, decentralized forest management is not without precedence: the National Forest Policy, 1988 had encouraged local participation through the joint forest management institution, while the Forest Rights Act, 2006 empowered gram sabhas with rights to manage, conserve and protect forests. Moreover, development of forest land must take into account local communities whose livelihoods depend on it — community participation in India’s first jungle safari in Chandrapur in Maharashtra is an inspiring example. The community must be made the principal stakeholder in deliberations on forest land if India is to save what remains of its wilderness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
14-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Ashis Mishra Teni arrested||Right direction Sir — It was a relief to learn that the prime accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, Ashis Mishra — he is the son of the Union minister, Ajay Mishra — has been arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police (“Cops get Ashis for 3 days”, Oct 12). The Supreme Court must be commended for coming down heavily on the state government for failing to arrest the accused. This must come as a warning to the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders that no one is above the law. Over the last year, the agitating farmers have proved that they are firm in their resolve to protest against the three farm laws passed by the Centre. Many have lost their lives but the farmers refuse to budge, and rightly so. The government cannot infinitely ignore the farmers’ demands. The BJP must find a way to resolve the crisis if it hopes to win the upcoming assembly elections. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore Sir — There is no doubt that had the Supreme Court not directed the Uttar Pradesh government to file a status report regarding the investigation in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence within a day, Ashis Mishra would not have been arrested. But the mere arrest of the minister’s son will not suffice. The courts should be vigilant in monitoring the handling of evidence by the investigative agencies so that there is no scope for tampering. Arun Gupta,Calcutta Ignored plight Sir — Subir Bhaumik has rightly pointed out that the ongoing strife in Myanmar where the Tatmadaw has choked the democratic rights of the citizens will have a far-reaching impact for the rest of Asia (“Look and act East”, Oct 11). Since the coup on February 1, 2021, hundreds have either lost their lives, been injured or rendered homeless, triggering a massive humanitarian crisis. This has upended the lives of the ordinary people but the international community seems to have forgotten about their plight. Aung San Suu Kyi and the leaders of the National League for Democracy have been languishing in jail on trumped up charges for months. But New Delhi’s response towards Myanmar seems to be measured, exposing its unwillingness to upset either the NLD leaders or the army. India must take a strong stand against the Tatmadaw and commit itself fully to upholding democratic doctrines in the region. Janga Bahadur Sunuwar,Jalpaiguri Jungle beat Sir — Nitin Gadkari, the Union minister of road transport and highways, has mooted the idea of a law that would replace car horns with the sound of Indian musical instruments such as the flute, tabla, or harmonium (“Tone deaf”, Oct 10). The minister also suggested that the sound of the siren on an ambulance or an official vehicle could be replaced with a melodious composition similar to the one that served as the signature tune of All India Radio. The idea is certainly well-intended. Studies have shown that prolonged exposure to the noise caused by traffic can lead to hearing loss, increase in blood pressure and heart rate, greater risk of stroke and diabetes as well as a general spike in stress and anxiety. Yet, whether a musical instrument will annoy or soothe depends on the person who wields it. If the person — the average Indian driver — is impatient and scornful of both traffic rules and ordinary courtesy, the result is unlikely to be any different than the current din on our roads. Unless people are patient and mindful, traffic jams will not be any more pleasant than they are now. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — Nitin Gadkari is under the impression that replacing the honk of car horns with the sound of musical instruments will bring an end to the cacophony experienced during traffic jams. But the disharmonious melody of Indian instruments playing without timing or tune is likely to annoy the passengers stuck in traffic just as much. While it is certainly important to bring down the level of noise pollution, this suggestion is unlikely to bear fruit. Rupali Bhadra,Calcutta Sir — What’s in a name, that which is a horn will be as cacophonous as a tabla. Sunder R.P.,Coimbatore  Drawn afresh Sir — Comic book fans are delighted to learn that the new Superman, Jon Kent, the son of Clark Kent and Lois Lane, is bisexual and will be fighting crime alongside his new male love interest, Jay Nakamura. Jon Kent is not the first queer superhero — Loki is not only bisexual but also genderfluid — but a growing list of LGBTQI+ characters with superpowers is bound to alter the stereotypes about masculinity and sexuality that have shaped the genre. The recognition queer experiences will enrich the narrative and endear the genre to a newer generation of fans.Nilam Raina,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
14-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Deadlocked||Beijing is turning out to be the proverbial ‘Voldemort’ in Narendra Modi’s book on strategic engagement. The Indian prime minister is yet to take China’s name explicitly even though as many as 13 rounds of military-level talks have taken place to resolve the border dispute between New Delhi and Beijing. The semantics employed by both sides at the end of the last engagement were illuminating. The Indian army stated that ‘constructive suggestions’ had been put forward to diffuse the situation but that China had not been too ‘agreeable’ on its part. China responded by accusing India of harbouring ‘unreasonable’ expectations. The war of words indicates a hardening of position by the two rivals and that there is unlikely to be a resolution anytime soon. This, in turn, implies that the disputed hot spots — Demchok, Depsang — would continue to fester as points of friction in Indo-China ties. Worse, given the deadlock, Indian army’s jawans and commanders would have to brace themselves to be vigilant in an inhospitable terrain during a harsh winter. China, evidently, is in no hurry to end the crisis. The communist party has taken a decisively nationalistic — jingoistic — turn under the leadership of Xi Jinping. Keeping the border with India heated would be a good opportunity for an aggressive Beijing to flex its muscles occasionally. The onus, clearly, is on India to find a way out of the crisis. Even though New Delhi should continue to deploy its resources to ensure that no more territory is lost, military adventurism has to be ruled out as a strategic intervention in the light of the worrying possibility of a two-front threat. India must, therefore, rely on its tried-and-tested diplomatic mettle. It would be prudent for India’s prime minister to concede the scale of the threat; a public admission of territorial loss from the occupant of India’s highest electoral office could well render greater manoeuvrability to New Delhi’s diplomatic outreach. This is especially critical at a time when international alliances are being formed with an eye on the gathering storm in the region. What remains to be seen is whether Mr Modi has the acumen and the courage to bite the proverbial bullet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
14-10-2021||Opinion||Darkness behind light||The 2020 Tokyo Paralympics has turned out to be India’s most successful global mega event. Nineteen medals, five golds, five medals in a single day — all this from a country where the majority of its privileged citizens wouldn’t recognize the name, Murlikant Petkar, in a pub quiz. Petkar was India’s first Paralympic gold medallist in the Heidelberg Games in 1972. He was awarded a Padma Shri in 2018; the gap between the two events tells its own story. The resounding success of Indian Paralympians in Tokyo deserves to be saluted. By examining how it came to be, Indian sport could also identify the building blocks that can be used for other sporting mega events. The past showed us what doesn’t work. The present, through the Paralympics, could show us what does. The word found in every discussion on the success at the Tokyo Paralympics is ‘partnerships’ — among everyone involved in our para-sport ecosystem: athletes, their entourages, officials, fund-raisers and fund managers. The Bangalore-based GoSports Foundation was the first to include para-athletes in its support and mentorship programme. Over the last 15 years, Indian sport has been through an evolving clinical trial — featuring the injection of private capital, expertise and investment plus performance-focussed government funding for elite athletes and promising aspirants. The Paralympics success is the completion of one phase of the trial. The government’s role in this trial was the creation of the Target Olympic Podium Scheme launched in 2014 and then revamped in 2018 to assist Olympic and Paralympic contenders. The difference between both Tokyos is telling. After the Olympics, the resentment and pushback against private bodies and, in some cases, TOPS was palpable. The most prominent national sports federation to voice its disapproval was the Wrestling Federation of India. The WFI president said private bodies and the TOPS scheme have ‘ruined’ Indian wrestling and that he wouldn’t allow wrestlers attached to the private bodies to compete. This is nothing but a sports honcho resentful about the fact that it was possible for athletes to succeed without genuflecting before him. India’s Tokyo Paralympics success took place despite its still-dysfunctional ruling body, the Paralympic Committee of India. In the run-up to Tokyo, taxpayers’ money and the government’s sports-centric programmes and institutions — like TOPS — collaborated with private sports management bodies, both groups funnelling their energies towards the requirements of athletes. People working around the 2020 Paralympics programme credit the success of this partnership model to the Kiren Rijiju sports ministry, the bureaucrats in TOPS as well as the Sports Authority of India. Their focus was on a small but influential demographic of the ‘elite Indian athlete’ — Olympians and Paralympians together. The previously, slightly prickly relationship among the private organizations themselves and between them and ministry/ TOPS officials had smoothened out and they were made to work for the elite Indian athlete. Gaps for one group could be freely shared and filled by the other, be it finding expertise or supplying funding or executing decisions about competition and medical/rehab interventions. The most difficult piece in this partnership jigsaw was however always going to be the PCI. The PCI remains a mess: between 2015 and today, it has been banned, de-recognized and suspended by its international body, the International Paralympic Committee, and the Indian sports ministry, by the latter for National Sports Code violations. As recently as March 2021, the National Para Athletics Championship was shifted from Chennai to Bangalore with little notice to the athletes. Competitions were held in darkness using car headlights and mobile phone torches. Deepa Malik, the new PCI president, has promised to ‘use the momentum’ to fill the gaps in Indian para-sport — such as timely national competitions and selection trials and creating more certified classifiers. Currently Indian para-athletes can only get their category classification assessment done at a competition overseas, for which many have paid an inexplicable ‘fee’ to the PCI just to compete. Like in the majority of Olympic disciplines, in the Paralympics too, success at the top is not a reflection of a sporting organization/federation’s grassroots efficiency or competency. In fact, it only ends up covering up ugly truths on the ground. Sharda Ugra is an independent sports journalist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
14-10-2021||Opinion||Dangerous direction||The five days of Durga Puja in West Bengal constitute one of the largest street carnivals in the world. It is undeniably a Hindu religious and cultural festival symbolizing the triumph of good over evil, the invocation of shakti, and even the homecoming of the daughter and her children. Over the centuries, it has evolved from being a family event to a community celebration involving people of all faiths — in line with the way the Christmas season (as opposed to Christmas Day) has evolved in the West. Predictably, it has also acquired a huge commercial dimension, in the same way as Diwali in northern India. This has been accompanied, particularly in the past decade, by over-politicization and the sites of worship being converted into avenues of political propaganda. As with a festival that takes place on a monumental scale and, quite naturally, involves the state administration, controversy and the Durga Puja are inseparable in West Bengal. Some of the earlier points of friction centred on the iconography of the goddess, with some organizers seeking innovative ways of presenting images of Ma Durga. In the three decades of Left Front rule in the state, the communists were ostensibly disengaged from the invocation of the goddess according to Hindu religious traditions. At the same time, since the festival witnessed the spontaneous involvement of the masses, a very conscious decision appears to have been taken to transform the Durga utsav into a sharadotsav, a process of secularization that involved underplaying the importance of Hindu traditions in the cultural life of Bengalis. Subsequently, in years when the five days of Durga Puja coincided with a Muslim festival, the state government intervened to give the minority community the right of passage. This, in turn, triggered political controversy and the matter had to be resolved through a judicial order. Some of the shifts in the public culture of the Durga Puja festival have been described by the historian, Tapati Guha-Thakurta, in her seminal work, In the Name of the Goddess: The Durga Pujas of Contemporary Kolkata (2015). “What began in the early 2000s as a shift away from the vulgarized culture of scale, opulence and glitter to a new premium on moderation, refinement and artistry has also reversed to renewed styles of sensationalism and gimmick, celebrity endorsements and a fanfare of inaugurations. Central to this turn has been the impassioned takeover of the Durga Pujas by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her political entourage in every major Puja ward and neighbourhood, leaving its inescapable imprint on all aspects of the visual culture of the festival. If Didi’s face now competes with Ma Durga’s for hoarding space, her round-the-year presence on the streetscape of the city taking on a new visibility in the season’s banners and hoardings... she has also thrown herself into the fray as a ‘Puja artist’ herself, bringing in her trail other leaders and ministers who are making their debuts in Puja designing. The sharply transformed political life of the festival finds manifestation in newer scales of Didi’s largesse and licenses — as she doled out pre-Puja donations to local clubs, waived at will corporation regulations and taxes over commercial hoardings, made it mandatory for various municipal departments to sponsor ten Pujas in the city and one Puja each in the district, or as she moved into a Puja inauguration spree from Mahalaya...” Since 2019, after competitive politics acquired a new turn in the state, there has been a discernible trend towards using ‘theme’ pujas to promote partisan politics. In earlier years, this included the exodus of migrant labour and the alleged iniquities of the new citizenship laws. This year, in what a state government minister has described as ‘an expression of artistic freedom’, a Puja pandal has been embellished with slippers, denoting the farmers’ agitation in North India. But whereas the earlier forays into political grandstanding had been brushed aside as needless or, in some cases, applauded as expressions of popular sentiment, the slippers controversy has taken a more vicious turn. The use of slippers in an event centred on worship has been denounced as a wilful assault on the sentiment of practising Hindus since it is customary to approach the deity barefoot. It is entirely possible that this act of insensitivity constituted an act of bravado, a feature of Bengali radical iconoclasm since the Young Bengal movement of the 19th century. However, neither those who threw pieces of beef into the homes of unsuspecting Hindus, thereby hoping they had secured a new convert, nor those Naxalites who beheaded statues of national icons to promote revolution enjoyed any social sanction, let alone political patronage. Today, the embellishment of a Puja with decorations of slippers is being portrayed as art, and those taking offence being tarred by the brush of bigotry. However, a foray into the past of Hindu Bengal would suggest a different trend. In his collection of essays on 19th and 20th century Bengal, Perceptions, Emotions, Sensibilities (1999), the historian, Tapan Raychaudhuri, pointed out — with examples from the lives of, among others, Rammohan Roy and Shibnath Shastri — that the intellectual acceptance of what is called ‘reformed Hinduism’ did not involve jettisoning traditional practices and ordinary decencies. In the guise of turning Durga Puja into a secular festival — where the chandipath could just as well become a version of the Buddha Bar background music and the Puja presented as some meaningless mumbo-jumbo from the past — what is being encouraged is a process of uprooting society from its inheritance. Whether this spurious cosmopolitanism will turn Bengali Hindus into true inheritors of the Enlightenment and take ‘progressive’ thought a step or two forward is a matter of conjecture. The Hindu ethos of Bengalis differs in important ways from the everyday traditions that prevail in both northern and southern India, but there are important points of convergence. It is pointless accusing a clutch of street-smart politicians with an eye on some future election of insidious religio-cultural engineering. But there is a case for suggesting that Bengali exceptionalism is slowly being steered in dangerous directions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
14-10-2021||Jharkhand||Coal India suspends e-auction of coal amid crisis||Amidst an unprecedented crisis for powerhouses, Coal India Limited has suspended the e-auction of coal till further orders in order to replenish the dwindling stock of power plants aggravating the difficulties of nonpower sector industries. Coal is provided to different industries through e-auction only and this move will only aggravate the difficulties of nonpower sector industries including hard coke industries, iron and steel Industries, TMT bar industry, soft Coke industries and pig iron industry. AP Singh, General Manager (Marketing of Sales) of Coal India Limited, has shot off a letter in this regard to his counterparts in the Marketing and Sales department to different subsidiaries of CIL including, Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL), Central Coalfields Limited (CCL), Western Coalfields Limited (WCL), Northern Coalfields Limited (NCL) and South Eastern Coalfields Limited (SECL) forbidding any e-auction until the situation stabilises. Singh in his letter further said that in case any coal company finds it necessary to liquidate any slow-moving coal stock through e-auction route without affecting the despatch to the power sector, the same may be communicated to Coal India along with proper justification before any such e-auction is planned. This comes on the day Union Coal Minister, Prahlad Joshi visited different coal mines of Central Coalfields Limited in Chatra district of Jharkhand including Magadh Amrapli, Chandragupt Sanghmitra and Ashoka Projects etc. Joshi took stock of coal production and the plan to augment coal production. He underplayed the coal crisis and said that the situation will improve very soon as coal production is likely to be raised at an accelerated rate after Durga Puja and the situation, which aggravated earlier this month due to incessant rains has already improved. Amitesh Sahay, a hard coke factory owner of Dhanbad termed the decision to suspend the e-auction of coal as impractical. He said that it would lead to the development of the situation of closure before the Industries which are already facing difficulties due to short supply of coal. Notably, more than 300 hard coke factories and other nonpower sector industries of Jharkhand which require coal as raw materials are facing a lot of difficulty for a couple of months due to a rise in prices of imported coal and at the same time facing a shortage of coal supply from BCCL, CCL, ECL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
14-10-2021||Jharkhand||New weekly festival special between Tatanagar and Kacheguda||In an attempt to ease the rush of passengers, South Eastern Railway (SER) has decided to run a  weekly festival special train between Tatanagar and Kacheguda  in the suburbs of Hyderabad. The train will  leave Tatanagar every Friday from October 15 and run till November 5. The return train will leave Kacheguda every Saturday between October 16 and November 6. According to a schedule released by the office of the chief passenger transportation manager (CPTM) at Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of South Eastern Railway, the Tatanagar-Kacheguda Special ( 08197 ) will leave Tatanagar at 5.15 am and will reach Kacheguda at 11am  the next day. On its return, the Kacheguda-Tatanagar special ( 08198) will leave Kacheguda at 12.45 pm and arrive at Tatanagar at 4 pm the next day. The special train will have four AC 3 - tier, eleven sleeper class and four general second class coaches and will stop  at Chakradharpur, Rourkela and Jharsuguda. SER spokesperson Neeraj Kumar said the special train would help clear the  festive rush. Booking of tickets for the train has begun. The Chhotanagpur Passenger Association welcomed the railway decision. "The railways took a wise decision as introduction of the special train will help clear the extra rush of passengers. It should have been introduced earlier this month, " said Arun Tiwari, secretary of Chhotanagpur Passenger Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
14-10-2021||Jharkhand||Navami rain mars festive spirit in Jharkhand||Several parts of Jharkhand experienced rain accompanied by thunder on Thursday due to the impact of a low-pressure  system over the Bay of Bengal coupled with a cyclonic circulation. Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Bokaro, Deoghar , Dumka and several other places in  central, north-eastern and southern Jharkhand woke up to overcast conditions with intermittent light rains. IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre had earlier warned of rain on Navami and Dashami (Thursday and Friday ) due to the influence of the low- pressure. The low-pressure area was lying over northern parts of central  Bay of Bengal  and an  associated cyclonic circulation  was extending upto 5.8 km above the mean  sea level. Head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said, " The low- pressure is likely to move northwestwards and reach  south Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh coasts during the next 24 hours." The forecast for Friday, Dashami (October 15 ), says generally cloudy sky with light to moderate rain or thundershowers  at a few places over central, north-eastern and southern parts of Jharkhand. Light rain with moderate thunderstorm and lightning is also expected at isolated places on Saturday and Sunday. The intermittent rain in Jamshedpur and several other parts of the state played spoilsport as people preferred to stay indoors on Navami. A duty officer at IMD's  Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta corroborated the forecast of Ranchi Met Centre. “ Various weather models suggest rainfall activity in  Jharkhand during the next two to three days due to the impact of the low-pressure and the cyclonic circulation," he said over phone from Calcutta. He went on to say that monsoon had already withdrawn from Jharkhand and most states but the prevailing low- pressure over the Bay of Bengal was triggering rains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
14-10-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren to attend national tribal dance festival at Raipur||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has confirmed his participation in the second national tribal dance festival to be held at Raipur in Chhattisgarh from October 28 to 30. The confirmation came after an invitation came from Soren’s Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel through a letter carried by Chhattisgarh parliamentary secretary and Congress MLA Vinod Chandrakar on Wednesday. The Chhattisgarh MLA handed over the letter to Soren at his residential office in Kanke, Ranchi, and apprised him of the primitive civilisations of the country and the world and the effort undertaken by the Chhattisgarh government in preserving and developing their culture and traditions by promoting tribal culture, folk dance, and folk music and folk arts through the “National Tribal Dance Festival 2021”. Significantly, ICCR (Indian Council for Cultural Relationships) will be hosting the second festival to be organised by the Chhattisgarh government. The first edition was held in 2019. However, there was no festival last year because of Covid. “The chief minister thanked Chhattisgarh MLA Vinod Chandrakar and extended his best wishes to the government of Chhattisgarh for the successful organisation of the festival and expressed eagerness to attend it,” said an official in the chief minister’s secretariat. Earlier, the Chhattisgarh MLA had also published details about the cultural programs to be presented by the artists in the form of tribal folk songs, music and dance from different states and Union territories and also from other countries. In the 2019 festival, also held at Raipur, around 1,800 artists from 25 states and three Union territories of the country and six other countries (Sri Lanka, Thailand, Maldives, Bangladesh, Uganda and Belarus) presented varied folk dance forms of their respective regions. For dances, there will be two categories, dances held during wedding ceremonies and dances held during other traditional ceremonies. Entries from states and Union territories will be closed on October 20. The top performers will be judged by a panel and there will be cash prizes for first, second and third position holders and consolation prizes. The winners, runners and third position holders will be given Rs 5 lakh, Rs 3 lakh and Rs 2 lakh, respectively. In marriage and sanskar category, Chhattisgarh won the first position while Jharkhand secured second position in 2019. “All participants will have to be in traditional costumes with live music performance. Pre-recorded music will not be allowed during performances. Respective states can send brief write-ups on their traditional dance form along with artists names and photographs on the email crgtribalfestival@gmail.com before October 20,” said a close aide to Soren.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
