15-10-2021||Business||PNB Housing calls off Rs 4,000-crore share sale plan to Carlyle-led group||PNB Housing Finance on Thursday decided to terminate a Rs 4,000-crore deal with Carlyle Group, citing legal and regulatory difficulties which may delay its capital raising plans. In May this year, the housing finance company had announced that the Carlyle group will lead the capital infusion with other investors that include Aditya Puri, the former MD & CEO of HDFC Bank. Pluto Investments S.a.r.l. (Pluto Investments), an affiliated entity of Carlyle Asia Partners IV, L.P. and Carlyle Asia Partners V, L.P. were to invest up to Rs 3,185 crore through a preferential allotment of equity shares and warrants, at a price of Rs 390 per share in the housing finance company. However, soon after the announcement, proxy advisory firms expressed concerns on the deal. Stakeholders Empowerment Services (SES), raised a number of questions on the transaction wondering if Punjab National Bank (PNB) has willingly surrendered control without extracting a fair compensation. It had said that the deal is unfair to   the shareholders of PNB Housing Finance while adding that the board of the company had agreed to price the preferential offer at a discount to book value. Subsequently, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) had asked the company to halt the preferential issue. However, this order was challenged by PNB Housing Finance at the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) which passed a split verdict in August. Following this, the market regulator had appealed against the SAT verdict at the Supreme Court. In a late evening statement on Thursday, PNB Housing Finance said that its board discussed that the proposed preferential issue has been held up for more than four months due to the pending legal proceeding before the SAT. As per the interim order of the tribunal on June 21, while the shareholders of the company were allowed to cast their vote at the extraordinary general meeting on June 22, the results were not be declared and kept in a sealed cover. “There continues to be no visibility or certainty as to the timeline for judicial determination of the legal issues, in particular as a third member of the SAT is yet to be appointed,’’ PNB Housing Finance said. According to the company, its board further noted that due to the protracted litigation and the continuing interim order of the SAT, there is no clarity on the shareholders’ approval for undertaking the preferential issue. “In addition, regulatory approvals required for the Preferential Issue, are pending and it is unclear whether such approvals will be forthcoming while the legal proceedings are ongoing. Therefore, the company’s capital raising plans will be further delayed and such uncertainty will continue,’’ the housing finance firm added. It pointed out that the board’s main objective is to raise capital to support the growth of the company, and the board believes that the current situation is not in the best interests of the company and its stakeholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
15-10-2021||Business||Passenger vehicles sales fall 41 per cent in September ||Passenger vehicles sales fell by 41 per cent to 160,070 units from 272,027 units a year ago in September due to high commodity prices and semiconductor crunch, industry body SIAM said on Thursday. According to the latest data by Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM), two-wheeler dispatches to dealers also witnessed a dip of 17 per cent at 15,28,472 units, compared with 18,49,546 in September 2020. Motorcycle dispatches declined 22 per cent last month to 9,48,161 units against 12,24,117 in the year-ago period. Scooter sales were also down 7 per cent at 5,17,239 units from 5,56,205 units a year ago. Vehicle sales across categories last month declined year-on-year by 20 per cent to 17,17,728 units from 21,40,549 units. Last month, the total production of passenger vehicles, three-wheelers, two-wheelers and quadricycles stood at 21,25,304 units, a drop of 19 per cent compared with September 2020. Kenichi Ayukawa, president, SIAM said, “Indian automobile industry continues to face new challenges. While on one hand, we are seeing a revival in vehicle demand, on the other hand, shortage of semiconductor chips is causing a major concern for the industry. Many members have curtailed their production plans.” “Coupled with the festive season demand, this has led to long waiting time for the customers on popular models of some segments. High raw material prices also continue to be a challenge,” he added. “Industry is taking all possible measures to mitigate the impact of such supply chain issues and optimise production,” he added. Rajesh Menon, director General, SIAM, said: “Owing to the semiconductor shortage, in September 2021 there was a drop in production of about (-) 37.46 per cent for Passenger Vehicles and (-) 17.15 per cent for Two-Wheelers. On the sales front, barring the Covid period, H1 sales of passenger vehicles are still below 2016-17 levels, that of two-wheelers are below 2011-12 levels, that of commercial vehicles are below 2010-11 levels and that of three-wheelers are still below 2000-01 levels.” In the July-September quarter, passenger vehicle wholesale, however, witnessed a marginal increase of 2 per cent to 7,41,300 units as compared with 7,26,232 units in the same period of last fiscal. Two wheeler dispatches during the September quarter stood at 41,13,915 units, down 12 per cent from 46,90,565 units in Q2 of 2020-21 financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
15-10-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty continue record-setting spree on upbeat macro data||Benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty raced to fresh record highs by notching their sixth straight session of gains on Thursday as participants cheered improving macroeconomic data and positive global cues. Going past the 61000-mark for the first time ever, the BSE Sensex soared 568.90 points or 0.94 per cent to finish at a new closing peak of 61305.95. The index also marked its fresh intraday record of 61353.25 during the day’s trade. Similarly, the NSE Nifty surged 176.80 points or 0.97 per cent to a new lifetime closing high of 18338.55. Intraday, the gauge touched a new record of 18350.25 before easing some gains towards the fag-end of the session. On the Sensex chart, ITC was the top gainer with around 3 per cent rise, followed by HDFC Bank, PowerGrid, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank and NTPC. On the other hand, TCS, HCL Tech, Bajaj Finance, Asian Paints and Bharti Airtel were among the laggards. Of the Sensex constituents, 22 closed with gains and 8 ended with losses. In the past six trading sessions, the Sensex has added over 2116 points or 3.57 per cent, and the Nifty has gathered more than 692 points or 3.92 per cent. On a weekly basis, the Sensex rallied 1246.89 points or 2.07 per cent, and the Nifty soared 443.35 points or 2.47 per cent. Market will remain closed on Friday for Dussehra. Sectorally, BSE bankex, finance, metal, realty, capital goods and basic materials rose up to 1.67 per cent, while auto index ended in the red. Broader midcap and smallcap indices rose up to 0.54 per cent. “The Indian market sustained its upbeat mood supported by positive global market, favourable inflation data and upmove in IT stocks following strong earning scorecards by sector majors,” Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services, said. The wholesale price-based inflation eased to 10.66 per cent in September, helped by moderating food prices even as crude petroleum witnessed a spike. Retail inflation in September too slowed to a five-month low of 4.4 per cent on moderating food prices. “Banking stocks also contributed to the rally and remained in focus as the sector is set to kickstart its earnings season,” Nair added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
15-10-2021||Business||Government approves 31 proposals for telecom PLI scheme ||Nokia India, HFCL, Dixon Technologies, Flextronics, Foxconn and Coral Telecom are among the 31 firms approved by the government under the production linked incentive scheme for the manufacturing of telecom equipment entailing Rs 3,345 crore investment and bringing in incremental production of about Rs 1.80 lakh crore over five years. The 31 companies comprise 16 MSMEs and 15 non-MSMEs (8 domestic and 7 global companies) have got approval. The DoT notified the PLI scheme for telecom on February 24, 2021, with a financial outlay of Rs 12,195 crore over five years. The scheme for telecom gear manufacturing in India is expected to encourage the production of equipment worth Rs 2.44 lakh crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
15-10-2021||Business||India steps towards convertibility: RBI deputy governor||India is nearing a big shift in its long-term goal of achieving open access to and convertibility in its markets with greater global integration and freer non-resident access to debt, Reserve Bank of India deputy governor T. Rabi Sankar said. “India has come a long way in achieving increasing levels of convertibility on the capital account,” Sankar said in a speech at a forex dealers event on Thursday, referring to the ability to convert local financial assets into foreign financial assets and vice versa. Sankar said there was an effort to liberalise foreign portfolio investor flows into Indian debt further with the introduction of the fully accessible route (FAR), which places no limit on non-resident investment in specified benchmark securities. “Since over time, virtually all securities will fall under the FAR category, the move is unambiguously towards an eventual unfettered access for non-residents into government securities,” he added. He also said efforts to get the country included in global bond indexes and a move towards placing government securities under global custodians, once implemented, will encourage debt flows in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
15-10-2021||Business||Coal supply to power units only: CIL||Coal India has temporarily curtailed fuel supply to non-regulated sectors such as aluminum and cement in a bid to prioritise supply to fuel starved thermal power plants with a low coal stock. The move from the public sector miner comes at a time 112 thermal power plants had critical fuel stocks as on October 13, 2021 as per data from the Central Electricity Authority. The stock at 135 plants monitored by the CEA stood at 7.42 million tonnes or a stock of 4 days only. This is against a normative stock requirement of 22 days. Coal India officials told The Telegraph that the measure is temporary and supply through auctions will be scaled up as soon as the coal stock situation at power plants stabilises. Non power consumers however were peeved at the decision and have urged the coal miner to resume supply at the earliest. “This is only a temporary prioritisation in the interest of the nation, to tide over the low coal stock situation at stressed power plants and scale up supplies to them. It does not mean stoppage of e-auction format,” said a Coal India official. The public sector miner, which supplies the majority of the coal consumed in India, said production and offtake has been steadily increasing. “For the past four days, supplies to the power sector are consistently at 1.61mt per day. Once the situation stabilises and stock at coal fired plants attains a comfort level, other sectors will be brought back to their regular supply norm,” the official said. “Non regulated sector, particularly MSME consumers who do not have the financial and operational means to import has to depend on the auction windows of Coal India and is always worse off whenever there is demand-supply crunch in the power sector,” said a city-based coal trader. Industry body Aluminum Association of India has already written to Coal India to resume supply as the recent decision to stop supplies and rakes for the non-power sector was detrimental for the industry and would jeopardise sustainability as these continuous process based plants were not designed for ad hoc shut down and start of operations. Coal India officials, however, said had the power utilities stocked up coal from October till February 2021 the stock position would have been better. Supply to non power sectors during the first six months of the ongoing fiscal was a little over 62mt and grew by 10 per cent over same period last year and 11 per cent over the same period in 2019, when there was no Covid pandemic. Union coal minister Pralhad Joshi on Thursday reviewed coal production and offtake of Coal India subsidiaries Central Coalfields and Bharat Coking Coalfields. He gave out directions to ensure sustained coal production and dispatch to the power plants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
15-10-2021||Business||Punit Goenka hurls governance barb at Invesco||Punit Goenka, MD and CEO of Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd, on Thursday chose to break his “silence” on the controversy that has engulfed Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd (ZEEL) after startling revelations about a failed takeover attempt by Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance group that was mounted in February. In a statement issued on Thursday, Goenka raised serious questions about the probity of institutional shareholder Invesco and its role in mediating a merger between the beleaguered media giant and a clutch of Reliance group entities whose identities have still not been revealed by either side. Under fire from Invesco for fostering a culture of weak corporate governance at Zee, Goenka riposted: “Why didn't Invesco make its plans public earlier? Does good corporate governance only apply to corporates and not their institutional shareholders?" Goenka’s note opens with a justification for coming out with his first public statement on the raging controversy. “Silence may be the best answer at times, but I have realised that in certain situations it is better to break it at the right time, so the truth comes to the fore,” he wrote and went on to assert that he was only driven by the motivation “to preserve the future of this company (ZEEL) and not my position”. Goenka also turned the guns on Invesco for trying to diminish the value of ZEEL while pursuing a possible merger with Reliance without informing the Zee board — countering the institutional shareholder’s accusation that Goenka’s actions were responsible for weak shareholder returns. “We should not let anyone impact the future of Zee or diminish the shareholder value it has been consistently generating over the years,” Goenka said. The Zee stock closed at Rs 319.20 on the Bombay Stock Exchange on Thursday, an increase of 0.65 per cent of the previous day's close. The deal with Reliance was valued at Rs 220 per share which had valued ZEEL at Rs 21,129 crore — a figure that the Zee board characterised as a lowball estimate of the company’s worth. In his letter to the board, Goenka had claimed that the Reliance-Invesco offer had undervalued the company by roughly Rs 10,000 crore. “We will ensure that no one maligns the intrinsic value of this company for their own benefit,” Goenka said in his latest missive. Other offers? ZEEL has signed a non-binding agreement with Sony to pursue a merger that will give founder Subhash Chandra's family a 4 per cent stake in the merged entity with the option to raise it to 20 per cent at a later stage. The details of this option mechanism remain under the wraps and will be learnt only after the 90-day period ends in mid-December during which Sony executives will access Zee’s books as part of a due diligence exercise. But ZEEL chairman R. Gopalan had claimed recently that there were other offers on the table besides the one under negotiation with Sony. Goenka’s letter appeared to fan the speculation with a cryptic remark that was pregnant with possibilities. He said: “It has only made me proud to note the interest from leading companies across the globe to partner with us and be a part of our extraordinary future.” Legal battle Goenka said he wasn’t spoiling for a fight but would aggressively defend ZEEL’s stand before the courts of law. “My demeanour is not to indulge in an ill-natured fight. Such battles are best handled by legal experts...Our lawyers will do the needful in the court of law as deemed necessary,” he said. He went on to add: “Under the guidance of the board and in line with the advice sought from our legal counsel, I will continue to take the required steps to safeguard Zee and its future.” Goenka, however, did not explain why he chose to keep quiet when he received an overture from Invesco on February 23 that alluded to a possible merger with certain Reliance group entities. If Invesco chose not to inform the Zee board, then Goenka also faces questions about his continued silence on the subject until Wednesday’s sudden revelations. However, an expert from a proxy advisory firm said Goenka was not obligated to share discussions on a possible merger with the board. “A company’s management usually keeps getting such offers. Only when it agrees on the terms, does it have to take it to the board,” the source said. During his briefing to the ZEEL board on Wednesday, Goenka said he had drawn attention to the “imbalance” in the valuation of the merger proposal emanating from Invesco. “The only reason I did not agree to the proposal was because the shareholder value was getting compromised. I will withstand any amount of pressure to preserve Zee’s intrinsic value and ensure that nothing impacts the returns being delivered to all the shareholders,” the note said. Sony proposal Meanwhile, Zee has defended its decision on the non-compete fee proposed in the merger plan with Sony that will see its founders’ stake rising to 4 per cent from 2 per cent. It also justified the clause that gives the promoters the option to raise their stake to 20 per cent in the merged entity at a later stage. It may be recalled that Invesco had raised questions on both these terms of the deal. Responding to the open letter issued by Invesco earlier this week, Zee said the deal with Sony contemplates a situation where the Subhash Chandra family could emerge as the majority shareholders of the merged company. It pointed out that in order to ensure that they can build value in the merged company, Sony insisted that the erstwhile promoters of the company do not engage in any competing business with the merged entity. “In lieu of such non-compete obligations being undertaken by the present promoter group, the promoters of Sony will be transferring approximately 2.11 per cent shares in the merged company to the promoter group. We would like to highlight here that this will be a secondary transfer from the promoters of Sony (not a primary issuance) and, accordingly, will not be dilutive to any of the shareholders of the company as it is a private arrangement between two shareholders,” Zee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
15-10-2021||India||India's rank in Global Hunger Index shocking, wrong methodology used: Centre||The Centre on Friday said it was shocking that India's rank was lowered on the Global Hunger Index and it termed the methodology used for rankings "unscientific". India slipped to 101st position in the Global Hunger Index (GHI) 2021 of 116 countries, from its 2020 position of 94th. It is now behind its neighbours Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal. Reacting sharply to the report, the Women and Child Development Ministry said it is "shocking" to find that the Global Hunger Report 2021 has lowered the rank of India on the basis of FAO estimate on proportion of undernourished population which is found to be "devoid of ground reality and facts, and suffers from serious methodological issues". "The publishing agencies of the Global Hunger Report, Concern Worldwide and Welt Hungerhilfe, have not done their due diligence before releasing the report," the ministry said in a statement. The methodology used by FAO is "unscientific", the ministry claimed. "They have based their assessment on the results of a 'four question' opinion poll, which was conducted telephonically by Gallup. There is no scientific methodology to measure undernourishment like availability of food grains per capita during the period. The scientific measurement of undernourishment would require measurement of weight and height, whereas the methodology involved here is based on Gallup poll based on pure telephonic estimate of the population," it said. The ministry further said that the report "completely disregards the government's massive effort to ensure food security of the entire population during the COVID-19 period", verifiable data on which are available. "The opinion poll does not have a single question on whether the respondent received any food support from the government or other sources. The representativeness of even this opinion poll is doubtful for India and other countries," the ministry said. It said it is noted "with surprise, from the FAO report The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2021', that other four countries of this region, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka, have not been affected at all by pandemic induced loss of job/business and reduction in income levels". The ministry said that these countries were rather able to improve their position on the indicator 'proportion of undernourished population' by 4.3 per cent, 3.3 per cent, 1.3 per cent and 0.8 per cent points respectively during the period 2018-20 over 2017-19. According to this report, India's position on the first indicator, child mortality, has improved in 2021 compared with 2020. Position on two indicators, i.e., child wasting and child stunting, has remained unchanged in 2021 compared with 2020, the ministry added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
15-10-2021||India||One killed, 16 hurt as SUV rams into religious procession in Chhattisgarh||One person was killed and 16 others were injured when an SUV ran into a religious procession at Pathalgaon in Jashpur district of Chhattisgarh on Friday afternoon, police said. The incident took place when residents of Bazarpara locality had taken out procession for the immersion of Goddess Durga idols, an official said. The deceased man was identified as Gaurav Agrawal (21). Two occupants of the vehicle, Bablu Vishwakarma (21) and Shishupal Sahu (26), natives of Singrauli in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh, were later arrested from the outskirts of the town while the vehicle itself was found burning, he said. Locals claimed that the two were smuggling ganja and set the SUV on fire themselves to destroy evidence as they were being chased. Tension prevailed in the town and a large number of people gathered outside the Pathalgaon police station. Terming the incident as "sad and heart-wrenching", Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said the accused were immediately arrested and action has also been taken against some police officers who were prima facie found at fault. "An inquiry has been ordered. No one will be spared. Justice will be done to all. May the departed soul rest in peace. I pray for the speedy recovery of the injured, Baghel tweeted in Hindi. Senior BJP leader and former chief minister Raman Singh demanded a compensation of Rs 50 lakh for the kin of the deceased. Singh tweeted a video of the incident and wrote, This video is very painful. In Chhattisgarh, the drug mafias have no fear of anyone. Will those taking out religious processions be crushed like this now? "Jashpur SP (Superintendent of Police) should be removed immediately. The kin of the deceased should be given Rs 50 lakh compensation and immediate arrangements should be made for the treatment of the injured, he demanded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
15-10-2021||India||Congress questions silence of govt over video showing Indian soldiers held captive in China||The Congress on Friday questioned the silence of the government on the veracity of a video which purportedly shows injured Indian soldiers in captivity of the Chinese and said if it is genuine, then Prime Minister Narendra Modi must ensure that China is held globally accountable for indulging in war crimes. Addressing a press conference here, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said what is very disturbing to every single Indian is the video of Galwan that was released by the Chinese which shows "our brave heart soldiers injured and in captivity of the Chinese". "The silence by our government on the veracity of this video is mind-boggling. If this video is genuine, then by all standards, this would fall within the category of war crimes for which China is definitely liable for prosecution under the International Criminal Court," he asserted. "Instead of patting each other's back, the Prime Minister and Home Minister of India should ensure that China is held globally accountable for indulging in war crimes against our brave hearts," he said. The government has so far not reacted to the video but BJP MP Subramanian Swamy tweeted, "If authenticated then it is a horrible sight and Modi government is heartless." "Why Modi government did not give any state honour ceremony to the Galwan battle dead? For Pulwana non battle deaths of CRPF jawans (the bus carrying them was blown up), there was nation wide mourning," Swamy said. Khera said China shamelessly objects to the Indian Vice President visiting Arunachal Pradesh, it enters 5 km into India's sovereign territory along Barahoti crossing the Tun Jun La pass in Uttarakhand and destroys our border - military infrastructure, before going back. Chinese incursions have been seen along the upper reaches of Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh, he said. Noting that the 13th round of Corps Commander Level Meeting was held between both the Indian and Chinese militaries and there was no agreement coming out of it, Khera said this added to the extensive infrastructural build up along the Hotsprings region including a logistical facility, artillery units and an air defence base among others, poses a potential threat to India's strategic interests in the northern sector. "The implications of the Chinese incursions are extremely critical, especially when the PLA isn't even open to discuss de-escalation in two extremely strategic and critical sectors for India -- Depsang and Daulat Beg Oldi," the Congress leader said. He said that instead of talking big like the home minister of India did yesterday, answers are expected from whoever is running this government. Posing questions to the government, he asked when will it respond to this verbal, geographic, military and strategic aggression of China. Why is it that on one hand China is brazenly entering into Indian territory, releasing videos of its own misdeeds, and yet our trade with China goes up by a whopping 62.7 per cent, Khera asked and wondered what kind of diplomacy, politics and governance is this. "You first ban some apps and then do business with the enemy? - Just this week a Chinese company was invited to invest Rs. 600 crores at the Integrated Industrial Township Greater Noida Limited (DMIC - IITGNL)," he alleged. He also questioned the government as to what actions it proposes to take against China in light of this horrific video released by the Chinese. "Why this business as usual approach towards an enemy? What are we doing to counter the threats to our country emanating from the recent developments in Afghanistan, in which the obvious gainers are Beijing and Islamabad," Khera said. "Why are you tolerating all-round aggression from China and doing absolutely nothing about it," he asked and added that the nation demands answers from this "weak government".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
15-10-2021||India||Amit Shah pays tribute to Savarkar at Andaman, attacks his critics||"Veer" Savarkar's patriotism and valour cannot be questioned, Union Home Minister Amit Shah asserted on Friday, as he hit back at those doubting the freedom fighter's commitment to India and its freedom struggle, and asked them to have "some shame". Shah's comments came against the backdrop of a massive row over Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's recent remark that V D Savarkar, a venerated Hindutva ideologue, had filed mercy petitions before the British at the advice of Mahatma Gandhi. "How can you doubt the life, the credentials of a man who was sentenced to two life imprisonments, made to sweat like a plodder bullock (kolhu ka bail) to extract oil at this prison. Have some shame," he told a gathering after garlanding the portrait of Savarkar at the cellular prison here where hundreds of freedom fighters were incarcerated during India's long freedom struggle. Shah said Savarkar had everything that he needed for a good life, but he chose the tough path, which indicated his unwavering commitment to the motherland. "There cannot be a greater pilgrimage than this cellular jail. This place is a 'mahatirth' where Savarkar experienced inhuman torture for 10 years but did not lose his courage, his bravery," Shah said, addressing an event as part of 75 years of India's Independence which the government is celebrating as "Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav". The minister said the sobriquet "veer" was bestowed on Savarkar not by any government but by the people of the country in endorsement of his indomitable spirit and courage. "This title fondly given to him by 130 crore people of India cannot be snatched away," he said. Shah also laid a wreath at a memorial to the martyrs of the freedom struggle. He said most people in today's India were born after Independence and so did not get an opportunity to "die for the country". "I urge the youth of today to live for this great nation," he said. A big row had recently erupted after Rajnath Singh targeted the critics of Savarkar, saying the freedom fighter was being defamed over the mercy petitions. "Time and again, it was said that he filed mercy petitions before the British government seeking his release from jail...The truth is, he didn't file mercy petitions to get himself released. It is a regular practice for a [jailed] person to file mercy petitions. It was Mahatma Gandhi who asked him to file mercy petitions," Singh had said, drawing criticism from BJP's opponents who called it an "attempt to rewrite history".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
15-10-2021||India||Lucknow: Farmers' union members detained for trying to burn effigies of Modi, Shah||The Socialist Party (India) on Friday claimed some members of its farmers' wing were detained by police after they gathered here to burn effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and MoS Home Ajay Mishra in the wake of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The members of the Socialist Kisan Sabha also carried placards demanding the resignation of Mishra, whose son Ashish is alleged to have been in one of the cars that ploughed into farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, leaving four of them dead. The Socialist Kisan Sabha is a constituent of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions that is spearheading the stir against the Centre's three agri laws. Last week, the SKM had called on all its constituents to burn effigies of Modi, Shah, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and others on the occasion of Dussehra on October 15. General secretary of Socialist Party (India) Sandeep Pandey, who was also part of the gathering, told PTI, "We were not allowed to burn the effigies. The effigies were taken away from us along with the placards. We had reached the Shaheed Smarak, and as soon as we started climbing the stairs, we were stopped by the police." Pandey said he and six workers of the Socialist Kisan Sabha were detained by the police. In a statement issued here earlier, the Socialist Kisan Sabha said, "On the call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, effigies of Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and Ajay Mishra will be burnt on October 15, Friday, Dusshera day, at 2 pm at Shaheed Smarak, Lucknow to demand the resignation of Union Minister Ajay Mishra 'Teni' for the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. Besides the four farmers, a journalist and three BJP workers were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. MoS Home Mishra's son Ashish and five other people had been arrested in the case till Wednesday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
15-10-2021||India||RSS chief flags concern over 'unregulated' OTT content, Bitcoin and drug abuse||Flagging serious concerns over the "unregulated" content being shown on OTT platforms, "uncontrolled" Bitcoin currency that has potential to "destabilise economy of all countries" and use of narcotic drugs by all classes of the society, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday urged the government to take steps to address these issues. He was speaking during the annual Vijayadashmi rally held at Reshmibagh here. "What kind of things are being shown on OTT platforms. During the coronavius period, even the children have got access to mobiles and there is no control over what they watch. Similarly, there is no control on what is to be shown on OTT platforms," he said. "At present unregulated broadcast of varied material on OTT platforms are open for everyone's indiscriminate consumption. In the backdrop of the pandemic online education was to be introduced. School-going children are hooked on mobile phones as a rule. In the absence of prudence and a regulatory framework, it will become difficult to predict in which way and to what extent will this emerging phenomenon of contact with fair and unfair means sweep our society," he said. Bhagwat also spoke about the rampant use of drugs, saying it is prevalent in all classes of the society. "Narcotics are smuggled in the country and its consumption habit is increasing. How to stop it, we don't know. People from high class to the last man are dangerously engulfed in this habit. We all know money from this drug business is used for anti-national activities and nations bordering India promote it," he said. He added that the young generation must be taught at home that they must stay away from drugs. Talking about Bitcoins, he said, "No country has control over Bitcoin. A competition is coming up. Clandestine, uncontrolled currency like Bitcoin has the potential to destablise the economy of all countries and pose a serious challenge," he said. The government must immediately make efforts to regulate the OTT content, stop the use of Bitcoins and end the drugs menace completely, the RSS chief said. According to him, Indian economic ideology is based on 'giving back' and on nurturing the nature and not conquering it. He said that prevalent global economic paradigm is shaken by new challenges that are beyond the grasp of other nations. Mechanisation and the resultant rise in unemployment, ebb in the human value system due to unethical technology and the power without accountability are some examples, he added. The whole world is now looking at India, expecting and waiting for new parameters of economic system and development. "Human spirit has experienced pinnacles of freedom by pursuing progress and pleasure bound by the principle of dharma or righteousness, such economic model has been considered ideal in our civilisation. Our economic paradigm emphasises control over consumption," he said. Bhagwat stressed on forming an economic development model based on this vision, consolidating our learnings that are valuable from across the world, and combining it with our current national context is the need of the hour. "The manifestation of such new model of holistic and integrated progress is a natural outcome of independence; it is the long-awaited discovery of the 'swa' or the self," he said. Speaking about the pandemic, he said the country was set to combat the third wave of coronavirus. During the second wave of COVID-19, the society once again through its collective efforts exemplified resilience. The second wave was far more destructive and did not spare even many young people. Yet efforts of men and women who were selflessly dedicated in the service of humankind despite serious health hazards posed by the disease are praiseworthy, he said. "The danger continues to loom on our horizon. But we are more or less prepared to face the third wave. Vaccines have been administered en-masse and the vaccination process needs to be completed," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
15-10-2021||India||Govt augments coal supply by diverting output form captive mines amid crisis||The coal ministry on Friday said it has taken various measures, including diverting the output from captive coal mines, to augment fuel supply to the power sector. The development assumes significance in the wake of country's power plants grappling with coal shortages. "The ministry of coal has taken all efforts to augment coal supplies to the power sector and decided to divert and augment the supplies to power sector from captive coal blocks," the coal ministry said in statement. Captive mines are those that produce coal or mineral for exclusive use by the company that owns the blocks. The ministry offered coal supply from NLC India's Talabira II & III mines in Odisha to NTPC. In this connection, both the companies worked together to commence the supply of coal from Talabira II & III open cast project (OCP) to NTPC (Darlipali & Lara Power Plants). With timely support and necessary coal delivery permits from the department of mines, Goverment of Odisha, the coal delivery to the Darlipali power station has been commenced, within 24 hours from the directives from the Ministry of Coal. NLC India Limited, a navratna company under the administrative control of the Ministry of Coal is operating Talabira II & III coal mines having annual capacity of 20 million tonnes in in Odisha. Talabira II& III OCP has commenced production from the financial year 2020-21. State-owned NLC India this week said it is making efforts to ramp up coal output from one of its mines in Odisha to up to 10 million tonnes per annum this year. The company aims to increase coal production to up to 20 million tonnes per annum (MTPA) from next year onwards, according to a regulatory filing. NLC India had said it has taken steps to achieve the target of six MTPA, from its original schedule of four MTPA during the current year. Considering the high demand for coal, the company is making all-out efforts to augment the coal production of Talabira mine up to 10 MTPA for the current year and up to 20 MTPA from the next year onwards. This will not only provide fuel security to end-use plants but also make available coal in the market, it had added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
15-10-2021||India||AIIMS doctor allegedly raped by senior colleague inside campus||The Delhi Police has lodged a case after a doctor working at the All India Institute of Medical Science here alleged that she was raped by one of her senior colleagues during a birthday party inside the campus, officials said on Friday. The accused is at large and efforts are on to nab him, they said. The incident took place on September 26 during a birthday party of one of their colleagues, they said. The police received information about the incident on October 11 at the Hauz Khas police station, officials said, adding that the MLC (Medico Legal Case) was also done. According to the police, when their team reached the hospital and met the victim, she told them that on September 26, one of her senior colleagues allegedly raped her after she went to his room for the birthday celebration. Based on her statement, a case was registered under sections 376 (Punishment for rape) and 377 (Unnatural offences) of the Indian Penal Code at the Hauz Khas police station, said Benita Mary Jaiker, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South). "During investigation, the statement of the victim was recorded before a magistrate under section 164 CrPC, and raids are being conducted at some hideouts of the accused. Technical surveillance has also been mounted but the accused is still at large," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
15-10-2021||India||Manmohan Singh's condition stable, improving||The condition of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who is admitted to AIIMS, is stable and improving, a hospital official said on Friday. Singh was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here on Wednesday evening after he complained of weakness following fever. The 89-year-old former prime minister has been admitted to a private ward in the Cardio-Neuro Centre of the hospital and is under the care of a team of cardiologists led by Dr Nitish Naik. "His condition is stable and improving," the AIIMS official said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi visited Singh on Thursday evening to enquire about his health. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya also met Singh on Thursday and enquired about his health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
15-10-2021||India||More trust, transparency in defence sector than ever before, says PM||For the first time since Independence, many major reforms were rolled out in India's defence sector and it has more transparency and trust than ever before, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday. After dedicating seven new state-run defence firms replacing the Ordnance Factory Board, the prime minister said a single-window system has been put in place instead of stagnant policies to develop India as a major producer of defence equipment. "Under the self-reliant India campaign, the country's goal is to make India the world's biggest military power on its own and development of modern military industry in India," Modi said. "In the last seven years, the country has worked to carry forward this resolve with the mantra of 'Make in India'," he added. In his video address at the event, Modi said that as India enters 75 years of Independence, projects are being completed that were stuck for a long time. "Today, there is more transparency, trust, and technology driven approach in the defence sector of the country than ever before. For the first time after Independence, so many major reforms are happening in our defence sector. Instead of stagnant policies, a single-window system has been put in place," Modi said. After Independence, there was need to upgrade ordnance factories, adopt new-age technologies, but it didn't get much attention, he said. The prime minister said that 41 Ordinance factories are being converted into seven corporate entities, as a measure to improve our self-reliance and defence preparedness. India is taking new resolutions to build a new future, he added. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and representatives from the defence industry associations were present on the occasion. The government had decided to replace the over 200-year-old Ordnance Factory Board into seven fully entities to improve self-reliance in the country's defence preparedness. The seven new defence companies that have been incorporated are Munitions India Limited (MIL), Armoured Vehicles Nigam Limited (AVANI), Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited (AWE India), Troop Comforts Limited (TCL), Yantra India Limited (YIL), India Optel Limited (IOL) and Gliders India Limited (GIL), the PMO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
15-10-2021||India||People gave me opportunity to serve despite my humble background, says Modi ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that despite his common background and although he did not have any political, dynastic or caste backing, people gave him opportunity to serve them - first in Gujarat and then at the national level. He was speaking during his virtual address after laying the foundation stone of a boys' hostel here. "I come from very common background and did not have any political or dynastic background and did not have support of caste-based politics. Despite that, you gave your blessings and gave me the opportunity to serve Gujarat way back in 2001," he said. "And, such is the power of your blessings that even after 20 years, I am still serving. First I served the people of Gujarat and now the country," he added. In his address, he urged people to walk on the path as shown by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, India's first home minister and also the deputy prime minister. "Sardar Patel had said that we should not let castes and religious faith turn into hindrance for us. We all are sons and daughters of India and we all should love our country. We all should love each other," Modi added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
15-10-2021||India||Body of man with hand chopped off found near farmers' protest site in Haryana||barricade at a farmers' protest site at Kundli near the Delhi-Haryana border, a gruesome incident being blamed on a group of Nihangs. In a video clip on social media, some Nihangs are seen standing around the injured man with his severed left hand close to his head. The group is heard accusing him of desecrating a Sikh holy book. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions, said a group of Nihangs has claimed responsibility for the brutal killing after the man allegedly tried to desecrate the Sarbloh Granth. Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar told PTI that the group was not part of the SKM's protests and urged strict action against the culprits. He claimed that the man was staying with the same Nihang group for some time. The victim, Lakhbir Singh, a labourer from Cheema Khurd village in Punjab's Tarn Taran and aged around 35 years, police said. His body was found tied to an overturned police barricade near a dais put up by the farmers protesting there for several months over the Centre agri-marketing laws. The Kundli police station received information at 5 am that a body was found near the farmers' protest site," a Sonipat police official said. A Haryana police spokesperson said in Chandigarh that when Sonipat police reached the spot the man had died. "Some people were standing there. When the police tried to take the body away, they protested. After some efforts, the body was brought to the civil hospital," the spokesperson said. Singh was found wearing only a pair of shorts. His hand was cut off at the wrist and a foot bore deep injuries. Altogether, there were over 10 injury marks inflicted by sharp-edged weapons. He was allegedly dragged by his assailants for a few metres before he was tied with ropes to the barricade. He is said to have bled to death. "We have registered a case and further investigations are on," Additional Director General of Police, Rohtak Range, Sandeep Khirwar told PTI over the phone. Khirwar, who later visited Kundli, told reporters that police hoped to make arrests very soon. We have the names of some suspects and the investigations are on. I am hopeful that we should be able to make headway very soon, as we have some leads in the case, he said. Back in Tarn Taran village, Lakhbir Singh's family was in shock and said he could never desecrate a holy book. Some villagers told reporters that his parents died a few years ago and his wife and three children stayed with some relatives. Singh was said to be staying with his sister. The Sonipat police said some people initially resisted their entry into the area where his body was strung to the barricade, and were not cooperating with them. The video clip shows the Nihang group asking the man badly injured man where had he come from and who sent him to commit the sacrilege . He is heard pleading with the group in Punjabi. One of the Nihangs says the man is a "Punjabi" and not an outsider, and it should not be made into a Hindu-Sikh issue. Another raises a religious chant. The Nihangs are a Sikh order, distinguished by their blue robes and often seen carrying spears. Last year, a Punjab policeman's hand was chopped off with a sword and six colleagues injured in an attack allegedly by a group of Nihangs at a village market in Patiala when the accused were asked to produce curfew passes. The policeman's hand was later reattached after a surgery at the PGIMER in Chandigarh. A case of murder has been registered at the Kundli police station in Sonipat against unidentified people, police said.A board of doctors conducted the post-mortem at the Sonipat civil hospital. At least five video clips connected with the murder have surfaced on social media. In a statement, the SKM said it wanted to make it clear that "both the parties to the incident, the Nihang group and the deceased person, have no relation with the Morcha. The peaceful and democratic movement of the farmers is opposed to violence in any form, it added. The SKM said it is against the desecration of any religious text or symbol, but that does not give anyone the right to take the law into their own hands. "A Nihang group at the scene has claimed responsibility, saying the incident took place because of the deceased's attempt to commit sacrilege with regard to the Sarbloh Granth," the farmers' body said. It demanded that the culprits be punished in accordance with law after investigating the allegation of murder and conspiracy behind sacrilege. "As always, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha will cooperate with the police and the administration in any lawful action," it added. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three border points of Delhi -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- for months, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
15-10-2021||India||Sitharaman hails India's handling of Covid pandemic||India has not only faced the COVID-19 crisis with great resilience and fortitude but has also played a major role and "walked the talk" on the global fight against the pandemic, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said, highlighting that the measures taken by the government have set a strong foundation of the country's sustained economic growth. Pointing out the fast recovery of India's economy, Sitharaman in her address to the Development Committee of the World Bank said the Modi Government, besides taking economic relief measures, has also undertaken significant structural reforms to turn the crisis into an opportunity and emerge stronger. The measures undertaken by the government have set a strong foundation for India's sustained economic growth, she said. India has also played a major role and truly walked the talk' on the global COVID-19 effort. India's massive Vaccine Maitri programme, under which more than 66.3 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines were exported to 95 countries worldwide bears special mention. India is all set to resume vaccine export in October 2021, she said. According to the International Monetary Fund's World Economic Outlook, India is estimated to be the fastest-growing major economy in 2021, projected to grow at 9.5 per cent in 2021 and 8.5 per cent in 2022. Observing that despite the pandemic, India received its highest ever FDI inflows of USD 82.0 billion in fiscal 2020-21, the finance minister said this trend in India's FDI is an endorsement of its status as a preferred investment destination amongst global investors. Addressing the Development Committee meeting, Sitharaman said India has faced the COVID-19 crisis with great resilience and fortitude. The country's pandemic response has focused on the twin goals of saving both the lives and livelihoods, she said. "When faced with the second wave of infections, India again mounted a carefully calibrated and dynamic response to the evolving situation. Given that the second wave was asynchronous in its onset across states and wider in its spread, only localised lockdowns were imposed during the second wave," she said. This approach aided reduction in cases in the COVID-19 hotspots without dampening economic activity in regions with fewer cases, she said. Despite a more brutal second wave, India's GDP grew at 20.1 per cent YoY during the April-June quarter of 2021, recovering more than 90 per cent of the corresponding pre-pandemic output levels of 2019, she added. The broad-based and swift recovery of both the demand and supply-side components reaffirms India's resilient recovery and strong macroeconomic fundamentals. "With the easing of the COVID-19 restrictions, GST collections for July, August and September 2021 have crossed the INR 1 trillion mark, which testifies to the fact that the economy is recovering at a fast pace. The robust GST revenues are expected to continue in the coming months too as the economic recovery gathers momentum," the finance minister said. India, she said, is one of the frontrunners in the global vaccine deployment race with the second-highest total number of COVID-19 vaccines administered all over the world. As of September 30, India has administered 951.35 million doses, covering 72.8 per cent of the 18 years (as on August 10, 2021) and above population with at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine. The vaccination exercise continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level and the successful rollout of vaccinations is a testimony to the effort and dedication of all stakeholders, she said. "India also made its digital platform for COVID-19 vaccination, CoWIN, an open-source for all countries to access, adapt and use. India is also at the forefront of multilateral efforts, including the Quad plan for the production of one billion vaccines to be offered to South-East Asian countries, she added. She said that the Indian government adopted a slew of measures to provide relief to diverse sectors affected by the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. A total of 17 measures amounting to Rs 6,290 billion were adopted. Sitharaman said in addition to economic relief measures, India has undertaken significant structural reforms to turn the crisis into an opportunity and emerge stronger. These reforms across diverse areas include agriculture and food processing, commercial coal mining, financial support to MSMEs and change in definition with increased thresholds, production linked incentive schemes to boost manufacturing, privatisation of PSUs and asset monetisation, increased FDI limit in defence and insurance are amongst the most notable reforms and have set a strong foundation for India's post-COVID economic growth, she said. Production Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes have been introduced across key sectors to create national manufacturing champions and generate employment opportunities for the country's youth. The objective is to make India a bigger and more important part of the global economy by pursuing policies that are efficient, competitive and resilient, she said. "The incentives under the package are intended to not just give a boost to domestic manufacturing but also ease the high concentration risks across global supply chains. The minimum production in India as a result of PLI Schemes is expected to be over USD 500 billion in 5 years," she said. Observing that Infrastructure development has assumed a major focus in strengthening India's economic recovery, the finance minister said that India has a robust National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) which is a first-of-its-kind, whole-of-government exercise to provide world-class infrastructure. Measures have been undertaken to promote ease of doing business with rational tax systems, simple and clear laws, reducing compliance burden and leveraging technology for better compliance, she said. As a recent major initiative, the government has taken steps to scrap the retrospective tax law which would help resolve tax disputes and boost investor confidence, she added. Despite the pandemic, India received its highest ever FDI inflows of USD 82.0 billion in FY 2020-21. The trend in India's FDI is an endorsement of its status as a preferred investment destination amongst global investors, said the finance minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
15-10-2021||India||Petrol, diesel prices rally to highest ever levels||Petrol and diesel prices on Friday rallied to their highest ever levels across the country, as fuel rates were hiked again by 35 paise a litre. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 105.14 a litre and Rs 111.09 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 101.78 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 93.87. This is the second straight day of 35 paise per litre increase in petrol and diesel prices. There was no change in rates on October 12 and 13. Since the ending of a three-week-long hiatus in rate revision in the last week of September, this is the 14th increase in petrol price and the 17th time that diesel rates have gone up. While petrol price in most of the country is already above Rs 100-a-litre mark, diesel rates have crossed that level in a dozen states, including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Kerala, Karnataka and Leh. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. Shedding the modest price change policy, state-owned fuel retailers have since October 6 started passing on the larger incidence of cost to consumers. This is because the international benchmark Brent crude is trading at USD 84.61 per barrel for the first time in seven years. A month back, Brent was trading at USD 73.51. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rates on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 5.25 per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 4.25. Before that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
15-10-2021||India||Active Covid cases in country lowest in 216 days||India logged 16,862 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,40,37,592, while the active cases declined to 2,03,678, the lowest in 216 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,51,814 with 379 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 21 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 110 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.60 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.07 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 2,908 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 11,80,148 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 58,88,44,673. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.43 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 46 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.42 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 112 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,33,82,100, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 97.14 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 379 new fatalities include 174 from Haryana, 96 from Kerala and 35 from Maharashtra. Haryana added the death figures after the report of the State Death Audit Committee, the ministry said. A total of 4,51,814 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,705 from Maharashtra, 37,922 from Karnataka, 35,853 from Tamil Nadu, 26,667 from Kerala, 25,089 from Delhi, 22,897 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,945 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
15-10-2021||India||Modi pays tributes to former president APJ Abdul Kalam on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tributes to former president A P J Abdul Kalam on his birth anniversary on Friday, saying he dedicated his life in making India strong, prosperous and capable, and will always remain a source of inspiration for the people of the country. "Tributes to former president Dr APJ Abdul Kalam ji, known as the 'Missile Man', on his birth anniversary. He dedicated his life in making India strong, prosperous and capable. He will always remain a source of inspiration for the people of the country," Modi said in a tweet in Hindi. Kalam served as the 11th president of India from 2002 to 2007 and earned the respect and admiration of people and political parties across the spectrum for his simple living and non-partisan conduct. He is also credited with opening the doors of the Rashtrapati Bhavan to the masses and came to be affectionately called the "People's President". Kalam, who passed away in 2015, also earned the sobriquet "Missile Man of India" for his role in the development of the country's missile programmes. Modi also wished his ministerial colleagues Mahendra Nath Pandey and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on their birthday, and lauded their work in the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
15-10-2021||India||Terrorists resorting to targeted killings in Jammu and Kashmir, says Mohan Bhagwat||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday said terrorists were resorting to targeted killings in Jammu and Kashmir to instil fear. Addressing the annual Vijayadashmi rally at Reshimbagh ground here, Bhagwat said military preparedness on borders needs to be increased. He also expressed concern over Bitcoin and OTT platforms and asked the government to take efforts to regulate these things. "Terrorists are resorting to targeted violence in Jammu and Kashmir to instil fear," he said. On October 12, five Army personnel, including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO), were killed in an encounter in Dera Ki Gali (DKG) in Surankote area of Poonch district in Jammu and Kashmir. On August 19, a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) of the Army was killed in an encounter with terrorists in Thanamandi area of Rajouri district. Bhagwat said societal consciousness is still skewed with caste-based sentiments and the RSS is working to address it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
15-10-2021||India||Varun Gandhi uploads old video of Vajpayee warning the govt against intimidating farmers||BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi on Thursday uploaded on social media an old video of Atal Bihari Vajpayee warning the government against intimidating farmers or trying to crush their peaceful protest, sending a message to his party and the Narendra Modi regime. Varun, who has been seeking justice for the farmers mowed down in Lakhimpur Kheri by a Union minister’s jeep in which his son was allegedly present, and persistently raising the larger issue of the peasants’ movement against the farm laws, prefaced the video with the tweet: “Wise words from a big-hearted leader.” Vajpayee was the BJP’s first Prime Minister and the party’s biggest leader before Modi. In the short clip, from 1980 according to the video, Vajpayee says: “I want to warn the government against intimidating farmers. Don’t try to scare, these farmers are not going to be scared. We don’t want to use the farmers’ movement for politics.” Indira Gandhi, Varun’s grandmother, was Prime Minister in 1980. Vajpayee continues: “We support their (farmers’) genuine demands. If the government tries to suppress them, misuse laws or repress the peaceful movement of the farmers, we will join the protests.” The Modi government has been accused of using every trick to suppress the farmers’ peaceful movement against the three laws. It has termed the protest politically motivated and tried to defame the farmers. Sections of BJP leaders have been particularly targeting the Sikhs who are leading the protest from the front, branding them Khalistanis. For 10 months, thousands of farmers have braved extreme weather and camped on the highways outside Delhi but Modi has not met them to hear their grievances about laws that affect their lives and livelihood. The brutality reached a crescendo when four farmers and a journalist returning from a protest were crushed under the wheels of a Thar jeep belonging to Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. The jeep hit the farmers from behind and ploughed through them. The minister’s son Ashis Mishra, alleged to have been in the vehicle, was arrested after six days. Teni, who had earlier publicly warned the farmers he would fix them in two minutes, remains Modi’s minister of state for home. The government did not condemn the murders, choosing silence till finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman was confronted with questions on a visit to the US on Tuesday. Ten days after the crime, Sitharaman acknowledged it was “absolutely condemnable”. Varun has been publicly supporting the farmers’ movement since the Muzaffarnagar mahapanchayat of the protesters last month. He had tweeted that the lakhs of farmers who had gathered were “our own flesh and blood” and stressed the need for “understanding their pain”. The MP has sought justice for those killed in Lakhimpur Kheri. “The video is crystal clear. Protesters cannot be silenced through murder...,” Varun had tweeted, sharing a video of the farmers being run over by the Thar jeep and saying “justice must be delivered”. Soon after, the BJP dropped Varun and his mother Maneka Gandhi, also an MP, from the party’s national executive committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
15-10-2021||India||India silent on Bhutan-China MoU on boundary settlement||India on Thursday sidestepped questions on whether Bhutan had informed New Delhi about its decision to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with China for a three-step road map to expedite a boundary settlement between the two countries, including at Doklam — the site of the face-off between Indian and Chinese armies in 2017. The Bhutanese foreign ministry had earlier in the day announced the signing of the MoU to provide a “fresh impetus to the boundary talks” that have been going on since 1984. The process had got stalled after the Doklam face-off. In April this year, an expert group met for the first time since the Doklam incident and agreed to sign the MoU. According to the Bhutanese foreign ministry, the negotiations have been guided by the 1988 Joint Communiqué on the Guiding Principles for the Settlement of the Boundary and the 1998 Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace, Tranquillity and Status Quo in the Bhutan-China Border Areas. Asked  about the announcement, Indian external affairs ministry spokesman Arindam Bagchi said: “We have noted the signing of the MoU. You are aware that they have been holding boundary negotiations since 1984.” He did not respond to questions on whether Bhutan had informed India about the decision, whether New Delhi considered this a major development and if it was concerned that the boundary agreement could result in China controlling Doklam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
15-10-2021||India||Tuberculosis killed 504,000 people in India in 2020: WHO||Tuberculosis killed 504,000 people in India in 2020, a 13 per cent increase over the previous year, the World Health Organisation said in a report released on Thursday, flagging a global reversal of progress on TB. India accounted for about 34 per cent of the estimated global 1.5 million tuberculosis deaths in 2020, the health agency said in its annual global TB report that has outlined how Covid-19 disrupted access to TB services in countries around the world. “This report confirms our fears that the disruption of essential health services due to the pandemic could start to unravel years of progress against tuberculosis,” WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in a statement. The number of people expected to develop and die from TB during 2021 and 2022 is expected to be even higher, the WHO said, citing model-based forecasts of how disruptions in diagnostic and treatment services in 2020 could impact future counts. Twelve countries accounted for 93 per cent of the global reduction in registered TB cases between 2019 and 2020 with India making up 41 per cent of the global drop in notifications followed by Indonesia (14 per cent), the Philippines (12 per cent) and China (8 per cent). The WHO report said the number of people worldwide treated for drug-resistant TB fell by 15 per cent from 177,000 in 2019 to 150,000 in 2020, or equivalent to only one in three of those in need of treatment. In India, 42,505 drug-resistant TB patients were started on treatment during 2020, although it is estimated that around 124,000 patients were diagnosed as drug-resistant in the country during 2019. Health experts say the difference between those numbers — the estimated drug-resistant patients diagnosed in 2019 and those who actually received treatment in 2020 — exposes the gaps in treatment services available to patients in India. The WHO report calls on countries to put in place urgent measures to restore access to essential TB services, double investments in research and innovation and address social and economic factors that influence tuberculosis and its consequences. Lucica Ditiu, executive director of Stop TB Partnership, an international organisation, said: “The Covid-19 pandemic combined with low political will and appallingly low levels of funding have reversed hard-fought gains in the fight against this age-old disease.” “People are dying because we are failing to empower and support them and failing to ensure they have access to preventive therapy, diagnosis tools and treatments they need,” she said in a statement. “We are running out of time… we need speed, money, commitment today if we want to make a dent in the TB epidemic.” An already under-funded TB response saw a dramatic fall in domestic funding across low- and middle-income countries during 2020 with less than half of the global target of $13 billion annual funding by 2022 available, Stop TB Partnership said in a statement. Pulmonary medicine specialists in India have cautioned over the past year that Covid-19 is likely to derail India’s efforts to eliminate TB by 2025. The TB elimination target seeks to reduce India’s tuberculosis deaths from 32 per 100,000 people in 2015 to below 3 by 2025.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
15-10-2021||India||CBSE exams for Class X and Class XII to be held offline in two parts||The CBSE exams for Class X and Class XII will be held offline in two parts this term because of the pandemic, with the first in November-December 2021 and the second in March-April 2022. The date sheet for the major papers will be announced on October 18, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said on Thursday. The exams will start at 11.30am instead of the usual 10.30am in view of the winter and the duration of each test will be 90 minutes. The first-term exams will have only multiple-choice questions and the results will be declared. The format of the second-term exams will be decided on the basis of the pandemic situation. The final results will be the combination of the marks received over both terms. “After the conduct of the term-1 exams, the results in the form of the marks scored will be declared. No student will be placed in the pass, compartment or essential repeat categories after the first term. The final results will be announced after the first- and second-term examinations,” CBSE examination controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said. “Practical exams or internal assessment will be completed in schools before the first-term exams are over. The marks allotted will be 50 per cent of the total and mentioned in the syllabus. The schools will be informed separately about the full scheme so that they can make the necessary preparations,” he added. To conduct the exams smoothly, the subjects have been segregated into major and minor categories. For the minor papers, mostly regional languages, the exams will be held by clubbing schools offering common subjects so that the exam duration can be shortened by covering multiple subjects in a day. These exams will be held before those on the major papers. The CBSE offers 114 subjects in Class XII and 75 subjects in Class X. There are nine major subjects in Class X and 19 in Class XII. “The CBSE has to conduct the examinations for a total of 189 subjects. If tests are conducted for all the subjects, the entire duration of the exams will be 40-45 days. Therefore, to avoid learning loss of students, the CBSE has decided that the subjects offered by it will be divided into two parts — major subjects and minor subjects,” Bhardwaj said. “As the major subjects are offered by almost all the affiliated schools, the exams for these will be conducted by fixing a date sheet, as done earlier. Regarding the minor subjects, the CBSE will make groups of schools offering these subjects and thus, more than one paper would be conducted by the board in the schools on a day,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
15-10-2021||India||Schools told to own responsibility for self-prescribed textbooks||Schools prescribing textbooks not recommended by the government or the examination boards should publicly declare that the contents do not promote discrimination based on caste, class, religion, gender, ethnicity or language. The education ministry has issued “Guidelines on School Safety and Security” covering various aspects of the curriculum. According to the guidelines issued on October 1, the schools should thoroughly scrutinise the textbooks that are not prescribed by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) or the state councils of educational research and training (SCERTs) or the exam boards. The new guidelines, applicable for both private and government schools, have been circulated among states for implementation. The schools must upload a written declaration on their websites, jointly signed by the manager and the principal in case of private schools and by the principal or the school head in case of government institutions, “to the effect that the school owns the responsibility of having thoroughly checked and having gone through the contents of the books prescribed by the school”. The schools must ensure that the books prescribed by them do not promote any kind of discrimination based on caste, class, religion, gender, ethnicity or language. The schools must also see to it that the textbooks prescribed by them promote sensitivity towards environmental protection, gender parity, inclusion and ethical behaviour, according to the education ministry. The books should promote healthy habits of eating, cleanliness and sanitation, reading, working together, helping each other and collaborating instead of indulging competition, the guidelines say. Prof. Anup Kumar Rajput, a faculty member of the NCERT, said many schools, particularly private, prescribe books of private publishers. “Very often we get complaints about objectionable content in certain books. These books are mainly brought out by private publishers. If the new guidelines are followed, the problem with respect to content will be addressed,” Rajput said. He said there was no official agency to certify standards with respect to educational content for schools, like the ISI for industrial products or the FSSAI for food items. “There is a need for an agency to examine the books as per national standards. Some agency should examine and certify educational instruction materials, including textbooks, videos and audios, before they are prescribed to students,” Rajput said. A teacher of a private school in New Delhi said private schools often receive money from private publishers to prescribe their textbooks. “Some principals do deal with publishers for prescribing their books in exchange for some benefits. Sometimes, schools have an open policy on allowing books for benefits,” the teacher said, preferring anonymity. The education ministry guidelines say the school timetables should have ample time for dialogue, reflection and discussion on school safety, on-road safety, healthy and nutritious food and adolescence issues. Time should also be allotted for training and drills on disaster management. Classroom learning should take place in an environment where no student feels that he or she is not respected by the teacher or peers on the grounds of language, socio-economic background, caste, creed, gender or abilities, the guidelines say. As online classes have become the new normal due to the pandemic, the guidelines have cautioned against cyber bullying. Schools should guide students on dos and don’ts and the consequences of engaging in cyber bullying and violence, according to the education ministry. Each school should set up a safety committee comprising the principal or headmaster, student safety officer, and representatives of teachers, other staff members, parents, students and alumni. The committees will be expected to undertake an inspection of the entire school premises once every quarter to ensure compliance with standard safety measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
15-10-2021||India||Hindutva groups in north India accused of forcing meat shops to shut during Navratri||Hindutva groups in parts of north India have been accused of forcing meat sellers to shut shop during Navratri, leaving the mostly impoverished traders with no source of income for nine days and too fearful of seeking redress in a communally charged atmosphere. Many Hindus in the north abstain from non-vegetarian food during Navratri, which reduces demand for meat. But growing activism of Hindutva groups has led to the closure of meat shops, including those selling chicken, in several Hindi-speaking states every Navratri over the past decade or so. There have been videos this year on social media of meat shops being picketed and sellers bullied. In the National Capital Region, incidents of mob-led closure of shops have been reported from Haryana’s Gurgaon, Faridabad and Palwal, and Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar (Noida), Meerut and Sikandrabad. Groups such as Gurgaon’s Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, factions of the Bajrang Dal, the Delhi-based Hindu Sena, the Hindu Mahasabha and the Hindu Jagran Manch have petitioned district administrations in the region to order the closure of shops and restaurants selling meat, poultry and fish during Navratri. In Sikandrabad, the police have ordered shops to close during the nine-day festivities. In most cases, sellers have preferred to shut shop rather than file FIRs. Although no large-scale protests against non-vegetarian food have taken place in Delhi this year, meat sellers say they have been forced to close in parts of North and East Delhi. Arshad Habib Qureshi, president of the Delhi Meat Merchants Association (DMMA), told The Telegraph: “Many people don’t eat meat during this time and some shops close for a few days. But even those who want to eat meat are unable to do so because many sellers are forced to shut by some groups and local residents, particularly over the last decade. Most sellers lead a hand-to-mouth existence and can’t afford to close for nine days. It affects our right to livelihood as well as the freedom of people to eat what they want. We want the government to take responsibility and initiate action.” The DMMA represents the bulk of the approximately 6,000 meat sellers who have licences from any of Delhi’s five municipal bodies — three run by the BJP and two controlled by the Centre where the BJP is in power. Qureshi said they had not complained to the police but were meeting municipal officials in areas where they face harassment. “When there is communal tension, it is better to keep quiet and try to build better relations. That is the only way one can do business, especially in residential areas. Forced closure despite us complying with licence conditions is wrong,” he said. Vegetarian activism in the name of Hinduism is not new to Delhi. In 1970, the Delhi Meat Control Bill of the Jan Sangh-led Delhi Municipal Council had sought to criminalise the slaughter, sale and consumption of buffalo meat during 70 Hindu festivals a year, said Nazima Parveen, the author of Contested Homelands: Politics of Space and Identity. She explained: “Since the late 90s, (BJP MP) Maneka Gandhi’s NGO (People For Animals) has been stopping transporters for alleged violations of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. The seized animals are held by the police and released only if the seller or transporter is acquitted and pays a fee for maintenance of the animals during that time. Very often, the owners don’t claim the animals as they can’t afford to pay. While this has nothing to do with Hindutva, vigilante groups have exploited this to claim the victory of Hindus over Muslims.” Online retail has filled the supply gap. Mathew Joseph, chief operating officer of FreshToHome, a Bangalore-based online retailer of meat, poultry and seafood, said: “We do see a slight dip in sales during Navratri in north India. But since many of our customers are Malayalis spread across India, this does not affect us very much. When we started in 2015, some of our delivery people did face trouble during this time, but for the last two years they have not had any problems.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
15-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Ashis Mishra and lawyers at crime site||The Uttar Pradesh police special task force on Thursday took Ashis “Monu” Mishra, the son of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni, and his three associates to Tikunia village in Lakhimpur Kheri district to recreate the scene of the massacre of farmers on October 3. According to eyewitnesses, Ashis was in a Mahindra Thar jeep belonging to his father when it mowed down the farmers. The Thar was leading the convoy that crushed to death four farmers and one journalist, hitting them from behind and ploughing through them as they were walking back after a protest. Ashis denies he was at the spot. Ashis’s three associates who were taken to the crime scene were Shekhar Bharati, Ankit Das and Mohammad Latif. Ankit, an aide of Ashis, Ankit’s driver Shekhar and personal security guard Latif were allegedly in a Toyota Fortuner that was tailing the Thar. A farmer who was present at Tikunia when the SIT reached with Ashis and the other accused on Thursday told The Telegraph: “The SIT had brought three effigies made of straw and covered in black cloth to denote some of the farmers whom the Thar allegedly crushed under its wheels. A police jeep was used to denote the Thar while two SUVs were used to represent the Fortuner and a Scorpio.” A policeman was quoted as telling a journalist after the SIT left the spot: “The recreation of the crime scene was conducted from noon to 4pm. Upendra Agrawal, the DIG of the SIT, led a team of over a dozen officers.” “What was interesting was the presence of five lawyers representing Monu along with the SIT. It was difficult to figure out who were SIT members and who were lawyers,” the officer added. The court while granting the SIT custody of Ashis had said his lawyers could be present only at a distance. DIG Agrawal refused comment when journalists asked why Ashis’s lawyers continued to be among the SIT officers when the crime scene was being reconstructed at the Tikunia curve. Awadesh Singh, a counsel for Ashis who was present at the spot during the crime scene reconstruction, said the exercise was conducted to “find out the truth”. “We were there and found that the SIT was doing its job honestly,” Singh said. The police officer said a forensic team measured the distance between the point where the Thar mowed down the farmers and where it stopped before its occupants tried to flee. From there the SIT took the four accused to a petrol pump half a kilometre away in the direction of Banvirpur, Teni’s village. The forensics team measured the distance with the help of a tape. There have been reports that the Scorpio had refuelled at the pump after the farmers were run over. “Then the SIT took all four to the wrestling ground at Banvirpur and asked each of them about details of the tournament they claim they were attending at the time the vehicles crushed the farmers,” a local journalist said. The farmers had gathered at Tikunia to protest threats issued by Teni, the Union minister of state for home, to those opposing the Narendra Modi government’s controversial farm laws. Teni had from a public stage warned the farmers that he would fix them in two minutes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
15-10-2021||India||Congress raises finger at Amarinder over extension of BSF jurisdiction||Congress leaders on Thursday attacked former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh for supporting the BJP-led NDA government’s alleged designs to encroach upon the state’s powers a day after his successor Charanjit Singh Channi condemned the decision to unilaterally extend the areas over which the Border Security Force has jurisdiction. Punjab cabinet minister Pargat Singh suspected Amarinder’s hand in the Centre’s move, saying: “What is Captain sahib trying to prove? I always said he is with the BJP. Earlier, when he went to Delhi and met Union home minister Amit Shah, paddy procurement was delayed by 10 days and now when he has gone to Delhi again, BSF’s jurisdiction has been increased.” Channi, who has firmly criticised the Centre’s decision, met his predecessor along with his family for a courtesy call on Thursday, but didn’t comment on the BSF order. On the other hand, Pargat said: “Captain sahib, please do not do this. We respect you a lot. But do not go down this road. Do not get all this done after mixing up with the BJP. The saffron party should also understand that they cannot let Punjab become a disturbed state. It seems they want to impose governor’s rule in the state. I want to tell them that we will not allow the BJP to be successful in its designs.” He continued: “The Government of India’s decision on the BSF is akin to taking over half of Punjab. It is a sample of the BJP’s polarisation policy. I want to remind them that Punjab follows Guru Nanak Dev’s ideology and teachings. The BJP wants to divide people on communal lines but Punjab has never fallen prey to such designs of rulers.” Interestingly, Lok Sabha MP Manish Tewari, who is considered close to Amarinder, tweeted: “MHA (ministry of home affairs) notification enhancing operational mandate of BSF, 15 to 50km in Punjab, West Bengal & Assam transgresses upon Constitutional Public order & Policing remit of States. Half of Punjab will now fall under BSF jurisdiction. Charanjit Singh Channi must oppose it.” Former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar also launched a veiled attack on Amarinder in a series of tweets: “We are proud of our security forces which are meant to secure our borders and protect India from foreign aggressors. Using them to cover up the failures & to clean up the mess created by leaders and governments is very alarming. It not only denigrates our brave forces but also adversely affects their morale, discipline & preparedness. It’s this use of our forces as political tool which should be avoided. No one knows it better than Amarinder Singh.” Amarinder had on Wednesday supported the central government’s decision saying: “Our soldiers are being killed in Kashmir. We’re seeing more & more weapons & drugs being pushed by Pak-backed terrorists into Punjab. BSF’s enhanced presence & powers will only make us stronger. Let’s not drag central armed forces into politics. Partisan considerations can’t & shouldn’t dictate our stand on issues of national security. I’d said that at the time of the 2016 surgical strikes & am saying it again. We’ve to rise above politics when India’s security is at stake, as it is now.” Channi had on Wednesday asked Shah to review the decision. Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa also attacked the Centre, saying that the reasons to unilaterally change the existing arrangements by the Government of India with regards to the BSF cannot be justified. He alleged that the decision had been taken to weaken the state government and the spirit of federalism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
15-10-2021||India||Ambassador of Japan inaugurates Japanese language Centre at KIIT||Ambassador of Japan to India, Satoshi Suzuki, on Thursday inaugurated a centre for Japanese language, Centre of Excellence, Internship and the Mitsubishi Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Programme for Sports at the Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology here. This will be a one-of-its-kind facility in Odisha, officials said. The Japanese language centre will promote understanding and appreciation of Japanese language and culture, particularly among students, and contribute to further strengthen people-to-people ties between the two countries, KIIT officials said. Under the internship arrangements, Mitsubishi Group, a 150-year-old multinational company, will accept meritorious KIIT students, who have achieved a certain level of proficiency in Japanese language, as interns. The Mitsubishi Group will also extend support to KISS (Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences) students as part of its CSR activities. “The initiative of the embassy of Japan, Mitsubishi Group of Companies, KIIT and KISS will provide a new impetus to the people-to-people exchanges between Japan and India, as the two countries are set to celebrate the start of the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations,” said Achyuta Samanta, founder, KIIT and KISS. Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, Yoji Taguchi, chairman and managing director, Mitsubishi Corporation India Private Ltd, and Shusuke Suto, managing director, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries India Private Ltd, were present. Senior officials of the Japanese embassy, ministry of external affairs and Mitsubishi Group, Prof. Hrusikesh Mohanty, vice-chancellor, KIIT deemed to be university, pro-VC Sasmita Samanta, Jnyana Ranjan Mohanty, registrar, KIIT, and others attended the inaugural ceremony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
15-10-2021||West Bengal||After two years, Hindu and Muslim families celebrate Puja together||After a two-year gap, some 300 Hindu and Muslim families have come together in Mominpara of Barrackpore’s Jagaddal to celebrate the golden jubilee year of the local Sri Durga Sati Sangha puja. This puja is special for them, because they were able to bridge the rift following communal unrest fomented in the area by alleged outsiders, in the wake of the victory of  BJP’s Arjun Singh in the Lok Sabha polls of 2019. Residents of Mominpara, in ward 17 of Bhatpara Municipality, which is Singh’s backyard, have unanimously chosen private tutor Birju Prasad Lal, 47, as the president of the puja committee, and mechanic Mohammed Raja Ansari, 28, as its secretary. “Hindus and Muslims have been living for ages here in harmony and peace. There was never any suspicion in either against the other. People here, for decades, have jointly organised Durga Puja and the Tazia of Muharram,” said Ansari. “Unfortunately, this pluralist ethos was disrupted two years ago when some outsiders attacked the area with vested political interests, which rendered many from both communities homeless. Many people had to flee the area in fear. But people gradually understood that their neighbours were not their enemies,” he added. Bhatpara of Jagaddal, under the Barrackpore Lok Sabha seat, comprises pockets such as Kankinara, Titagarh, Kanchrapara, Garulia, Bijpur, and Amdanga, which had been volatile since May 23 of 2019, when the results of the general election came out. At least seven lives were lost in a violent turf war between Trinamul and BJP, allegedly energised by MP Singh. Puja committee president Lal said people have learnt to trust again. “People have understood that politicians had vested interests in keeping the Hindus and Muslims divided. It took some time, but the initial mistrust that marred the puja and Id celebrations of the past two years is now a thing of the past. Last year, Covid-19 was also a major factor (behind the muted celebrations),” said Lal. “Hence, people in the area, irrespective of faith, wanted to make this Durga Puja memorable while adhering to Covid-19 protocols.” On Thursday, Ansari was seen beating the dhaak while Lal was ringing the ceremonial bell, as members of both communities were busy preparing for Mahanavami rituals. Around 1,500 people who live in the area are mostly daily wage earners. A large part of the population works in the jute mills of the area, some of which have suspended work. Many people of the area also work as construction workers and small-time traders. All have suffered serious losses in the pandemic. “We had big plans for the celebrations this year. But, the economic impact of Covid-19 forced us to rationalise costs. People here do not have much spare money. So we had to scale down the celebrations with whatever small donations that people could give,” said Ansari. However, despite the modest pandal, people are happy, said Lal. “For all of us, this is more of a reunion. Residents have vowed against getting influenced by others and are firm about resisting divisive attempts in the future,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
15-10-2021||West Bengal||Hope of CT scan machine for Darjeeling||Tourist hotspot Darjeeling will finally have a CT scan machine. Sources said the state government has floated a tender to select a private partner for the establishment, operation, maintenance and management of a 16-slice CT scan machine at the Darjeeling District Hospital under public-private partnership (PPP) mode. The date of opening of the technical bid has been scheduled for December 2, 2021. During the first and second wave of the pandemic, Covid-19 patients in Darjeeling earlier had no access to a CT scan facility, which is one of the basic diagnostic tools for the treatment of the infection. “A CT (computerised tomography) scan is the main diagnostic tool to see the severity of infection in the lungs but unfortunately we don’t have a CT scan facility in Darjeeling,” a doctor had said during the peak of the second wave. Not just the district hospital but even the three private hospitals in Darjeeling town do not have a CT scan machine, forcing residents of Darjeeling town and adjoining areas to travel to Siliguri for tests and further treatment. In May this year, Ajit Kumar Agarwala, a tea garden owner, had proposed to donate a CT scan machine to the Darjeeling district hospital at an approximate price of Rs 1.1 crore. But the government did not take his proposal up. Amar Singh Rai, the chairman of Rogi Kalyan Samiti, Darjeeling District Hospital, had also flagged the lack of a CT scan machine and the problems faced by patients with chief minister Mamata Banerjee earlier this year. “The CT scan machine in Darjeeling and a digital X-ray machine were approved in 2019 and the civil work and electrical work for the installation of the CT scan machine have been completed at the Darjeeling District Hospital,” Rai, former Darjeeling MLA and former civic chairman, had written to Mamata. Earlier this year, Covid-19 patients at the Darjeeling District Hospital initially had no access to X-rays and ventilators as well. Subsequently, the X-ray and ventilator issues were resolved by the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
15-10-2021||West Bengal||Durga Puja: Musical fundraiser for tribal kids’ clothes||A group of six students, including three school-goers, visited Sonajhurir Haat over five weekends to collect donations from tourists by entertaining them with their music, in order to celebrate a different Durga Puja this year. The students raised around Rs 20,000 to give puja clothes to 78 children of two tribal hamlets of Santiniketan, Diganta Pally and Fuldanga. Sonajhurir Haat, also known as Shonibareyr (Saturday’s) Haat, is a rural market in Santiniketan where around a hundred local artisans sell their produce, and is deemed a must-visit spot for tourists. Although the footfall has declined considerably since the Covid-19 outbreak, the rural market remains fairly crowded on weekends. “During our musical adda on the outskirts of Santiniketan, we saw a lot of children who would have otherwise had no new clothes during Durga Puja because their parents are unemployed right now. So we chalked out this plan to perform for tourists to raise funds,” said Suranjana Das, a team member who is a third-year undergraduate student of rural studies in Visva-Bharati. Her classmate Shreya Banerjee, second-year student of masters in Burdwan University Suparna Paddhan, Class XII student Aishi Ray and Class XI students Bhaswati Bhandari and Pousham Chakraborty are the other teammates, Suranjana said. The youngsters said they initially tried to pool in their own money, but saw that they couldn’t manage enough to buy gifts for more than five children. They tried asking people they knew for funds, but without much success. “Then we thought that because we can sing or strum the guitar well, we could move to Sonajhurir Haat to target tourists for funds. We received a fabulous response. People were generous. We are happy that our gifts will put a smile on the faces of 78 children,” said Suranjana. Aishi was the only member of the group with past experience of raising funds and had provided dry food to the needy during the lockdown last year with her friends. “It is not easy to sing or play an instrument in the open for hours (to raise funds). But we plan to continue it in future,” said Aishi. The group purchased clothes for 78 children from Diganta Pally and Phooldanga after taking details such as their size and age. They distributed the clothes among the children, aged between three and 13, over three days before Durga Puja. Rabin Soren, secretary of Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta, a tribal outfit in Birbhum district, praised the group. “All six are very young, but they did a great job.... It is really heartening to see students coming forward to help the children.” Tanushree Banerjee, a state government employee from Calcutta who visited Santiniketan in the first weekend of October, had seen the performance of the six students. “It was really nice to see a set of young girls and a boy put up a performance to raise funds for poor kids.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
15-10-2021||West Bengal||Husband, co-worker set on fire in Siliguri||A homemaker in a tea estate under Naxalbari block of Siliguri subdivision allegedly set her husband and his co-worker on fire on Wednesday evening, suspecting them of having an affair. Rupa Das, wife of Sudipta Das, the head clerk of Kiranchandra tea estate located some 20km from here, accosted Sujata Chik Baraik when the latter was on her way to office. While Rupa is in her late 30s, Sudipta is in his mid-40s and Sujata in her mid-30s. Rupa allegedly doused Sujata with petrol and set her on fire with a lighter. As Sujata started screaming, bystanders rushed to help her. Rupa managed to flee from the spot and reached her residential quarters where she allegedly locked her husband in a room and set him on fire. Tea workers and others took both the victims to the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital from where they were shifted to a private nursing home. Sujata is reportedly critical. Sujata’s family filed a complaint with Naxalbari police against Rupa. She was arrested on Thursday. “Preliminary probe reveals Rupa Das used to suspect her husband and his co-worker of an affair,” said a police officer. Colleagues of both Sudipta and Sujata, however, said Rupa’s suspicions were unfounded. “The woman resorted to such an act out of a baseless suspicion that left two families shattered,” said an employee of the garden. Fake shampoo A Siliguri Metropolitan Police team raided a hotel in Siliguri Junction area on Wednesday night to bust a fake shampoo-making racket. Eleven people, all residents of Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, have been arrested. Police said the group used to collect empty shampoo bottles and refill them with fake shampoo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
15-10-2021||West Bengal||530 more Covid infections  in Bengal||Bengal on Thursday reported 530 new Covid-19 infections, 601 recoveries and 10 deaths. The total number of active cases, or people being treated for Covid-19, fell by 81 to 7,576 on Mahanavami, the penultimate day of Durga Puja, Bengal’s biggest festival. The state had snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in its total of active cases on September 26. Since then, in the past 19 days, Bengal recorded a rise in its active cases for 12 days and a fall for six days. The state now has 3.76 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is sixth on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 102 new infections on Thursday and was the only one of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Nine more districts reported a single-digit figure of new infections on Thursday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Thursday. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas reported two deaths each. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.93 per cent on Thursday. As of now, the state’s recovery rate is 98.32 per cent, while the national rate is 98.04 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. “These are statistics of people who got infected around October 5 to 9. There were apprehensions of things going out of hand at that stage because of people’s general disregard for safety protocols. But figures now suggest otherwise,” said a minister. Bengal now has over 15.79 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 15.52 lakh recoveries and 18,945 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
15-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Tiny mirror||Numbers can tell a story. Consider the performance of India as well as that of Indian states on the gender parity index — a register conceived of by the Unesco — when it comes to access to Covid-19 inoculation. The good news is that the gender gap has almost disappeared in as many as 11 states of the country. This is no mean achievement. According to figures made available through CoWin, the national statistics site, between January and June this year, women had received 856 doses for every 1,000 men. This means that a certain degree of sensitization augmented by policy has helped get around embedded social and structural inequalities that were preventing Covid medicines from reaching equitably to men and women. India’s GPI score is 0.98, with Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Karnataka and West Bengal, among others, achieving the ideal ratio. But there is ground to be covered still. Maharashtra, Delhi and Goa continue to lag behind in terms of gender representativeness. This in spite of the fact that these regions have some of the higher scores on the human development index. Specialized interventions to close the chasm have not succeeded in some cases — Maharashtra being a case in point. Special drives to mobilize women for Covid vaccination have been in place in Maharashtra: yet, the gap in terms of numbers in that state is not insubstantial. While 4.78 crore shots have been administered to men, women have been given 4.06 crore jabs. Meanwhile, the other cracks that had been opened up in the course of the pandemic globally remain. Richer economies have vaccinated a larger number of people than poorer nations. Minority constituencies — sexual, ethnic or even religious groups — may not have received the necessary dosages to be adequately safe. This only goes to show that the legacy of Covid-19 is not limited to the realms of science and medicine. The virus has been the proverbial mirror, reflecting the fault lines of inequality and discrimination that continue to haunt human civilization.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
15-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Killing of civillians in Kashmir||In turmoil Sir — The killing of at least seven civilians in Kashmir is condemnable (“Blood returns”, Oct 11). It is unfortunate that a country like India, whose democratic set-up is a legacy, has been struggling to restore peace and harmony in the Valley. A number of those killed belong to minority communities in the region. The murder of a principal and a teacher at a government-run school in Srinagar evoked concerns over the safety of Sikhs and Kashmiri Pandits. It further conjured up widespread protests against The Resistance Front, a terror outfit which claimed responsibility for the incident. The Indian subcontinent has always been a safe abode for people from diverse regional, religious and linguistic backgrounds. Unfortunately, this long-nurtured tradition is gradually losing its glory owing to the emergence of religious fundamentalism and political megalomania. We must fight tooth and nail against this. Investigation must begin on a war footing to identify the culprits. The government must take steps to prevent the exodus of minority communities. Prabhakaran Vallath,Kozhikode, Kerala Sir — The economy of the Valley is already suffering. Many families are now trying to have their wards settled overseas. It is unfortunate that political leaders only pay lip service every time there are targeted killings of minority communities. A number of policemen and army men have also lost their lives fighting extremists. The Centre’s decision of abrogating Article 370 and bifurcating the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir should have resulted in improved efficiency in tackling separatist forces. The centuries-old legacy of harmonious life in the Valley must be restored and the lost paradise regained. Brij B. Goyal,Ludhiana Be safe Sir — It is welcome news that Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for children above two years of age has been approved by the expert panel for emergency use (“Covaxin approved for use in kids”, Oct 13). The fact that doses of Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D are also ready further inspires hope in people. As some states have reopened schools and many others are planning on doing the same, anxiety has been mounting among parents and teachers regarding the safety of children. Even though the severity of the infection has hitherto been low among the latter, immediate inoculation is required in order to avoid the risk of them becoming superspreaders once the institutions reopen. This could arrest the rise of a third wave. M. Pradyu,Kannur Sir — A vaccine for children has finally been approved. Although a subject expert committee has thoroughly studied the clinical data before making the decision, one cannot help but worry about how safe it would be. Even some adults are wary of taking the vaccine — many have succumbed to Covid even after having taken the vaccine. In fact, cases are still on the rise in Mumbai. Is the vaccine, then, truly effective? Melville X. D’Souza,Mumbai Sir — It is heartening that a Covid vaccine has been approved for children. But the coronavirus continues to pose an additional challenge to the government as India still has a long way to go in vaccinating the entire adult population with both doses. The pace of vaccination must be increased and more investments made in research. When it comes to the vaccination of children, the government as well as the pharmaceutical companies must share all relevant data and details to make parents feel safe. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — The approval of the vaccine for children is a timely intervention. This is because the third wave is being considered to be dangerous for children; all the more so, as they had until now been beyond the scope of vaccination. Now that the SEC has given its nod for emergency use authorization, states should gear up to inoculate children on a priority basis so that the moment the vaccine is available in the market, the process can begin. Vaccination drives should be held in all schools since they are highly prone to spreading infection. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam  Deep divide Sir — The real world has come to be threatened by the virtual one. Instagram — it had previously been accused of increasing the ‘fear of missing out’ among users — has now been found to make body-image issues worse for one in every three teenaged girls. It is common for social media to amplify one’s deepest insecurities. But, in reality, this is an illusion — most people tend to display only the highlights of their lives on social media. Posts from celebrity users and influencers raising awareness about this reality could help impressionable minds cope and feel inspired to unleash their own creativity on the platforms. Mohona Bhattacharya,Calcutta Parting shot Sir — Durga Puja has come to an end. It is common among families in Bengal to greet one another by means of an embrace or by smearing vermilion on each other. Difficult as it may be, we should avoid physical contact at all costs in order to prevent the spread of the pandemic. Care must also be taken that massive bisarjan processions are not held. This would set a positive example before the rest of the country. Shalini Gupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
15-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Harsh lessons||According to the 2021 State of the Education Report for India: No Teachers, No Class, 1.1 lakh schools in India have just one teacher. Even more worrying is the fact that the problem is especially acute in districts with high representations from scheduled castes and scheduled tribes and all across India’s Northeast, which is one of the nation’s underdeveloped regions. A total of 19 per cent or 11.16 lakh teaching positions in schools lie vacant in the country; 69 per cent of these are in rural areas. What must not be glossed over is the fact that a large number of these educators do not have permanent jobs: they are Shiksha Mitras or para teachers, who are usually qualified only to assist full-time teachers. Their job responsibilities are formidable, exposing the crisis in India’s primary education. In Shamli, Uttar Pradesh, for instance, one para teacher is responsible for 225 students at a government primary school. Even permanent teachers are at the mercy of governments — they are deputed to carry out census surveys, election duties and a plethora of non-teaching jobs, including cooking mid-day meals and administering polio drops. The Covid-19 pandemic has only aggravated their challenges. Teachers have also been tasked with distributing dry rations to students and carrying out compulsory election duties. In 2019, a survey of five states showed that teachers taught for only 19.1 per cent of their time; the rest was given to non-academic duties. The reported number of deaths of teachers from the virus is staggering. Yet, this beleaguered constituency has risen to the challenges time and again by coming up with innovative ways to impart education. From interactive classes held over WhatsApp to lessons recorded and broadcast on speakers, teachers have tried their best to include students who were not part of the government’s vision when it tried to push online education on ill-prepared schools at the margins. The advocacy for a total and uncritical immersion in online education by the government and the National Education Policy, rather than a nuanced use of digital resources by teaching staff, has deepened suspicions of a push towards the mechanization of education as well as an instrumental approach to learning. Significantly, the digital medium has also coincided with rising unemployment among teachers and tertiary staff. In Telangana last year, many teachers lost their jobs as private schools tied up with online learning platforms to deliver virtual classes to students. Clearly, the imperative is to cut costs. Reports also show political interference in recruiting teachers slowing down the process. In spite of the steep challenges faced by teachers and their remarkable ability to find a way around them, insensitive policy remains unwilling to view them beyond supplementary tools to learning outcomes. This attitude cannot bode well for India’s aspirations to become a knowledge economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
15-10-2021||Opinion||Novel case||Armenia and Azerbaijan were in the news in September 2020 on account of their territorial dispute in Nagorno-Karabakh. On September 16, 2021, Armenia instituted proceedings against Azerbaijan before the International Court of Justice for alleged violations of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. On September 23, in a copycat move, Azerbaijan approached the ICJ, accusing Armenia of CERD violations, requesting the ICJ to direct it to “immediately cease and desist” from endangering Azerbaijani lives by “planting of landmines in Azerbaijan’s territory”. Armenia and Azerbaijan have been fighting over Nagorno-Karabakh, which is controlled by Azerbaijan but is populated by people of Armenian ethnicity, since 1991. Nagorno-Karabakh is to Armenia what Crimea was to Russia with Azerbaijan in Ukraine’s shoes. Armenia’s application to the ICJ notes that the Azerbaijani president “routinely” uses derogatory language to brand ethnic Armenians as “bandits” and “barbarians”. The clash over Nagorno-Karabakh erupted with a musically choreographed threat of use of force — a first of its kind — with Azerbaijan’s army releasing a death metal music video touting its military might. According to Armenia, a stamp issued by Azerbaijan sought to ‘commemorate’ Baku’s violations of CERD by depicting a Nazi-style chemical ‘disinfecting’ Nagorno-Karabakh. Armenia announced full mobilization in response. António Guterres paid the customary lip service expected of a UN secretary-general. Meanwhile, Iran, which borders both Azerbaijan and Armenia, offered its good offices for peace talks. Turkey spoke in support of Azerbaijan. Russia, a traditional ally of Armenia, called for an immediate ceasefire. In 2008, the ICJ had found no jurisdiction when Georgia took Russia to the ICJ for CERD violations even as the court allowed provisional measures. Now Armenia has decided to invoke similar charges against Azerbaijan. In the Mavrommatis Concessions case, the Permanent Court of International Justice ruled a “dispute” to be “a disagreement on a point of law or fact, a conflict of legal views or of interests between two persons”. The ICJ’s advisory opinion in the Interpretation of Peace Treaties with Bulgaria, Hungary and Romania case defined a legal dispute in relation to a Convention as “a situation in which the two sides held clearly opposite views concerning the question of the performance or non-performance of certain treaty obligations”. The CERD is an international convention to which both Armenia and Azerbaijan are signatories. All “good-faith” efforts, Armenia claims, for putting an end to Azerbaijan’s violations of CERD have failed. Article 22 of CERD allows the ICJ’s jurisdiction for treaty parties. The Armenian application to the ICJ contends that “[f]or decades, Azerbaijan has subjected Armenians to racial discrimination” and “Armenians have been subjected to systemic discrimination, mass killings, torture” that are illegal under CERD. Armenia further alleges that the end of hostilities and the November 2020 ceasefire notwithstanding, Azerbaijan has continued to “engage in the murder, torture and other abuse” of Armenian prisoners of war. In a prayer to the ICJ, Armenia has demanded that Azerbaijan release all Armenian PoWs and refrain from “espousing hatred” of Armenian ethnicity by “closing or suspending the activities of the Military Trophies Park”. A cursory reading of CERD makes it obvious that Azerbaijan is in violation of Article 5, recognizing political rights, civil rights, and equality before courts as well as right of access to “restaurants, cafes, theatres and parks”. Armenia has also asked for reparations from Azerbaijan under Article 6 of CERD. With no legal basis for a ‘comprehensive settlement’ of the Nagorno-Karabakh dispute by international courts, Armenia lacks the military power or the appetite for actions that are illegal under the UN Charter. By championing people-centricity in an unsettled territorial dispute, Armenia is decentring an international law obsessed with territory and states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
15-10-2021||Opinion||A new era||We have entered the era of big data. This era, which is just beginning, will have a greater impact on our lives than the advent of the computer did. Giant technology firms have access to a vast amount of our personal data, with or without our consent. They leverage the data for commercial interests of their own. They can monitor and influence our behaviour and actions. Control is the key, and we are often unaware of this enormous power. Politicians across the world have always leveraged information about particular groups, or individuals of interest, through surveillance mechanisms. In the emerging world of big data, governments can potentially magnify their surveillance powers and control over citizens many times more if only they had access to the kind of data that tech firms have. Hence, we are witnessing a rising tension between big tech and big government about ownership and use of data. The speed at which data is generated is astonishingly fast. It is claimed that every two years, the world generates more data than it ever did in the past, giving us a clue about the magnitude of the explosive increase. In short, the digital is becoming political. Who wins this battle for data is yet to be fully understood, but politics will change forever. The Pegasus moment is just one small example of the things to come. The battle to own our bodies and our minds will become increasingly intense. In this context, it may be interesting to speculate on the kinds of change politics might experience. We must realize that the prevalent form of representative democracy the world has experienced over the past two centuries will not last forever. It is bound to change along with a changing world. We can discern the patterns already. The role played by Cambridge Analytica in the elections in the United States of America is not a one-off event. It is part of an emerging trend. It may not be uniform across the world, but there will be no running away from these changes. We are in the midst of a historic shift in the human condition, no less important than the discovery of agriculture or the emergence of industry. Only this time we have to learn to live with non-human, or partially human, machines. Let us examine a few common features of political life. To begin with, try to think about the possible concentration of power. New technologies have a well-defined code of what we can or cannot do with them. The limits are part of the architecture. Machines and the new body-sensors will know more about us than we do ourselves. What news we receive, what comes first when we search on the internet, the way facts are chosen and presented — all this controls and influences our perceptions about reality. The machines will begin by showing us what we want to see and hear. Ultimately, Big Brother will control what we see and hear. Our scrutiny by machines will increase manifold. If machines can, in the near future, pick up signals about our emotional reactions and feelings, then we will enter a Kafkaesque world of trials without ever knowing the cause. Power will be concentrated in the hands of the people behind the machines. The next aspect of politics to be affected would be democracy. Potentially, new technologies of communication can make democratic decision-making more transparent. More public reactions could be made part of the information on the basis of which a public-policy decision would be made. But people’s information would already be tainted by the subtle persuasive power of the machine. Moreover, on any matter of public debate, the robots will have far greater information and analytical reasoning power than any ordinary mortal. If we want decisions to be based on the best available information and analysis, then the question would inevitably arise as to whether the robots should be allowed to vote or not. It might also be the case that all robots may not arrive at exactly the same decision. Let us examine another aspect of politics which is vital for any society: freedom of thought, speech and action. This freedom can be potentially enhanced through technology. However, what is socially permitted and what are the limits of acceptable behaviour will be determined by technology too. Social freedom, to be distinguished from anarchy, must reflect some shared basic values. However, the individual under surveillance is constantly controlled and influenced. Hence the shared values would be dictated by machines. Dave Eggers, in his book, The Circle, describes a giant tech firm that is run by three unseen founders. The firm specializes in continuously getting clients to rate everything under the sun on its digital platform. The world sees the voting outcomes as the truth and they shape what is considered good or bad by a vast number of users. Values, like consensus and truth, are created notions. Finally, even issues of distributive justice can be decided by algorithms: the screening of candidates for a job, insurance awards, stock market trade, and sanction of bank loans. Machines can also be coded with built-in biases against a particular gender, race, or ethnicity. Courts could become less useful as the merits of a case might be perfectly analysed with available evidence and all prior case precedents. No single lawyer or judge could ever do this. Public policy could also be screened through data analytics algorithms to find out the best available option or whether a policy is feasible or not. These are just a few examples of possible changes. A couple of issues are worth considering at this stage. Big Data is Big Power. Whosoever owns it and knows how to control it rules the world. Old-time politicians will be worthless in this game. Old-time business tycoons will also become obsolete. The new social engineers will be the new software experts. Even the old software engineers will be redundant. The new breed will be super-intelligent persons, possibly many of them half-human and half-machine or even a full-fledged robot that learns on its own. On them the moral burden of defining ethical behaviour will lie. They will define consensus, truth, values, and actionable agendas for society. At the same time, a very large part of the global populace will become useless and unemployable. Their ability to survive will depend on this new breed of super intelligent beings. Yet, the digital will be the only avenue open to raise voices of dissent, revolt against a machine system that redefines culture and values, demand more freedom or justice. It would be the best way to organize and hold the system accountable. This will not be easy: dissent and protest never were. Anup Sinha is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
15-10-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma elephant shows sign of recovery from arthritis after receiving infrared ray treatment||A 52-year-old captive elephant at Dalma that was getting an infrared ray treatment in its legs for arthritis problems has begun to show signs of improvement. The captive pachyderm, Champa, is now able to move its limbs freely and is no more lethargic. Dalma divisional forest officer, Abhishek Kumar said that the elephant's condition has improved so much that it remains in the Dalma's greenery for long periods of time, grazing and munching on its favorite food. "Generally, an elephant's life span happens to be 60 years. After Champa was down with the arthritis syndrome, we had left all hope of its recovery. But now it is almost alright following application of infrared ray in its affected legs, " said the DFO while talking to The Telegraph Online. The DFO pointed out that the remarkable changes in the elephant's condition were observed after some Ayurvedic leaves were  given to it besides the infrared ray treatment. "The infrared ray was started treatment on the advice of a vet in Bhubaneswar-based zoological park, Nandan Kanan, since September-end. But we began to give the leaves of 'Giloy' plant a week after. Ever since Champa started consuming Giloy leaves which have medicinal properties, she started recovering faster," said the DFO, who is also a vet. He stated that they are in a dilemma to determine whether the infrared ray is working for the fast recovery of the elephant or the Giloy leaves. "We have, therefore, decided to continue to subject the ailing elephant to the infrared ray and providing the Giloy leaves until it is not fully recovered, " said the senior forest officer who is monitoring the pachyderm's health regularly. Champa is lodged at an enclosure in Makulakocha village in the foothills of Dalma along with another captive elephant Rajni. A three-member team of vets was treating the ailing elephant ever since it showed the arthritis syndrome a couple of months ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
15-10-2021||Jharkhand||Durga Puja concludes with immersion of idols||Five-day Durga Puja festivities came to an end on Friday with the immersion of idols passing off peacefully. Of the 350-odd immersions scheduled for the day, over 100 Durga idols were immersed in various river ghats till 4 pm. Apart from police, Rapid Action Force ( RPF) and personnel from the district unit of Civil Defence and  urban civic bodies were also deployed to monitor the immersions. Officials of Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti (JDPKS ), the apex body which monitors Puja in the steel city, were also present at the river ghats. " Immersion is taking place peacefully in all the designated river ghats. Elaborate security arrangements were put in place by the East Singhbhum district administration to ensure security and maintain peace during the immersion, " said Ram Babu Singh, the general secretary of JDPKS. Subernarekha Ghat at Sakchi witnesses the maximum number of immersions followed by Pandey Ghat at Bhuiyandih , Domuhani Ghat at Sonari, Kapali Ghat also in Sonari , Dimna Ghat at Mango, Bodhanwala Ghat at Bistupur , Sati Ghat at Kadma and Baroda Ghat at Bagbera. Before the immersions, women took part in the ‘Sindoor Khela’ ritual, smearing vermilion on each other in various Puja pandals in Sonari, Kadma, Sakchi, Bistupur, Telco and elsewhere. Women offered sweets and prayers to the goddess while the young swayed merrily to the rhythmic beats of the dhak (drums). People were seen exchanging greetings on the occasion of Vijaya Dashami. Dhalbhum sub-divisional officer (SDO) Sandeep Kumar Meena said the administration had mobilised magistrates and deployed police to escort the processions to ensure that immersions were completed at the earliest. He said they had deployed divers  for any emergency. District civil surgeon A. K. Lal  also deputed medical teams at major ghats. Watch towers manned by police and district administration were also constructed at  Sakchi and Subernarekha river ghat . Power supply in non-Tata Steel command areas like Mango, Jugsalai, Birsanagar, Baridih, Shastrinagar and Sonari areas was interrupted for the second consecutive year. Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited ( JBVNL) usually cuts power on the day of immersion from  1 pm till  late night  in view of the processions. This is done as a precautionary measure to prevent accidents because of overhead wires that fall on the immersion route. But, because of a five-feet  restriction on idol height, JBVNL decided to provide uninterrupted power supply on  immersion day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
15-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur urban body's Durga Puja awareness drive on river pollution and waste segregation||An urban body of Jamshedpur, which was ranked the best among cities in Jharkhand in the Centre’s cleanliness survey in 2020, has taken up the cudgels to spread awareness on river pollution and waste segregation during Durga Puja. The Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) — the local urban body overseeing execution for the Swachh Survekshan — has not only put up awareness posters at all the well-known pandals but has also dug pits along the riverbanks to prevent pollution during idol immersion. “We were ranked the best in Swachh Survekshan in Jharkhand and have to be a good example for other local urban bodies. Segregation of dry and wet waste continues to be a problem during doorstep garbage collection in residential areas. We decided to spread awareness about the problem during Durga Puja among residents. We also spread awareness among organisers and the public against pollution of waterbodies during idol immersion and sought support to our efforts in preventing river pollution,” said JNAC special officer Krishna Kumar. Among the big cities, only Jamshedpur salvaged the state’s reputation by being adjudged the best medium city (with a population of 3-10 lakh) in the citizen feedback category. Overall, Jamshedpur ranked 13th in the country in Swachh Survekshan 2020. “Our sanitation officers had been visiting all the Durga Puja committees in our command areas and educating them about the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directive on idol immersion and prevent river pollution. We have pasted posters at all major pandals (over 40), known to attract a large number of devotees, on the importance of segregating dry and wet waste and disposing of all puja paraphernalia in the specially dug pits along riverbanks and only immerse the idol in the river as per rituals,” said JNAC city manager Ravi Bharti. The urban body along with Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services (formerly Jusco, the utility arm of Tata Steel) have dug pits along all major ghats of the Kharkai and Subernarekha rivers. The Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) conducts water quality assessment of waterbodies before immersion and post-immersion following guidelines of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). “The wastewater collected from the designated temporary artificial ponds/tanks/pits during immersion after ensuring on-site pre-treatment shall be discharged into or public sewers leading to sewage treatment plants/common effluent treatment plants,” the CPCB directive states. “The CPCB forbids the usage of thermocol, plastic and plaster of Paris in idol making in its revised guidelines for idol immersion. However, most of the puja organisers do use it especially for decorations of idols. We have decided to take out all such prohibited items before the idols are immersed in the rivers and collect it in the pits dug up for this purpose. The items would be then disposed of in effluent treatment plants,” a JNAC official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
15-10-2021||Jharkhand||Union minister Pralhad Joshi visits Ranchi for coal review||Union coal and mines minister Pralhad Joshi visited Jharkhand on Thursday amid a power crisis in the country due to shortage of coal and a directive to increase coal production. Joshi landed in Ranchi at around 10.30am and travelled by road to inspect the Ashoka open cast mines of the Central Coalfields Limited (a subsidiary of Coal India Limited) in Piparwar area of Chatra district. In the evening, the minister reviewed the performances of CCL and Bharat Coking Coal Ltd (also a CIL subsidiary) at the CCL headquarters in Ranchi. “We are aware of the coal crisis. At the moment our mandate is to ensure that maximum coal is supplied to the power plants of the country. I would like to assure that no problem will come in the way of supply of coal to power plants,” Joshi said after the review meeting. Later in the evening, the minister tweeted: “Reviewed coal production and off-take of CCL Ranchi and BCCL officials. Coal companies are making all-out efforts to scale up production and dispatch. Motivated employees to rise to the occasion and give their best to assure coal supply as per demand.” Joshi added: “Visited Bachra Railway siding in the CCL Ranchi where a rake is being loaded for dispatching coal to thermal power stations. Emphasised on loading proper quality and quantity of coal onto the railway wagons.” The minister is also learnt to have told officials during his visit to the Ashoka open cast mines to load proper-sized coal on rakes. “Visited Ashoka OCP of CCL Ranchi. With a peak rated capacity of 20 MTPA, it is one of the larger coal projects in CCL. Interacted with on-ground team and motivated them to increase productions and off-take from the mine,” Joshi had tweeted in the afternoon. Joshi had on Wednesday reviewed the performance of South Eastern Coalfields Limited’s (SECL) Gerva mine (Asia’s largest open cast mine) in Chhattisgarh before his visit to Jharkhand on Thursday. The minister is tasked with helping the CIL deliver an additional 200,000 tonnes of coal every day through 60 rakes. While the CIL’s annual production target is 670MT for the current financial year, off-take (amount of coal supplied from pitheads) is expected to be 740MT. Joshi said in a tweet on Wednesday: “Happy to share that cumulative coal supplies to thermal power plants from all sources including @CoalIndiaHQ recorded more than 2 million tonnes yesterday...” Apart from a sharp spike in electricity demand, growth in the number of consumers, inadequate stocking by power projects before monsoon, and heavy rains in September also hit coal production and dispatch, according to officials. In addition, lower generation from other fuel sources and non-payment of coal dues also contributed towards inadequate supplies, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
