16-10-2021||Business||Home registrations jump in Calcutta by 2 times over stamp duty cut||Registration of residential properties in Calcutta metropolitan area jumped more than twofold to 15,160 units during July-September period mainly driven by stamp duty reduction by the state government, according to Knight Frank. Property consultant Knight Frank said that a total of 15,160 residential sales deeds were registered in Calcutta metropolitan area during July-September 2021, up 122 per cent from the corresponding period of last year. Registrations in July, August and September increased year-on-year by 39 per cent, 268 per cent and 80 per cent, respectively. As many as 7,316 units were registered in August 2021, the highest monthly sales this year. The Bengal government announced a 2 per cent rebate on stamp duty for registration of all documents (except the documents of amalgamation of contiguous land) in its state budget in July 2021. The stamp duty cut benefit is available for documents which complete registration between July 9, 2021 to October 30, 2021, the consultant said. The stamp duty cut coupled with a 10 per cent reduction in circle rates has brought fence sitters back to the market, it added. Swapan Dutta, Senior Branch Director, Calcutta , Knight Frank India, said the stimulant announced by the state government was critical for the growth of the market. "We expect this move will further propel fence sitters to make their purchase decisions," he added. In the first nine months of the calendar year of 2021, 35,149 residential sales deeds were registered, marking a 102 per cent annual increase over the same period in 2020. Commenting on the rise in housing demand, Emami Realty MD and CEO Nitesh Kumar said the reduction in stamp duty and circle rates have spur the registrations in Calcutta by 2-3 times compared to last year. "The demand for residential real estate has also risen owing to the pentup demand and lowest home loan interest rates in two decades. The affordability index has risen due to this," he said. "We have also seen a lot of demand from NRIs who were fence sitters and now taking active decisions for their future security," Kumar said. The Emami CEO hoped that the state government may extend the 31st October deadline, which would further improve the real estate sentiment in the state. "With the comfortable win in the recent elections and stable government, Bengal is now seen as a great investment destination which will further catalyse real estate scenario in the state," Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
16-10-2021||Business||IMF hails India's 'swift and substantial' response to Covid crisis||Describing the Indian government's response to the COVID-19 situation as "swift and substantial", the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has said the country continued with labour reforms and privatisation despite the pandemic. The IMF in its report based on "consultations" among members, however, sounded a note of caution saying that the economic outlook remains "clouded" due to pandemic-related uncertainties, contributing to both downside and upside risks. In its "Article IV" consultations report, it further said that a persistent negative impact of COVID-19 on investment and other growth drivers could prolong the economic recovery. On the Indian government's handling of the pandemic, the multilateral agency said it was "swift and substantial...has included fiscal support, including scaled-up support to vulnerable groups, monetary policy easing, liquidity provision, and accommodative financial sector and regulatory policies". "Despite the pandemic, the authorities have continued to introduce structural reforms, including labour reforms and a privatisation plan," the report said. The IMF has projected India's economic growth at 9.5 per cent in FY2021-22 and 8.5 per cent in 2022-23. Headline inflation is projected at 5.6 per cent in 2021-22, amid elevated price pressures. "The economic outlook remains clouded due to pandemic-related uncertainties contributing to both downside and upside risks. A persistent negative impact of COVID-19 on investment, human capital, and other growth drivers could prolong the recovery and impact medium-term growth," the IMF said. It further said that while India benefits from favourable demographics, disruption to access to education and training due to the pandemic could weigh on improvements in human capital. At the same time, the recovery could also be faster than expected, it said adding that faster vaccination and better therapeutics could help contain the spread and limit the impact of the pandemic. In addition, successful implementation of the announced wide-ranging structural reforms could increase India's growth potential, the IMF noted. Under Article IV of the IMF's Articles of Agreement, the IMF holds bilateral discussions with members, usually every year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
16-10-2021||Business||Recovery seen in office space absorption in 2022||Real estate pundits are factoring in a modest recovery in office space absorption in 2022 on the back of rapid pace of vaccination, gradual opening up of international travel and select corporates recalling their employees back to office. Net absorption of office space may go up to 26.8 million square foot (msf) in 2022, ICICI Securities in a recent note to its clients said, compared with 18.5 msf expected in this year. Net absorption of commercial real estate (office space) stood at about 20 msf in 2020, more than halved from the previous year as Covid-19 forced employees to work from home leading corporates to either defer planned leasing or scrap them altogether. As India continues to offer competitive rentals of about $1 per sq foot a month compared with other competing countries, the southern states, NCR and Pune where the hub of IT and ITeS companies are mostly located may see leasing activities pick up from January onwards. Key risk to the forecast would obviously be a possible third wave of Covid-19 in India and in the United States and European Union, which together account for two-third office absorption in India, the report added. There appears to be a broad consensus among pundits that 15-20 per cent of the workforce will always work from the office and 10-15 per cent of the employees permanently work from home. The balance 60-70 per cent of the workforce is expected to follow a hybrid model of working partly from home and partly from office. International real estate consultancy JLL concur with the view of gradual revival. “The office market has been progressive in Q3 2021 and this momentum is expected to continue in the coming quarters as the demand for office spaces will continue to expand backed by consolidation and expansion of office spaces by occupiers and increasing demand for satellite offices,” Radha Dhir, CEO and country head of JLL, said. JLL noted the markets of Bangalore, Delhi NCR and Hyderabad accounted for about nearly 60 per cent of the net absorption during the quarter. “Around 35 million sq ft of Grade A office space was completed in January-Sept 2021 which is a 53 per cent increase when compared with the same period last year. “The growth pace of new completions show that developers are confident of a strong revival in office leasing activity once business as usual is reinstated,” said Samantak Das, chief economist and head research and REIS, India, JLL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
16-10-2021||Business||US Senator Elizabeth Warren urges Amazon breakup||US Senator Elizabeth Warren called for breaking up Amazon.com Inc and Indian retailers demanded a government probe of the company after a Reuters investigation showed the e-commerce giant had copied products and rigged search results in India. The Reuters report, reviewing thousands of internal Amazon documents, found that the US company ran a systematic campaign of creating knockoffs and manipulating search results to boost its own private brands in India, one of the company’s largest growth markets. Wednesday’s report showed that, at least in India, manipulating search results to favour Amazon’s products, as well as copying other sellers’ goods, were part of a formal strategy at Amazon” and that at least two senior executives had reviewed it. The Reuters investigation drew bipartisan criticism of Amazon from US lawmakers. Warren, a long-time critic of Amazon, said “these documents show what we feared about Amazon’s monopoly powers” that the company is willing and able to rig its platform to benefit its bottom line while stifling small businesses and entrepreneurs.” Warren, a prominent Democrat, advocated the breakup of Amazon and other tech giants in 2019 when she was running for president. Since then, as a senator from Massachusetts, she has continued to apply pressure on companies like Amazon. Ken Buck, a Republican on the House of Representatives antitrust subcommittee, also shared the story on social media: “These documents prove Amazon engages in anticompetitive practices such as rigging search results and self-preferencing their own products over competitors.” Asked for comment on the reactions, Amazon issued a statement similar to one it provided for the Reuters investigation. “These allegations are incorrect and unsubstantiated,” it said. “We display search results based on relevance to the customers, irrespective of whether such products are private brands offered by sellers or not.” Amazon said it “strictly prohibits the use or sharing of non-public, seller-specific data with sellers, including with sellers of private brands,” and investigates reports of its employees acting contrary to that policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
16-10-2021||Business||Reliance Brands to pick 40% stake in Manish Malhotra's MM Styles||Reliance Brands Ltd (RBL) will pick a 40 per cent minority stake in renowned fashion designer Manish Malhotra’s MM Styles Pvt Ltd, for an undisclosed sum, the two companies said on Friday. This is the first external investment for the brand, which had so far been privately held by the designer. The strategic partnership is aimed at accelerating the 16-year-old couture house’s growth plans in India and across the globe, they said in a joint statement. “RBL has signed a definitive agreement to invest in founder and creative director Manish Malhotra’s eponymous brand for a 40 per cent minority stake,” it added. Commenting on the investment, Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd director Isha Ambani said, “Our strategic partnership with Manish Malhotra is anchored on our immense respect for his craft and our deep commitment to Indian art and culture. Being an entrepreneur, Manish, the man behind the brand, has always been nimble and ahead of his times.” She further said, “Recognition and appreciation for Indian couture is at an inflexion point globally and we are excited to partner in this journey with Manish.” Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd is the holding company of all retail companies in Reliance Industries Ltd group. “Launched in 2005, Manish Malhotra luxury-retail has four flagship stores in Mumbai, New Delhi, and Hyderabad, two shop-in-shop besides a virtual store. The brand's design language is brought to life by a team of 700 artisans and professionals, led by Malhotra himself,” the statement said. “The collaboration with Reliance Brands Ltd was a natural decision for me, as it represents both Reliance’s astute vision and the family's deep affinity for crafts and culture. As the brand aims for international expansion, business diversification, and renewed creative growth, there could have been no better strategic partner to accompany us on this journey,” Malhotra said. The coming together of the partners aims to develop a corporate framework that sustains Manish Malhotra’s legacy for generations to come. Besides physical retail expansion, the partnership will work on creating a strong technology backbone for the business, developing phygital and experiential ecommerce opportunities, the statement said. The brand will continue to be led by Manish Malhotra, managing and creative director, it added. Freshpik launch Reliance Retail on Thursday forayed into ultra-premium grocery segment in India with the launch of brand 'Freshpik', offering an exquisite range of food products sourced from select local and international destinations. Designed keeping in mind the refined tastes and delicate aesthetic sensibilities of food connoisseurs and well-travelled gourmands, the Freshpik store offers a melange of food products and beverages presented through a bevy of immersive shopping concepts, said a Reliance Retail statement. It has opened its first Freshpik experiential gourmet food superstore at Jio World Drive in Bandra-Kurla Complex, Mumbai, the retail arm of Reliance Industries Ltd added. The range of food items offered at Freshpik include staples, freshly picked fruits and vegetables – with specially curated exotic and organic varieties and live microgreens, apart from essential ingredients for international cuisines such as Italian, Thai, Japanese, Korean and a rich selection of finest breads, artisanal cheese, ice creams, frozen desserts and chocolates from local and international producers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
16-10-2021||Business||India to remain accommodative in its monetary policy: RBI governor||India, which is experiencing robust economic recovery which remains uneven across sectors, has decided to remain accommodative in its monetary policy, the Reserve Bank of India Governor told the international community on Thursday. India is witnessing a very robust economic recovery, but there is still unevenness across sectors, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said in his address to the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Video of the excerpts of his speech were posted and released by the IMF. “We have therefore decided to remain accommodative in our monetary policy, while being closely watchful of the evolving inflation scenario,” Das said in the short video.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
16-10-2021||Business||Nirmala, US treasury secretary discuss combating terror funding||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and her American counterpart Janet Yellen have discussed ways to enhance bilateral co-operation in fighting illicit finance, money laundering and terror financing and agreed on the importance of effective implementation of the FATF standards. The two dignitaries held a wide-ranging discussion to step up bilateral cooperation during the eighth India-USA Economic and Financial Partnership meeting held here on Thursday. The meeting reflected the growing importance of the US-India relationship and the increasing economic and financial ties between the two economies. The importance of fighting illicit finance and the need for continued cooperation in tackling money laundering and combating the terror funding was underpinned by Sitharaman and Yellen, the finance ministry said in a tweet, as the two countries issued a detailed joint statement after the meeting. “We continue to strengthen our cooperation in tackling money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism through increased information sharing and coordination,” said the joint statement. “Both sides agree on the importance of fighting financial crimes and on the effective implementation of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) standards to protect our financial systems from abuse,” it added. It assumes importance as the Paris-based global body against money laundering and terror financing in June retained Pakistan on its “grey list” for failing to check money laundering, leading to terror financing. The FATF asked Pakistan to investigate and prosecute UN-designated terrorists based in the country like Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) chief Masood Azhar and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) founder Hafiz Saeed and also asked Islamabad to work to address its strategically important deficiencies. During the first India-US Economic and Financial Partnership meeting since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, the two countries also agreed on further engagements on emerging financial sectors such as cross-border payments, payment systems and the development of an International Financial Services Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
16-10-2021||Business||Captive coal mines for power||In a move to boost coal stocks in power plants, the coal ministry on Friday said it has taken various measures including diverting the output from captive coal mines to augment fuel supply. “The ministry of coal has taken all efforts to augment coal supplies to the power sector and decided to divert and augment the supplies to the power sector from captive coal blocks,” the coal ministry said in a statement. Captive mines are those that produce coal or mineral for exclusive use by the company that owns the blocks. The ministry offered coal supply from NLC India's Talabira II & III mines in Odisha to NTPC. Both the companies worked together to commence the supply of coal from Talabira II & III open cast project (OCP) to NTPC (Darlipali & Lara Power Plants). With timely support and necessary coal delivery permits from the department of mines, Government of Odisha, the coal delivery to the Darlipali power station has commenced, within 24 hours from the directives from the Ministry of Coal. NLC India Limited, a navratna company under the administrative control of the Ministry of Coal, is operating Talabira II & III coal mines having annual capacity of 20 million tonnes in Odisha. Talabira II& III OCP has commenced production from the financial year 2020-21. State-owned NLC India this week said it is making efforts to ramp up coal output from one of its mines in Odisha to up to 10 million tonnes per annum this year. The company aims to increase coal production to up to 20 million tonnes (mt) per annum from next year onwards, according to a regulatory filing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
16-10-2021||Business||Coal bar spooks non-power players||The decision of Coal India to prioritise the supply of coal to power plants over non-power consumers has set alarm bells with the downstream paper and aluminium. Corrugated box manufacturers anticipate a further rise in kraft paper prices by paper mills with the industry already reeling under the impact of an increase in GST rates from 12 per cent to 18 per cent at the 45th GST Council meet in Lucknow last month. Members of industry body Federation of Corrugated Box Manufacturers of India said that the price of its principal raw material - kraft paper – has already increased by around Rs 5 per kilogram in the last one month and more in the northern  markets. This is primarily on account of a rise in raw material costs led by rise in prices of imported waste paper, increased price of starch and other raw materials at paper mills including coal and oil, freight and labour. “With coal supply being prioritised to power stations, it will create a shortage for paper mills where coal is a key raw material. We anticipate a further rise in prices of kraft paper,” said Milan Kumar Dey, president, Federation of Corrugated Box Manufacturers of India. Around 250 kgs of coal is estimated to be consumed to produce a ton of paper. “Corrugated boxes are a vital input without which no product can reach the end consumer. The industry caters to the demand of e-commerce packaging. Hence, the federation appeals to all the stakeholders including the government to take necessary steps to help this industry out of this crisis,” Dey said. Aluminium fears Aluminium plants in the country are grappling with critically low level of coal stocks and if the fuel supply is not restored immediately it would lead to irrevocable collateral damage, industry body AAI warned on Friday. The statement comes at a time the supply of coal by CIL to non-power sectors has been kept suspended temporarily amid electricity generating plants in the country facing fuel shortages. “Today also, aluminium industry has not received any relief with respect to the ongoing coal supply crisis. Indian aluminium plants are grappling with critically low levels of coal stock, with no recourse or alternative means to meet their power needs and keep the plants operational,” Aluminium Association of India (AAI) said. It further warned that if coal supply is not restored immediately, it would lead to an irrevocable collateral damage of these national assets. “Any power outage in aluminium plants will lead to catastrophic impact & complete shutdown which will take minimum 12 months of recovery, resulting in job loss of more than 8 lakh people. Banks will have debt exposure of over Rs 1 lakh crore and additional national forex loss of Rs 90,000 crore,” it warned it a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
16-10-2021||Business||Petrol, diesel prices rally to highest ever levels across India||Petrol and diesel prices on Friday rallied to their highest ever levels across the country, as fuel rates were hiked again by 35 paise a litre. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 105.14 a litre and Rs 111.09 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 101.78 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 93.87. This is the second straight day of 35 paise per litre increase in petrol and diesel prices. There was no change in rates on October 12 and 13. Since the ending of a three-week-long hiatus in rate revision in the last week of September, this is the 14th increase in petrol price and the 17th time that diesel rates have gone up. While petrol price in most of the country is already above Rs 100-a-litre mark, diesel rates have crossed that level in a dozen states, including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Kerala, Karnataka and Leh. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. Shedding the modest price change policy, state-owned fuel retailers have since October 6 started passing on the larger incidence of cost to consumers. This is because the international benchmark Brent crude is trading at $84.61 per barrel for the first time in seven years. A month back, Brent was trading at $73.51. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rates on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 5.25 per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 4.25. Before that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
16-10-2021||Business||Oil prices hit three-year high on back of supply deficit forecasts||Oil prices hit a fresh three-year high on Friday, climbing above $85 a barrel on forecasts of a supply deficit over the next few months as rocketing gas and coal prices stoke a switch to oil products. Brent crude futures were up 82 cents, or 0.98 per cent, at $84.82 a barrel at 1333 GMT. Front-month prices, which earlier touched their highest since October 2018 at $85.10, are set to climb for the sixth straight week, heading for a 3 per cent hike this week. US West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures rose 81 cents, or 1 per cent, to $82.12 a barrel. The contract is heading for a 3.5 per cent gain on the week, up for the eighth consecutive week. Strong stock markets on both sides of the Atlantic, often traced by oil prices, also gave a boost. Analysts pointed to a sharp drop in OECD oil stockpiles to their lowest level since 2015. Demand has picked up with the recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic, with a further boost coming from industry turning away from expensive gas and coal to fuel oil and diesel for power. “The fact that Asian markets are content to chase prices higher at weekly highs, instead of lurking on price dips, is a strong signal that energy demand remains robust,” OANDA senior analyst Jeffrey Halley said in a note. The International Energy Agency on Thursday said the energy crunch is expected to boost oil demand by 500,000 barrels per day (bpd). That would result in a supply gap of around 700,000 bpd through the end of this year, until the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and allies, together called Opec+, add more supply, as planned in January. “Record coal and gas prices as well as rolling blackouts are prompting the power sector and energy-intensive industries to turn to oil to keep the lights on and operations humming,” the IEA said in its monthly oil report. “Higher energy prices are also adding to inflationary pressures that, along with power outages, could lead to lower industrial activity and a slowdown in the economic recovery.” As a result, global oil demand next year is now projected to recover to pre-pandemic levels, the Paris-based agency said. It made upward revisions to its demand forecasts for this year by 170,000 bpd, or a total addition of 5.5 million for the year, and by 210,000 bpd in 2022, or a total addition of 3.3 million. An upsurge in demand in the past quarter led to the biggest draw on oil products stocks in eight years, it said, while storage levels in OECD countries were at their lowest since early 2015. Investors shrugged off a higher than expected gain in US crude stocks last week as refinery crude runs fell. Crude inventories rose by 6.1 million barrels in the week to Oct. 8 to 427 million barrels, compared with analysts’ expectations in a Reuters poll for a 702,000-barrel rise, the Energy Information Administration said on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
16-10-2021||India||China's aggressive posture, infiltrations by Pakistan resulted in 'deterioration' in J&K security: Cong||The Congress on Saturday said the aggressive posture of China and the unabated infiltrations by Pakistan have resulted in a "dramatic deterioration" in the security situation of Jammu & Kashmir.  In a resolution on the political situation in the country, the Congress Working Committee, the party's highest decision-making body, expressed alarm over what it said was "rapid deterioration" in the security of the country -- both external and internal.  "Nearly 18 months after the clashes in Ladakh in which 20 soldiers lost their lives, Chinese troops continue to be in occupation of Indian territory," the resolution said.  "Despite multiple rounds of talks, China has not vacated Indian territory, nor have we been able to recover our old positions," it claimed.  The CWC said the aggressive posture of China and the unabated infiltrations by Pakistan have resulted in a dramatic deterioration of the security of Jammu & Kashmir.  "After the change in regime in Afghanistan and the takeover by the Taliban, the situation is even graver, but the Government remains oblivious or in deep slumber," the resolution alleged.  Terrorist attacks have increased and both security forces and innocent citizens have lost their lives, it said.  "The administration of J&K, or whatever goes in the name of administration, is incompetent, paralysed and in a shambles. The way forward is restoration of full statehood and holding democratic elections," the Congress said.  It also stated that in other parts of the country, notably in Assam, Nagaland and Mizoram, there are growing threats to security.  "Inter-state disputes have flared up suddenly driving fear in the minds of the people living in the border villages. The Naga peace talks have suffered a serious setback due to the ham-handed approach of the Modi government," the party said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
16-10-2021||India||Bodies of two more soldiers recovered amid search operation, toll rises to 9||Two more soldiers, including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO), were killed as the massive search operation to track down terrorists continued for the sixth day in the forest areas of Jammu and Kashmir's twin border districts of Poonch and Rajouri on Saturday, officials said. With the latest killings, a total of nine Army personnel, including two JCOs, have laid down their lives in the ongoing counter-insurgency operation that began in Surankote forests of Poonch on Monday and later spread to nearby Thanamandi in Rajouri and Mendhar in Poonch. The officials said bodies of the JCO and the soldier were recovered near the scene of Thursday's gunfight with terrorists in the Nar Khas forest in Mendhar, taking the number of Army personnel killed in the operation to four. Riflemen Vikram Singh Negi and Yogambar Singh, both from Uttarakhand, were confirmed dead earlier. A defence spokesman identified the JCO as Ajay Singh and another soldier as Naik Harendra Singh and said they were part of search operations launched by the security forces to flush out terrorists hiding in the densely forested area on Thursday. After a fierce firefight with terrorists, the communication with the two soldiers was disrupted. Relentless operations continued to neutralise the terrorists and to reestablish communication with them, the spokesman said. Earlier on October 11, five Army personnel, including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO), were killed when terrorists attacked a search party in Poonch's Surankote forest. There was another exchange of fire between the Army's search parties and the fleeing terrorists in the adjoining Thanamandi forest in Rajouri the same day but the ultras managed their escape. The presence of terrorists in the forest area connecting Poonch and Rajouri was observed two and a half months ago and accordingly tactical operations were launched to track them down, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Rajouri-Poonch range, Vivek Gupta told reporters. He said the area is mountainous and the forest is dense, which makes the operation difficult and dangerous. The joint security grid was tracking different groups of terrorists but operations take time, depending on the topography of the area. The contact with the terrorists was established on three occasions this week, based on the intelligence inputs, the officer said. Gupta said the forest area is being sanitised and once the operation is complete, a clear picture will emerge. The terrorists are holed up and the joint forces are on the job to take the operation to the logical conclusion as per the Standard Operating Procedure, he said. However, he did not disclose the number of terrorists hiding in the forest area. We have the number and have formed our strategy accordingly. The officials said gunshots were heard intermittently throughout the day as the joint search parties of the Army and the police resumed the operation in Poonch's Mendhar area. They said the entire forest area from Mendhar to Thanamandi remains under a strict cordon and a massive search operation is on to neutralise the terrorists who are moving from one place to another in an attempt to escape the dragnet. The Army has already deployed para-commandos and a helicopter was also seen hovering over the forest area to keep surveillance, the officials said. They said the traffic between Mendhar and Thanamandi along the Jammu-Rajouri highway remained suspended for the second day in the wake of the ongoing operation. Rajouri and Poonch in the Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine terrorists in separate encounters. Earlier in the day, a defence spokesperson said the mortal remains of riflemen Negi and Singh were flown to Uttarakhand in a service aircraft Saturday morning after a wreath-laying ceremony. The aircraft will reach the Jolly Grant Airport in Dehradun by 11.30 am, he said. From the airport, the mortal remains of the soldiers will be taken to their hometowns by road and their last rites will be conducted with full military honours, the spokesman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
16-10-2021||India||Militants shoot dead two non-local civilians in Kashmir||Two non-locals were shot dead by militants in Srinagar and Pulwama districts of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, police said. Arvind Kumar Sah (30), a resident of the Banka area in Bihar, was shot at by the ultras outside a park at Eidgah in Srinagar in the evening, a police official said. He said Kumar died on the spot. In another incident, militants fired at and critically injured Saghir Ahmad, a carpenter hailing from Uttar Pradesh, in Pulwama district, the official said. Ahmad succumbed to injuries in a hospital, he added. The killings come on a day when police claimed to have gunned down three militants in a span of 24 hours who were involved in last week's killings of members of minority communities. The BJP has condemned Saturday's killings. Party spokesman Altaf Thakur said the killings of two non-locals is highly condemnable and shocking. He urged the police to nab the killers and punish them sternly. Former chief minister and national Conference leader Omar Abdullah also condemned the killings. "Strongly condemn the killing of street vendor Arvind Kumar in a terror attack in Srinagar today. This is yet another case of a civilian being targeted like this. All Arvind Kumar did was come to Srinagar in search of earning opportunities & it's reprehensible that he was murdered," Omar tweeted. People's Conference chairman Sajad Gani Lone termed the attacks as cowardly. "This is pure terror. Yet again a non-local vendor shot and killed in Idgah. What a shame. How cowardly can it get," Lone tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
16-10-2021||India||Congress: India not democratic, earned badge of electoral autocracy||The Congress on Saturday claimed that India is no longer regarded as a democracy and has earned the label of an "electoral autocracy", as it called upon all democratic parties to join hands in resolutely opposing the Modi government. In a resolution on the political situation in the country, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) said the "assault on democratic institutions completes the sad and shameless narrative of the Modi government". "India is no longer regarded as a democracy, it has earned the label of an electoral autocracy. Parliament has been contemptuously disregarded. The judiciary has been debilitated by not filling vacancies in courts and tribunals," the CWC said. The Congress alleged that independent watchdog bodies like the Information Commission, the Election Commission and the Human Rights Commission have been "debased and rendered virtual ciphers". The media has been threatened into meek submission through raids and false cases, it claimed. "Non-government organisations (NGOs) have been intimidated and their welfare activities have been halted. The government's agencies have been widely misused to suppress the voice of the people," the resolution alleged. In a reference to the Pegasus spyware controversy, the CWC said the government has "surreptitiously used malicious spyware" to intrude into the lives of the people. "Every aspect of democracy has been diminished. The Congress party will resist every sinister attempt to convert the country into a surveillance and police state. Under the Modi government, the constitutional promise of liberty and justice for all has receded into a vain hope," the resolution said. The CWC believes that it is its duty to sound the alarm bells, it said. "We do so and call upon all democratic parties and forces to join hands to resolutely oppose the Modi government in order to protect the values on which our country was founded and to advance the causes of the people," the resolution said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
16-10-2021||India||Do not upset farmers of Punjab, a border state: NCP chief Sharad Pawar's advise to Centre||Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday said the Union government should handle the ongoing agitation against new farm laws with sensitivity, keeping in mind that majority of protesters are from Punjab, a border state.  The country has paid the price of upsetting Punjab in the past, he said, referring to former prime minister Indira Gandhi's assassination during Khalistan militancy.  Speaking to reporters at Pimpri near here, Pawar, who has handled defense and agriculture portfolios at the Centre, was replying to a question about the farmers' agitation on Delhi borders which has been going on for several months.  "I have been there (to the protest site) two-three times. The Union government's stand does not seem rational," he said.  Participants in the agitation are from many states including Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, but most of them are from Punjab, Pawar noted.  "My advise to the Union government is, do not let farmers of Punjab get upset, it is a border state. If we upset the farmers and people from border regions, then there will be other ramifications," he said.  "Our country has paid the price of upsetting Punjab, even (then prime minister) Indira Gandhi lost her life. On the other hand, farmers of Punjab, irrespective of whether they are Sikh or Hindu, have contributed to food supply," the NCP chief said.  People living in border areas face several security-related issues which those living in states such as Maharashtra do not experience, he said.  "Therefore, when a person who is making sacrifices is siting in protest with some demands for a long time, paying attention to him is what the nation requires," Pawar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
16-10-2021||India||Jaishankar to visit Israel from Oct 17-21; will hold talks to strengthen strategic ties||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will pay an official visit to Israel beginning Sunday during which he will hold talks with his Israeli counterpart Yair Lapid to strengthen the strategic partnership between the two countries.  This will be Jaishankar's first visit to the country as External Affairs Minister.  The Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement on Saturday that Jaishankar will pay an official visit to Israel from October 17-21 at the invitation of Alternate Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Lapid.  He will hold a bilateral meeting with Lapid and will also call on President Isaac Herzog, Prime Minister Naftali Bennett, and Knesset Speaker Mickey Levy during his visiit.  India and Israel elevated bilateral relations to a strategic partnership during the historic visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Israel in July 2017.  Since then, the relationship between the two countries has focused on expanding knowledge-based partnership, which includes collaboration in innovation and research, including boosting the 'Make in India' initiative, the MEA said.  During his visit, Jaishankar will interact with the Indian-origin Jewish community in Israel, Indologists, Indian students who are currently pursuing their education in Israeli universities, and business people, including from the hi-tech industries, the statement said.  The visit will also be an occasion to pay tribute to the valiant Indian soldiers who laid their lives in the region, especially during the First World War, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
16-10-2021||India||Six dead, a dozen missing in Kerala after heavy rains, IAF assistance sought||At least six people died and a dozen were missing on Saturday as heavy rains pounded south and central Kerala causing flash floods and landslides in many parts, prompting the state government to seek the assistance of the defence forces for rescue operations. Several people have been injured and displaced in rain-related incidents in the southern state where dams in many districts are nearing its full capacity and small towns and villages in the hilly areas are totally cut off from the outside world. Many hilly areas of Kottayam, Idukki and Pathanamthitta are experiencing almost similar to that of the situation the state faced during the time of devastating floods of 2018 and 2019 but authorities said everything was under control and there was no need for any panic. However, the rescue teams of the state police and fire force could not reach the affected areas due to floods and adverse weather conditions prevailing there. "The situation is serious", Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. He, however, said the latest weather forecast indicates that the situation is not going to get worse. Officials said personnel of the Army, Airforce and the Navy were on the way to Koottickal and Peruvanthanam--the two hilly villages falling under Kottayam and Idukki districts respectively--where an overflowing river swept through houses, displacing and isolating many. State Cooperation Minister V N Vasavan, who reached the neighbourhood of these landslide-hit villages, said bodies of two women and a child who died, were recovered while search was on to recover the body of a man who also lost his life in the incident. He said at least 12 people are missing from these villages. In a separate rain related incident, a man and a woman--both 30-years-old-- died as their car was swept away in the flood waters in Kanjar in Idukki district, police said. Their bodies have been recovered, they said. According to a defence spokesperson, Mi-17 and Sarang Helicopters are already in standby mode to meet the requirements but they could not start operations as the weather at Kottayam is still bad. Air Force assets are still at Sulur in a standby mode, she said. "All the bases under Southern Air Command have been put on high alert in view of the prevalent weather situation at Kerala," the spokesperson said in a statement. "The Indian Army has already deployed army personnel to the flood affected areas. One column consisting of One Officer, 2 JCOs and 30 other ranks of army personnel already moved to Kanjirappally, Kottayam District from Pangode Military Station...," she said. The Southern Naval Command of the Indian Navy said it is fully ready for assisting local administration in rescue operations. "Diving&Rescue teams are ready to be deployed at short notice.Helicopters stand-by to be launched once weather is conducive for Air Ops,", it said in a tweet. Earlier, Minister for Cooperation and Registration V N Vasavan said at least three houses have been washed away in Kottayam district and some people feared missing. "At least four landslips have been reported from various parts of Kottayam district. We have sought the assistance of the Airforce to rescue people who are stranded in the Koottickal area. We have received information about some people missing and over 60 waiting to be rescued as water entered their homes," the Minister told PTI. According to the latest update of the India Meteorological Department, 'Red Alert' was sounded for six districts--Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur and Palakkad districts. Kottayam and Pathanamthitta are the most affected districts as of now due to heavy rains since Friday night. Visuals have emerged on social media from various parts of Kottayam district, including a KSRTC bus stuck in floodwater and locals rescuing passengers from it. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan chaired a high-level meeting in the evening to review the rain situation and decided to strengthen rescue operations in all affected areas. In a statement, the Chief Minister said all government agencies have been directed to take necessary steps to rescue people from the affected regions and evacuate those living in areas prone to landslides and floods. Vijayan also directed the district collectors to open relief camps to relocate the affected people. He said the camps should function strictly adhering to COVID-19 protocol. In the wake of warning that the rains would continue till October 19, the meeting also decided not to allow pilgrims to trek to the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple, situated in a dense forest in Pathanamthitta district, till October 18. The temple was opened at 5pm today for 'Thula masam' poojas. Higher educational institutions, which were scheduled to open on October 18, will start on October 20, the statement said. Appealing to the people of the state to keep extra vigil in the next 24 hours, the CM said in a Facebook post that the rains have already hit the south and central districts and it would intensify in the northern districts also by the evening as per the weather forecast. The water level in some rivers is expected to rise and shutters of certain dams are likely to be opened, he said, adding that those living in its catchment areas should be ready to follow the instructions of authorities. The CM also said a Red alert has been sounded for the dams under KSEB, including Kakki dam in Pathanamthitta, Sholayar in Thrissur, Kundala and Kallarkutti in Idukki. Meanwhile, two children had a miraculous escape after a portion of the wall of their house collapsed in incessant rains on Friday night at Chempakamangalam in the capital district where rains have been battering the city and rural areas alike since last night. The wall collapsed on the bed, where the children were asleep, but they escaped with minor injuries, family sources said. Government authorities have advised people against visiting tourist places and going near rivers and other water bodies in view of heavy rains in Thiruvananthapuram. Destruction of roads was reported in many places including in Kollam and Kottayam districts while severe waterlogging made life miserable in Kuttanad region, popularly known as the 'rice bowl' of the state spread in Alappuzha and Kottayam districts. The Thrissur district administration urged people living in low-lying and other disaster prone areas and on the banks of rivers to move to safer places. Fishing boats have been prohibited from venturing into the sea, they added. A red alert has also been issued for Chulliyar dam in Palakkad and Peechi dam in Thrissur, which are under the irrigation department. Revenue Minister K Rajan said necessary precautions have been taken."We have asked the district collectors to issue warnings to people residing along the river banks," Rajan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
16-10-2021||India||Election of new congress president to be held between August 21 and September 20 next year||Election of the new Congress president will be held between August 21 and September 20 next year, the party announced on Saturday after the crucial meeting of its working committee which approved the schedule for organisational polls at various levels. After a nearly five-hour-long meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), Congress general secretary (oganisation)K C Venugopal announced the election schedule which includes a massive membership drive for the polls starting from November 1, 2021 and will go on till March 31, 2022. Venugopal also stated that election of PCC presidents, vice presidents, treasurers, PCC executives and AICC members by PCC general body will be held between July 21-August 20, 2022. Election of Congress president will be held between August 21-September 20, 2022, he said. Venugopal also announced that election of CWC members and other bodies by AICC members will take place at a plenary session dates for which will be announced later. The CWC also passed three resolutions, one on the political situation, and two others on inflation and a "diabolical attack" on India's farmers, Venugopal said at a press conference with the party's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala by his side at the AICC headquarters here. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, three Congress chief ministers, among others, attended the meeting, the first such physical meet of the CWC since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
16-10-2021||India||India set to reach 100-crore Covid vaccination mark next week, says Union Health minister||India will cross the landmark of 100-crore Covid-19 vaccine doses next week, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Saturday as a Covid-anthem penned by singer Kailash Kher was released to dispel myths and shed vaccine hesitancy.  Till this evening, as many as "97.23 crore have been administered the first dose of Covid vaccine in the country", he said at the launch event.  The vaccines administered suggest about 70 per cent of the population getting at least one dose and about 30 per cent of the population has got two doses, he said.  "We administered 2.5 crore doses one single day on September 17 and next week we will reach the 100 crore mark," he said. "This has happened because of the effort put in by all."  Covid-19 infections are decreasing in India, with 15,981 new infections reported in a day, according to official data on Saturday. That's 4 per cent of the peak - the highest daily average reported on May 9 this year.  The minister said while it takes 5-10 years to test and develop vaccines, India has researched and developed an in-house vaccine, and to add to the complex manufacturing, the humongous logistics involving setting up cold chains, airport transfers, delivery to states, local storage and last-mile connectivity were set up in no time.  Kher, who has composed and sung the anthem, said it is essential to dispel myths and rumours surrounding vaccines and promote its usage so as to ensure all get the vaccine.  The development of a song called 'tika-anthem' or vaccine anthem has been sponsored by oil industry body FIPI.  Speaking on the occasion, Oil Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said vaccination has now become a people's movement despite the negative narrative and falsehood spread by some in the country.  "It is not the government which is the enemy, it is the virus which is the enemy," he said referring to the narrative opposition parties tried to build around the vaccination drive in the country.  Stating that vaccine manufacturing in the public sector was stopped during the Congress-led UPA regime between 2004 and 2014, he said the opposition tried to create a "negative narrative" over the issue of domestically manufactured vaccines being safe.  "Vaccine hesitancy was spread but with the determination, focus and commitment of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, we were able to overcome and vaccination became a 'jan andolan' (people's movement)," he said.  Puri said when the second wave of Covid infections broke out in April/May, modeling of rate of infections threw a maximum number of infections of 2.5-3 lakh but the peak touched 4.24 lakh cases.  "It's a combined effort due to which we have reached where we are," he said.  "Artists capture people's imagination directly and so when we are within striking distance of the 1 billion vaccination mark, the vaccine anthem will look to promote greater use and reach the target of vaccine for all."  He, however, cautioned that it was too early to declare victory over the virus. "We will be better equipped to deal with (a new challenge) both in terms of infrastructure and medical science" but "we should not declare victory yet".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
16-10-2021||India||Singhu border lynching: Accused sent to police remand for a week, one more arrested||A second arrest was made on Saturday in connection with the lynching of a Dalit man at a farmers' protest site at the Singhu border, police said. Narain Singh, belonging to the Sikhs' Nihang order, was arrested by the Amritsar Rural police at Amarkot village in Amritsar district, they said. On Friday, Sarabjit Sigh was the first person to be arrested in connection with the case. A court in Sonipat on Saturday remanded him to police custody for seven days. Shortly after being taken into custody, Narain Singh claimed that he had surrendered before the police. He claimed that before coming to Amritsar, he telephonically informed the SSP Amritsar Rural that he wanted to surrender. Singh claimed that he had asked the SSP to allow him to visit the Akal Takht but police took him into custody at Amarkot village near Jandaila town, 25 km away from Amritsar city. Before his arrest, talking to the media, Narain Singh said that Lakhbir Singh, who was lynched, had been "punished" allegedly for sacrilege. He said that the accused of the Bargari sacrilege incident in Punjab had not yet been arrested but now if somebody were to commit such a heinous crime, he would be punished on the spot. Paramjit Kaur, the wife of Narain Singh, was present when he was taken into police custody. Kaur said that she was "proud" of her husband as "he has punished the guilty person responsible for sacrilege of the Guru Granth Sahib. If someone commits such a heinous crime, now I will punish him." Many Sikh outfits honoured Narain Singh with a robe of honour and even garlanded him with currency notes when he paid obeisance in the Amarkot Gurdwara. The body of Lakhbir Singh, a labourer from Punjab's Tarn Taran district, was found on Friday tied to a barricade at the Delhi-Haryana border, where the anti-farm law protesters have been camping, with a hand chopped off and multiple wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons. Hours after the macabre crime, Sarabjit Sigh, wearing the blue robes of the Nihang order, claimed that he had "punished" the victim for "desecrating" a Sikh holy book. A court here on Saturday remanded Sarabjit Singh, arrested in connection with the lynching of a man at the farmers' protest site at Singhu border, in police custody for seven days, with the accused pointing to the involvement of a few more people in the gruesome killing. A senior police official of Sonipat police said that while seeking Sarabjit's custody, police submitted before the court that they have to make certain recoveries from the arrested accused. The official said that Sarabjit has named four more people during interrogations while pointing to their involvement in the incident. We produced Sarabjit before the court. The accused has been remanded in seven days' police custody by the court, Sonipat's Deputy Superintendent of Police, Virender Singh said over the phone. The accused has pointed to the involvement of four more people in the case and taken their names...we are conducting further investigations in this regard. We have to make some recoveries from the arrested accused including the weapon used in the crime and the clothes he was wearing, he said. The total number of accused in the crime could be more than five, the DSP said, adding further investigations were on. Hours after the macabre crime on Friday, a man wearing the blue robes of the Sikhs' Nihang order appeared before the media, claiming that he had "punished" the victim for "desecrating" a Sikh holy book. Other Nihangs had claimed he had "surrendered" to police, while police had later said that Sarabjit Singh, who hails from Gurdaspur district, has been arrested in the case. Earlier on Friday, in a video clip that surfaced on social media, some Nihangs were seen standing around the injured man with his severed left hand close to his head. The group was heard accusing him of desecrating a Sikh holy book. The video showed the Nihang group asking the badly injured man, who is pleading with them in Punjabi, where he had come from and who sent him. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had pm Friday held a meeting with Home Minister Anil Vij and senior police officers, directing strict action against those found guilty. Back in his Tarn Taran village, Singh's family was in shock and said he could never desecrate a holy book. A case of murder was registered at the Kundli police station in Sonipat in connection with the lynching incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
16-10-2021||India||Singhu murder: Family of victim wants high-level probe||The family of Lakhbir Singh, a Dalit farm labourer brutally killed by members of a Sikh sect for alleged sacrilege, said on Saturday he was a god-fearing man who would never think of desecrating a holy book and demanded a high-level probe to bring out the truth. His wife Jaspreet Kaur and three daughters aged 12, 11 and eight years live in a small temporary house made of mud and bricks in village Cheema Kalan, around 50 km away from the holy city of Amritsar. His son passed away two years ago. The family was barely managing two square meals a day when Lakhbir was alive and would work in the village fields or in the grain market of Tarn Taran district for his livelihood. "Who will come forward to look after his family now and what about the future of his children..who will help them," laments his sister Raj Kaur. The body of Lakhbir Singh, 35, was found tied to an overturned police barricade at the Singhu Border site where farmers are protesting against the three central farm laws. His left hand was chopped off and his body had over 10 wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons. Hours after the macabre crime, a man wearing the blue robes of the Sikhs' Nihang order claimed that he had "punished" the victim for "desecrating" a Sikh holy book. The man, identified as Sarabjit Singh from Vitwha in Punjab's Gurdaspur district, was later arrested for the lynching. Questioning his claim, Jaspreet Kaur and Raj Kaur said Lakhbir Singh "had a deep respect for the holy Guru Granth Sahib . "He was a god-fearing man who could not never think of desecrating a holy book... Whenever he used to go to a Gurdwara, he would pray for the well-being of his family and the society," said Jaspreet Kaur. He had no criminal record and there was no report of him being a bad character, the victim's family said and demanded a high-level probe into the entire episode to bring out the truth. Jaspreet and Raj Kaur said even if it is assumed for a moment that Lakhbir had done something wrong, those who killed him in such a barbaric manner should have given him time to prove his innocence, or they could have handed him over to the police. "At no stage could they be the deciding authority while running their own self-styled court which pronounced punishment and then murdered him inhumanly. Where does the law of land prevail here," said his grieving sister. His family members including sister-in-law Simranjit Kaur and mother-in-law Sawinder Kaur told the media that Lakhbir Singh and his sister Raj Kaur were adopted by a retired army man Harnam Singh who was issueless. Harnam Singh, however, is now no more. The family claimed that Lakhbir had no affiliation with any of the political outfits and never went to any political rally in support of any political person. His sister Raj Kaur said, "My brother was having mere Rs. 50 when he left home and that money was not enough to reach Singhu border but he might have reached there while taking a lift from some tractor trolley or truck ." "Moreover, before the incident, my brother was living with those people, who are now behind his murder, for three days," she claimed. Asked why Lakhbir had gone to the Singhu border, Raj Kaur said, "Someone might have offered him more money (for labour) ."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
16-10-2021||India||LeT commander among two militants killed in encounter in JK's Pulwama||Two militants, including Lashkar-e-Taiba commander Umar Mushtaq Khandey, were killed in an encounter with security forces in Pampore area of Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama district on Saturday, a senior police officer said. Khandey was allegedly involved in the killing of two policemen here earlier this year. "LeT #terrorist Umar Mustaq Khandey who martyred our 2 colleagues SgCT Mohammad Yousf and Ct Suhail Ah in Baghat Srinagar while they were having tea, #neutralised in Drangbal, #Pampore. Amongst various other crimes of the terrorists, this stands out as most unforgivable," Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said in a tweet. "We are committed to #hunt down these #terrorists who try to create fear among masses and spread mischief & tumult in the valley. Such elements and their name should be excised from society," he said. Another unidentified militant was also killed in the Pampore encounter, a police official said, adding that arms and ammunition were recovered from the spot. Khandey's name figured in the list of top 10 militants who the security forces were targeting since the hit list was released by the police in August this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
16-10-2021||India||AIIMS diagnoses Manmohan Singh with dengue, says condition improving||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh has been diagnosed with dengue but his health condition is improving, AIIMS officials said Saturday. The 89-year-old Congress leader was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here Wednesday evening after he complained of weakness following a fever. "He has been diagnosed with dengue but his platelet count is now increasing and his condition is improving," an AIIMS official said Saturday. Singh has been admitted to a private ward in the cardio-neuro centre of the hospital and is under the care of a team of cardiologists led by Dr Nitish Naik. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya met Singh on Thursday and enquired about his health. A row erupted after Mandaviya's visit as he allegedly took a photographer with him while visiting the former prime minister. Manmohan Singh's daughter, Daman Singh, had hit out at Mandaviya for getting a photographer against the wishes of the family. Daman Singh told ThePrint that her mother was very upset because a photographer had entered the room along with the minister. But when she insisted that the photographer leave the room, "she was completely ignored". "She was very upset. My parents are trying to cope in a difficult situation. They are elderly people. Not animals in a zoo," Daman Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
16-10-2021||India||Delay in recording eyewitness' statement cannot nullify their testimonies: SC||Mere delay in recording the statements of eyewitnesses cannot result in rejection of their testimonies, the Supreme Court has said while dismissing an appeal by four people challenging their conviction in a murder case. A bench headed by Justice U U Lalit said the material on record definitely establishes the fear created by the accused persons. "It is true that there was some delay in recording the statements of the eyewitnesses concerned but mere factum of delay by itself cannot result in rejection of their testimonies," the bench, also comprising Justice S Ravindra Bhat and Justice Bela M Trivedi, said. The top court said if witnesses felt terrorised and frightened and did not come forward for some time, the delay in recording their statements stood adequately explained. Nothing has been brought on record to suggest that during the interregnum, the witnesses were carrying on their ordinary pursuits, the bench said in its October 7 order. The top court was hearing appeals filed by four accused challenging the order passed by the Calcutta High Court dismissing their pleas and confirming their conviction and sentence recorded by the Sessions Judge, Malda, under Sections 302 (murder), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code read with Section 27(3) of the Arms Act, 1959. The counsel appearing for the appellants told the apex court about the testimonies of two eyewitnesses and submitted that the delay in recording their statements respectively would be fatal to the case of the prosecution. He submitted that no explanation was forthcoming why there was a delay in recording their statements and apart from the testimonies of the two witnesses, there was nothing on record to justify the conviction of the appellants. The counsel appearing for the State on the other hand submitted that the terror unleashed by the accused was of such magnitude that the concerned witnesses had fled and that it was only after the appropriate steps were taken by the investigating machinery, including the arrest of the accused, that the witnesses came forward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
16-10-2021||India||Four CRPF jawans injured after fuse box explodes at Raipur station||Four CRPF jawans were injured when an ammunition fuse box exploded when it was being loaded on a train at the Raipur station on Saturday, according to an official statement. On Saturday morning, the 211 Company of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) was in the train when ammunition was being loaded, it said. "Boxes of arms and ammunition were being loaded on the train by Head Constable Vikas Lakshman and other jawans. The ammunition fuse box exploded in Lakshman's hand near the toilet of the train's compartment," the CRPF statement said. Due to the fuse box explosion, Lakshman got injured and he was immediately admitted to the Sreenarayana hospital in Raipur, it said. Three other jawans also suffered some injuries and they were given first aid treatment at the station, the statement said. The CRPF said that "a case has been filed with the GRP railway station and it has directed to investigate the matter". The special train was scheduled to carry the CRPF personnel to Jammu from Raipur, police in Raipur said. "A minor explosion was recorded in a special train of the CRPF at the Raipur railway station around 6.30 am today. The train was heading to Jammu from Jharsuguda (Odisha)," Raipur Superintendent of Police (SP) Prashant Agrawal said. "The explosion occurred during the shifting of a container carrying detonators and HD cartridges. While shifting the container in train, it accidentally slipped in coach number-9, which led to the blast," the SP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
16-10-2021||India||Incessant rains lash Kerala, water-logging in several areas||Heavy rains lashed Kerala, especially the south and central regions on Saturday, causing water-logging in several areas and leaving many rivers in spate, as the weathermen sounded 'red alert' predicting extremely heavy rainfall in five districts of the state. According to the latest update of the Indian Meteorological Department, the 'Red Alert' was sounded for Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, and Thrissur districts. An orange alert, warning of very heavy rainfall was issued for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Wayanad districts. "Under the influence of the Low pressure area over Southeast Arabian Sea off Kerala coast, Kerala is expected to receive isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy falls till the morning of October 17. Isolated heavy rainfall is expected on 18th and further reduction in rainfall from 19th morning," an IMD statement said here. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the India Meteorological Department has warned of widespread heavy rains in the state due to the Low Pressure area formed over the Arabian Sea. Appealing to the people of the state to keep extra vigil in the next 24 hour, he said in a Facebook post that the rains already hit the south and central districts and it would intensify in the northern districts also by the evening as per the weather forecast. The water level in some rivers is expected to rise and shutters of certain dams are likely to be opened, he said adding that those living in its catchment areas should be ready to follow the instructions of authorities. Meanwhile, two children had a miraculous escape after a portion of the wall of their house collapsed in incessant rains on Friday night at Chempakamangalam in the capital district where rains has been battering the city and rural areas alike since last night. The wall collapsed on the bed, where the children were asleep, but they escaped with minor injuries, family sources said. District Collector Navjot Khosa advised people to avoid visiting tourist places and going near rivers and other water bodies in view of heavy rains in Thiruvananthapuram. Four shutters of Neyyar Dam here were raised by a total of 240 cm in view of the rising water level, the authorities said adding that the shutters of Aruvikkara Dam would be raised to 350 cm from the present 310 cm in the afternoon. Destruction of roads was reported in many places including in Kollam and Kottayam districts while severe waterlogging made life miserable in Kuttanad region, popularly known as the 'rice bowl' of the state spread in Alappuzha and Kottayam districts. Intermittent downpour lashed high range areas in Kottayam and the hill district Idukki. The Thrissur district administration urged people living in low-lying and other disaster-prone areas and on the banks of rivers to move to safer places as per the instructions received from the authorities. Fishing boats are prohibited from venturing into the sea, they added. Revenue Minister K Rajan called a meeting of district collectors via online this afternoon to coordinate with the disaster management programmes and take stock of the damage caused by the rains across the state. Health Minister Veena George convened a virtual meeting of MLAs at the collectorate in Pathanamthitta, the district which had witnessed widespread destruction during the massive floods in 2018. The water level is rising steadily in many rivers including Meenachal and Manimala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
16-10-2021||India||Search operation continues in JK's Poonch-Rajouri forest areas ||A massive search operation in the forest areas of Jammu and Kashmir's twin border districts of Poonch and Rajouri to track down terrorists involved in the killing of seven Army soldiers entered its sixth day on Saturday, officials said. They said gunshots were heard as the joint search parties of the Army and the police resumed the operation in Poonch's Mendhar area. However, it was not immediately clear whether it was speculative firing by the search parties or fresh contact was established with the terrorists, they said. The area is mountainous and the forest is dense, which makes the operation difficult and dangerous, according to the officials. A vast forest area of Mendhar has been under tight security cordon since Thursday, when riflemen Vikram Singh Negi and Yogambar Singh, both from Uttarakhand, were killed in an encounter with terrorists in the Nar Khas forest. Earlier on October 11, five Army personnel, including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO), were killed when terrorists attacked a search party in Poonch's Surankote forest. There was an exchange of fire between the Army search parties and the fleeing terrorists in the adjoining Thanamandi forest in Rajouri the same day. The officials said that the entire forest area from Mendhar to Thanamandi remains under a strict cordon and a massive search operation is on to neutralise the terrorists who are moving from one place to another in an attempt to escape the dragnet. The traffic between Mendhar and Thanamandi along the Jammu-Rajouri highway remained suspended for the second day in view of the ongoing operation, they said. On Tuesday, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Rajouri-Poonch range, Vivek Gupta had said that the terrorists involved in the attack on security forces in Poonch had been present in the area for the last two to three months. Rajouri and Poonch in the Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine terrorists in separate encounters. Meanwhile, a defence spokesperson said that the mortal remains of riflemen Negi and Singh were flown to Uttarakhand in a service aircraft this morning after a wreath-laying ceremony. The aircraft will reach the Jolly Grant Airport in Dehradun by 11.30 am, he said. From the airport, the mortal remains of the soldiers will be taken to their home towns by road and their last rites will be conducted with full military honours, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
16-10-2021||India||I am full-time, hands-on Congress president, says Sonia at CWC meet||Days after some sections within the Congress questioned the absence of an elected party chief, Sonia Gandhi on Saturday asserted that she is a full-time, hands-on party president and leaders need not speak to her through the media. Without naming anyone, Gandhi, in a message to the G23, said at the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting that while every member wants the party's revival, it can happen only with unity, self-control, discipline and by keeping the party's interests paramount. Her remarks came after some leaders of the group of 23, including Kapil Sibal, who had sought organisational overhaul, recently questioned who in the Congress was taking decisions in the absence of a full-time party president. Ghulam Nabi Azad and Sibal had also demanded an early meeting of the CWC to discuss the declining fortunes of the party in the wake of recent defections. "I am, if you will allow me to say so, a full-time and hands-on Congress president," Sonia Gandhi asserted. The 74-year-old leader underscored that she has always appreciated frankness and in a veiled message to G23 leaders, including Sibal who recently questioned the decision-making process in the party, said "there is no need to speak to me through the media". "So, let us all have a free and honest discussion. But what should get communicated outside the four walls of this room is the collective decision of the CWC," she said in her opening remarks at the meeting. Gandhi also placed on the table the party's organisational election schedule before the CWC. She also pointed out that in the last two years, a large number of Congress leaders, particularly the younger ones, have taken on leadership roles in communicating party policies and programmes to the people. "Never have we let issues of public importance and concern go unaddressed. You are aware that I have been taking them up with the Prime Minister as have Dr Manmohan Singh and Rahul (Gandhi) ji. I have been interacting with like-minded political parties regularly," she said and added that the Opposition parties have issued joint statements on national issues and coordinated our strategy in Parliament as well. About the forthcoming assembly elections, the Congress chief said the party's preparations had already begun a while back and asserted that though there were many challenges, "if we are united, disciplined and focus on the party's interests alone, I am confident that we will do well". Elaborating on the issues facing the country, the Congress chief noted the CWC is meeting in the background of the continuing agitation by farmers and that it has been over a year since the "three black (farm) laws were bulldozed through Parliament". Referring to the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which four farmers were mowed down by an SUV on October 3, she said the shocking incident shows the mindset of the BJP as to how it perceives the farmers' movement and how it has been dealing with this determined struggle by the farmers to protect their lives and livelihoods. Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, who has been named in an FIR, was arrested on Saturday by the Uttar Pradesh Police in connection with the mowing down of four farmers on October 3 in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. In her remarks, Gandhi also alleged that the government's only answer for economic recovery is selling off national assets and its single-point agenda was "becho, becho, becho (sell, sell, sell)". Noting that the Government of India has changed its vaccine procurement policy since the CWC last met in May, she said this has been done in response to the states' demands and was one of those rare occasions when the states were heard and the country benefitted. "Even so, cooperative federalism remains only a slogan and the Centre loses no opportunity to put non-BJP states at a disadvantage," she alleged. Gandhi also flagged concerns over the sudden spurt in killings in Jammu and Kashmir and said minorities have been targeted. "This must be condemned in the strongest possible terms." She also hit out at the government over its foreign policy and said a broad consensus that has been there on it always has been damaged because of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "continued reluctance to take the Opposition into confidence in any meaningful manner". "Foreign policy has become a diabolical instrument of electoral mobilisation and polarisation," Gandhi alleged. "We face serious challenges on our borders and other fronts. The prime minister telling the opposition leaders last year that there had not been any occupation of our territory by China and his silence ever since is costing our nation dearly." Sonia Gandhi, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Chief Ministers Ashok Gehlot of Rajasthan, Bhupesh Baghel of Chhattisgarh and Charanjit Channi of Punjab attended the meeting -- the first such physical meeting of the party's highest decision-making body since the outbreak of the Covid pandemic. G23 leaders -- Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma -- were among those present at the meeting at the All India Congress Committee headquarters here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
16-10-2021||India||Sitharaman discusses post-pandemic economic recovery, other issues with World Bank chief||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman discussed the post-pandemic economic recovery, India's major role in the global fight against COVID-19 and preparations for the upcoming Climate Change Conference among other issues during her meeting with World Bank President David Malpass. Sitharaman met Malpass at the World Bank headquarters in Washington DC on Friday. "Both sides discussed various issues including #COVID #vaccination, #economicrecovery, preparations for #CoP26, initiative of #WBG for increasing lending space for India, IDA 20 replenishment, knowledge partnership with @WorldBank," Finance Ministry said in a series of tweets. During the meeting, Sitharaman shared the measures being taken by India to contain the spread of the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic, including the major role played by India on the global COVID-19 effort, the ministry said. She appreciated the World Bank Group for their initiative for increasing lending space for India to enhance availability of finance for development. The minister also mentioned that the focus should be on technologies that need to be moved from lab to field and those that require targeted global research in the pursuit of low carbon growth. She highlighted three broad suggestions, including strengthening #LighthouseIndia, #technology and special focus on #FinancialSectorReforms and #infrastructure sector to strengthen the knowledge partnership with #WBG, it said. Earlier, in her address to the Development Committee of the World Bank, she said India has not only faced the COVID-19 crisis with great resilience and fortitude but has also played a major role and "walked the talk" on the global fight against the pandemic. She highlighted that the measures taken by the government have set a strong foundation of the country's sustained economic growth. She said the Indian government, besides taking economic relief measures, has also undertaken significant structural reforms to turn the crisis into an opportunity and emerge stronger. The minister also discussed the preparations for the upcoming Climate Change Conference in Glasgow. From here, she will go to New York for an interactive session with the business community before flying back home. She started her week-long trip from Boston. In addition to her meetings at the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, Sitharaman had more than 25 bilateral engagements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
16-10-2021||India||Petrol, diesel price hiked again, on a new high||Petrol and diesel price on Saturday has hiked again by 35 paise a litre to take retail rates across the country to new record highs. With this hike, petrol is now at Rs 100-a-litre mark or more in all state capitals, while diesel has touched the 100-level in a dozen states. Diesel is nearing Rs 100-a-litre mark in Goal and Bengaluru. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 105.49 a litre and Rs 111.43 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 102.15 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 94.22. This is the third straight day of 35 paise per litre hike in petrol and diesel prices. There was no change in rates on October 12 and 13. Since ending of a three-week long hiatus in rate revision in the last week of September, this is the 15th increase in petrol price and the 18th time that diesel rates have gone up. While petrol price in most of the country is already above Rs 100-a-litre mark, diesel rates have crossed that level in a dozen states/UT including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chattisgarh, Bihar, Kerala, Karnataka and Ladakh. In Panaji, diesel now costs Rs 99.56 a litre while in Bengaluru it comes for Rs 99.97 per litre and Silvassa for Rs 99.86. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. Shedding the modest price change policy, state-owned fuel retailers have since October 6 started passing on the larger incidence of cost to consumers. This is because the international benchmark Brent crude is trading at USD 84.8 per barrel for the first time in seven years. A month back, Brent was trading at USD 73.51. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rates on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 5.6 per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 4.30 a litre. Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 a litre during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
16-10-2021||India||India logs over 15,000 fresh Covid cases, 166 casualties in a day||India recorded 15,981 COVID-19 cases in a day, taking the infection tally to 3,40,53,573 while 166 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,51,980, according to the Union Health Ministry's data on Saturday. The number of active Covid cases has declined to 2,01,632, the lowest in 218 days. The national recovery rate was at 98.07 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. Active cases account for 0.59 per cent of the total cases, the lowest since March last year. In a day, the active COVID-19 caseload declined by 2,046. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,33,99,961, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. As many as 9,23,003 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far for the detection of COVID-19 in the country to 58,98,35,258. Over 97.23 crore Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the country till now under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The daily case positivity rate was recorded at 1.73 per cent, which has been less than 3 per cent for the last 47 days. The weekly positivity rate was 1.44 per cent and has been less than 3 per cent for the last 113 days, according to the Health Ministry. The 166 fatalities recorded in a day include 67 from Kerala and 29 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,51,980 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,734 from Maharashtra, 37,931 from Karnataka, 35,869 from Tamil Nadu, 26,734 from Kerala, 25,089 from Delhi, 22,897 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,935 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
16-10-2021||India||Congress Working Committee meeting underway||The Congress' top brass began on Saturday morning deliberations on key issues such as organisational elections, forthcoming assembly polls and the current political situation at the first physical meeting of the party's working committee since the Covid outbreak. Party president Sonia Gandhi, former chief Rahul Gandhi, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Congress chief ministers Ashok Gehlot of Rajasthan, Bhupesh Baghel of Chhattisgarh and Charanjit Channi of Punjab attended the meeting. Senior leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma were among those present at the meeting at the AICC headquarters here. The meeting of the party's top decision-making body -- Congress Working Committee (CWC) -- has been convened after demands from some quarters to discuss important issues, including some defections in the recent past. The meeting also comes amid rumblings within the Congress' state units such as in Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan where the party is in power. The G-23 leaders had been demanding to convene the CWC with Kapil Sibal last month and wondered who in the party was taking decisions in the absence of a full-time president. He has asserted that the G23 leaders' grouping is "not a Jee Huzur 23". Former leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad had also written to the Congress president to convene a meeting of the CWC at the earliest. During the meeting, the party leadership is likely to decide the schedule to elect the new Congress chief. The Congress in its CWC meeting held on January 22 had decided it would have an elected president by June 2021. But it was deferred at the May 10 CWC meet because of the COVID-19 situation. The latest meeting is being held in the wake of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on October 3 in which eight people lost their lives. The dead included four farmers who were allegedly run over by an SUV belonging to the convoy of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra. Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, who has been named in an FIR, was arrested on Saturday by the Uttar Pradesh Police in connection with the mowing down of the four farmers. The incident has given enough ammunition to the Congress party to corner the BJP government and recapture the lost political space. The meeting is also likely to discuss key issues such as price rise, farmers' protests and the economic situation of the country. The CWC meeting will also discuss certain dissenting notes rising within the party over the spate of defections and the party's poor electoral fortunes. Sonia Gandhi took over as the interim Congress president in August 2019 after Rahul Gandhi resigned in the wake of the party's Lok Sabha debacle in May 2019. There have been demands from a section of Congress leaders for having a full-time and active party president as well as an organisational overhaul. The demand became intense after a storm in the party in August last year over a letter to Sonia Gandhi by a group of 23 leaders, including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Bhupinder Hooda, Prithviraj Chavan, Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari and Mukul Wasnik raising these issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
16-10-2021||India||Too early to conclude on lessons learnt from Covid crisis, says Sitharaman||It is too early to conclude on the lessons that India learnt from the COVID-19 crisis, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said as she stressed that the world is not going to be the same post-pandemic. Sitharaman said much before the second Covid wave struck, her government had extended a stimulus and was waiting for the economy to revive. In every exercise, which was done during that phase and post the second wave, they did not have any "precedent to depend upon", she told a group of Indian reporters as she concluded her meetings at the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. "It is a bit too early for me to conclude on lessons (learnt from the COVID`19 crisis)," she said. Sitharaman said they were not even those kinds of exercises which India was doing alone. Every country in the world has been touched by this crisis, she said. "Therefore, for me to quickly now look at and say, look at the last year experience and say, this could have been better handled, I think will be a bit too early," she said. "As I said there's no precedent and as I said to assess it from this short a year and half period, maybe limiting the scope," the finance minister said. Responding to a question, the minister said the post-pandemic world is not going to be the same. "India's priorities are definitely on the basis of the fact that, I suppose most of us will agree on, that post the pandemic, it's not really going to be the same world, whether it's the manufacturing universe or whether labour," she said. The issues are going to be fairly different from what they were earlier, she said. Sitharaman said a lot of reset is taking place currently, that too across the globe. "It is not just in one sector, it is across the sectors. There is definitely a lot of thinking in global institutions. It is also looking at how there can be greater convergence among nations so that resources are better utilised," she said. "And where there are issues of getting prepared for future pandemic or future any such emergency where countries will have to respond to help one another. There will be a better way of doing it than the way we did this time," Sitharaman added. "So, larger issues of global convergence, larger issues of multilateral institution being ready for meeting such challenges, larger issues of having a global envelope, which can be contributed by everybody so that there is a better response for any such pandemic, if in case we have to face it in the future, have all been part of all discussions in the multilateral fora, and in the bilateral and also among my company, and business leaders meets," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
16-10-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik to skip birthday celebrations this year too||Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has decided not to celebrate his birthday on Saturday to express solidarity with the people hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. Naveen has not been celebrating his birthday for the last three years. Naveen skipped his birthday celebrations in 2020 because of Covid-19 and in 2019 owing to Cyclone Fani that wreaked havoc in the pilgrim city of Puri. Naveen, who turns 76 on Saturday, has urged his followers not to visit Naveen Nivas to wish him. “I am indebted to the people of Odisha for their love, wishes and blessings. For one and half years, people have been going through a hard time because of the coronavirus. It would be the biggest birthday gift for me if people, instead of coming Naveen Niwas, go and help the family members who have lost their near and dear ones due to Covid and engage themselves in blood donation programmes,” he said. The ruling Biju Janata Dal has been organising blood-donation programmes under the Jiban Bindu programme since 2015 and has been mobilising its workers to participate in this noble cause. The number of active Covid cases in Odisha has reached 5,299 with 462 fresh cases in the last 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
16-10-2021||India||Rs 100 to register for free e-Shram card for labourers ||Betel farmer Savana Bhoi, 58, of Garh Nipania village in Puri district is not sure what benefits the e-Shram card would bring her or when. But she has already had to fork out Rs 100 to obtain the card, which the government says should be free, thanks to a scam running across India’s villages. The Union labour ministry has been registering unorganised workers since August 26 to create a database on an e-Shram portal. Its target is to register all the country’s estimated 38 crore informal workers by the Supreme Court-set deadline of December 31. Since many rural people are unfamiliar with online registration, the government appointed thousands of common service centres (CSCs) — anyone from a private individual with a computer to cyber cafes — to help register the workers. The CSCs are paid Rs 20 per person registered. But labour organisations say that many CSCs are charging between Rs 100 and Rs 500 per person — an allegation a labour ministry official confirmed. Those with e-Shram cards can claim PDS rations anywhere in India — a big help for migrant workers — as well as accident insurance. Farmers like Savana have been registering in large numbers without any idea what benefits the card can bring them. Savana, who’s also an occasional farm labourer, had heard from a neighbour that the central government would provide “lots of assistance” to villagers who have the e-Shram card. Her family grows betel but Covid has hit the market for betel leaves. “We gave our documents to the person making the cards. He charged us Rs 100 each. That is what they charge everybody,” Savana said. Harapriya, a mother of two schoolchildren from the same village, said: “We have paid Rs 700 for seven adults. I don’t know what benefits the card will bring.” Suprabha Bhoi, wife of Sudhanshu Mohan Bhoi, a tractor driver who earns about Rs 8,000 a month, too has secured a card. These days her husband is unable to procure work every day since the sowing and transplanting are over. “Since everybody is registering for the card, we too did. We hope something will come of it,” Suprabha said. The labour ministry wants to create a National Database of Unorganised Workers on the e-Shram portal, with every registered worker getting a card with a unique 12-digit number. Till Monday, 3.38 crore workers had been registered, with Odisha leading at 80 lakh workers. Of the targeted 38 crore registrations this year, if 20 crore workers get their cards by paying Rs 100 each, the CSCs will have made Rs 2,000 crore over and above what the government pays them, said Amarjeet Kaur, secretary of CPI labour arm Aituc. “This is a big scam. We have brought this to the notice of the government. The CSCs are charging money from people who are at the bottom of the ladder,” she said. A labour ministry official acknowledged the scam and said district authorities were taking action. “We have already discontinued the services of 300-plus CSCs. Our officials have filed FIRs against many CSCs. Whenever any case is coming to our notice, we are taking action,” the official said. He said only 2.7 per cent of the workers registered so far were migrant labourers. The government now has no reliable data on migrant workers but the database will fill that gap, he said. A media release from the Press Information Bureau said that if a worker was registered with the e-Shram portal and met with an accident, his or her family would receive Rs 2 lakh on death or permanent disability and Rs 1 lakh for partial disability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
16-10-2021||India||Minister, hospital is not a ‘zoo’: Manmohan's daughter||Manmohan Singh’s daughter has had to say her parents are “not animals in a zoo” after a cameraman accompanying the Union health minister entered the AIIMS room where the former Prime Minister is admitted and photographed him, in a brazen invasion of privacy and a breach of medical ethics. “My parents are trying to cope in a difficult situation. They are elderly people. Not animals in a zoo,” Daman Singh said in a statement on Friday, after minister Mansukh Mandaviya shared visuals from the visit on social media, and news channels flashed a video and pictures of the 89-year-old leader lying in bed and his wife Gursharan Kaur standing near him. Daman said her mother was deeply upset because the photographer was allowed in the room despite her firm objection. “My father is being treated for dengue at AIIMS. His condition is stable, but his immunity is low. We have restricted visitors due to the risk of infection. It was nice of the health minister to visit and express his concern. However, my parents were in no state to be photographed at the time. My mother insisted that the photographer should leave the room but she was completely ignored. She was very upset,” she said in the statement. In one of the pictures, Mandaviya and AIIMS director Randeep Guleria can be seen beside Manmohan’s bed. Doctors who spoke on the condition of anonymity said ethics and propriety, which are taught in undergraduate medical education, require doctors and hospitals to protect the confidentiality and privacy of patients. “If the image was released without the family’s consent, it is a breach of ethics,” a member of the Forum for Medical Ethics Society (FMES) told The Telegraph. A young doctor who is set to join a postgraduate medical programme said: “Taking a photographer into a patient’s room against the will of the family is not acceptable. We learned about this during our second year of the MBBS programme.” Public outrage erupted after the minister posted the images on Twitter, forcing Mandaviya to delete them. Many pointed out that videographing even a hospital visit was in keeping with the current regime’s obsession with the media spotlight. It was however not clear how doctors and the AIIMS management allowed the photographer in. What makes this even more shocking is that AIIMS director Guleria himself was present. That Manmohan’s family, who rarely appeared in public even when he was Prime Minister, took the step of issuing a statement shows how upset they are with this insensitive invasion of their privacy. The health minister had called on Manmohan, who is receiving treatment at AIIMS since October 13 for dengue a few months after recovering from Covid, on Thursday to enquire about his condition. The entire visit was video-recorded and photographed, from the moment Mandaviya got off his car to his stay inside the hospital room. “It is understandable that a minister would wish to visit the former Prime Minister, but what is achieved by posing for a photograph with the patient?” the FMES member said. The minister’s visit by itself was not surprising as it was in line with a tradition whenever eminent persons are admitted. The health minister is the president of AIIMS, which is a central government institution. A query sent by this newspaper to the health ministry asking whether the photographer who had accompanied the minister into Manmohan’s room was a government, private or media photographer has not evoked a response. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had also visited AIIMS on Thursday. Photographs of Rahul talking to the doctors and Gursharan had also made it to social media, not shared by the Congress leader, but they had not been taken inside Manmohan’s cabin. Additional reporting by G.S. Mudur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
16-10-2021||India||Congress questions Modi silence on China torture video||The Congress on Friday questioned the “mind-boggling” silence of the Narendra Modi government on a video released by the Chinese that purportedly shows injured Indian soldiers in their captivity after the Galwan Valley clash last year, arguing that if true then India needs to drag China to the international court on war crimes. Urging the government to clarify if the video was genuine, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera asked how dare China behave in this manner and how could Prime Minister Modi remain silent. Addressing a media conference in New Delhi, Khera said the video that purportedly shows “our braveheart soldiers injured and in captivity of the Chinese” had deeply disturbed every Indian. “The silence by our government on the veracity of this video is mind-boggling. If this video is genuine, then by all standards, this would fall within the category of war crimes for which China is definitely liable for prosecution under the International Criminal Court,” the Congress spokesperson said. “Instead of patting each other’s back, the Prime Minister and the home minister of India should ensure that China is held globally accountable for indulging in war crimes against our bravehearts,” Khera added. After the Galwan Valley clash, Modi had said nobody had intruded into Indian territory and that no Indian post had been taken over. Pointing out that China was intruding into several areas, Uttarakhand being the latest, Khera said: “Our government has in the meanwhile increased trade with China by 62 per cent.” The government has so far not reacted to the video but BJP MP Subramanian Swamy has tweeted: “If authenticated then it is a horrible sight and Modi government is heartless.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
16-10-2021||India||RSS expresses concern over 'rising population', 'population imbalance'||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday expressed concern over “rising population” and “population imbalance”, asserting the need to review the population policy and highlighting the Sangh’s belief that disproportionate growths among various religious groups could threaten the “unity, integrity and cultural identity of the country”. Bhagwat made a specific reference to Bengal, claiming that the violence after this year’s Assembly elections owed to “the appeasement of barbarous elements by the government and population imbalance”. Speaking at the annual Dussehra celebrations at the RSS headquarters in Nagpur, Bhagwat claimed that the proponents of population control bore no “ill will” towards any community, but in the same breath talked about the “persecution of native Hindus” in areas of “imbalanced population growth” and pointed to the threat posed by the rise of the Taliban in Afghanistan. “Jaise jansankhya ek samasya ban sakti hai, waise jansankhya ka asantulan bhi samasya banti hai; ban rahi hai desh mein, duniya mein (The way population can become a problem, similarly imbalances in population too can be a problem; it’s becoming so in the country and the world),” the RSS chief said. “Isme kisi ke prati duravav nahi rakhta (There is no ill will towards anybody in this),” he added. Bhagwat went on to read out a resolution passed by the RSS’s top decision-making body in 2015 that laid down the crux of what the outfit, the ideological parent of the ruling BJP, was aiming at. “Steps taken to control population of the country have yielded adequate results during the last decade. But in this regard... severe demographic changes brought forth by analysis of the religious data of Census 2011 highlight the necessity (to) review… the population policy,” the resolution said. It added: “Vast differences in growth rates of different religious groups, infiltration and conversion resulting in religious imbalance of the population ratio, especially in border areas, may emerge as a threat to the unity, integrity and cultural identity of the country.” Bhagwat also sought to make a distinction between people belonging to religions of “Bharatiya origin” and Muslims. Pointing to data that indicated that the total fertility rate and child ratio were uneven across religions, the written version of his speech put out by the RSS said: “This is reflected in the fact that the share of the population of religions of Bharatiya origin which was 88 per cent has come down to 83.8 per cent, while the Muslim population, which was 9.8 per cent, has increased to 14.23 per cent during the period 1951-2011,” he said. The RSS and sections of BJP leaders have intermittently raised the bogey of a growing Muslim population. The minority community has felt increasingly cornered under the current dispensation because of policies such as the new citizenship matrix, the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and the frequent attacks and slander campaigns targeting Muslims. Some felt that Bhagwat’s move to flag the population issue in his annual speech indicated it could be the next policy push of the Narendra Modi regime. BJP insiders indicated that discussions were underway to prepare a new population policy in the run-up to the next general election in 2024 to sway the majority Hindu community. In the English version of the written speech released by the RSS, Bhagwat pointed to the post-poll violence in Bengal and attributed it to “population imbalance” in the state while pitching for a change in population policy. “The violence that broke out following the elections of West Bengal and the pitiable condition of the Hindu people there can be attributed to the appeasement of barbarous elements by the government and population imbalance,” the English version of Bhagwat’s speech read. “Therefore a policy that is applicable to all groups in the same fashion is imperative,” he added. Bhagwat said a new population policy should be framed keeping in mind the next 50 years. According to him, India is a country of youths but in the next 30 years they will age and this has to be borne in mind while figuring out how much working population is needed to feed them. “A population policy keeping in mind the next 50 years should be formulated and it should be implemented uniformly for everyone,” he said. Glare on OTT Bhagwat expressed anxiety over the content being streamed on OTT platforms and called upon the government to put in place a regulatory framework. “There’s no control over what is shown on OTT platforms. Post-Covid, children have access to phones and we don’t know what they are watching,” the RSS chief said. Bhagwat also flagged concern over more and more youths getting addicted to narcotics and alleged that money from drug smuggling was being used for anti-national activities, calling upon the government to clamp down on it. He also said he was worried about the use of bitcoins and urged the government to make efforts to regulate the online currency, expressing fear that it could harm the country’s economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
16-10-2021||India||India slides seven notches on Global Hunger Index 2021 ||India has slipped seven notches on the Global Hunger Index 2021 released on Thursday, falling behind Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal and positioned at 101 among 116 countries ranked for the peer-reviewed annual report. India responded sharply to the downgrade, questioning the methodology employed. “It is shocking to find that the Global Hunger Report 2021 has lowered the rank of India on the basis of FAO (Food and Agriculture Organisation) estimate on proportion of undernourished population, which is found to be devoid of ground reality and facts and suffers from serious methodological issues,” the women and child development ministry said. “The publishing agencies of the Global Hunger Report, Concern Worldwide and Welt Hunger Hilfe, have not done their due diligence before releasing the report,” the ministry added. The response from the government followed a day of criticism over the sharp slide. In 2014, when the Narendra Modi government took office, India was ranked 55. Since then, the country’s ranking has mostly been on the decline: 80 in 2015, 97 in 2016, 100 in 2017, 103 in 2018, 102 in 2019 and 94 in 2020. With a score of 27.5, India has a level of hunger that is serious, the report prepared jointly by Concern Worldwide and Welthungerhilfe states. Welthungerhilfe is one of Germany’s biggest private organisations for development and humanitarian aid. Concern Worldwide is Ireland’s largest aid and humanitarian agency. The GHI is a tool for comprehensively measuring and tracking hunger at global, regional and national levels. GHI scores are based on the values of four component indicators: undernourishment (the share of the population with insufficient caloric intake), child wasting (the share of children under five years who have low weight for their height, reflecting acute undernutrition), child stunting (the share of children under five who have low height for their age, reflecting chronic undernutrition) and child mortality (the mortality rate of children under five, partly reflecting the fatal mix of inadequate nutrition and unhealthy environments). Data on undernourishment is collected from the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), while that on wasting and stunting are collated from Unicef, WHO, World Bank and Demographic and Health Surveys Programme figures. The mortality numbers are taken from the United Nations Inter-agency Group for Child Mortality Estimation. Based on the values of the four indicators, the GHI determines hunger on a 100-point scale, where 0 is the best possible score (no hunger) and 100 is the worst. Each country’s GHI score is classified by severity, from low to extremely alarming. The 2021 GHI scores include data from 2016-2020. According to the report, 15.3 per cent of the population of India is undernourished, 17.3 per cent of children under five are wasted, 34.7 per cent of children under five are stunted, and 3.4 per cent of children die before their fifth birthday. The women and child development ministry alleged that the methodology used by the FAO to prepare “The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2021” report was faulty. In the subcontinent, Sri Lanka ranks the highest at 65, followed by Bangladesh and Nepal who share the same rank at 76 with a score of 19.1, and Pakistan at 92. The countries below India include Afghanistan, the two Congos, Sierra Leone, Haiti, Liberia, Chad, Yemen and Somalia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
16-10-2021||India||‘Rigorous’ scan on carloads of Covaxin data||The technical experts tasked by the World Health Organisation to decide whether to grant emergency use listing to Covid-19 vaccines, including India’s Covaxin, are expected to assess vaccines’ efficacy, quality, safety and production consistency, experts familiar with the process said. The WHO had last week said it would take a “final decision” on whether to grant Covaxin the EUL — a stamp of approval expected to boost the vaccine’s global acceptability — this week, which would be three months after vaccine maker Bharat Biotech submitted its dossier. The dossier contained thousands of pages of electronic documents — enough, if printed, to fill three cars — detailing Covaxin’s makeup, production process, immune responses observed in animals, and results of the clinical trials on human volunteers. The WHO and Bharat Biotech have independently indicated that the evaluation process is rigorous, with the technical experts seeking information from the company, although neither has revealed the content of those exchanges. “The exchanges suggest the experts evaluating the vaccine want more information than what they had already received through the dossier,” said a senior Indian virologist who is not associated with the process. But some experts familiar with the WHO’s EUL process believe that three months to evaluate Covaxin would not be unusually long because any homegrown vaccine from India or other developing countries is likely to encounter slightly tougher scrutiny than vaccines approved in the US or Europe. A WHO document outlining the assessment pathways for EUL indicates that vaccines approved by a stringent regulatory authority — such as those of Canada, the European Union, the UK, the US — may undergo an “abridged assessment” based on reports from those authorities. “This is a reality that Indian drug and vaccine makers routinely encounter — India’s drug regulatory authority is not among those viewed as stringent,” said one expert. “The assessment thus becomes more detailed than it would be for vaccines already approved in the US or Europe.” The WHO officials were not immediately available to validate this inference or explain the differences in the assessment pathways for vaccines approved by stringent regulatory authorities and by other regulatory authorities. Bharat Biotech had in early July posted the results of its clinical trials on 25,000 volunteers, citing 77 per cent protective efficacy against symptomatic disease, 93 per cent efficacy against severe disease and 65 per cent protection against the highly contagious Delta coronavirus variant. The company’s dossiers would need to provide details of clinical trial protocols, evidence of ethics committee approvals, evidence of good clinical practices at each trial site, and follow-up studies on volunteers as evidence of long-term safety. The EUL evaluation seeks not just efficacy data but also details of the manufacturing process and controls, including flow diagrams that describe each sub-process and the equipment involved. The company also has to demonstrate batch-by-batch consistency. India’s drug regulatory authority had approved Covaxin and Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced in the country by the Serum Institute, in early January. But while Covishield received WHO’s EUL listing on February 15 this year, Bharat Biotech sent its dossier only in July. The WHO has so far granted EUL to Covid-19 vaccines from Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, AstraZeneca and two Chinese entities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
16-10-2021||India||VHP runs into controversy for trishul oath for Bajrang Dal colts ||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad has run into a controversy by distributing trishuls (tridents) among new Bajrang Dal recruits at two events in BJP-ruled Karnataka as part of their ordination. Held as a private event only open to VHP and Bajrang Dal leaders and activists in coastal Mangalore and Udupi on Wednesday, the trishul deekshe (ordination) came to light only on Friday when a short video clip of the new entrants taking oath holding trishuls started circulating on social media. In the clip, several youths wearing saffron shawls are seen holding up tridents while taking a pledge at the Mangalore event: “I take oath to protect Hindu society against cow slaughter, love jihad, land jihad and such issues, and convert Hindu yuva shakti (strength of the youth) into the nation’s strength.” Being a communally sensitive part of the state, coastal Karnataka has for long been a stronghold of Sangh parivar outfits, which often indulge in moral policing and cow vigilantism. Senior Congress leader and former home minister Ramalinga Reddy slammed the VHP and the Bajrang Dal for flaunting trishuls. “There is nothing wrong in keeping a trishul. But they have to be kept at the abode of Gods and not distributed among people like this,” he told reporters in Bangalore on Friday. “The trishul is an important symbol of the Hindu religion. But it is wrong to flaunt it,” said Reddy, who claimed that BJP leaders would not take remedial action since they toed the line of the Sangh parivar even in such activities. VHP divisional secretary Sharan Pumpwell told reporters in Mangalore on Friday that the trishul deekshe was merely a symbolic ritual held every year. “The sole objective is to build dedication and self-belief among the activists and commit them to the cause of the nation.” “Lots of people have been opposing our trishul deekshe to our new Bajrang Dal workers. We did not give bomb deekshe or grenade deekshe. What we did was trishul deekshe since we worship (Goddess) Shakti,” Pumpwell added. “This is only a symbolic trishul made of (stainless) steel. They have not been distributed with the intent to hurt or kill anyone,” he said. Mangalore police commissioner N. Shashi Kumar has initiated an investigation into the distribution of trishuls, probing if what had been handed out could be classified as a weapon. The probe will be led by an assistant commissioner of police. “We have received information about this trishul deekshe and that they do this every year. But I have directed an officer to look into this. We will take action if there is anything illegal,” Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
16-10-2021||India||Army loses seven in five-day-long anti-militancy operation in J&K||Two more soldiers have lost their lives in the five-day-long anti-militancy operation in Jammu’s Pir Panjal area, taking the army casualties to seven and making it one of the deadliest operations in a long time. The army on Friday said it lost two riflemen overnight in the operation that began on Monday morning after reports that some militants were hiding in the area. Jammu-based defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand identified the slain soldiers as riflemen Vikram Singh Negi, 26, and Yogambar Singh, 27, from Uttarakhand. Junior commissioned officer Jaswinder Singh, Naik Mandeep Singh, sepoy Gajjan Singh (all from Punjab), sepoy Saraj Singh from Uttar Pradesh and sepoy Vaisakh H. Kottarakara from Kollam in Kerala, had lost their lives on Monday. Official sources said militants had succeeded in inflicting heavy casualties on the security forces by taking advantage of thick foliage. Hundreds of security personnel have been scanning a vast forest area spreading over Poonch and Rajouri districts for the past few days without success. Officials said two soldiers were injured on Thursday night. There was confusion over their identities as the bodies could not be retrieved. The army initially said a junior commissioned officer and a rifleman were killed but later identified the deceased as riflemen Negi and Singh. “Rifleman Vikram Singh Negi and rifleman Yogambar Singh displayed exemplary courage, devotion and made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty. The nation will always remain indebted to these bravehearts for their supreme sacrifice for the nation,” the spokesman said Negi was from Tehri Garhwal district’s Viman village while Singh was from Chamoli’s Sankari village. Police sources said a junior commissioned officer was still missing but the army did not confirm or deny this. “The junior commissioned officer was presumed dead initially but he is missing. Massive searches are on to trace him,” a source said. The army believes the militants who killed the two soldiers on Thursday night were the same who murdered five troopers on Monday. “The two jawans were killed in Nar Khas area last (Thursday) evening which is several kilometres from Chamrer where we lost five men on Monday. The militants have been shuttling from one place to another,” an officer said. The casualties in the five-day operation are the heaviest since the May 2020 operation in Kashmir’s Handwara where five army personnel, including a colonel and a major, were killed. The authorities have blocked the road leading to Poonch from Jammu to prevent the militants from escaping. Jammu’s Rajouri and Poonch districts, also called Pir Panjal, are back on militants’ radar after nearly two decades of relative calm. There have been half a dozen encounters in the region this year. The increasing gunfights suggest Pakistan has stepped up infiltration in Jammu and Kashmir after the takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
16-10-2021||India||Samyukta Kisan Morcha condemns killing by Nihangs||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Friday made it clear that it had nothing to do with the Nihangs who have claimed responsibility for the mutilation and murder of a 35-year-old resident of Punjab’s Tarn Taran district at the Singhu border protest site early on Friday morning. As videos of the incident went viral, the SKM — which has been spearheading the farmers’ protests against three controversial farm laws — had to reckon with fresh allegations from the BJP and the Right-wing ecosystem of having anarchists in their midst. The SKM was quick to demand action against those guilty of the murder. In a statement, the SKM said: “A Nihang group at the scene has claimed responsibility, saying that the incident took place because of the deceased’s attempt to commit sacrilege with regard to the Sarbaloh Granth. It is been reported that this deceased was staying with the same group of Nihangs for some time.” Condemning the “gruesome killing”, the SKM sought to make it clear that the Nihang group and the deceased had no relation with the Morcha. “The Morcha is against sacrilege of any religious text or symbol, but that does not give anyone the right to take the law into their own hands. We demand that the culprits be punished according to law after investigating the allegation of murder and conspiracy behind the sacrilege. As always, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha will cooperate with the police in any lawful action. This peaceful and democratic movement is opposed to violence in any form.” Earlier, Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan — a constituent of the SKM — had in a video message said several farmer leaders had over the past months repeatedly urged the Nihangs to leave the protest site, pointing out that this was not any religious movement and that there was no place for them. “But they stayed on,” he said. BJP IT cell head Amit Malviya tweeted: “Had Rakesh Tikait not justified mob lynching in Lakhimpur, with Yogendra Yadav sitting next to him, maintaining sanctimonious silence, the gory murder of a youth at Kundali border would not have happened. Anarchists behind these protests in the name of farmers need to be exposed.” At a news conference in Delhi last Saturday, Tikait was asked about farmers killing two persons at Lakhimpur Kheri after four peasants were mowed down by a vehicle belonging to Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni. Tikait had said: “It was a reaction to an action; it was not planned. When two cars meet with an accident here, even educated people — fully aware that they can claim insurance — block the road and fight with each other. What is that?” Yadav pointed out that the law of the land drew a distinction between premeditated murder and killings that happened in reaction. “At the same time, the SKM believes that every person killed in the incident — irrespective of their political affiliation — should get justice.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
16-10-2021||India||IITs halve counselling cut-offs for second consecutive year||The IITs have had to halve the prescribed cut-offs for appearing in counselling for admission to BTech courses for the second year running. Although the aggregate cut-offs mentioned in the brochure of the Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced) had been 35 per cent for common rank list (CRL) or general category students, 31.5 per cent for the Other Backward Class (OBC) and non-creamy layer (NCL) category, 31.5 per cent for the economically weaker sections (EWS) among general category students, and 17.5 per cent for Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) students, they have been reduced by half across all groups in the results published on Friday. The cut-offs have had to be lowered since 2018 to create a pool big enough to call 2.5 to 3 times more students than the number to be admitted to the IITs following counselling, or the last leg of selection. For the 2021 session, 41,862 candidates have cleared the JEE Advanced and have been called for counselling to fill up 16,000 BTech seats in the 23 IITs. Among them are 6,452 girls. According to a media release of the IITs, 1,41,699 students appeared in the JEE Advanced this year. Those who have qualified include 17,057 general category students, 9,150 OBC-NCL candidates, 5,144 EWS students, 7,747 SCs and 2,764 STs. Mridul Agarwal from the IIT Delhi zone topped JEE Advanced by scoring 348 marks out of 360. Among girls, Kavya Chopra of the Delhi zone came first with 286 marks, ranking 98 on the CRL. The brochure had said the minimum marks required in individual subjects and the cut-off can be lowered, if required. The minimum marks in individual subjects have also been halved. General candidates need to get at least 10 per cent each in mathematics, physics and chemistry. This individual subject cut-off is 9 per cent for OBCs and EWS students and 4 per cent for SCs and STs. These cut-offs have also been slashed by half. “The cut-offs were lowered to get the required number of candidates for IIT admission. The education ministry has allowed lowering of cut-offs since 2018,” an IIT teacher said. This year, IIT Kharagpur was the organising institute for JEE Advanced, a responsibility shouldered by IIT Delhi last year. Last year, too, the cut-offs had been slashed by half. Last year, the IITs had declared 43,204 candidates as having qualified in the JEE Advanced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
16-10-2021||West Bengal||TMC expresses concern on reports of communal tension in Bangladesh||The Trinamul Congress, through an editorial in its Bengali mouthpiece Jago Bangla, on Friday expressed concern on  reports of communal tension around Durga Puja in neighbouring Bangladesh, appreciated the Sheikh Hasina government’s role against it and urged the Narendra Modi government to “speak up”. In the short editorial titled “Bangladeshey shanti thakuk (May peace prevail in Bangladesh), chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s party championed the cause of minorities everywhere. The article condemned attempts to divide people on the basis of faith and warned against the Bangladesh incidents being misused to polarise people in India. “We are in favour of integrity and amity in India. We are in favour of protection of minorities. That applies to Bangladesh as well. There too, minorities should be protected,” the editorial said. This is the first reaction from Bengal’s ruling party, a day after Bangladesh premier Hasina said neighbouring countries like India should also be vigilant to ensure that religion is not used to divide people in the backdrop of clashes in several parts of her country during puja. Hasina had also urged Hindus in Bangladesh not to consider themselves minorities. Hasina’s observations came at a time when there is a growing perception in Muslim-majority Bangladesh that the condition of Muslims in India has worsened since the change of guard in Delhi in 2014. “The Bangladesh government and the administration should take appropriate measures. That is what they have been doing, according to reports. The government of India should speak up without delay,” read the Jago Bangla editorial. “Our appeal to citizens, do not spread acrid, biased comments over this. All that needs to be done with the aim of peace, let that be done. It should be seen that there is no inadvertent provocation ...Nobody’s feelings should get hurt. We want a responsible resolution,” it added. “When allegations come from Bangladesh, it is natural for us to feel bad. We have to be vigilant so that these allegations are... not misused as opportunities by fake champions of religion to spread venom ....” The Hasina government initiated quick administrative action — Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) troops were deployed in 22 districts to provide security to puja pandals and temples and 43 people were arrested — after attacks in Cumilla and other places in Chittagong range. “The saffron ecosystem thrives on the misuse of such opportunities to foment tension and further the RSS’s divisive agenda. Bangladesh is often used as an excuse by the BJP and its sister outfits to encourage hatred between communities in Bengal. We have been on alert to keep things from taking an untoward turn here,” said a senior Rajya Sabha member of Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
16-10-2021||West Bengal||Jumbo awareness drive in Jhargram Durga Puja pandal ||The death of a young tourist in an elephant attack this July prompted a Durga Puja committee in Jhargram to change its theme to one on awareness of the challenges facing wild animals, especially elephants, and people of Jungle Mahal. The Nedabahara Sarbojanin Durga Puja Committee, around 5km from Jhargram town, had earlier thought of something traditional, but changed plans after Devesh Agrawal, 26, was killed by an elephant when he went too close to the animal in Jhargram’s Keudishol forest on July 26. Devesh, a resident of Harish Mukherjee Road in Calcutta, had gone to visit the forest with two of his friends. “Deaths in elephant attacks are commonplace in our area. The latest incident was in July, when the young tourist from Calcutta was killed. That incident prompted us to draw up the new plan for our puja pandal,” said Rabindra Baske, treasurer of the puja committee. Puja organisers said they  contacted local artisan Santu Mahato and reworked the plans for the theme. The new theme became Nirupaay (helpless), as the organisers believe that both humans and elephants are helpless in the situation. “It has been a longstanding problem for us… elephants come and enter our villages. We have to compromise, as they have as much of a right as we do to survive in these forests,” said Baske. Jute bags, paperboards, clay, clothes and gum have been used to decorate the pandal, with sculptures of two elephants and a calf eating paddy from a field while a group of farmers watch the damage. “People living in this area often confront elephants, to drive them away… it is fatal for many. We know that this desperation (to confront elephants) is on account of the potential damage to crops. But it’s best to let go, as one would during a natural disaster,” said an organiser. Several senior forest officials said the theme of the puja was significant for Jungle Mahal, where human-animal conflict is a major challenge for many in the villages. “If there is a human-tiger conflict in the Sunderbans, the conflict in Jungle Mahal is between elephants and humans. So it is good if the local people bring awareness through the festival,” said a senior state forest official. In the four Jungle Mahal districts of Jhargram, West Midnapore, Purulia and Bankura, elephants from the Dalma forest range of Jharkhand enter those districts mainly for food. Recently, the Bankura forest department had to cancel puja leaves for all their staff members after 80 elephants entered the district, raising the threat perception that normal human life in the zone would be hampered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
16-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 451 new cases, 506 recoveries, eight deaths||Bengal on Friday, Vijaya Dashami, reported 451 new Covid-19 infections, 506 recoveries and eight deaths. The total of active Covid-19 cases fell by 63 to 7,513. Last year, Bengal’s total number of active cases on Dashami was 37,190. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases on September 26 this year. Since then, in the past 20 days, Bengal recorded a rise in its active cases for 12 days, a fall for seven days and no change on one day. “These are data of people  infected in the October 6 to 10 window. There were adverse estimates of things worsening exponentially from around that time because of general disregard for safety protocols in the run-up to the festival. But these figures increasingly suggest that things were not so bad,” said a minister. The state now has 3.84 per cent of India’s active cases, and is sixth among states with the most such cases. With 127 new infections, Calcutta was only one of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Eleven districts reported a single-digit figure. Twenty Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday. Calcutta reported three deaths and North 24-Parganas four. The state’s recovery rate is 98.32 per cent, while the national rate is 98.05 per cent now. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which had risen to nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave earlier this year, was 2.13 per cent on Friday. Its mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.79 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first in March last year, which includes nearly 15.53 lakh recoveries and 18,953 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
16-10-2021||West Bengal||Durga Puja: Low-key immersions||Immersions of the idols of Goddess Durga and her children in the Ichhamati in Taki, North 24-Parganas, were held on Friday under the watchful eyes of the state police, administration, the BSF and their Bangladeshi counterparts BGB so that Covid-19 safety protocols were maintained. As announced earlier by the civic administration, only eight persons on each boat of puja organisers were allowed to sail with the deities for immersion. No joyride on boats for tourists was allowed. Few people watched the immersions from the banks. The BSF and the BGB monitored the proceedings on speed boats along the middle of the river, creating a line of control with ropes so as to ensure no boat from either side could sneak into the other’s territory. The immersion began with the deities of Taki Rajbari (royal house). After the traditional farewell rituals by women, the deities was taken to the Rajbari ghat and immersed in the river with the support of police and civic volunteers. Immersions that began with the idols of Rajbari at 1pm were completed by 4.30pm, maintaining the time schedule announced earlier to prevent overcrowding for a prolonged period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
16-10-2021||Opinion||Collective surrender||Historians of Nazi Germany have always been troubled with one central question: how could one of the most advanced, sophisticated countries of Europe descend into the depths of barbarism in such a short span of time, culminating in the murder of millions of people? Some historians, called the intentionalists,  emphasized the importance of Hitler’s master plan as outlined in Mein Kampf, while other historians, called the functionalists, minimized the importance of Hitler and focused on the Nazi party machinery. The British historian, Sir Ian Kershaw, one of the most influential historians of Nazi Germany, synthesized these two approaches in his theory of “cumulative radicalisation” to explain the horrors of Nazi Germany. The radical and inhumane atrocities committed by Nazi Germany, according to Kershaw, were not dependent on the directions of Hitler, but grew out of the initiative of party bosses, bureaucrats and professionals who drew on his charismatic authority. “...Hitler’s authority gave implicit backing and sanction to those whose actions, however inhumane, however radical, fell within the general and vague ideological remit of furthering the aims of the Fuhrer,” wrote Kershaw. Thus, in Kershaw’s telling, the increasing radicalization of Nazi Germany, the accelerating “erosion of civilised values” and “spiralling radicalisation of discrimination and persecution”, was driven not just by ideological extremism but also by competition within the party and State machinery for “power, prestige and enrichment”. Social and political advancement depended on “working towards the Fuhrer” (a phrase Kershaw borrows from a Nazi minister). This phrase denoted activist action, carried out by both State and civil society actors, to realize the vision of Hitler. The ill-defined nature of Hitler’s ideological vision (‘racial purity’, ‘national redemption’) and the non-interventionist style of Hitler perfectly suited this ‘cumulative radicalisation’ as the followers of the Fuhrer, with often conflicting social motivations, sought to outdo each other in radical programmes of persecution. “One might denounce neighbours to the Gestapo, slur a business competitor’s ‘Aryan’ credentials, or nominate patients for the euthanasia program: this was all ‘working towards the Fuhrer’.” Kershaw contrasted this chaotic authoritarianism with the more programmatic authoritarianism of Stalinist Russia. India is, of course, not quite Nazi Germany on the brink of Holocaust, but this concept of ‘cumulative radicalisation’ is a useful mechanism to explain the country’s plunge towards the kind of violence and persecution that has been the hallmark of the Narendra Modi regime. The Modi government has not introduced a new system of governance. We have the same Constitution and the same governing institutions. Yet, over these last seven years, it has managed to transform the political culture in such a way that important functionaries in both State and civil society are incentivized to undermine the rule of law and the principles of equal citizenship as long as it appears to be in consonance with the political vision of Modi and his party. Most metrics of India’s ‘growing authoritarianism’ derive from the executive actions of the government or the laws passed by Parliament. These might include laws such as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the UAPA Act, 2019 or the new internet rules compromising the privacy mechanisms of social media providers. Yet, this ‘radicalization from above’ is only part of the story. Equally, if not more, important is the ‘radicalization from below’. These are the actions of fairly low-level party functionaries, policemen, government bureaucrats, lawyers, judges, journalists and right-wing vigilantes who are shaping the reality of the country everyday through their individual actions. A few incidents just over the last month can be furnished as evidence of India’s accelerating pace of radicalization where persecution of Muslims has assumed an endemic character. In Indore, a Muslim family of eight was attacked by Hindutva mobs in order to force them to leave their village. The police filed a first information report not just against the alleged perpetrators but also against their victims, a family of blacksmiths. In Indore city, four Muslim students were arrested for the crime of participating in a college garba event. In Assam, two Muslims were shot dead by the police during an eviction drive that is part of a State policy, which disproportionately targets Bengali-speaking Muslims. Across three northern states, Hindutva groups roamed the streets forcibly closing Muslim-owned meat shops during the festival of Navaratri. There is a common thread linking all these incidents — the role of the local police and bureaucracy in implementing, protecting or sanctioning various forms of violence against Muslims. Under the current regime, the State machinery is slowly freeing itself from the binds of the rule of law and embracing the insidious dynamic of vigilantism. The political scientist, Pradeep Chhibber, professor at the University of California, Berkeley, provided the clearest articulation of this political culture of vigilantism in an article earlier this year which merits being quoted at some length here. “The vanguard of this (Modi) regime are legions of vigilantes; these are ordinary citizens, businessmen, journalists, and of course, bureaucrats. They are the new regime’s foot soldiers, led not by the government openly, but by low-level officials and ordinary citizens seeking to ingratiate themselves with the powerful,” wrote Chhibber. Surveying events such as the arrest of the climate change activist, Disha Ravi, the Delhi police’s atrociously partisan investigation of the Delhi riots, and the attacks on movies and television shows, Chhibber concluded that “[i]n many of these cases, there is often no high-level directive from the government or top party leadership.” In a passage that strongly echoes the concept of Kershaw’s ‘cumulative radicalisation’, Chhibber underlined the internal logic of the new vigilantism: “Mid-level bureaucrats, police officials, local politicians, and activists take it upon themselves to enthusiastically promote what they perceive to be the government’s interests. These individuals want to prove their loyalty through actions they perceive might enhance their political or career chances.” Almost all institutions of the country — the media, judiciary, security agencies, tax agencies — have become increasingly corroded by this logic of ‘cumulative radicalisation’. To these can be added the Narcotics Control Bureau, where overzealous officers are presently carrying out a crusade against Bollywood in the name of curbing the menace of drug consumption. When Sameer Wankhede, Mumbai zonal director of the NCB executed the raid that led to the arrest of Aryan Khan, the son of Shah Rukh Khan, he must presumably have been cognizant of the satisfaction of his political masters at the prized catch. The quantity of drugs recovered were quite insignificant, and there is purportedly no direct evidence of the culpability of Aryan Khan. However, Wankhede has managed to bring the most prominent Muslim man in the country to his knees, which ultimately might have been the point, as the presence of a local BJP politician in the raid party suggests. This ‘cumulative radicalisation’ is nurtured by the strategic silence of Modi, allowing his underlings and followers to interpret his will and compete for his favours, while escaping responsibility if things go sour. His vision of a ‘Hindu rashtra’ is never explicitly spelt out, but only signalled, especially through appointments to high office. Perhaps the most consequential policy decision of the Modi years has been installing Yogi Adityanath, a controversial monk then mainly known for running a violent anti-Muslim outfit, to the throne of Uttar Pradesh. As the political journalist, D.K. Singh, has written, Yogi Adityanath has since emerged as the model for all other BJP chief ministers and seeded a perverse competition among them on who can go the furthest in clamping down on dissent and persecuting Muslims. A good example is Himanta Biswa Sarma, who has started the first six months of his tenure as chief minister by imposing a stringent cow slaughter ban, allegedly encouraging fake encounters, slapping UAPA charges over social media posts and intensifying eviction drives of Bengali-speaking Muslims. Since Sarma comes from a Congress lineage, it stands to reason that personal advancement in the party rather than purely ideological motives lie behind his radicalism. The story of ‘New India’ is not being written by Modi alone; some of its pages are being written by people like Himanta Biswa Sarma and Yogi Adityanath; and still others are being written by innumerable obscure Indians, be it a judge denying bail to dissidents or Dalit activists, or a journalist spreading invidious propaganda against farm law protesters, or a policeman arresting Muslims on trumped-up charges. Yet, all of them are, in a sense, ‘working towards Modi’ and towards his party. ‘New India’ is being constructed on the building blocks of ideological extremism and is cemented by the greed of those who wish to prosper from it. This is the ‘cumulative radicalisation’ which opens the door for all kinds of atrocities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
16-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Dot with the tail||Climate change — earth is experiencing its sixth great cycle of extinction — is threatening innumerable living beings. According to some scientific estimates, more than 25,000 species are facing oblivion in the near future. These include mammals, reptiles, avians and — that virtual speck in this sea of loss — the Grammar Police. For the climate of communication is changing as well, bringing death to punctuations on account of ‘extreme technological events’. For instance, the full-stop, a perfectly acceptable — even crucial — piece of punctuation without which no sentence can even end, has been known to touch a sore spot among millennials and members of Generation Z. The latter species pride themselves for not honouring the established rules of grammatical engagement. This burgeoning tribe even believes that there is a rationale for its irreverence: punctuations, it is being argued, suck life out of funny, crispy social media exchanges, turning them dull. The irrelevance of punctuations signals another triumph: the victory of image over text. The dominance of emojis — pictogrammes that substitute words with pictorial depictions of a wide range of emotions — and other kinds of image over the written word has also pushed punctuations towards the exit door. Mercifully, in certain corners of the world, punctuations can still pack a punch or two. Most recently, in Australia, a missing apostrophe in a Facebook post could, in all probability, cost a real estate agent a fortune after a court permitted defamation proceedings to begin, arguing that the grammatical slip left considerable scope for the message to be misinterpreted. Three years ago, a court in the United States of America had taken an equally refreshing position, stating that the absence of an Oxford comma had led to significant ambiguity. The belligerence of the young, as opposed to the dour defence of language and its rules by stately institutions such as the courts, reflects a growing, but interesting, crack in the global order. From being divided into ‘Haves’ and ‘Have-Nots’, the turf is now being carved out between two new adversarial camps. There are the Language Rebels, those who want to rewrite or, worse still, do away with punctuations if not grammar. The resistance to this frightening purge is being led by the dedicated Grammar Police: a ‘grammar vigilante’ in Bristol, it had been reported earlier, goes about in the dead of the night, adding apostrophes where they are necessary and deleting them when they are not. This cat-and-mouse game between the anti-grammarian and the grammarian is getting fractious. But the bitterness does not mean that the neutral reader cannot glean the larger message. Language, as always, remains the barometer of the life and times of a society. Words, with or without the apostrophe, are still the proverbial compass to chart the direction of monumental change.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
16-10-2021||Opinion||The north London house where Tagore stayed in 1912||A number of people have viewed the semi-detached house in the Vale of Health, Hampstead in north London worth £2.7 million where Rabindranath Tagore stayed in 1912, I am told by “Nibs” Lakhani, who is handling the sale as director of the estate agents, Goldschmidt & Howland. “The property was empty for a while but the owners have moved back in — they are very nice,” he tells me. Now that Mamata Banerjee has got her election out the way, perhaps she will be able to give the possible purchase of such a historic property more attention. I have been trying to encourage Lord Swraj Paul, effectively her personal ambassador in London, to do whatever he can to help. He assures me he is more than willing. Lakshmi Mittal is another big hitter with a Calcutta connection — he generously supports one or two of the London Pujas. I know the house well since my first job after university was to cover the Hampstead area as a reporter for the North London Press. It has a blue plaque commemorating Tagore’s stay. I think it is a corner of London that should become forever Bengal. Hampstead itself is a green and leafy corner of London, with a big Bengali settlement in adjacent Belsize Park (Jyoti Basu had student accommodation there). The Bengalis are currently celebrating Puja with rather more dhoom-dham than was possible last year. Next door in Camden, the call of Mother Durga is enhanced by offerings of everything from Bengali fish fry to phulkopir shingara and beguni to Calcutta-style chicken biryani. Right-wing British commentators have long made fun of Prince Charles, dismissing him as an eccentric on matters such as climate change. But times have changed and I think a lot of people, especially the young, will take note of what the 72-year-old heir to the throne had to say about his own diet: “For years, I haven’t eaten meat and fish on two days a week and I don’t eat dairy products on one day a week. If more did that, you would reduce a lot of the pressure.” Questions on the highbrow TV quiz show, University Challenge, are normally very tough — at least for me — but here are three that came up this week when Birmingham scored 245 against Sussex’s 10, a record low, that made Indians smile: 1) Irrfan Khan played the adult version of the title character in the film adaptation of which novel by Yann Martel? 2) In 2004, Khan starred in an adaption of which Shakespeare play? 3) Khan plays a police inspector who questions the young Jamal Malik, played by Dev Patel, in which film? I recently went to the National Theatre to see Ayub Khan Din’s autobiographical play, East is East, exactly 25 years to the day I attended its premiere at the Birmingham Repertory Theatre on October 8, 1996. Set in Salford, near Manchester, in 1971, it tells of a Pakistani immigrant, “George” Khan, who has married Ella, an Englishwoman, but is frustrated when he tries to bring up six stroppy sons and a daughter as “good Muslims”. Ayub was sitting next to me. His play was made into a film starring the late Om Puri in 1999 but we agreed the stage version with its subtle nuances and very funny lines is vastly superior. The writer of a new BBC drama on how Jews were once subjected to violent attacks by fascist thugs in the East End of London mentioned India in passing. Alas, it wasn’t flattering. The four-part series, Ridley Road, written by Sarah Solemani, is based on what actually happened in London in the early 1960s when Jews living in the East End were targeted by the neo-Nazi National Socialist Movement, led by Colin Jordan. The police protected Jordan’s fascists — in the interests of “free speech” — even when they marched through Ridley Road, a Jewish settlement, wearing para-military uniform and brandishing swastikas. Jordan also campaigned against Asian and black immigration, especially in 1972 when Ugandan Indians refugees started arriving in the UK. The Jews have been replaced by Bangladeshis, who also had to fight back in the 1970s when far-right groups marched past their homes. What caught my attention was Solemani’s comment that the drama deals with bygone history, but is pertinent to modern times. Solemani says: “Britain’s relationship with fascism is closer and more alive than we like to think. Luckily, so is our rich heritage of fighting it.” She adds, “I think this story is an important one to tell because the dilemma of 1962 is still one that we’re grappling with now — which is, why are people drawn to the far right? What is it about that ideology and rhetoric that is still appealing, so many years on? Not just in England, but in America, Eastern Europe, India, Brazil, it’s something that has had a surge of popularity.” Indra Nooyi, the former CEO of PepsiCo, who has been in the United Kingdom to promote her autobiography, My Life in Full: Work, Family, and Our Future, revealed that she reads “like a maniac”. Later, when I asked her which five books she would take to a desert island, she protested, “Only five?” Pressed, she finally responded: “All of Enid Blyton.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
16-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Why overlook Paralympic gold medallists?||Sir — Indian athletes performed remarkably well at the 2021 Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics, bringing home multiple gold medals. Yet, Neeraj Chopra, who won the sole gold medal at the Summer Olympics, has been featured in advertisements and magazine covers whereas the five Paralympic gold medallists have been largely overlooked. Chopra should certainly be celebrated for his achievements, but is there any reason why the same attention cannot be paid to para-athletes? It seems that even the highest accolades cannot end the apathy faced by para-athletes. Abhirup Dutta, Calcutta Sir — The recent Chinese incursions into Indian territory and the inability of the two governments to resolve the crisis are cause for concern (“Deadlocked”, Oct 14). After 13 rounds of negotiation, New Delhi and Beijing are yet to make any headway in resolving the 17-month-long stand-off. The Line of Actual Control has been disputed for years, but China’s commitment to the wolf-warrior diplomatic strategy under Xi Jinping has further shrunk room for discussion. India is right to forge partnerships with the United States of America, Australia and Japan through the Quad. With the Chinese government building infrastructure along the Indo-China border, New Delhi would need all the help possible in battling the looming threat to India’s territorial sovereignty. We must improve our infrastructure, lines of communication and defence preparedness along the LAC so that we are not blindsided in the future. H.N. Ramakrishna,Bangalore Sir — It is unlikely that India and China will be able to resolve the border crisis without third-party arbitration. India is in no position to go to war with China but neither can it concede its territory. New Delhi should not let this escalate any further. Yashwant Bagaria,Udaipur Sir — It is shocking to learn that 500,000 Indians die annually because of non-availability of organs (“Honour the dead”, Oct 12). Data reveal that between 2014-19, there were approximately 0.5 donors per million per year which accounted for a little over 800 deceased donations annually. These are worrying numbers for a country where the population stands above a billion. There are several socio-cultural reasons why Indians are reluctant to donate their organs but one of the foremost — and avoidable — reasons why organ donations fail is because families are either unaware of the deceased’s decision or they do not notify hospitals on time. Bappaditya Mukhopadhyay has identified five key players: the donor, the agency that registered the donor, the hospital where the patient died, the recipient hospital, and the donor’s family members as crucial to the process. It is not difficult to plug these gaps and a well-maintained database will resolve many of the issues. Jahar Saha, Calcutta Sir — A large number of Indians shy away from organ donations because of religious and cultural notions attached to the sanctity of the body. We must have open conversations about the necessity of organ donation and the massive harm caused by such beliefs if we hope to change the current situation. Abhirup Sanyal, Santiniketan Sir — The silence of the government on the Pandora papers is completely unacceptable. Before coming to power, Narendra Modi had been vocal about punishing those guilty of tax evasion and bringing kala dhan back to India. It is now evident that those were just pre-election claims — the home minister, Amit Shah, even clarified that Modi’s declaration of depositing Rs 15 lakh in the banks of Indians is a jumla and must not be taken literally. The government is simply not interested in resolving the crisis. Anthony Henriques, Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
16-10-2021||Jharkhand|| As cases rise, Jharkhand mandates strict test regime||Jharkhand health department has directed all deputy commissioners to ensure Covid tests for inter-district travellers at entry points of the districts in the wake of a rise in the active caseload of Covid-19 amid the festive season rush, officials said on Saturday. Additional chief secretary (health), Arun Kumar Singh has directed district officials to set up Covid testing booths at  entry points to prevent the spread of infection by inter-district travellers during the festive season, health officials said. While most of the travellers will be tested through Rapid Antigen Tests, the ones suffering from symptoms of Covid-19 may have to undergo RT-PCR tests as a precautionary measure, officials said. “The next 100 days are crucial in managing the Covid situation in our state. It is important to adhere to the Covid protocols during the festive season as any complacency may lead to a rise in cases,” Singh said. As per government records, the count of active Covid cases has more than doubled since September 20, mostly due to the festive season rush at markets and other public places. Data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) reveals that there were only 55 active Covid cases in the state on September 20, and by Saturday, the active caseload jumped to 130. While necessary guidelines for various festivals were issued by the government before Durga Puja, some of the norms were openly flouted as devotees thronged puja pandals and temples despite a government order restricting entry of devotees in puja pandals as a precautionary measure, sources said. According to health experts, the movement of people from one district to another may cause a rise in Covid cases as socializing during the festive season might make maintaining social distance difficult. Dr Ajay Kumar Singh, the state coordinator of Indian Medical Association (IMA) in Jharkhand, warned against complacency during the festive season and said that following social distancing norms until New Year was the need of the hour. “We need to be more careful during the festive season, and also ensure vaccination for as many people as possible at the earliest,” said Singh. Ranchi, which sees the highest number of inter-district and interstate travellers during the festive season, has been the worst-affected district in Jharkhand in terms of Covid cases and fatalities. As per government data, the active caseload of Covid-19 in Ranchi rose from 27 on September 20 to 61 on Saturday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
16-10-2021||Jharkhand|| Fire at Sakchi destroys shop, dairy unit ||A fire,  suspected to have been caused by a short-circuit, gutted a furniture showroom and a dairy unit operating at a building at Kashidih in Sakchi, a  commercial hub if Jamshedpur, early on Saturday. It took around two hours for  fire tenders belonging to the state fire department and Tata Steel to bring the blaze under control. The blaze engulfed the dairy unit first and then spread to the furniture showroom. District fire service officials said they were informed about the fire around 2 am, and the fire tenders reached the spot within 10 minutes. The fire tenders had no problem in reaching  the spot of the mishap close to  Pearl House. Timely intervention by fire fighters prevented the fire from spreading to other nearby shops including a car showroom. The extent of financial losses incurred by the owners if the shops could not be immediately estimated. But, sources in Sakchi market said the losses would be somewhere between Rs 20 lakh and Rs 25 lakh. Fire  station officer Gopal Singh said, "The fire was caused by a suspected short-circuit. A probe has been initiated by Sakchi police." He said power supply at Kashidih and its adjoining areas in Sakchi was snapped as soon as the fire broke out. This was the second major fire that broke out at Sakchi in the past five  months. On May 1, a similar fire caused by a short-circuit gutted around half-a-dozen shops at Sakchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
16-10-2021||Jharkhand||Petrol selling at Rs 100 a litre on Ranchi Ring Road ||In a major blow to residents of Jharkhand, the price of petrol at  pumps on the outskirts of Ranchi touched Rs 100 a litre on Saturday while those located within the capital are selling fuel at eight paise less, the unprecedented rise threatening to have cascading effect on cost of commodities and public transport. On Saturday, a litre petrol was selling for Rs 99.92 a litre at pumps within the city. Diesel on the other hand was being sold at Rs 99.44 a litre, said Pramod Kumar, the spokesperson of Jharkhand Petroleum Dealers' Association. He, however, maintained that a handful of pumps on Ranchi outskirts (Ring Road) beyond a 25-km radius from the city were  already selling for  Rs 100. "In Ranchi, we are only 8 paisa short of touching Rs 100 for petrol, and 56 paise short  for diesel. But, two-three pumps along the Ring Road are  selling petrol at Rs 100.11per litre. This difference is due to the distance from the main stockyard of the fuel company," he said adding that going by persent trends, the price will touch Rs 100 in Ranchi too. On October 14, petrol was selling at  Rs 99.27 per litre and diesel at  Rs 98.71 per litre. Commuters and transporters blamed both the Union and state governments for leaving people in the lurch. Rakesh Mishra, a Zomato delivery boy, said his earnings had dipped due to the hikes. "Because of the price hikes, I had transitioned to cycle for delivering and stopped using a bike to save on fuel cost. However, I am losing out on my commission as cycling for delivery is time consuming. For me, it's a Catch 22 situation," he said. Md Iftikar, a salesman at Main Road, who uses autos to commute, said that in last three months, his travel cost had  more than doubled while his salary has remained the same. "From Dhurwa to Main Road, I used to spend Rs 15 per trip. Now, citing covid lockdown and fuel price hikes, auto fares have gone up and I almost spend double the amount per trip," he said. An official of Ranchi Bus Owners' Association said that they were considering fare hikes across routes. "A meeting has been scheduled with all bus operators to take a call," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
16-10-2021||Jharkhand||6 killed in freak mishaps in Jharkhand||Six persons died in two mishaps across Jharkhand on Thursday. Two workers were killed when a concrete mixer machine came into contact with an overhead electric wire in Gumla district, around 100km from capital Ranchi. In Garhwa district, four persons who went fishing at a dam drowned after being caught in its radial gate. According to reports, several contract workers were engaged in the construction of a building in Gumla’s Dumratoli Mohalla. The workers were setting up a concrete mixer machine when its top part came into contact with a 11KW live wire. Two workers who died on the spot were identified as Roshan Kharia, 34, and Alka Toppo, 20. Ten injured workers were rushed to Gumla Sadar Hospital for treatment. In Garhwa, four youths had gone fishing at the Bhabani Khan dam under Sribansidhar Nagar police station and got stuck in the outlet pipes of the gates around 10pm. The bodies were fished out in the small hours of Friday after opening the dam gates in the presence of police officers. The deceased have been identified as Bablu Oraon, 25, Anil Oraon, 25, Amresh Oraon, 17, and Nagendra Oraon, 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
16-10-2021||Jharkhand||Durga send-off with Covid protocol in Jharkhand||Immersion of Durga idols took place on Friday without elaborate processions in keeping with the Covid-19 protocols in Jharkhand. Adhering to Covid guidelines, no Ravana effigies were burnt on Dussehra anywhere in Jharkhand on Friday for the second year in a row. Organisers in Jamshedpur, which hosts the maximum number of Durga Puja pandals in the state, had immersed all the idols by 8pm except the state’s tallest idol (26 feet) at Sonari. “The tallest idol at Sonari could not be immersed in time as the idol got stuck in electric wires and had to be taken back over fear of the vehicle getting electrocuted. The idol was supposed to have been immersed at the Domuhani ghat on the bank of the Kharkai,” said Rambabu Singh, patron of the Jamshedpur Kendriya Durga Puja Samiti, the apex body that coordinates Puja festivities in the city with the support of the district administration. The East Singhbhum administration had given conditional permission to the Puja organisers at Rocky Maidan in Sonari for the 26-feet idol, making an exception to Jharkhand’s Covid guideline that had capped the idol height at five feet, as the organisers had a religious vow. There was no report of any untoward incident anywhere in the state during the immersion ceremony. “The immersion ceremony passed off peacefully across Jharkhand. Elaborate security arrangements had been made at communally-sensitive pockets and also at immersion points along major ponds and river banks,” said Jharkhand police spokesperson and IG (operations) A.V. Homkar. In Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Ranchi and other big cities, the administration had arranged local divers at all the river banks for any eventualities during the immersion as most of the rivers are in spate following rains that continued till the first week of October. Most of the Puja organisers did not undertake massive processions with tableaus and instead opted for traditional dhakis to keep crowds at bay. There was no Ravan Dahan on Friday. “This was the second year in succession that there has been no Ravan Dahan in Ranchi or in any other parts of Jharkhand following the government guidelines on Covid-19,” said Munchun Rai, convener of Ranchi Zilla Durga Puja Samiti.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
