17-10-2021||Business||Petrol and diesel price increased again; cost 30% more than ATF||Petrol and diesel price on Sunday was hiked again by 35 paise a litre and the auto fuels now cost a third more than the rate at which ATF is sold to airlines.  The fourth straight day of 35 paise per litre hike sent petrol and diesel rates to record highs across the country.  The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 105.84 a litre and Rs 111.77 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers.  In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 102.52 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 94.57.  With this rise, petrol is now at Rs 100-a-litre mark or more in all state capitals while diesel has touched the 100-mark in over a dozen states. Diesel crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Bengaluru, Daman and Silvassa.  Petrol used in two-wheelers and cars now costs 33 per cent more than the price at which aviation turbine fuel (ATF) is sold to airlines. ATF in Delhi costs Rs 79,020.16 per kilolitre or Rs 79 per litre.  The costliest fuel is in the border town of Ganganagar in Rajasthan where petrol comes for Rs 117.86 a litre and diesel for Rs 105.95.  Since ending of a three-week long hiatus in rate revision in the last week of September, this is the 16th increase in petrol price and the 19th time that diesel rates have gone up.  While petrol price in most of the country is already above Rs 100-a-litre mark, diesel rates have crossed that level in over a dozen states/UT including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chattisgarh, Bihar, Kerala, Karnataka and Ladakh.  Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes.  Shedding the modest price change policy, state-owned fuel retailers have since October 6 started passing on the larger incidence of cost to consumers.  This is because the international benchmark Brent crude is trading at USD 84.8 per barrel for the first time in seven years.  A month back, Brent was trading at USD 73.51.  Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices.  The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rates on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel.  Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 5.95 per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 4.65.  Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
17-10-2021||Business||Avenue Supermarts reports twofold increase in net profit||Avenue Supermarts, which owns and operates retail chain D-Mart, on Saturday reported a twofold increase in its consolidated net profit at Rs 417.76 crore for the second quarter ended September 2021. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 198.53 crore a year ago. Revenue from operations was up 46.79 per cent to Rs 7,788.94 crore against Rs 5,306.20 crore in the corresponding quarter of the last fiscal. Total expenses were at Rs 7,248.74 crore, up 43.63 per cent in the second quarter of 2021-22 against Rs 5,046.69 crore of the year-ago quarter. “Total revenue for H1FY22 stood at Rs 12,972 crore compared with Rs 9,189 crore in the same period last year,” the company said. On a standalone basis, Avenue Supermarts’ revenue from operations during the quarter was at Rs 7,649.64 crore, up 46.6 per cent, in comparison to Rs 5,218.15 crore in the second quarter of 2020-21. Avenue Supermarts CEO and managing director Neville Noronha said, “Covid-19-related restrictions were eased further during this quarter. Two years and older D-Mart stores grew 23.7 per cent in September 2021 compared with a year ago.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
17-10-2021||Business||Gems and jewellery exports rise 29.67% in Sept 2021||Gems and jewellery exports rose 29.67 per cent to Rs 23,259.55 crore in September 2021 compared with Rs 17,936.86 crore in the year-ago month, according to the Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC). In September 2019, the shipments were worth Rs 23,491.20 crore. For the April-September period, the shipments surged 134.55 per cent to Rs 1,40,412.94 crore compared with the same period in 2020. The overall gems and jewellery exports stood at Rs 59,864.55 crore during April to September 2020, following Covid related disruptions, GJEPC said on Saturday. In 2019, the overall gems and jewellery exports were at Rs 1,26,461.93 crore during April to September. “With Rs 140,412.94 crore ($18.98 billion) exports during April-September, the sector has already achieved nearly half (46 per cent) of the $41.66 billion exports target set by the government for the sector. The sentiment in the industry is incredibly positive with markets opening up and demand gradually returning to normal,” GJEPC chairman Colin Shah said. Moreover, with the festive season coming up, GJEPC is optimistic of achieving the export target by the end of the financial year, he added. During April-September 2021, cut and polished diamond exports grew 122.62 per cent to Rs 91,489.2 crore compared with Rs 41,095.83 crore in the same period of 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
17-10-2021||Business||Sharp surge in electricity demand in October||India’s electricity demand grew 4.9 per cent during the first half of October, with supply falling short of demand by 1.4 per cent despite a 3.2 per cent rise in coal-fired generation and 30 per cent rise in solar output, a Reuters analysis of government data showed. Increased economic activity after the second wave of the coronavirus has driven up electricity demand, resulting in a supply deficit because of a coal shortage that has forced northern states to cut power this month for up to 14 hours a day. The rapid surge in power demand and high global coal prices have left utilities scampering for coal — India’s dominant source of power generation — despite record supplies from state-run Coal India, a near-monopoly in coal production. Coal’s share in India’s electricity generation jumped to nearly 70 per cent during the first 15 days of October, compared with an average of 66.5 per cent during the whole of September, an analysis of data from federal grid regulator POSOCO showed. Nearly three-fifths of India’s coal-fired capacities currently have coal inventories that would last three days or less, federal power ministry data shows. The average coal inventory held by power plants would last four days, two-thirds lower than an average of 12 days two months ago. The energy hungry nation’s power minister had in early September asked officials to consider diverting coal to power plants with extremely depleted stocks, and reduce inventory targets to 10 days from 14 days, to allow coal to be moved to areas of greatest shortage. Singh had also asked utilities to consider blending imported coal with local fuel to address shortages. A reallocation in coal supplies over the last two months has led to an increase in the number of power plants with 1-3 days of fuel, while the number of power plants with over a week of stock has declined, the power ministry data shows. Still, the number of utilities with no coal left increased to 18 on October 12 from 1 on August 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
17-10-2021||Business||HDFC Bank posts 17.6 per cent growth in net profits ||HDFC Bank on Saturday topped Street estimates when it posted a 17.6 per cent growth in net profits for the second quarter ended September 30. The country’s largest private sector lender reported a net profit of Rs 8,834.3 crore against Rs 7513.1 crore in the same period of the previous year. Analysts had expected the lender to post net profits of around Rs 8,000 crore. The better-than-forecast rise in its bottomline came on the back of strong growth in net interest income (NII-interest earned minus interest expended) and other income. NII, which represents its core income, grew 12.1 per cent to Rs 17,684.4 crore from Rs 15,776.4 crore in the year ago quarter. Advances rose 15.5 per cent as the bank focussed on relationship management, digital offering and its breadth of products. Other income rose almost 22 per cent to Rs 7,400.8 crore from Rs 6,092.5 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The asset quality of the bank also showed a sequential improvement with the percentage of gross non-performing assets (NPAs) to gross advances falling to 1.35 per cent from 1.47 per cent in the first quarter of the fiscal. In absolute terms, gross bad loans stood at Rs 16,346.07 crore against Rs 17,098.51 crore in the preceding three months. However, provisions and contingencies showed a marginal rise over the year ago period at Rs 3,924.7 crore against Rs 3,703.5 crore. Total provisions consisted of specific loan loss provisions of Rs 2,286.4 crore and general and other provisions of Rs 1,638.3 crore. Loan restructuring HDFC Bank has restructured loans worth Rs 7,829.48 crore under the Reserve Bank of India’s framework for Covid-19 related stress (announced in August last year) of which Rs 1,687.02 crore slipped into the NPA category and around Rs 857 crore of loans were written off. While the bank restructured retail loans of Rs 5,467.49 crore, loans worth Rs 1,283.06 crore turned into NPAs. Similarly, in the case of corporate loans of Rs 1,754 crore that were restructured, Rs 124 crore became NPAs. In May this year, the central bank had extended the Covid restructuring scheme for individuals and small borrowers till September 30. HDFC Bank said it has restructured loans worth Rs 14,102.61 crore in the case of individual retail borrowers. During the quarter, the bank’s total balance sheet size stood at Rs 18,44,845 crore against Rs 16,09,428 crore as of September 30, 2020 — a growth of 14.6 per cent. Total deposits as of September 30, 2021 was Rs 14,06,343 crore, an increase of 14.4 per cent over the year-ago period. Of this, low cost CASA deposits grew 28.7 per cent. Total advances as of September 30, 2021 were Rs 11,98,837 crore, marking a rise of 15.5 per cent over September 30, 2020. While retail loans grew by 12.9 per cent, commercial and rural banking loans showed a rise of 27.6 per cent and other wholesale loans by 6 per cent, the lender added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
17-10-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi will be face of Congress in UP election campaign: Punia||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will be the face of the Congress' election campaign in Uttar Pradesh, party's newly-appointed campaign committee chief P L Punia said on Sunday, asserting the AICC general secretary is the most popular political figure in the state at present.  Punia, who on Friday was named as the head of the key 20-member election campaign committee of the Congress for the UP polls next year, noted that very rarely has the Congress announced a chief ministerial face and said that not having declared one till now will not hamper the party's chances as it already has a personality like Priyanka Gandhi to lead the charge against the BJP.  It is a direct contest between the Congress and the BJP in the UP polls as both the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party have "fallen behind" and were "not in the fight anymore", Punia told PTI in an interview.  Punia said Priyanka Gandhi has fought for truth on all issues and when the Lakhimpur Kheri incident happened, she immediately left to meet the family of the victims, and was detained in Sitapur, but remained determined in her quest for justice.  He said she was "successful" in her struggle and went to Lakhimpur Kheri and Bahraich to met the families of the victims.  Punia said earlier also -- be it Sonbhadra, Unnao or Hathras incidents -- Priyanka Gandhi had fought for justice.  "So, the people are impressed by her and currently in the entire state, no politician is more popular than Priyanka Gandhi. As far as around whom the campaign will be centred, we are fortunate that Priyanka Gandhi is available for (campaigning) all the time," he said.  There are always demands from other states for Priyanka Gandhi to campaign and hold one or two meetings, but in UP she is available 24X7, Punia said.  "Priyanka Gandhi ji hi humara ek chehra hongi jinke ird-gird poora election campaign chalega (the election campaign will be revolve around Priyanka Gandhi)," he said.  Punia also said the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and justice for farmers would be important issues in the elections, asserting that the way the farmers were "trampled upon", was a condemnable incident.  "What was more appalling was that those in power gave protection to the perpetrators (of the crime). Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said no one will be arrested without evidence which was an indication that seeking arrest of the Union minister's son is wrong ," Punia said.  Chief Minister Adityanath and Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra were both "guilty" of protecting the accused in the case, he alleged.  Punia said "real justice" will be done when the minister is removed and pointed out that a high level delegation under Rahul Gandhi has also met President Ram Nath Kovind to press for this demand.  Asked if having not declared a CM face till now would hamper the Congress' chances in the UP polls, Punia said the Congress rarely declares a CM face whether it is Uttar Pradesh or other states.  "People talk about a CM face as votes are sought on that face, for us the biggest face is that of Priyanka Gandhi and the affection that people have for her cannot be matched by any person who is declared a CM face. So for us we have such a personality who will be helpful for us in polls in every way," he asserted.  Punia also accused the BJP of indulging in communal polarisation to divert attention from real issues such as farmers' "plight", price rise and the state of law and order.  "It is always the case with BJP-RSS people that when they see that they are losing on issues such as governance, law and order situation, the state is no. 1 in terms of crime, in terms of crimes against women, in crimes and atrocities against scheduled castes and scheduled tribes, so to save themselves from the anger of the people, they resort to polarisation," he alleged.  "They raise mandir construction, create Hindu-Muslim divide, project themselves as the sole well wishers of Hindus. They will try all this but this has become a dated strategy, people are concerned about issues such as price rise and development and will not fall for Yogi Adityanath's polarisation plank," the Congress leader said.  On whether votes will get divided with the Opposition unity missing, Punia said the SP and BSP have "fallen behind".  "Earlier people thought that they were in fight but it is not so anymore. The Congress is in the fight and only the Congress an upstage the BJP. The Congress and the BJP are in a direct fight," he said.  The BJP is feeling "threatened" by the Congress and that is why their leadership attacks the Congress, not the SP and BSP, Punia claimed.  The Congress on Friday constituted different panels for the forthcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, with Punia being named head of the crucial campaign committee.  Priyanka Gandhi has been constantly taking up issues of the people and will keep doing so, Punia said.  He said people realise that she has been fighting for justice and these sentiments are bound to translate into votes. "So, definitely the Congress has an upper hand in polls," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
17-10-2021||India||PM Modi speaks with CM Pinarayi Vijayan to discuss situation in Kerala||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke with Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and discussed the situation in the wake of heavy rains and landslides in the state.  The toll from disastrous flooding caused by heavy rains and landslides in hilly areas of two central Kerala districts rose to 18 as rescue workers recovered more bodies from the rubbles on Sunday.  "Spoke to Kerala CM Shri @vijayanpinarayi and discussed the situation in the wake of heavy rains and landslides in Kerala. Authorities are working on the ground to assist the injured and affected," Modi tweeted.  "I pray for everyone's safety and well-being," he said. "It is saddening that some people have lost their lives due to heavy rains and landslides in Kerala. Condolences to the bereaved families," Modi said in another tweet.  State Revenue Minister K Rajan said the rescue workers have recovered 15 bodies from the debris and slush of the landslides that had hit various places of Idukki and Kottayam districts on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
17-10-2021||India||Singhu border lynching: All 3 accused sent to police remand, 2 SITs conducting probe||Three people allegedly involved in the lynching of a labourer at the farmers' protest site at Singhu border were remanded to six days in police custody as the Haryana Police set up two Special Investigation Teams to probe the incident.  Narain Singh, a member of the Sikh order of Nihang, was arrested on Saturday from near Amritsar.  Two more Nihangs, Govindpreet Singh and Bhagwant Singh, from Fatehgarh Sahib had "surrendered" before the Sonipat Police in connection with the lynching.  All three were produced before a court in Sonipat, which remanded them to six days in police custody.  The police sought remand of the accused on the ground that they have to reconstruct the scene of the crime, recover clothes which the accused wore at the time of incident, besides interrogating them in depth about the entire incident.  The SIT headed by IPS officer Mayank Gupta, who is Assistant Superintendent of Police, Kharkhoda, Sonipat, will investigate the videos of the incident which were circulating on various social media platforms.  The other led by Deputy Superintendent of Police, Sonipat, Virender Singh will carry out the overall probe into the incident.  The body of Dalit labourer Lakhbir Singh was found on Friday tied to a barricade at the Delhi-Haryana border, where the anti-farm law protesters have been camping, with a hand chopped off and multiple wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons.  In a video clip that surfaced on social media, some Nihangs were seen standing around the injured man with his severed left hand close to his head. The group was heard accusing him of desecrating a Sikh holy book.  However, the victim's family has questioned the attackers' claim that he committed sacrilege and demanded a high-level probe.  The mortal remains of Lakhbir Singh were cremated at his native village in Punjab's Tarn Taran amid tight security in the presence of his family members on Saturday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
17-10-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu writes to Sonia Gandhi listing 13 major issues, seeks meeting with her||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has sought a meeting with party president Sonia Gandhi, flagging in his letter issues which the government "must deliver upon" and saying it is the poll-bound state's "last chance for resurrection and redemption".  In the letter to the Congress president on October 15, a day after he had meetings with senior party leaders in Delhi, Sidhu pitched for a "Punjab Model with a 13-Point Agenda to be part of the Congress manifesto for the 2022 Assembly Elections".  Days after resigning as Punjab Congress chief, Sidhu had on October 15 said his concerns have been resolved and the party asserted that he will continue as the head of the state unit. The resolution came after the cricketer-turned-politician met Rahul Gandhi and raised his concerns.  The letter to Sonia Gandhi reminded her of the party's 18-point agenda "given to the last chief minister" of Punjab and said that those were "equally relevant today".  "Today, I write to your esteemed self with priority areas among the 18-point agenda of the 2017 campaign and the manifesto promises which the state government must deliver upon."  Sidhu then said the people of Punjab demand justice for the 2015 police firing at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan in Faridkot following the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib during the previous SAD-BJP regime.  On the drugs issue, the Punjab Congress chief said, "The big fish mentioned in the STF report must be immediately arrested and given exemplary punishment."  He also wrote that the state government must reject the "three black farm laws" of the Centre "by announcing that they will not be implemented in Punjab at any cost".  The state government must release a white paper on power purchase agreements and cancellation of "all faulty PPAs as promised by us", Sidhu said in the letter.  "It might be the last damage-control exercise or else, mafia-raj ruling the state patronized by the Badals will take the state to the extent of financial emergency, corruption and agrarian crisis from which there will be no return.  "Thus, I request you kindly consider these points and give your august direction to the state government to act in the best interests of the people of Punjab immediately," he wrote.  In the letter, Sidhu sought a meeting with Sonia Gandhi to present to her a "Punjab Model with a 13-Point Agenda to be part of the Congress manifesto for the 2022 Assembly Elections".  The Punjab Congress chief described the "13-point agenda" as separate from the manifesto by "means of its long-term vision to be implemented over a longer period, crafted through years of consultations with academics, civil society, party workers and feedback from the people of Punjab".  Sidhu had posted his resignation as state unit chief on Twitter on September 28. He was not happy with the appointment of the new Punjab Police chief and the advocate general, besides some portfolio allocations to ministers after the new cabinet formation.  During the meeting with Congress senior leaders K C Venugopal and Rawat, the Punjab Congress leader had raised his concerns over the 18-point agenda taken up by the leadership on which actions are pending.  These included action against those involved in the sacrilege issue and the drugs mafia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
17-10-2021||India||Goa Forward Party leader compares Mamata Banerjee to 'Durga', BJP govt to 'Bhasmasur'||A Goa Forward Party (GFP) leader has kicked up a row by comparing West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to Goddess Durga who he said would eliminate the "Bhasmasur" BJP government in the coastal state, inviting a rebuke from Chief Minister Pramod Sawant.  GFP working president Kiran Kandolkar on Saturday said that Goa needs to bring "Durga" from West Bengal who would eliminate this Bhasmasur BJP government.  He had also admitted that the GFP was in talks with the Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress Party (TMC) to ally for the next year's Goa Assembly elections.  People of Goa will never tolerate such a comparison. You cannot compare Goddess Shantadurga with a human being...someone who committed atrocities on women after West Bengal election results," the chief minister told reporters.  Without taking Banerjee's name, Sawant said the people have seen how that person and that party (TMC) "butchered people after the West Bengal polls".  The CM said the BJP has kept its doors open for the like-minded parties for a tie-up to keep at bay "the new political parties with anti-social agenda which wanted to enter Goa through the upcoming elections".  The TMC had last month announced that it would contest the Goa Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
17-10-2021||India|| J&K: 3 detained for questioning as search operations enter day 7 in Poonch-Rajouri forests||Three persons, including a mother-son duo, were detained for questioning during an ongoing search operation in the forest belt of Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch and Rajouri border districts where nine soldiers were killed in two separate gunfights with terrorists over the past week, officials said on Sunday.  Five Army personnel, including a junior commissioned officer (JCO), laid down their lives in a fierce gunfight during a counter-insurgency operation in Surankote forest on Monday. Four soldiers, including another JCO, died in another encounter in the Mendhar sector on Thursday evening.  A man along with a 45-year-old woman and her son, all residents of Bhatta Durrian forest, were taken into custody for questioning on the suspicion of giving logistic support to terrorists, the officials said.  It was a matter of investigation whether they provided food and shelter to the terrorists voluntarily or at gunpoint, they said.  The officials underlined that the area is mountainous and the forest is dense, which makes the operation difficult and dangerous.  So far, contact with hiding terrorists was established thrice -- first on October 11 in Poonch's Surankote which was followed by another exchange of fire between the security forces and the fleeing terrorists in the adjoining Thanamandi forest in Rajouri district the same day but the ultras managed their escape in both the encounters.  The third encounter took place in the Nar Khas forest in the Mendhar area of Poonch on Thursday evening.  "The presence of terrorists in the forest area connecting Poonch and Rajouri was observed two-and-a-half months ago and accordingly tactical operations were launched to track them down," Deputy Inspector General of Police, Rajouri-Poonch range, Vivek Gupta said on Saturday.  "A joint security grid was tracking different groups of terrorists but sometimes operations take time depending on the topography of the area. Contact with the terrorists was established thrice this week based on intelligence inputs," the officer said.  The terrorists are holed up and the joint forces are on the job to take the operation to the logical conclusion, he added.  Officials said the entire forest area from Mendhar to Thanamandi remains under a strict cordon and a massive search operation is on to neutralise the terrorists moving from one place to another in an attempt to escape the dragnet.  The Army has deployed para-commandos and a helicopter was also seen hovering over the forest area for surveillance on Saturday.  Officials said the traffic between Mendhar and Thanamandi along the Jammu-Rajouri highway remained suspended for the third day on Sunday in the wake of the ongoing operation.  Rajouri and Poonch in the Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year. Nine terrorists have been killed in separate encounters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
17-10-2021||India||Amit Shah assures Centre's assistance to flood-hit Kerala||The Centre will provide all possible assistance to the people of Kerala who have been affected by heavy rains and resulting floods, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday.  He said in a tweet that the government was "continuously monitoring the situation in parts of Kerala in the wake of heavy rainfall and flooding."  "The Central govt will provide all possible support to help people in need. NDRF teams have already been sent to assist the rescue operations. Praying for everyone's safety," Shah said.  The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed 11 teams for search, rescue and relief operations in the state where the death toll from heavy rains and landslide rose to eight on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
17-10-2021||India||Death toll rises to 21 after rain triggers landslides in Kerala||The death toll from disastrous flooding caused by heavy rains and landslides in hilly areas of two central Kerala districts rose to 21 as rescue workers recovered more bodies from the rubbles on Sunday, reports NDTV.  State Revenue Minister K Rajan said the rescue workers have recovered 15 bodies from the debris and slush of the landslides that had hit various places of Idukki and Kottayam districts on Saturday. Twelve people are reported missing in Kottayam. The bad weather condition at Kottayam is delaying the rescue operation by the defence personnel, reports NDTV. "The rescue workers have recovered 15 bodies till now. This includes 12 bodies from Koottickal in Kottayam, one body from Peerumedu and two which were recovered yesterday from Kanjar in Idukki district," Rajan told PTI. Idukki District Collector Sheeba George said three bodies were recovered from Kokkayar in Idukki district today, a hilly region which was heavily hit by yesterday's devastating landslides. "The search is on for five missing persons," she told PTI. Officials said the bodies of three children buried under slush were recovered after an intense rescue efforts. The children, aged eight, seven and four, were found holding to each other, officials said. Kerala Leader of Opposition V D Satheesan, who visited Kokkayar and Koottickal alleged that the state government failed to launch rescue operations in time in the affected areas. At Koottickal in Kottayam district, a family of six including a 40-year-old man, his 75-year-old mother, 35-year-old wife and three girl children aged 14, 12 and 10 were killed as their house was swept away in the landslide. Bodies of three were recovered yesterday and remaining bodies were found by the rescuers during their efforts today. Meanwhile, the heavy rains subdued a day after it wreaked havoc in the state. In its forecast, India Meteorological Department said yesterday's Low pressure area over southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Kerala has become less Marked and now seen as a trough from south Interior Karnataka to south Tamil Nadu at lower levels. "Under its influence, isolated heavy rainfall very likely over Kerala and Mahe on 17th October 2021 and significant reduction thereafter," it said. Thereafter, a fresh spell of easterly wave is likely to affect south Peninsular India from October 20 and cause fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls likely over Kerala from October 20 and likely to continue for subsequent 3-4 days, it added. Before leaving for Kokkayar in Idukki to coordinate rescue mission, Minister Rajan said the rescue operations are going on at various places as the rains have subdued in the state. Earlier, an Army team had arrived at the tragedy hit sites and launched a search operation for the missing persons. "Few people are still stranded as per local sources. Presently no rains however heavily overcast. Madras Regiment from Pangode Military Station commenced the rescue operation at Kavali Village 4 km away from Koottickal, Kottayam District," a Defence spokesperson said. A Navy chopper reached the affected areas with relief materials. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday urged the people of the state to exercise extreme caution even as the weatherman has withdrawn Red and Orange alerts for the south-central districts of the state and asked the public to follow the instructions of the authorities. "The weatherman has warned about strong wind and lightning till today evening. Currently, the depression, formed in the Arabian sea, has weakened. However, there are chances that it will rain till evening. Yellow Alert has been issued by the IMD for the districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, kottayam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram and Kozhikode," Vijayan said in a Facebook post. He also informed that across the state 105 relief camps have been opened and more camps will be set up if needed. "NDRF teams have been deployed to Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram districts. Directions have been issued to deploy five additional teams to Idukki, Kottayam, Kollam, Kannur and Palakkad districts. Two choppers of the Air Force from Coimbatore have reached Thiruvananthapuram," Vijayan said. The Navy helicopter has been deployed to distribute food kits and other essential materials in areas of Koottickal and Kokkayar where landslides have occured. The higher secondary exams which were scheduled to begin from October 18 has been postponed. The government is yet to announce the new date. In an early morning operation, NDRF teams have rescued nearly 80 people who were stranded in waterlogged areas of Pathanamthitta district. Weather officials had said Peerumedu in the hill district of Idukki received 24 cm rains till 5.30 PM on Saturday. Automatic weather stations in North Paravur reported 38mm rains, Muvattupuzha (89.5mm), Palluruthy (34 mm) and Neeleswaram in Northern Kerala district had received 125.5mm of rain till 8.30 PM on Saturday, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
17-10-2021||India||Speeding car rams into Durga procession in MP, 4 injured||A speeding car rammed into a Durga idol immersion procession in the Madhya Pradesh capital, leaving four persons, including a head constable, injured, police said on Sunday.  Police have arrested the driver and seized the car, a senior officer said.  The incident occurred on the road outside the Bhopal railway station on late Saturday night when the procession was moving forward, Bajaria police station in-charge Umesh Yadav told PTI.  Three persons were injured and one of them sustained serious injuries and undergoing treatment at a hospital, he said.  The car also hit an on-duty police head constable, who sustained minor injuries to his leg, he said.  Yadav said after the car rammed into the procession people started shouting to get hold of the car driver, who panicked and fled by reversing the car speedily.  He said a case was registered.  Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) Irshad Wali told reporters on Sunday afternoon that the car involved in the incident was seized and its driver arrested.  The driver's interrogation is underway, he said but refused to elaborate.  Wali said the injured person, undergoing treatment at a hospital, is out of danger and stable. He sustained injuries that are not serious, Wali said citing a hospital doctor.  Meanwhile, a video of the incident shows a car is being reversed speedily while the people are seen trying to save themselves by moving away from the path of the vehicle.  One of the injured persons, Chaturanan Sahu (26), said a grey car crashed into the procession of the Chandbarh Durga Utsav when it reached near Gupta tea stall outside the Bhopal railway station.  "Two persons were travelling in that car which crashed into the procession and again hit the people while reversing," he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
17-10-2021||India||Unorganised workers' registration on e-Shram portal crosses 4 crore||The Ministry of Labour and Employment on Sunday said the number registrations has crossed 4-crore mark on e-Shram portal in less than two months of its launch.  According to a labour ministry statement, workers in diverse occupations such as construction, apparel manufacturing, fishing, gig and platform work, street vending, domestic work, agriculture and allied, transport sector have registered on the portal.  In some of these sectors, an overwhelming proportion of migrant workers are also engaged, it stated.  All workers in the unorganised sector, including migrant ones, can now take the benefits of various social security and employment-based schemes through registration on the e-Shram portal.  As per latest data, 4.09 crore workers have registered on the portal. Of these, around 50.02 per cent beneficiaries are female and 49.98 per cent are male.  It is encouraging that equivalent proportion of men and women have been part of this drive, it stated.  There has been weekly improvement in the registrations by gender, with men and women workers registering at comparable proportions.  As per the data, the states of Odisha, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh are at the fore front of this initiative with highest number of registrations.  However, putting this number into perspective must be with caution. Smaller states and union territories (UTs) understandably have lesser number of registered workforce, it explained.  Also, this drive needs to gain momentum in states and UTs such as Meghalaya, Manipur, Goa and Chandigarh.  This registration would facilitate delivery and accessibility to crucial welfare programmes and various entitlements meant for the workers in the unorganised sector and employment. For online registrations, individual workers can use e-Shram's mobile application or the website.  They can also visit the Common Service Centres (CSCs), State Seva Kendra, Labour Facilitation Centres, select post offices of the Department of Posts, Digital Seva Kendras, to register themselves.  After registration at e-SHRAM Portal, the unorganised workers shall receive a digital e-SHRAM card and they can update their profiles/ particulars through portal or mobile app.  They will have a Universal Account Number (on eSHRAM Card) that will be acceptable across the country and now they will not be required to register at different places for obtaining social security benefits.  If a worker is registered at the e-Shram portal and meets with an accident, he/she will be eligible for Rs 2 lakh on death or permanent disability and Rs one lakh on partial disability.  The largest number of workers registered is from agriculture and construction, given the sheer volume of these two sectors in employment generation in India.  Besides, workers from diverse and different occupations like domestic and household workers, apparel sector workers, automobile and transport sector workers, electronics and hard wareworkers, capital goods workers, education, healthcare, retail, tourism and hospitality, food industry and many more have registered at this portal.  Around 65.68 per cent of these registered workers are in the age group of 16-40 years and 34.32 per cent are in the age group of 40 years and above.  The social compositions of these workers include Other Backward Castes (OBCs) and General Castes with almost 43 per cent and 27 per cent, respectively from these categories and 23 per cent and 27 per cent being from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.  A substantial proportion of registration has been facilitated by the CSC as depicted in the graph above. Interestingly, in certain states like Kerala and Goa and in North-East India, Meghalaya and Manipur a greater proportion of individuals have self-registered in the portal.  Similar is the case with most Union Territories like Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Andaman & Nicobar and Ladakh, it added.  This could be attributed to higher levels of literacy and technology usage in these states. However, according to the latest updates an overwhelming proportion of workers (77 per cent) have registered themselves through CSCs, the ministry said.  There has been a week on week improvement in the outreach of the CSCs as indicated by the figure above.  Therefore, outreach of the CSCs emerges to be a crucial factor in lesser facilitated areas. Workers are encouraged to visit their nearest CSCs to register themselves at the portal and take advantage of this exercise which would lead to greater portability and last mile delivery of various welfare programmes.  Union Labour Minister Bhupender Yadav and other officials are holding several interactions with the unorganised sector workers and leaders of trade union and media, to sensitise them about the features and benefits of the e-SHRAM portal, so as to encourage the workers to register themselves through available modes and take the benefits of several social security and welfare schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
17-10-2021||India||India logs 14,146 fresh Covid-19 cases, 144 new deaths||India recorded 14,146 fresh COVID-19 infections in a day, the lowest daily rise in 229 days, while active cases dropped to 1,95,846, the lowest in 220 days, according to the Union Health Ministry's data on Sunday.  The death toll climbed to 4,52,124 with 144 more fatalities. The country has so far reported 3,40,67,719 Covid cases, it said.  In a day, active cases declined by 5,786 and currently comprise 0.57 per cent of the total infections. The national Covid recovery rate was 98.10 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed.  A total of 11,00,123 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 59,09,35,381.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,34,19,749, while the case fatality rate was 1.33 per cent, the ministry said.  The weekly positivity rate (1.42 per cent), has been less than 3 per cent for the last 114 days and the daily positivity rate (1.29 per cent) has been less than 3 per cent for 48 days.  Over 97.65 crore Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the country under the nationwide vaccination drive.  India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June.  The 144 new fatalities include 57 from Kerala, 26 from Maharashtra and 15 from Tamil Nadu.  Of the total Covid deaths reported in the country, 1,39,760 are from Maharashtra, 37,937 from Karnataka, 35,884 from Tamil Nadu, 26,791 from Kerala, 25,089 from Delhi, 22,898 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,963 from West Bengal.  The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.  "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
17-10-2021||India||CWC announces schedule for organisational elections||The Congress Working Committee on Saturday announced the schedule for organisational elections, which are to be completed by September-October 2022, indicating Sonia Gandhi is likely to remain party president till then. The process will start on November 1 this year with a membership drive. The elections to the primary committees will be held in April-May next year. The state unit chiefs will be elected in July-August while the election for the Congress president will be held sometime between August 21 and September 20. The plenary will be held in October where the new CWC will be elected. This means the party doesn’t want to elect a new president during Sonia’s current term, which ends early next year. Although some leaders expect Rahul Gandhi to withdraw his resignation and take over immediately after he promised to give serious thought to such a request made at Saturday’s CWC meeting, it’s unlikely he will take over amid an electoral process. Several CWC members, including party chief ministers, requested Rahul to return as Congress president, saying the party needed his leadership. Rahul thanked the CWC for the sentiment and said he would think about it. While there’s no clarity on Rahul’s next move, Saturday’s meeting of the party’s highest decision-making body settled several vital issues. While the G-23 (group of dissenters) storm blew over, with both Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma getting on board after the announcement of organisational elections, any doubts about Rahul’s stature as the supreme leader of the party also got extinguished. Rahul made it clear that organisational issues and personal positions were irrelevant to the larger ideological battle for India’s future. He stressed that the challenges India was grappling with were exceptional and demanded ideological purity. “It was a powerful speech; all other issues got dwarfed by his explanation of the nature of the challenges,” a senior leader told The Telegraph. “We hope the doubts about his leadership got buried right there and we indeed saw a resolve to work with a unity of purpose.” Sonia had sent out a firm message to the dissenters, known as G-23, at the outset, asking them not to talk to her through the media. “I have always appreciated frankness. There is no need to speak to me through the media. So let us all have a free and honest discussion. But what should get communicated outside the four walls of this room is the collective decision of the CWC,” she said. She declared: “I am, if you will allow me to say so, a full-time and hands-on Congress president.” This was Sonia’s way of confronting those who have been arguing that the party lacks a full-fledged president and that the leadership crisis has hurt oppositional politics. The general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, asserted that every single decision had been taken by Sonia as Congress president --- an apparent rebuttal to senior leader and G-23 member Kapil Sibal who had asked at a news conference who was taking decisions in the party. Neither Azad nor Sharma raised any discordant note at the CWC meeting. Sonia took care to emphasise that the Congress was proactively discharging its duty as the primary Opposition party. “In the last two years, a large number of our colleagues, particularly the younger ones, have taken on leadership roles in taking party policies and programmes to the people --whether it be the agitation of farmers, provision of relief during the pandemic, highlighting issues of concern to youth and women, atrocities on Dalits, Adivasis and minorities, price rise, and the destruction of the public sector,” she said. “Never have we let issues of public importance and concern go unaddressed.” Sonia stressed the need for discipline, self-control, unity and the commitment to keeping the party’s interests paramount. Most of the leaders insisted after the meeting that there were no factions and that the party would put up a united front from now on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
17-10-2021||India||Karnataka legislative committee orders survey of churches||A Karnataka legislative committee dominated by the ruling BJP has ordered a survey on churches and the functioning of Christian missionaries, prompting the archbishop of Bangalore to express concern as well as anguish. The survey comes against the backdrop of heightened rhetoric about forced religious conversions, triggering fears that it would be used as an excuse to harass the minority community. The Karnataka Legislative Committee on Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare issued instructions to district authorities on Wednesday to conduct the survey, ignoring objections raised by members of the Opposition. BJP MLA Goolihatti Shekar, a strong advocate of an anti-conversion law, chaired the meeting in the absence of his party colleague and chairman Dinakar Keshav Shetty. Shekhar  directed district authorities to find out how many of the 1,700-odd churches and prayer halls in the state were legal. In the recent Assembly session in September, Shekar had alleged that a large number of Hindus, including his mother Ratnamma, had been forcibly converted to Christianity. He had later organised a ritual at a temple in Hosadurga on October 10 to convert his mother and eight others back to Hinduism. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai of the BJP has also been underscoring the need for a strong anti-conversion law. Congress member of the Legislative Council, P.R. Ramesh, who is part of the 20-member committee, told The Telegraph on Saturday that the BJP members had disregarded pleas against such a report. “We had vehemently opposed the move since it is unconstitutional and dangerous for communal amity. But the BJP members refused to heed our opinion and ordered officials to conduct a survey on churches and missionaries and submit a report on their activities,” Ramesh said. Another member of the Upper House, B.M. Farooq of the Janata Dal Secular, was the only other Opposition member among the nine lawmakers who attended the meeting whose original agenda was development issues concerning backward classes and minorities. “Our Constitution allows religious conversion based on one’s free will. I had asked them what right do they have to stop someone from converting on his or her own will,” Ramesh said. There may have been stray instances of conversions through allurements, but most of those who have taken up Christianity have done so to escape the repressive caste system, sources said. According to the 2011 census, Christians make up 1.87 per cent of Karnataka’s population. “Since they were bent on proceeding with the plan, I told the meeting to examine all conversions to Hinduism through the BJP’s ghar wapsi drive,” the Congress’s Ramesh said. But the BJP-dominated committee limited the scope of the report to conversions to Christianity. “They are targeting Christians and this survey will only increase the harassment of Christian missionaries who are doing a great service in education, health care and women’s empowerment,” Ramesh said. Bangalore archbishop Peter Machado said in a statement: “In fact, against the background of the conversion bogey and anti-religious feelings that are being whipped up, it’s dangerous to conduct such surveys. With this, our community places of worship, as also pastors and sisters, will be identified and may be unfairly targeted. We are already hearing of such sporadic incidents in the north and in Karnataka.” “We are always against forceful, fraudulent and incentivised conversions and we repeat that we are lawfully abiding by the prescriptions of the Constitution of India, which for us is supreme and sacred,” the archbishop noted. Archbishop Machado had recently led a delegation of bishops to Bommai to express their concerns after the chief minister iterated the need for an anti-conversion law. “Does not the Constitution in Article 25 (also 26, 29 and 30) ensure the freedom of every citizen to profess, practise and propagate his/her religion without fear or force? Why do we need any anti-conversion laws when there are enough safeguards enshrined in the Constitution and the legal system of the country to punish the guilty?” the archbishop said in the statement. He added that such laws would end up being “tools in the hands of a few to hound and persecute the innocent”. Archbishop Machado expressed sadness at the chief minister “succumbing” to pressure from “fundamentalist groups”. “We are sad that the Hon’ble Chief Minister, Shri Basavaraj Bommai, whom we regard highly as a broad-minded and enlightened person, succumbs to the pressures from fundamentalist groups, who wish to indulge in disturbing the peace, harmony and peaceful co-existence in the society,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
17-10-2021||India||Protests against Friday prayers by Muslims resumes in Gurgaon||Protests against open-air Friday prayers by Muslims have resumed in a part of Gurgaon over the past month, three years after disruptions of the Jumma namaz by Hindutva groups had led to the gatherings being restricted to designated spots. Jumma namaz at a ground in Sector 47 has continued under police guard with Hindu residents of the area chanting slogans and playing devotional songs over loudspeakers at the barricades. Muslims have refused to shift the prayers from this spot, one of 34 public grounds designated by the administration in the city, as they continue to hold talks involving local representatives, police and the sub-divisional magistrate. “Residents want a market set up on this land, which was earmarked for building one. They don’t want namaz offered here,” local BJP councillor Kuldeep Yadav told The Telegraph. “The administration has not taken any decision on this and we are demanding they set up the market as planned. I suggested another place for namaz (in Sector 37), a little over a kilometre from the current spot but the Muslims have not accepted it.” He added: “Residents have a problem as the crime rate has increased and young boys loiter here after the Friday namaz and misbehave…. Have you ever heard of police admitting that crime is rising?” On Friday, a police officer supervising the arrangements denied Yadav’s charge. Assistant commissioner of police (Sadar) Aman Yadav told reporters: “It’s a false allegation to spoil the atmosphere…. Neither last Friday nor before that was any information of harassment of women received, nor has any complaint been made.” Unlike 2018, when the agitation was led by fringe Hindutva groups, this time the local Residents Welfare Associations are organising the protests and at least half the protesters are women. The Muslims say the current protest was incited by the leader of a group called the Bharat Mata Vahini who they allege has a criminal record. Besides the 22 mosques in the city with an estimated Muslim population of more than 4 lakh, Friday prayers used to be offered at 106 open-air sites before the 2018 protests. The Muslims say conducting Friday prayers on open ground is necessary because of a paucity of mosques. The process of allotting land for religious places in Gurgaon has dragged on for years. Altaf Ahmad, who represents the Muslims in talks with the administration, said: “In March, Dinesh Bharti who claims to be the head of a group called Bharat Mata Vahini… along with a few more men began targeting and disrupting these remaining 34 Jumma sites where the administration had promised to provide security and ensure Jumma namaz happens peacefully every Friday afternoon. “Intimidation, provocation and incitement to violence have been systematically used by this group to terrorise those congregating to offer namaz. “He succeeded in stopping the Jumma namaz at Sectors 39, 40 and 43 during March and April of this year. The community did register an FIR against Dinesh Bharti on April 16…. Now, once again since September 17, Dinesh Bharti and his group are disturbing Jumma namaz and the communal harmony of this city.” Bharti was arrested in March and April, and obtained bail on both occasions. Last week too he was taken into preventive detention, and was released on bail on Tuesday. Ahmad said: “Residents and the councillor (Kuldeep Yadav) came up with an absolutely ridiculous suggestion (during talks on Wednesday) of shifting namaz to Sector 37 as there is plenty of government land in a non-residential area. We rejected the idea there and then.... However, on a request from the SDM we agreed to get back with the exact distance and all the challenges because of which shifting is not possible.” Administrative officials in Gurgaon did not respond to calls and messages from this newspaper asking for details of how they intended to resolve the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
17-10-2021||India||Nine elephants spread panic, spoil Dussehra festivities in Bihar||A herd of nine elephants went on a rampage in Nawada district of Bihar spreading panic among the people and spoiling the Dussehra festivities. The herd sneaked into Rajauli block, around 150km south of Patna, from the contiguous forest area in Jharkhand on Friday and moved towards the villages, destroying plants and agricultural crops on the way. As the pachyderm herd consisting of males, females and calves came closer to human habitation, the villagers alerted the police, forest department and district administration officials. The villagers also made noise by beating drums and utensils to shoo away the tuskers but did not meet with success. By evening, the herd had reached inhabited areas of Chitarkoli panchayat and damaged a few pucca buildings in and around Ratanpur village. The elephants are right now moving in a haphazard manner across the farms and nearby forest areas. However, no person has been killed or injured by the elephants so far. “This is a herd of nine elephants which digressed into our area from Jharkhand on Friday. They have damaged a few houses here, but have not killed or injured any person,” Nawada divisional forest officer Awadhesh Kumar Ojha told The Telegraph. Ojha said the elephants were mostly moving in the jungle areas and forest department officials were keeping a tab on their movement, but it was difficult to keep a watch on them at night. To make matters more problematic, Bihar has no specialists to chase away the pachyderms that transgress its borders from Nepal, Jharkhand and Bengal several times every year. “We have requisitioned a team of elephant experts from Bankura in Bengal to chase this herd back to Jharkhand. It is arriving today (Saturday) and will help drive the elephants back towards their habitat,” Ojha said. Though Bihar has forests in a few districts bordering Nepal and Jharkhand, there are no wild elephants in the state. Wild elephants from neighbouring states and Nepal at times come either in search of food or after being vanquished in mating battles with other tuskers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
17-10-2021||India||Flight services from Bhubaneswar to Jaipur to begin from November 2||Flight services from Bhubaneswar to Jaipur in Rajasthan will commence from November 2. In a letter to Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who hails from Odisha, Union minister for civil aviation Jyotiraditya M. Scindia said IndiGo would connect these two cities and operate three flights a week. “I hope that the connectivity between temple city Bhubanewsar and Pink City Jaipur would not only enhance tourist footfall but also provide a boost to economic activities in both the states,” Scindia wrote. The Odisha government has also extended initial incentive to IndiGo for commencement of the flight on the Bhubaneswar-Jaipur route. Air connectivity between these two cities is likely to attract international tourists to Odisha, said a senior official of the state government. Pradhan had earlier on September 17 raised the demand for introduction of a flight between Jaipur and Bhubaneswar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
17-10-2021||India||Congress blasts Modi govt over  economy, ‘brutality’ on farmers||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Saturday blasted the Narendra Modi government for the “catastrophic consequences” of its economic mismanagement, flawed foreign policy, brutality against farmers, savage increase in prices of essential commodities and timidity in dealing with China. Sonia Gandhi set the tone for deliberations by explaining how the government pushed the three farm laws by bulldozing parliamentary scrutiny and said: “Farmers began their protests immediately and have suffered much since then. The shocking incidents at Lakhimpur Kheri recently betrays the mindset of the BJP, how it perceives the Kisan Andolan, how it has been dealing with this determined struggle by kisans to protect their lives and livelihoods.” The CWC passed a resolution on the government’s anti-farmer attitude, recalling how the project started with dilution of the Land Acquisition Act. The resolution wondered how justice would be delivered if the minister of state for home is protected by the Prime Minister despite his vehicles being used to mow down farmers and his son being involved. It recalled how the minister himself threatened the farmers. The resolution said: “The agitation by farmers against the three black laws on agriculture continues after 10 months. A government imbued with arrogance has refused to engage the farmers in talks and has stood as a mere bystander, while the police and rogue elements in the BJP have unleashed violence upon them. The tragic incident at Lakhimpur Kheri is a clear example of official support to the attempt to suppress the voice of the farmers. The refusal of the Prime Minister to condemn the brutal murder of the farmers and to sack the minister of state for home affairs have shocked the conscience of the country.” Referring to the glut of problems caused by governance failures, Sonia said: “The economy continues to be a cause for great concern in spite of the government propaganda to make us believe that it is not. As we all know, the only answer the government seems to have for economic recovery is selling off national assets built with great effort over the decades. The public sector has had not just strategic and economic objectives — it has had social goals as well, as, for instance, empowerment of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and development of backward areas. But all this is in jeopardy with the Modi government’s single-point agenda of becho, becho, becho.” Arguing that there has always been a broad consensus on foreign policy, she said: “That consensus has been damaged because of the Prime Minister’s continued reluctance to take the Opposition into confidence in any meaningful manner. Foreign policy has become a diabolical instrument of electoral mobilisation and polarisation. We face serious challenges on our borders and on other fronts.  The Prime Minister telling the Opposition leaders last year that there had not been any occupation of our territory by China and his silence ever since is costing our nation dearly.” The resolution also said: “The CWC is alarmed by the rapid deterioration in the security of the country — both external and internal. Nearly 18 months after the clashes in Ladakh in which 20 soldiers lost their lives, Chinese troops continue to be in occupation of Indian territory. Despite multiple rounds of talks, China has not vacated Indian territory; nor have we been able to recover our old positions. After the change in regime in Afghanistan and the takeover by the Taliban, the situation is even graver, but the government remains oblivious or in deep slumber.” The resolution said drug trafficking had assumed monstrous proportions, adding: “The seizure of 3,000kg of heroin at Adani Port, Gujarat, following reports of another large consignment that was successfully ‘imported’ into India, gives an indication of the huge dimensions of the illegal trade that seems to have flourished under the watch of the Modi government.” It also promised to consult all stakeholders to confront the government’s attack on federalism by giving additional powers to central forces. The CWC decided to launch a countrywide awareness (Jan Jagran) programme on mishandling of economy and rising prices from November 14. The party has also decided to initiate regular training programmes for workers and leaders at all levels to prepare the rank and file to counter the BJP propaganda on ideology and their achievements. Central leaders will train state leaders at a special four-day workshop at Sevagram in Wardha from November 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
17-10-2021||India||Six people dead, 12 missing as heavy rain batters Kerala||At least six people died and 12 were missing as heavy rain battered Kerala on Saturday. Four people, including a child, died in a landslide at Kuttikkal in Kottayam district where four others were missing. A few houses were washed away. Three of the deceased were identified as Claramma Joseph, Sona and her mother Sini, minister for cooperation V.N. Vasavan told reporters in Kottayam. The fourth person has not been identified. A young woman and a man drowned after their car was washed away at Thodupuzha in Idukki district. Locals who joined the rescue work told reporters that a man identified as Nikhil, a native of Koothattukulam in Ernakulam district, was driving the car. The woman has not been identified. A migrant worker from Jharkhand, Nehardeep Kumar, was reported missing in a canal in Kannammoola in Thiruvananthapuram. Scuba divers have been engaged to search for him. The India Meteorological Department has sounded a red alert for Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur and Palakkad districts while orange alert has been issued for six other districts. Revenue minister K. Rajan cited the weather forecast to inform that the red alert was likely to be lifted in all the six districts on Sunday. A 33-member team of army personnel from Thiruvananthapuram left for Kanjirapally in Kottayam, one of the worst-affected areas where a large number of people have already been evacuated. A major disaster was averted in Poonjar in Kottayam where a state road transport bus got stranded in floodwaters on its way to Eratupetta. Local people rescued the passengers and the crew. Vasavan said several small landslips had been reported in the rain-affected districts. “The air force is sending two helicopters while the National Disaster Response Force teams will be arriving soon to join the rescue operation currently undertaken by the police and fire service,” the minister said. He said water levels were receding in the worst-hit areas in Kottayam and Idukki although more rains were forecast later in the night. Water resources minister Roshi Augustin urged people to cooperate with the rescue workers and be ready to be evacuated. “There is a possibility of flash floods in several areas where water rises rapidly. This could happen overnight. So people living in the affected areas should cooperate with the emergency services and be ready to be evacuated to safer areas immediately,” Augustin told reporters while supervising the rescue work in Kottayam. Transport minister Anthony Raju told a channel that all bus services in the affected areas had been stopped. “The extra buses are ready to be despatched for emergency services, including evacuation of people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
17-10-2021||India||IAF chief V.R. Chaudhari visits forward areas in Ladakh ||Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal V.R. Chaudhari on Saturday arrived in Ladakh to visit forward areas and review the operational preparedness of troops, amid the Chinese army’s massive build-up across the Line of Actual Control in the region and its unwillingness to disengage from Indian territory. The IAF chief’s visit comes against the backdrop of the 13th round of military talks between the Indian and Chinese armies on Sunday that failed to achieve any breakthrough. In separate statements, both sides had blamed each other for the failure of the talks. Sources in the defence ministry said the IAF chief would during his stay in Ladakh review the security situation and operational readiness along the China frontier. “He will visit some forward areas and will be briefed by senior IAF officials and commanders on the ground situation at the multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh where the Chinese army has been occupying Indian territories since last year,” a defence ministry official said. A day after the military talks, India’s defence ministry had in a statement said the Chinese army was “not agreeable” to withdrawing from India-claimed territory at the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh. The ministry said the Indian side had “made constructive suggestions for resolving the remaining areas but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals”. The meeting thus did not result in resolution of the remaining areas”. The Chinese military had hit out at India for making “unreasonable and unrealistic demands, which added difficulties to the negotiations”. India and China have been locked in a border standoff at multiple points in eastern Ladakh since May 5 last year. The Chinese are estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. So far, the Chinese have disengaged “partially” from the Galwan Valley, the Pangong Lake and Gogra while remaining well within India-claimed lines, but have refused to leave the Depsang Plains and Hot Springs. Earlier this month, Indian Army chief General M.M. Naravane had sounded an alert on heavy Chinese troop build-up across the eastern Ladakh border, including in forward areas. Days later, Air Chief Marshal Chaudhari had said China had deployed its air force in three Tibetan bases across the LAC from Ladakh but added that the IAF was fully prepared for any eventuality. Sources in the security establishment said the Chinese army appeared “adamant” about not restoring the status quo of April 2020 during the latest round of military talks. A security official said India’s military preparedness along the China frontier was being reviewed regularly. India has carried out mirror deployment at the LAC to match the Chinese, moving in additional troops, artillery and infantry combat vehicles, and is conducting regular aerial surveillance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
17-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur: SIT inquiry is mere eyewash, says journalist's uncle ||The special investigation team probing the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre sent Union minister’s son and prime accused Ashis Mishra back to jail custody on Thursday evening although his police remand expired only on Friday morning. “We know we shall never get justice,” said Ashok Kashyap, uncle of journalist Raman Kashyap who was killed with four farmers on October 3 when a Thar jeep, allegedly driven by Ashis, ploughed into a farmers’ protest at Tikunia, Lakhimpur Kheri. “The SIT inquiry is mere eyewash. The government is buying time so that people forget about the incident,” Ashok added. A local court had given the SIT custody of Ashis, son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, for three days from 10am Tuesday. The SIT, which had demanded 14 days’ custody, was widely expected to seek an extension of the three-day remand. Instead, it gave up custody of Ashis prematurely. While in SIT custody, Ashis, also known as Monu, persistently denied being in the Thar, police sources said. His judicial (jail) remand expires on October 23. A police source in Lucknow, however, said: “One of Monu’s associates in police custody has already said the minister’s son was driving the Thar. The SIT didn’t need to keep Monu after the reconstruction of the scene on Thursday.” On Saturday, Teni made his first public appearance in Lakhimpur Kheri after the massacre, attending a government programme at the district hospital to celebrate the installation of new medical equipment. Lens on councillor The SIT visited the home of Lakhimpur Kheri BJP councillor Sumit Jaiswal Modi, a suspect, on Saturday — 13 days after the massacre. But Sumit was not at home. For five days after the carnage, Sumit had freely given interviews to news channels and newspapers. He had claimed Ashis was not in the Thar but he himself was in the car, sitting beside the driver. A video had surfaced a day after the incident showing a man in a sky blue kurta and white pyjamas stepping out of the Thar and running away. Sumit later told the media he was the man seen fleeing. “I ran away to save my life as the farmers would have killed me,” he had said. He had claimed the farmers had attacked the jeep, causing it to run over some people accidentally. Two days after the carnage, Sumit had registered an FIR against unidentified farmers for lynching the minister’s driver Hari Om and two BJP workers who were in the convoy. It’s not clear why the SIT had not shown any interest in Sumit till now. The Lucknow source declined to say whether Sumit had gone into hiding. “He was not at home. The SIT will send him a summons soon,” he said. So far, the SIT has arrested Ashis, his associates Ashish Pandey and Luv Kush Rana, his friend Ankit Das (owner of a Fortuner that was behind the Thar and allegedly ran over some people), Shekhar Bharati (Ankit’s friend who was allegedly driving the Fortuner) and Mohammad Latif (Ankit’s personal security officer). On Friday, the SIT had taken Ankit to a Lucknow hotel where police say he had put up for a day after allegedly fleeing the massacre spot. He had then allegedly sneaked into Nepal. Police sources said Ankit’s licensed gun and pistol were recovered from the hotel. Ankit had reported at the SIT office in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 13 and was arrested after daylong interrogation. “Ankit was taken to a hotel in Lucknow’s Gomti Nagar locality to verify whether he was speaking the truth and find out who were with him. We believe the inquiry is going in the right direction,” the Lucknow officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
17-10-2021||India||Pragya Singh Thakur cries Ravana after kabaddi clip||BJP parliamentarian Pragya Singh Thakur, wheelchair-bound and an accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case who obtained bail on medical grounds, has described as “Ravana” the man who shot a video of her playing kabaddi with agility. Pragya said: “I went to offer aarti two days ago when some sportsmen playing on a ground requested me to conduct a (kabaddi) raid. A small clip of this was captured and shown in the media. “If someone fretted and fumed, it was the Ravana among you…. I am telling the person, whose sanskaras have got spoiled, to mend them. If you don’t, your old age and next birth will also get spoiled….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
17-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 443 new cases, 10 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Saturday logged 443 new Covid-19 infections, 501 recoveries and 10 deaths. Active cases fell by 68 to 7,445. Bengal  snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in its active cases on September 26. Since then, active cases have seen 12 days of rise and eight days of fall. “These are data of people who got infected during October 7 to 11. There were a lot of adverse estimates... but figures suggest that things were not that bad,” said a minister. With 108 new infections, Calcutta was the only one of the state’s 23 districts to report a three-digit figure. Twelve districts logged single-digit figures. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta logged one death and North 24-Parganas four. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, while the national rate is 98.1 per cent now. Its daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.33 per cent on Saturday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.8 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year. It includes over 15.53 lakh recoveries and 18,963 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
17-10-2021||West Bengal||Mob ‘rescues’ suspected peddler from cops in Malda||Police nabbed an alleged fake currency peddler at a village in Malda on Saturday but were attacked by residents who managed to take away the accused. Two policemen and a civic volunteer were injured in the incident. The police have detained five persons so far for organising the attack on the force. Sources said around noon, the team, led by officer in charge of Kumbhiara police outpost, Baishnabnagar, Tanvir Azad, went to Daulatpur village in Malda to nab suspected fake currency peddler Esarul Sheikh. As soon as the police arrested Sheikh, some 20 people attacked the team. Azad, ASI Samir Singha and a civic volunteer were assaulted. The police had to retreat and the injured were taken to a hospital. The mob took away Sheikh. Additional forces, deputed to the village, detained five persons. “We are in search of some others. Attacks on the police won’t be tolerated,” said Alok Rajoria, SP. Feared drowned Schoolboys Mrinal Mondal, 18, and Soumyajit Mondal, 17, bathing in the Ganga at Baishnabnagar in Malda, are feared drowned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
17-10-2021||West Bengal||Birthday party? Charter a toy train||The Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) , in a bid to popularise the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) toy train, is offering chartered rides for corporate and social celebrations. “Any individual, corporate house, private tour operator or hotelier or even groups of foreigners can charter toy trains for events like birthdays or anniversary celebrations, corporate get-togethers and meetings. It would be a unique experience for all those who come on board as they can enjoy a ride on the world heritage railway service,” said Guneet Kaur, the chief public relations officer of NFR. According to railway sources, steam or diesel loco hauled trains can be chartered with one or two first class coaches or according to demand on pre-defined circuits. Circuits include New Jalpaiguri and Rongtong, Siliguri Junction-Tindharia, Tindharia-Kurseong, Darjeeling-Kurseong and Siliguri Junction-Kurseong. “Anybody interested can book the train either for a single trip or a round trip,” Kaur added. With DHR resuming toy trains services in August after a pandemic-induced gap of eight months, many new services and events have been planned to draw more passengers. On Saturday, NFR authorities launched “Red Panda”, a special round trip train service between Kurseong and Mahanadi, lasting for 90 minutes for 36 passengers in first -class coaches. There is steady demand for the joy ride and the evening jungle ride “Steam-Jungle-Tea Safari” from Siliguri Junction to Rongtong. “It seems that railway officials have taken the initiative to increase revenue of this mountain railway,” said a DHR enthusiast in Siliguri. DHR sources said they received good response with all seats in the regular service from NJP to Darjeeling booked for the entire month of October. “Two years back, before the pandemic, more than one lakh people had taken the toy train service in a single year for the first time in its history. That is why we are putting all efforts to popularise the heritage railway. Next month, we have planned a festival at Ghoom,” said an official, adding it would be from November 13 to December 5 where tourists can enjoy a guided tour to the heritage railway museum, witness sunrise and sunset from Tiger Hill, enjoy the performances of local bands and folk dance troupes, participate in trekathon and mountain biking, visit tea gardens and exhibitions of local cuisines and handicraft. The Narendra Modi government’s plan to monetise public assets includes in its list the DHR toy train, a Unesco recognised world heritage site.  But this has evoked protests from several quarters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
17-10-2021||West Bengal||Elephant carcass found in Jalpaiguri||A 10-year-old sub-adult female elephant was found dead in an agricultural field at a village under Dhupguri block of Jalpaiguri on Saturday morning. The carcass was recovered by foresters and police. They are waiting for the autopsy report and suspect death due to poisoning or electrocution. According to locals, during the past few days, a herd of wild elephants was regularly entering the Bhandarkura village from the adjoining Khuttimari forest for fodder. “On Friday night also, a herd entered the village. We suspect the elephant was its member and died owing to illness,” said Ayub Ali, a villager. Foresters, however, are not ready to buy the theory. In north Bengal, a number of elephants have died after coming in contact with a livewire that are illegally laid around agricultural fields to prevent damaging of crops. “Also, pesticides are extensively used in brinjal cultivation. The location where the carcass was found is next to such a field,” said a forester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
17-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Funds for Bengal hospitals to treat children and adults||The state health department has sanctioned over Rs 21 crore for equipment  in government-run hospitals to treat children and adults  infected with Covid-19. “The state has allotted Rs 21.36 crore for equipment to be supplied by the West Bengal Medical Services Corporation Limited. These include 1,500 syringe pumps, 100 non-invasive BiPAP ventilators, 200 bubble CPAP machines, 25 blood gas analysers and 20 echocardiography machines,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the department in north Bengal. These will be sent to districts on the basis of requisition. “We should be prepared for the third wave, especially when there are apprehensions regarding children,” said a doctor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
17-10-2021||West Bengal||Young homemaker from Hooghly molested, robbed on Digha beach||A young homemaker from Hooghly was allegedly molested and robbed of her gold chain by seven youths on a beach in Digha on Saturday morning in front of her husband and 10-year-old son. Her son’s presence of mind led to the detention of two of the suspects and the recovery of her ornament. The woman, 32, and her husband, 36, were bathing in the sea when seven youths accosted them and pretended to repeatedly stumble into her. According to her husband, they then molested her and beat him up for protesting. A  civic volunteer said they came to know about this when the couple’s son ran up to them. “The panting child came up to us and pointed to a fleeing group of youths,” the civic volunteer said. Civic volunteers gave chase, following which two of the youths were nabbed and detained by police. The traumatised woman said she has been a frequent visitor to Digha but will never visit it again. “The (East Midnapore district) administration needs to address this problem in a strict way, otherwise the reputation of Digha will be forever tainted,” said her husband, a government contractor. Digha reportedly received an average daily footfall of over 20,000 during the Pujas. A district official said that they had in the past been informed about youths recording on smartphones bathing couples in Digha. Hoteliers’ association joint secretary Bipradas Chakraborty said police should post plainclothes officers on beaches to keep such incidents at bay. “Tourism is the mainstay of this town,” he said. Subdivisional police officer (Contai), Somnath Saha, said police were “ever vigilant” on women’s safety. He confirmed the detention of  the two suspects but added that no complaint had been formally made as of Saturday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
17-10-2021||West Bengal||Erosion brings South 24-Parganas school on brink of collapse||The state government has decided to relocate a primary school in Ghoramara island of South 24-Parganas as its two-storey building cannot be used any further with erosion slowly devouring the structure that stands on the banks of the Hooghly in an area ravaged by Cyclone Yaas. Khasimara Nimno Buniyadi School, on the verge of being swept away by the river, is one of the four primary education facilities on the island, with 55 students and three teachers. “We will relocate the school very soon. As a first step we are trying to shift it to any available government or private building. Later, we will construct a building for it,” said Ajit Nayek, chairman of district primary school council in South 24-Parganas. Teachers of Khasimara Nimno Buniyadi School said they did not have space to store dry ration for midday meals or preserve documents. “We have shifted key documents to another primary school. We distribute dry ration the same day we receive it,” said Shankar Prasad Panda, its headmaster. Sources said the need to relocate the school assumed urgency as the state government is working on a schedule to open schools in November on alternative days. “The state government is yet to decide on a date to reopen schools but expect things to happen soon,” said an official of the district’s education department. “The situation in Khasimara is the worst. But I know of two more schools in Gosaba and Patharpratima where school buildings are likely to collapse into the river. So, we have to chalk out relocation plans for those two schools too,” Nayek added. According to Nayek, at least 150 schools in the district had become risky for use after they bore the brunt of Cyclone Yaas in May this year. Sources said Ghoramara was also badly affected by Cyclone Amphan in May last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
17-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP’s Durga Puja loses sheen||The Durga Puja organised by BJP’s Bengal unit, in its second year, proved to be a major failure as most party leaders gave it a miss, the turnout baring once again the  factionalism in the party. Apart from state unit chief and Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar and Nandigram MLA and leader of the Opposition in th Assembly Suvendu Adhikari, most BJP leaders steered clear of the puja at the Eastern Zonal Cultural Complex, Salt Lake. Even Majumdar and Adhikari visited EZCC only once, on October 11 during the inauguration. Last year, the puja was inaugurated through a virtual address by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. This year, organisers requested BJP national president J.P. Nadda to do the honours, but in vain. To hold it or not had triggered a major debate in the party both last year and this year. The faction owing allegiance to former state unit chief and current national vice-president Dilip Ghosh was against the idea. The fact that the puja could be held this time was owing to the new state president, who gave his consent as late as on October 2. Its preparations got a jolt when Sabyasachi Dutta, a Trinamul turncoat, went back to his old party on October 7. Dutta, a resident of Salt Lake and former mayor of the area, had been given the onus by the BJP to organise the puja. Like last year, Ghosh was absent from the puja. Sources said he left for Uttarakhand on a pilgrimage on October 12, which was a “protest” against the party's decision of holding the puja. MP and state general secretary Locket Chattopadhyay was in Delhi for most of the puja. Though she came back to the state and attended a family event on Friday, she didn’t visit EZCC. MP and state youth wing chief Saumitra Khan spent his Puja at his native place Bankura. While sources said Khan helped the party get permission to use the EZCC compound at very short notice, he stayed away. None of the four Union ministers of state from Bengal, Nisith Pramanik, John Barla, Shantanu Thakur and Subhash Sarkar, were seen at the event. Another notable absence was that of MP Debasree Chaudhuri, former Union minister of state, who lost her ministerial berth in July. She attended the puja at a party worker’s home at Dum Dum on Wednesday, but gave EZCC a miss. “Such a poor turnout at an event inaugurated by the PM last year reveals the situation of the party in Bengal,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
17-10-2021||West Bengal||Durga returns in another form in north Bengal||Durga Puja may be over, but in several parts of north Bengal, the festivities continue. A day after Dashami, the Rajbanshi community of north Bengal celebrates Bhandani Puja. Bhandani is believed to be a form of Durga. In all, over 100 such puja are held. Ar Barnish of Maynaguri block in Jalpaiguri and in Kedarhat of Mathabhana-I block of Cooch Behar, the puja is being held for over a century now. Some other prominent pujas held a day after Dashami are Dakshin Ulladabri in Maynaguri and Purba Bholardabri in Alipurduar district. According to Rajbanshi researchers, Bhandani is considered a goddess of prosperity. “It is believed that the Devi, while returning to her abode, had stayed here for a day and blessed the residents. That is why she is worshipped a day after Dashami. However, at a number of places, her mount is the tiger and not the lion and the demon is absent. The goddess is seen here with her children,” said Umesh Sharma, a researcher in Jalpaiguri. After Bhandani Puja, Rajbanshis in Burirpat in Dinhata subdivision of Cooch Behar, host the Buri Mata  (old mother) puja.  Here too, the goddess is seen as a form of Durga. The Buri Mata puja, to be held for the 137th time this year, is due on October 18. “It started in 1884 and is yet another example of amity among Hindus and Muslims,” said Mohammad Pyar Ali, president of the puja committee. Samanta Kumar Roy, the secretary, said three friends, Asmat Ali Mian, Srinath Roy Burma and Hemananda Bakshi, had started the puja in Burirpat. Since then, it is a celebration common to both communities. Here, the goddess is an old woman seen cradling a child while seated on a lion and holding a stick. “The state gives Rs 50,000 each to clubs which organise Durga Puja. We too face financial challenges  due to the pandemic. It will be great if the state can gives us similar aid,” said a representative of a puja committee of Maynaguri. Sources said that the Kamtapur Progressive Party, a political party that has considerable clout among Rajbanshis, has approached the state government on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
17-10-2021||West Bengal||Violence over puja funds row in Alipurduar tea estate||An altercation over the use of money collected for a community Durga puja sparked violence at a tea estate in Alipurduar late on Friday. At least two houses were torched and 12 policemen were injured. Sources said around 11pm, a group from Demdima tea estate under Birpara were returning after immersing the Durga idol of their estate, when one of them, Birju Panna, hinted that a part of the money collected for the puja had been swindled. Provoked, some in the group slashed Birju with a dagger. His screams prompted residents to rush out. Tempers flared and homes of two youths who had reportedly slashed Birju were burnt down. When a police team reached the spot, they were attacked with bricks, stones and sticks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
17-10-2021||West Bengal||IMD issues alert for 'enhanced rainfall activity' over south Bengal ||The India Meteorological Department office in Alipore has issued an alert for “enhanced rainfall activity” over south Bengal for three days starting Sunday morning. According to the alert issued on Friday, heavy rain and wind are predicted for parts of Calcutta, Howrah, Hooghly, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas and East and West Midnapore on Sunday and Monday. On Tuesday, the same pattern is expected mostly in East and West Midnapore, and South 24-Parganas. The bulletin has reportedly been circulated on an emergency basis to boatmen and fishery associations in coastal south Bengal. Boatmen have been advised to return to shore latest by Saturday night. “The low-pressure formation from the time of puja has shifted... and is predicted to deliver sustained wind and rain in south Bengal. It may paralyse normal life for three days,” said a Met official, explaining 7-11cm of rain is expected till Monday, following which cyclonic wind could persist for another day. He added gusty winds at a speed of 30-40kmph could start on Sunday. In East Midnapore, constant drizzle in several towns started from Saturday afternoon. District officials set up a control room to monitor the weather and instructed civic volunteers at beaches to keep vigil on tourists and dissuade them from venturing out into the sea. “The Alipore Met office has given us the alert and we are instructing our personnel on the ground on the response,” said disaster management official Mrityunjay Haldar. Fishery representatives are working to get all fishermen back on shore. “We have sent the weather alert to registered fishermen, boat operators and related organisations,” said East Midnapore’s assistant director of fisheries (marine) Surajit Bag. District officials added that efforts were underway to organise relief materials in anticipation of weather-related displacement. According to the IMD alert, there is substantial possibility of waterlogging and crop damage, both of which have adversely affected coastal south Bengal on numerous occasions during the latter half of this year. The same forecast of prolonged rain and squall-like weather is also predicted for parts of Bangladesh and Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
17-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: No excuse is too lame when it comes to buying more books ||Colourful sight Sir — The standard bookshelf is organized by subject or author, but the latest social media trend is to colour code books. While the obsessive reader often does not care how books are arranged or indeed bothers to arrange books at all, there is one undoubted benefit to this: in order to fill in the missing colours, you will buy more books. This may be hard on the pocket but it is definitely both enriching for the mind as well as the beleaguered publishing industry. This is also a great way to turn books into items of home decor — no excuse is too lame when it comes to buying more books. S. Banerjee, Calcutta Good work Sir — The decisive victory of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in the local body elections is a recognition of the good work that the M.K. Stalin-led government has done since it came to power. Although the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and the Bharatiya Janata Party tried to tarnish the image of the new government, people refused to fall into their trap. This is indicative of the sincerity with which the new government is trying to fulfil its electoral promises. This should also impress upon the DMK rank and file the importance of working for the people. The chief minister, in turn, should not hesitate to take strict action against party members who do not fulfil their duties or are involved in corruption. Tharcius S. Fernando, Chennai Hungry nation Sir — The latest Global Hunger Index indicates that unless urgent measures are taken, the goal of ending world hunger by 2030 set by the United Nations will be unattainable. This report comes close on the heels of UN data showing that the number of undernourished people increased from 320 million to 2.4 billion — a third of the world population — in the last year. Frequent extreme weather events associated with climate change have exacerbated food insecurity. Worse, dependence on a single type of crop — wheat or rice in India, which slipped to 101 out of 116 countries and is behind Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal — makes people doubly vulnerable. The longer climate justice is put on the back-burner, the longer people will continue to suffer. The right to adequate, nutritious food is a fundamental one. Rise in hunger levels thus is a violation of human rights. Venu G.S., Kollam, Kerala Sir — India’s rank in the GHI is a matter of shame. India is said to have the highest child-wasting rate worldwide and fares poorly on other parameters like undernourishment, child-stunting and child mortality. Comparisons with neighbours like Nepal, Bangladesh and Pakistan are futile. India’s circumstances are different and its challenges greater. More than food security, food distribution is unequal and riddled with corruption. Equally important is a forthright assessment of the ‘Clean India’ campaign because without proper hygiene, even good nutrition will not help. S.S. Paul, Nadia Sir — If India had made it to the top 50 countries in the GHI, would the government have still questioned its methodology? The government can only accept compliments and not its faults. If India is to improve, it has to learn to accept its shortcomings first. Jang Bahadur Singh, Jamshedpur Parting shot Sir — Navjot Singh Sidhu has withdrawn his resignation and decided to continue as the Punjab Congress chief.  Yet, Sidhu’s dithering — both in politics and on the cricket ground — makes him an unreliable character. He is unlikely to benefit the Congress in any way. In fact, he may prove to be a stumbling block in the path to victory given his whims. He had behaved similarly in the Bharatiya Janata Party. Handing over command to a turncoat shows the complete bankruptcy of the Congress leadership. M.R. Jayanthy, Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
17-10-2021||Opinion||Modern reading||Browsing online, I came upon an argument about how far into a book you need to go before you can abandon it as unreadable. I was pleased to see that the consensus was that if the book hadn’t hooked you inside forty pages, you could give up reading it without guilt. This is the sort of rule that grown-ups need; through school, reading was a more ruthless business. Two pages of tedium and it was time to move on to the next thing. This had something to do with our reading being driven by libraries. The books were borrowed, not bought, so we weren’t financially invested in getting to the end. Once I began buying books, I tried harder to hack my way through the dense bits because I wanted my money’s worth, paisa vasool. Reading fiction in the 1960s wasn’t seen by adults as a serious pastime, but my Jesuit school had a library that was mainly made up of thousands of novels. I’m not sure if this was a general feature of padre-run schools or the local librarian’s eccentric enthusiasm, but the net result was complete sets of the sort of generic fiction that socialized schoolboys into reading. I grew up assuming that all school libraries were like mine; when my children were old enough to go to school, I discovered that their school library didn’t have any fiction at all. As a result, their cohort began to graze in boundless digital pastures before they had gotten to the end of a book. That odd locution, ‘long-form’ writing, has come into its own in this online age. The term generally refers to an inordinately long piece of essayistic reportage, which seems to assume that the reader’s commitment to the topic being tackled will get her to the end of the piece without the need for authorial economy or concision. It’s the kind of thing that used to be confined to high-minded American magazines, but the contagion has spread to newspapers. I recently began reading a ten-thousand-word report in The New York Times which brought to that paper’s vast readership a quarrel between two mostly unknown writers. One of them had used the Facebook posts of the other, about her kidney donation, as the basis for a short story, thus spinning a tale out of someone else’s entrails. It is the kind of long-form ‘reportage’ that sees the light of day only because its publishers know that it’ll drive online social media traffic for days afterwards; ironically, the success of long-form pieces like this one is measured by the radically short-form traffic — tweets, memes — that they generate. Seen in this way, much contemporary long-form writing is either mulch for social media or a form of self-congratulation for our digital times. It allows the dogged reader to do some heavy lifting, and distance himself from his slack contemporaries with their attention deficits. There is, of course, some long-form writing that both enthrals and informs, but mostly it is a form of authorial and editorial self-indulgence masquerading as seriousness. One of the participants in the online argument about how many pages a reader ought to read before chucking a book made the interesting point that given our life spans, reading is a finite, quantifiable business. The most a diligent reader is likely to read over a lifetime is just over 3,000 books. It’s disconcerting to have a number put on an activity that you think of as continuous and lifelong, and I was convinced that this was a low estimate. But I did a back-of-the-envelope calculation and realized that 3,000 books, if you are a seriously diligent reader, is plausible. If you assume that average life-expectancy is 75, you have about sixty-five years of reading time. If, in that time, you read, on an average, one book a week, allowing for ill health and other distractions, you’ll rack up about 3,200 books. Therefore, time spent reading an unpromising book is time lost, time that you could have used to read something worthwhile. And the truth is that outside of professional book reviewers or fixtures on book prize juries, the number of people who regularly average a book a week is vanishingly small. Reviewers and jurors are to be pitied. As a young reader, I thought that being paid to review novels was equal to winning a lottery. I know now that reading a novel to review it is like preparing for an autopsy. It makes you read in an assessing, distant way that is antithetical to the willing submission most fiction readers offer to even a half-decent story. Non-fiction books can and should be summarized, examined for their relationship to reality and their explanatory power. I can read a historical monograph reviewed and then read the book without it making a significant difference to the way in which I receive it. Good novels are exercises in indirection. To read a review before reading a novel is to trash the novelist’s designs on you. The one purpose of a review is to produce an adjectival phrase that can be used as a blurb to puff the book without giving anything away. There is the occasional review that is useful because it is evangelical and succeeds in bringing a new writer to a readership by the force of the reviewer’s enthusiasm. Novel reviewing collectively is useful because it signals to the world at large that novels are important; individual reviews, though, generally defeat the purpose of reading fiction. During the pandemic, I read quantities of science fiction and fantasy on my mobile phone via the Kindle reader app. I haven’t read any other sort of fiction on it, though I could. I guess it has to do with the fact that I was socialized into a caste hierarchy of reading: literary novels were Brahmin books but ‘genre’ novels were subaltern fictions. Even though I know that most of the best novels I’ve recently read have either been SF or verged on it, I still think that backlit Kindle reading is an improper way of reading books that pass as literary novels. The good thing about this fetish is that it had me reading Becky Chambers’s excellent space opera in a dentist’s waiting room simply because I had it downloaded in my pocket. Occasionally, though, you find yourself reading a novel that justifies the talk about the importance of the paper book, its tactile pleasure, the ease with which it lets you retrace your steps as a reader and the subtle tension that the diminishing wad of pages on the right creates. The kind of novel that you read in two sittings, either side of lunch, deaf to the world, almost as if you were young. I read a book like that two weeks ago: Anuk Arudpragasam’s A Passage North. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
17-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Sons and fathers ||Up, up and away. Superman has flown away leaving his son, Jon Kent, with the flowing red cape. But in some respects Kent Junior has bigger challenges than those shouldered by his father: he is bisexual in a world that is still largely homophobic. Superman: Son of Kal-El, authored by the Melbourne-based writer, Tom Taylor, will feature Jon sharing a kiss with his friend and online journalist, Jay Nakamura. Apart from proving Superman has always had a thing for reporters, Jon expressing his bisexuality could well be a watershed moment in the venerable franchise. Queer representation has always been read into superhero comics — after all, Wonder Woman hails from an island of women who have been hanging around together for thousands of years, with nothing to stare at but one another: the comics’ favoured catchphrase is “Suffering Sappho!” This push for the accommodation of alternative sexuality in an alternative reality was markedly refreshing given that the Comics Code Authority, a censorship body, forbade any mention of homosexuality from 1954 until 1989. Only in recent years have characters like Iceman, Loki, Harley Quinn, Poison Ivy and Tim Drake’s Robin come out as queer. The significance of a queer Superman, however, lies not in an expression of solidarity but elsewhere. While Superman is often portrayed to be an uncomplicated crusader unlike, say, Batman, who has pronounced psychologically complex issues, the Man of Steel began his career as a champion of the oppressed. A survey of the history of comic books would show that most men and women in capes are created and enjoy their greatest popularity during times of transition and uncertainty, be they economic troubles, armed insurrections or political precarity. Expressing one’s sexual identity in an unempathetic world could well be perceived as an equally poignant moment of transition. In this sense, the fact that Jon Kent flies — or should that be swings? — both ways represents a continuum of his father’s legacy. Hearteningly, son also chafes against father’s tendency to simply put out literal and figurative fires instead of bending his formidable powers towards addressing the systemic problems that caused them. But a discerning — cynical? — reader would also be able to spot a canny strategy here. Comic books resist queering core characters — those heavily licensed nuggets of intellectual property are allergic to meaningful change if they are to remain commercially viable. The comicverse, therefore, introduces much-needed, long-overdue progress along the edges — a sympathetic villain here, a progressive sidekick there. Even when top-tier superheroes like Superman are sent out of the closet — an act bound to grab attention — it is always with an all-important asterisk: *Not the Clark Kent Superman, but his recently introduced son. Unsurprisingly, the creators of Jon Kent have been accused of hopping on to the ‘woke’ bandwagon. Yet progress often takes place in small, incremental ways. As the world depicted on the pages of the comics starts to mirror the one off it, as more members of comics’ diverse readership gain the opportunity to see a version of themselves on the pages, the result, hopefully, would be the emergence of two richer, inclusive worlds — one real, the other imagined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
17-10-2021||Opinion||For RJD, the age of the lantern is not yet over ||Rising star Aparajita Sarangi, the member of parliament from Bhubaneswar, is slowly emerging as a major challenger to Dharmendra Pradhan, the Union minister of education and skill development and entrepreneurship, in the Odisha unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Till now, Pradhan has been ruling the roost in the state unit. His managerial skills are acknowledged by almost all the leaders of the party where his word is considered to be final. However, Sarangi, who took premature retirement from the Indian Administrative Service to join the BJP, has learnt the political ropes rather quickly. Her popularity has been growing both as an MP and a national spokesperson of the BJP. In view of this, the leadership has started nurturing her talent. Last month, Sarangi went to Gujarat where she reportedly underwent a crash course on the BJP’s election strategy. Recently, she was even seen imparting tips to senior BJP leaders on the art of managing and winning elections. “Spoke to all my Party colleagues about the methodology of creating a strong Organization. Sought everyone’s support... ” Sarangi tweeted. This was apparently in preparation for the upcoming panchayat elections which will be a major test of popularity for parties ahead of the general elections in 2024. Sarangi, who won the 2019 election against all odds, seems set to challenge the virtual monopoly of Pradhan in the Odisha BJP unit. Bold message How big a lantern have you seen? The Rashtriya Janata Dal is going to instal a huge lantern — its election symbol — weighing around six tonnes. It will be installed at the party’s state headquarters in Patna. The RJD chief, Lalu Prasad, is expected to light it on his arrival from New Delhi. The lantern will stay lit round the clock. When asked about the need for such a huge lantern, the state party president, Jagdanand Singh, is said to have pointed out that the RJD, although currently in Opposition, is the largest party in Bihar. Others added that it will send a bold message that the ‘age of the lantern’ is not yet over. “In any case, the scarcity of coal and electricity in the country created by the National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre is pushing the country towards a time when lanterns will be the most reliable source of light,” another RJD leader added. The ruling Janata Dal (United) retaliated by asserting that it showed the designs of the RJD to take the state backwards. One JD(U) leader stressed that the RJD should erect a pillar and put a lantern atop it. “It would serve as a lighthouse to warn people from going near the RJD office,” he quipped. Fishy affair It is not odd for two top leaders of rival political parties to meet, at least in the usual sense. But things have been unusual in Karnataka of late with three former chief ministers engaged in a battle over who met whom. HD Kumaraswamy of Janata Dal (Secular) insists that PC Siddaramaiah of the Congress had secretly met BS Yediyurappa of the BJP, fuelling speculations about a possible alliance. Since Yediyurappa is yet to reconcile with how his party forced him to quit a few months ago, there are rumours of him floating a new party. But both Siddaramaiah and Yediyurappa have vehemently denied meeting each other. Siddaramaiah has been a thorn in the BJP’s side for a long time and he would prefer to remain so. That is why at least a section of the BJP leadership smells something fishy in the alleged Siddaramaiah-Yediyurappa bonhomie. Tough task The Karnataka CM, Basavaraj Bommai, has been trying his best to please the top leadership in the BJP and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh ever since he was appointed for the top job more than two months ago. From being an advocate of the anti-conversion law to giving tacit support to moral policing, he has come a long way. But with strong moorings in socialism and as an erstwhile member of the Janata parivar under the tutelage of his late father and former CM, SR Bommai, Bommai Junior has the tough task of holding on to his chair even if his party gets lucky in the 2023 state polls. Never give up It is nearing two years since JP Nadda took over as the BJP national president. However, he is yet to assert his authority within the party. Leaders as well as party workers feel that Nadda has to seek the nod of either the prime minister, Narendra Modi, or the home minister, Amit Shah, for every decision that he takes at the organizational level. Now that Covid restrictions have been eased, Nadda appears to be taking charge. He has reportedly directed Union ministers to visit the BJP headquarters on a regular basis and meet party cadres. The newly appointed health minister, Mansukh Mandaviya, was apparently the first to spend time at the party office earlier this week and others are expected to follow suit. The decision was taken in view of the upcoming assembly polls to appease the cadres who have been complaining that ministers do not meet them. The buzz in the party corridor, however, is that Nadda is using this opportunity to stress the importance of the organization he heads.  Footnote: Tej Pratap Yadav recently decided to walk barefoot for 2.5 kilometres from Jayaprakash Narayan’s statue in Gandhi Maidan, Patna to his residence to pay homage to the leader on his birth anniversary. The sun was blazing and soon the asphalt road became very hot. Yadav tried to walk briskly but it did not work. Then, his supporters came up with the idea of pouring mineral water in front of him so that he could complete his walk. “What a waste,” quipped a senior RJD leader watching the entire episode.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
17-10-2021||Opinion||God and the forsaken||This Durga Puja, the Bengal BJP found new reason to be offended. In the pre-Assembly election years, the complaint had been that the people of the state were “not allowed to celebrate Puja”. But this year, ordinary citizens braved the pandemic and poured out of their homes to celebrate life and living; hence, a new line of offence was sought and found. And there it was in a Durga mandap. A pandal in Dum Dum Park had put up an installation of a giant pair of blistered feet and hundreds of orphaned footwear. There were pro-farmer slogans and graffiti too, around the place. A tractor full of gunny bags at the entrance. All of it some distance away from the idol of the goddess. Seeing is… Depending on who you are, the installation would have reminded you of the long march of Maharashtra farmers from 2018. More than 35,000 of them, many barefooted, had marched to Mumbai from Nashik, braving 180 kilometres and a blazing sun. One of the visuals that went viral was of the bleeding foot of a Sakku Bai. Depending on who you are, the installation would have reminded you of the longer march of migrant labourers, welting across India right through lockdown. Or the 16 weary workers who had lain down one evening on a rail track near Aurangabad and the next day turned into an enduring image of strewn roti and chappals. You might have seen in the installation, the resolve of the farmers at Tikri or a flash of Lakhimpur Kheri, depending on who you are and who you will be. Kaunspiracy These Pujas, there have been pandals themed on issues as varied as a childhood swallowed up by a virus and the worry of having to prove citizenship. Like every year, this year too, the pandals and their art mirrored life as it is. Light installations showed oxygen cylinders and, aesthetics apart, there was a pandal designed to look like lungs.  But all that the Suvendu Adhikaris and Tathagata Roys saw in the Dum Dum Park installation was a “heinous act” and an affront to Hinduism and therein pulled down man and god alike. Neither divinity nor humanity is so fragile that they will come apart on interpretation. Poor politics is another matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
17-10-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain forecast in parts of Jharkhand||India Meteorological Department's Ranchi office has warned of heavy rain in isolated pockets of Jharkhand during the next 48 hours. "We are expecting heavy rain at isolated places over northern and central parts of Jharkhand during the next two days due to the impact of a low-pressure over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal. An associated cyclonic circulation was also extending up to 5.8k m above mean sea level," Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre, said on Sunday. Several places, including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Deoghar and Dumka, woke up to overcast conditions and intermittent showers on Sunday. Statistics revealed light to moderate rain occurred at a few places over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours. The highest rainfall, of 20 mm,  was recorded at Moharo in Dumka. Several other places, including Ranchi, Khunti, Jamshedpur, Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, Ramgarh and Dhanbad, experienced rain since last evening. Weathermen said the impact of the low-pressure is expected to remain till mid-week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
17-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand readies roadmap to vaccinate 3 lakh people a day||Jharkhand has prepared a roadmap to vaccinate at least 3 lakh residents against Covid-19 every day, a target set by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare under an intensive campaign aimed at covering the maximum possible eligible beneficiaries in the state, including the ones staying in remote forest areas, officials said on Sunday. In a letter addressed to deputy commissioners of all 24 districts in the state,  additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh stated that Jharkhand was given a target of inoculating at least three lakh beneficiaries daily following a virtual meeting with Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya. The districts will have to do “micro-planning” in order to achieve the daily vaccination target, and take initiatives to identify and bring eligible beneficiaries to the nearest vaccination centre, Singh said in his letter, a copy of which is in possession of The Telegraph Online. In order to vaccinate forest dwellers and residents of remote villages, districts have been directed to prepare a route chart for mobile vaccination vans, that would travel to the interiors and vaccinate people there, the letter stated. There are about 60 such mobile vaccination vans in the state at present. “Set a separate vaccination target for hard-to-reach areas of the state and ensure the availability of mobile vaccination vans for running immunisation campaigns in such areas,” Singh wrote in his letter, further directing officials at the panchayat level to prepare a list of beneficiaries for special weekend vaccination drives on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. Singh asked districts to seek the help of Self Help Groups under Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion Society (JSLPS) and civil society organisations to increase the reach of the immunisation drive. According to Singh’s letter, special Block Level Task Force (BLTF) will be set up to manage the  campaign. “Learn from the vaccination campaigns run in the past, and also take help of private healthcare facilities if needed,” the letter stated. As per government records, Jharkhand has administered the first dose of vaccine to more than 1.4 crore residents, and at least 44 lakh of them have also received the second jab. However, the state has never vaccinated more than 3 lakh residents on a day since the launch of the immunisation campaign against Covid-19 on January 16. On September 1, Jharkhand vaccinated over 2.05 lakh residents, the highest ever in a day, as per government records.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
17-10-2021||Jharkhand||Forest officials reunite elephant calf with its herd in Palamau Tiger Reserve||An eight-year-old male elephant calf was reunited with his mother on Saturday after four days of separation in the jungle of Morwai under the Chhipadohar west range of the Palamau Tiger Reserve. The calf had fallen in a village well on Ashtami which went unnoticed by the herd of the elephants. The villagers discovered the calf on Navami and rescued it with the help of saal tree poles. The well was 15 feet deep and three kilometres away from the hot water spring Tat Ha. Deputy director-north division of Palamau Tiger Reserve Kumar Ashish said, "We had succeeded in retrieving the elephant from the well but it was not the end of our job." "Our job was still too enormous. It was to reunite him with his herd," added Ashish. The elephant calf was fatigued and looked emotionally broken as he was away from his mother for huge long hours. The rescued male calf was crying for his mother. “As the calf moved in search of his mother, our team of 8 personnel led by forester in-charge Akhilesh Kumar and forest guard Mukesh Yadav and 6 trackers followed it,” said Ashish. The calf called out while moving but for most of the time his trumpet went unanswered. “It was in the jungle of Morwai that his trumpet was answered and we knew his mother was around. We found the herd of six elephants – three males, two females and one calf. The calf ran towards the herd and got beneath the legs of his mother,” stated Ashish. Ashish said the herd of elephants behaved like any human family. Every six of them touched the calf in sheer affection. Some touched the upper part of the body. Some his trunk. Some his tail. It was all to reassure the calf belongs to this herd only. Ashish said it took 30 hours to get the calf reunited with the herd after his retrieval from the well. Our forester in charge, forest guard and trackers slept for only two to three hours for three nights just to keep a watch on this calf, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
17-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand police issue high alert over Maoist bandh||Jharkhand police have issued high alert in all its 14 rebel-hit districts in view of the bandh call by the proscribed CPI (Maoist) in Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. The banned CPI (Maoist) in a communiqué issued on October 12 had called a daylong bandh in Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh on October 17 in protest against the killing of peaceful protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri and called upon the masses to support the bandh while expressing solidarity with the farmers’ agitation. In an emergency meeting held on Saturday, all the security wings of Jharkhand police, including district police, Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF), Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP) and special units to combat ultras — Jaguar and CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action) battalions — have been issued deployment orders in sensitive areas in view of the bandh call. “Security forces have been directed to be on high alert in view of the Maoist bandh call. The directive has also been issued to carry out area dominance and special operations in areas having information about Maoist presence. Additional forces have been deployed along national highways, railway projects, railway sidings and other development projects for area dominance,” said Amol V. Homkar, inspector-general of police (operations) and state police spokesperson. Homkar also said that a special vigil will be done in rebel-hit areas to ensure that commercial traffic is not affected by the bandh. “We are in touch with the police officials of bordering districts of neighbouring states to gather information and to chalk out joint operations,” said Homkar. A statement issued by Manas, spokesperson for the Bihar-Jharkhand-North Chhatisgarh and Uttar Pradesh Simant Regional Committee of the CPI (Maoist), said they are standing in firm support of the farmers and labourers and would continue to support their demand for a rollback of the three contentious farm laws introduced by the Narendra Modi-led BJP government. The statement, however, exempted emergency services like milk, water, medicines, ambulance and fire brigade from the bandh’s purview. Four farmers and one journalist were allegedly mowed down at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh on October 3 by an SUV belonging to Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, with his son Ashis Mishra alleged to have been present in the vehicle along with other cars in a convoy it was leading. Ashis was arrested on October 9 by Uttar Pradesh police. Altogether 14 districts of Jharkhand — Bokaro, Chatra, Garhwa, Gumla, Hazaribagh, Khunti, Latehar, Lohardaga, Palamau, Ranchi, Simdega and West Singhbhum — are affected by rebel disturbances. Several forest areas, especially Bura Pahar, Saranda and border areas in Khunti and West Singhbhum districts have active presence of Maoists who take advantage of the inaccessible terrain, dense foliage and the bordering states of Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Odisha to escape during police action. Security forces have been killed in such action in West Singhbhum and Latehar districts recently. Long-distance bus operators are opting for a wait and watch strategy. “We will see the situation on Sunday morning and then take a decision. As of now, we have decided not to cancel any bus services,” said Jamshedpur Bus Owners Association patron Upendra Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
