18-10-2021||Business||Markets at new peak as Sensex rallies 460 points||Taking its winning streak to the seventh session, equity benchmark Sensex rallied 460 points to finish at a fresh lifetime peak on Monday, tracking heavy buying in banking, IT and metal stocks despite a weak trend in global markets. After touching a lifetime high of 61,963.07 during the session, the 30-share BSE index ended 459.64 points or 0.75 per cent higher at its new closing record of 61,765.59. Similarly, the Nifty surged 138.50 points or 0.76 per cent to its all-time closing high 18,477.05. It touched a new intra-day record of 18,543.15. Infosys was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping over 4 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, Tata Steel, ICICI Bank, ITC, Maruti, SBI and Axis Bank. On the other hand, HCL Tech, M&M, Dr Reddy's, Asian Paints, Bajaj Auto and Bharti Airtel were among the laggards. "The domestic market traded at record highs withstanding the weak trends in the global market due to disappointing Chinese GDP numbers and global inflationary pressure as a result of energy shortage," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. Chinese GDP grew by just 4.9 per cent during the July-September quarter owing to lower-than-expected growth in industrial activity. However, the trend in the Indian market was bullish as PSU banks, metals, IT and energy stocks took charge of the rally, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended with losses, while Hong Kong was positive. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.82 per cent to USD 85.56 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
18-10-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 500 points to hit new peak||Extending its record-setting streak, equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 500 points in opening trade on Monday on account of widespread buying despite a weak trend in global markets. After touching an all-time high of 61,894.33 in opening deals, the 30-share Sensex was trading 511.54 points or 0.83 per cent higher at 61,817.49. Similarly, the Nifty surged 157.40 points or 0.86 per cent to 18,495.95. It touched a new intra-day record of 18,521.10 in initial deals. Infosys was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Titan and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Bajaj Auto, Dr Reddy's and HCL Tech were trading with losses in early deals. In the previous session on Thursday, the 30-share index settled 568.90 points or 0.94 per cent higher at 61,305.95, and the Nifty surged 176.80 points or 0.97 per cent to a new lifetime closing high of 18,338.55. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market, as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,681.60 crore, as per exchange data. Market remained shut on Friday on account of Dussehra'. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Shanghai and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Seoul was positive. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.07 per cent to USD 85.77 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
18-10-2021||Business||Look for the silver lining||Silver, gold’s poor cousin, has found an advocate in the securities regulator. The latter has recently allowed the creation of exchange traded funds based on the white metal, a move that has been welcomed by asset management companies. The latter would now be expected to roll out silver ETFs, just the way they had initiated gold ETFs a decade and a half ago. The Sebi go-ahead has come at a time when demand for exchange-traded investment products is burgeoning, a trend that is reflected well in the introduction of new funds based on a variety of indices. The near-monopoly enjoyed by Nifty and Sensex, the two main indices, seems to be waning in so far as index funds and ETFs (taken together, they are a unique sub-set of passively-managed alternatives) are concerned. Investors too are believed to be keen on smarter options in the current context. Silver ETFs, which would help fund houses extend their product basket and offer investors with a contemporary diversifier, would naturally be based on the ruling price of silver, keeping in sync with the exchange-traded nature of the category. It, nevertheless, remains to be seen how the average participant views the newly-formed category, and whether it gains acceptance in the market, at least in the initial phase. Gold funds, I must mention in this context, have not really met with all-round approval — the relatively small asset bases of the average product in this category underscores their rather low-key image (compared to equity, which of course remains the most high-profile asset class). Gold, as you will no doubt agree, is seen as a classic hedge against inflation. This is especially true in our country. Indians have by and large trusted the noble metal. We have traditionally hoarded it, handed it over to children, amassed it in our temples, sold it during financial crises. A mountain of historical evidence points to these trends. Silver, by contrast, is valued as a far simpler adornment of sorts in popular spheres; ordinary users often take to the metal for ornaments. Elsewhere, the metal has wide industrial applications. In sum, India is an importer of the metal, although recent indications suggest that demand for imported silver has decreased. Silver prices, it is moreover said, has not really kept up with expectations. The average priceline has remained static in recent times, while in some years, it has fallen behind its previous marks. The pros and cons are laid out fairly evenly. Those who wish to allocate to the new-fangled ETF, I suggest the following: Speaking of inflation, the question of interest rates invariably comes up — after all, we are discussing gold too. The fact of the matter is that the central bank has, in its latest policy announced a few days ago, not changed its key policy rates. The repo, about the most significant determinant in the banking sector, remains at 4 per cent. The RBI’s accommodative stance is being seen in the backdrop of rising prices of commodities. Fossil fuel and other commodities, for instance, have generally added to the inflationary trends that currently prevail in the economy. All these aspects, not to mention the general bullish sentiments that have impacted the securities market, will have a bearing on the metals space. And silver will not be too far away from it all. Its price in India will be tracked closely by all concerned in the coming days, and both domestic and international participants will, I hope, take strategic exposure on this front. Only then, perhaps, will the ordinary retail investor appreciate the rationale. Whether you are a nimble-footed opportunist or just plain curious, you may then embellish your portfolio with a shiny metal, courtesy an ETF worth its salt. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
18-10-2021||Business||Stellar Value Chain Solutions draws up expansion plans for the East||Stellar Value Chain Solutions, the consumer supply chain start-up, has drawn up ambitious plans for the East as it looks at ratcheting its warehousing capacity to 50 million square feet over the next five years against 12 million square feet now. Around 5-7 million square feet of the new capacity will come up in cities in the East such as Calcutta, Siliguri, and Guwahati, catering to the supply chain requirements of a variety of industries . The Warburg Pincus-backed entity has a warehousing facility of 0.5 million square feet at Dankuni, which was launched four months ago. It is now setting up a similar capacity at Panchla, which will come up over the next three months. “It (the Eastern India market) is an important growth area for us and I have been giving equal importance to this geography apart from the other three zones. Over the past few years, we have understood the market very well. It presents us a great opportunity to capture, build presence and capability and fulfil our mission to be a value chain transformation company,’’ Anshuman Singh, chairman & managing director, Stellar Value Chain Solutions, told The Telegraph. He said the planned expansion would require an investment of around Rs 25,000 crore, some of which will be from its development partners. The company runs a fleet of 2,500 trucks and this is expected to jump to 50,000 vehicles in all formats such as express, temperature controlled transportation and LTL (less than truckload that transports small quantities of freight) over the next five years. “We will also be deploying a large fleet in the East to take care of the supply chain requirements in the market’’, he said. Singh founded Stellar Value Chain Solutions in July 2016 and in just a month raised $125 million (Rs 830 crore) from Warburg Pincus. The company has also used the inorganic route to grow — Stellar has acquired Kelvin Cold Chain in 2016, Innovative Logistics, a Calcutta-based company in 2018 and Patel Roadways the following year. He said the facility in Calcutta will largely cater to fashion, lifestyle, retail, automotive and consumer durable segments, while the focus in the North East will be on pharmaceuticals in addition to FMCG, consumer durables and fashion. According to Singh, growth has now returned back to the pre-Covid levels for supply chain firms. “Last year, those catering to e-commerce did well and a lot of other sectors were hit. However, now in the warehousing front, the growth has come back to pre-Covid levels. At Stellar Value we are adding capacities both in the e-commerce and non-e-commerce space. We are also bullish on e-groceries’’, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
18-10-2021||Business||VLCC Health Care Ltd raises nearly Rs 37 crore by selling shares||VLCC Health Care Ltd, which is set to come out with an initial share sale, has raised nearly Rs 37 crore by selling shares to a foreign entity. As many as 6,27,804 equity shares have been issued for around Rs 37 crore to Bahamas-based Zall Holdings Ltd, according to a filing made by the company to the corporate affairs ministry. A leading homegrown beauty and wellness company, VLCC will utilise the funds towards working capital requirement and for expanding its business . The allotment was approved by the company’s shareholders during their meeting on September 27, as per the filing. In August, the company filed the draft papers with markets watchdog Sebi. The IPO will comprise fresh issuance of equity shares worth Rs 300 crore and an Offer For Sale (OFS) of 89.22 lakh equity shares by promoter and existing shareholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
18-10-2021||Business||Automobile demand picks up particularly in urban areas||The automobile sector may be in for a good festive season with strong demand particularly in the urban areas, though sales growth may be hit by the ongoing semiconductor shortage. According to a note from Emkay Global Financial Services (Emkay), which spoke to dealers from segments such as  two-wheelers, passenger vehicles (PVs), commercial vehicles (CVs), and tractors, while a good demand is expected in two-wheelers, PVs and CVs, the same trend is not expected with regard to tractors. Here, volumes are expected to decline because of a high base and moderation in consumer sentiments. The brokerage indicated that the biggest beneficiary might be two-wheelers, which have not been, impacted much by the chip shortage. Its analysts pointed out that there is some supply impact on premium motorcycles, which has severely affected Royal Enfield. However, dealers expect double-digit growth in urban areas, thanks to the pickup in business activity and the re-opeening of educational institutions.  But on the other hand, demand is expected to be subdued in rural areas as customer sentiments are yet to normalise after the second Covid wave. In anticipation of a good festive season, dealers have built inventory levels of up to two months. Another positive factor is that financing availability is adequate and financiers are more forthcoming in recent months. The analysts added that inquiries and bookings are increasing for electric two-wheelers, considering the incentives given by the central and state governments and increasing petrol prices. “Among OEMs, Honda, Suzuki, Bajaj Auto, and TVS Motors are expected to do better than Hero MotoCorp during the festive period, owing to higher exposure to urban markets. Royal Enfield is expected to be severely hit by semiconductor shortages’’, Emkay said. PVs, too, are witnessing strong order bookings and according to the note, there is a waiting period of up to six months for models such as Ertiga, XL6, Swift, Dzire, and Brezza. Moreover, dealers are not getting adequate stock to meet the pending order book. While semiconductor supply issues may hit festive volumes, its analysts, who spoke to dealers of two rival OEMs, said that there could be a flat festive period or a double-digit decline. However, with petrol and diesel prices remaining firm, demand for CNG vehicles has risen due to lower costs of running. This is also expected to see the share of such vehicles rising in the coming months. On Thursday, auto industry body SIAM said that passenger vehicle wholesales in the country showed a decline of 41 per cent in September over last year as the manufacturers struggled to produce adequate units because of the semiconductor shortage. Passenger vehicle sales in the month stood at 1,60,070 units as compared with 2,72,027 units in the year-ago period. “The Indian automobile industry continues to face new challenges. While on one hand, we are seeing a revival in vehicle demand, on the other hand, the shortage of semiconductor chips is causing a major concern for the industry. Many members have curtailed their production plans. Coupled with the festive season demand, this has led to a long waiting time for the customers on popular models of some segments. High raw material prices also continue to be a challenge,’’ Kenichi Ayukawa, President, SIAM said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
18-10-2021||Business||Auto makers offer bevy of models for festive season||Manufacturers across the automobile spectrum launched new models and variants to woo customers during the festive season amid a sharp drop of 40 per cent in September sales. Hero MotoCorp launched the new Xtreme 160R Stealth Edition bike, while Tata Motors is offering subcompact SUV Punch which will be launched on Monday. SUV maker Mahindra and Mahindra has made its presence felt with the XUV700, while South Korean brand Kia launched the first anniversary edition of Sonet, its compact SUV. Premium bike makers KTM and Triumph also updated some of their range. The Hero Xtreme 160R Stealth with new elements such as  LED winkers and Side stand engine cut-off, integrated USB charger and LCD brightness adjustment and a new gear indicator feature on the speedometer will retail at a price of Rs. 1.16 lakh. Malo le Masson, head of strategy and global product planning, Hero MotoCorp, said: “The Xtreme is the sporty and urban brand in Hero MotoCorp’s X-range of premium motorcycles.” Naveen Chauhan, head sales, after sales and parts, Hero MotoCorp, felt, “The new Xtreme will surely brighten-up the festive season in coming weeks.” Tata Motors announced its most recent addition to its “New Foreve’ range of SUVs.  The Tata Punch has become the latest recipient of the five-star rating (16.453) for adult occupant protection and 4-star rating (40.891) for child occupant protection from Global NCAP. The Punch is third car from Tata Motors to receive this recognition after Altroz in January 2020 and Nexon in December 2018. Rajendra Petkar, president and chief technology officer, Tata Motors, “It is an industry first achievement in the sub-compact SUV segment. This  is in line with our philosophy that vehicle safety should be made accessible to all..” Kia India announced the launch of the Kia Sonet 1st anniversary edition to celebrate the first successful year of its smart urban-compact SUV. It will retail at a price band of Rs 10.79 lakh to Rs 11.89 lakh. The Sonet 1st anniversary edition is available in four powertrains options, 1.0 T-GDi petrol engine with Smartstream 6iMT & 7DCT and 1.5-litre CRDi diesel engine with 6MT (in WGT configuration) & 6AT (in VGT configuration), starting a price of Rs 10,79,000 (ex-showroom, pan India) and are limited edition variants. Tae-Jin Park, managing director and chief executive officer, Kia India said, “The Sonet has been one of our breakthrough products that have contributed to Kia's success in India. We have sold more than one lakh units in less than a year.” The Mahindra XUV700 was launched right before the festive season. Available with multiple powertrain options and seating configurations, XUV 700 is available in variants that include diesel and petrol, manual and automatic transmissions and with 5 and 7 seater capacity. It is also available in an optional All-Wheel-Drive (AWD) spec. The price range is between Rs 12.49 lakh to Rs 22.99 lakh. The 2022 KTM RC Range, a supersport model in the KTM lineup, consists of the KTM RC 125, KTM RC 200, and KTM RC 390. The India version of the KTM RC 200 Gen-2 retains all the features as in the international version and comes in with an additional upgrade of all-new full LED headlamp unit. Speaking on the occasion, Sumeet Narang – President, Pro-Biking Business unit at Bajaj Auto Ltd. said – “The KTM RCs are race-bred machines with its technology and form inspired from the MotoGP racer– KTM RC 16. While the KTM RC range Gen-2 will be available in global markets by 2022, the KTM RC 200 Gen-2 will be available for the Indian motorcycle enthusiasts from October 2021. The KTM RC 125 Gen-2 will be available from November 2021. We are celebrating 10 years of KTM’s presence in the Indian market this year, and we are excited to announce the all new KTM RC 200 and KTM RC 125 at a special introductory price of Rs. 2.09 lacs  and Rs. 1.82 Lacs (Ex-SR, Delhi) respectively to mark the occasion.” Triumph Motorcycles launched the latest edition of Street Scrambler with a Euro 5 engine update priced at INR 9.35 lakh ex-showroom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
18-10-2021||Business||Govt seeks applications for judicial and technical members at NCLT||The government has sought applications for a total of 20 positions of judicial and technical members at the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) as well as the appellate tribunal NCLAT. At least 15 posts, including that of nine judicial members and six technical members, are to be filled up at the NCLT. Besides, applications have been invited for the three positions of judicial members and two of technical members at the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT). The last date for submission of the applications online is November 12, according to public notices issued by the corporate affairs ministry. In recent weeks, the government has been filling up vacancies at various tribunals, including NCLT and ITAT (Income Tax Appellate Tribunal). Last month, at least 31 people were appointed as judicial, technical, and accountant members at NCLT and ITAT. On September 6, the Supreme Court said the Centre was testing its “patience” and “emasculating” tribunals by not appointing officials to the quasi-judicial bodies which are facing a severe crunch of presiding officers as well as judicial and technical members. The apex court had also emphasised that it did not want any confrontation with the government. Among other requirements for the positions at NCLT and NCLAT, the applicants should be at least 50 years old. A person should have been a judge of a high court or a district judge for at least 5 years or has a minimum 10 years experience to be considered for the post of the judicial member at the NCLAT. In the case of a technical member, those who have been practicing as a chartered accountant, cost accountant for at least 15 years will be eligible for the post at the tribunal. People with a minimum of 15 years as a member of the Indian Corporate Law Service or Indian Legal Service and holding the rank of secretary or additional secretary to the central government can also apply. Besides, individuals who have served for at least five years as presiding officers of a labour court, tribunal, or national tribunal constituted under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 will be eligible, according to public notice. Those with “proven ability, integrity and standing having special knowledge and professional experience, of not less than 15 years, in industrial finance, industrial management, industrial reconstruction, investment, accountancy...” will also be able to apply for the post of the technical member at the NCLAT. The principal bench of NCLAT is in the national capital and another bench is in Chennai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
18-10-2021||Business||BoI announces cut in interest rates on home and vehicle loans||State-run Bank of India on Sunday announced a cut in its interest rates on home and vehicle loans by 35 basis points and 50 basis points, respectively. The interest rate on home loans starts at 6.50 per cent against earlier 6.85 per cent, and at 6.85 per cent against 7.35 per cent prior on vehicle loans, the bank said in a release. This special rate, which is effective from October 18, 2021, till December 31, 2021, is available for customers applying for fresh loans and also for those seeking transfer of loans, it said. The lender said it has also waived processing charges for both home and vehicle loans till December 31, 2021. State-owned Bank of Maharashtra last week said it has reduced lending rate by up 10 basis points, a move that will make housing, car, and other loans cheaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
18-10-2021||Business||Cargo handled by all govt-owned ports reach pre-Covid level||Cargo handled by all government-owned major ports of India in the first half of this fiscal has nearly reached the level seen before the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, signalling that the external trade of the nation is slowly limping back to normal. While some of the 12 ports handled more cargo during April-September of 2021 than in the corresponding period of 2019, others have yet to pick up steam, notably Shyama Prasad Mookerjee Port (SMP), Calcutta (the erstwhile Calcutta Port Trust) which operates the twin dock system at Haldia and Calcutta. Data collected by government agencies show that these ports handled 347 million tonnes (MT) of traffic in April-September 2021 compared with 348.2 MT recorded during the same period of 2019, a marginal decline of 0.17 per cent. (See chart) In the first half of 2020, cargo movement was badly hampered by the severe restrictions that had been clamped in the wake of the first wave of the pandemic. However, in the current fiscal, traffic was  much higher despite a lethal second wave. Thus, a 16.12 per cent rise in traffic was observed over the first six months of 2020 when only 298.84 MT cargo was handled. JNPT, Kandla, Mormugao, Ennore and Paradip recorded cargo traffic growth rates ranging between 0.55 per cent to 10.93 per cent while CPT, Chennai, Vizag and Mumbai saw a decline. Coal & container The loss of a major customer, subdued trading activity in coal and disruption in the container business meant that Calcutta port fared the worst among major ports if only the first half of 2021 is considered. Top officials at CPT, however, exuded confidence that the twin dock system would be able to close the gap in the second half and attain levels seen in 2019. “We always do better in the second half because we can take advantage of the fair weather in winter when large ships come calling at Sandheads for lighterage operations. In fact, it has already started and we just handled on the high seas an LPG tanker that carried a higher parcel load (Details below),” said Vinit Kumar, chairman, SMP Kolkata. Tamilnadu’s power utility Tangedco used Haldia port to procure coal from Eastern Coalfields Ltd till 2019-20. Not anymore. It now procures coal from Mahanadi Coalfield Ltd of Odisha using ports in that state, leading to a loss of over 2 MT in cargo volume for SMP. Haldia port also saw a dip in coal movement. While the end-users like steel plants bring coal directly for their requirement, coal traders also actively use the port for stock and sell purpose. As coal prices zoomed from April this year in the international market, traders have become less active. While Haldia was hamstrung by coal, Calcutta suffered on account of the disruption in container movement. The port depends on Colombo and Singapore as the transhipment hub for container movement. Due to Covid, there were substantial delays in port operations there and the resultant backlash was felt in Calcutta. Shipping rates have gone through the roof and it has become a problem in securing containers. Calcutta port chairman Vinit Kumar believes the port should be able to attain volumes seen in 2019-20 through greater high sea operations as was seen this weekend. Ship to Ship transfer The port authority, in partnership with importer Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL), transferred LPG from a large ship (mother vessel) to a smaller ship (daughter vessel) and brought it together at Haldia. Earlier, daughter vessels were either sent to Male (capital of Maldives) or the mother vessel used to discharge cargo to some other ports before coming to Haldia. The two-port operation was required since ships could not bring more than a parcel load of more than 25,000 tonnes up the river due to low draft. However, such operations are not cost efficient. “There has been a steady growth of LPG movement at Haldia due to demand from the hinterland. While we have been doing such transhipment for bulk cargo (coal), this is the first time that an operation for liquid cargo was carried out. We hope more customers will now come forward and an ecosystem can then be created,” Kumar explained. Such cost effective operations can be carried out at least 6-8 months of the year. Haldia handled 4.8 MT LPG in 2020-21, compared with 2 MT in 2016-17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
18-10-2021||Business||SPV push for monetisation of land and non-core assets of CPSEs||The finance ministry will soon move the cabinet to seek approval for setting up a company for the transfer and subsequent monetisation of land and non-core assets of privatisation-bound CPSEs, an official said. A special purpose vehicle (SPV) in the form of a company would be set up to hold these assets which would be monetised to fetch value to the exchequer, department of investment and public asset Management (Dipam) secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said. “We are talking about a company which will be there for many years, which will specialise in handling surplus land and non-core asset monetisation. We are expecting it shortly. As soon as we get Cabinet approval,” Pandey said. There are some CPSEs for strategic disinvestment and “we feel certain portion of land is not really worth going with the company and those assets could be monetised”, he said. Post cabinet nod, the department of public enterprises , which is now under the finance ministry, will be entrusted with doing the asset monetisation. The government is targeting to conclude strategic sale of BPCL, Shipping Corporation of India, IDBI Bank, BEML, Pawan Hans and Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd this fiscal. In the 2021-22 budget, the government announced the PSE (public sector enterprises) privatisation policy as per which all PSUs will be privatised, barring four strategic sectors of atomic energy, space and defence; transport and telecommunications; power, petroleum, coal and other minerals; and banking, insurance and financial services. In these strategic sectors, the government will retain only a bare minimum number of PSUs. AI selloff On the acquisition of Air India, Pandey said what the Tatas are getting is not a cash cow but an airline which is bleeding where money needs to be pumped in to refurbish obsolete aircraft and dust up strangled ones while being unable to touch any employee for one year and only be able to resize staff after paying a VRS. “It won’t be a very easy task there. Only advantage is they (new Air India owner) are paying the price which they think they can manage. They are not taking the excessive debt accumulated to fund years of losses. We are continuing it as an ongoing concern.... This process has also saved huge amount of taxpayers money going forward,” Pandey said. Earlier this month, the government had accepted an offer by Talace Pvt Ltd, a unit of the holding company of salt-to-software conglomerate Tata group, to pay Rs 2,700 crore cash and take over Rs 15,300 crore of the airline’s debt. As on August 31, Air India had a total debt of Rs 61,562 crore. About 75 per cent of this debt or Rs 46,262 crore will be transferred to a special purpose vehicle AIAHL before handing over the loss-making airline to the Tata Group. The Tatas would not get to retain non-core assets such as the Vasant Vihar Housing colony of Air India, Air India Building at Nariman Point in Mumbai and Air India Building in New Delhi. “We have only allowed (Tata group) for use for two years, but within two years we have to work out a monetisation plan for it to be sold so that the money can be used to set off AIAHL liabilities,” Pandey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
18-10-2021||Business||Sheaf of corporate results to drive market sentiment||A sheaf of corporate results will be the main driver for the Sensex and Nifty which are on a record run, egged on by a rapid opening up of the economy and global cues though rising oil prices are a concern. The Sensex on Thursday raced past the 61000 mark to end at at 61305, while the Nifty also ended a life-time high of 18338. The markets were closed on Friday for Dussehra. “Quarterly results will dictate market sentiment and will be the talk of this week as they pick up the pace. D-Street will be all ears to any management insights to forecast the future earnings trajectory,” said Yesha Shah, head (equity research) at Samco Securities. “With the anticipation that companies would keep up their momentum from the previous quarter into the second quarter, investors may see whipsaw movements (sudden reversal of direction) in the stock this week as results beat or miss market expectations,” he said. Among major earnings to be announced this week are from Reliance Industries, UltraTech Cement, ACC, Hindustan Unilever Ltd, ICICI Pru Life, Nestle, Asian Paints, JSW Steel, ICICI Bank, Hindustan Zinc, IDBI, Bank of Maharashtra, South Indian Bank and  Federal Bank. “If we talk about the cues for this week then quarterly earnings will dominate the market where the market will react to HDFC Bank and Avenue Supermarts earnings on Monday,” Santosh Meena, head (research) at Swastika Investmart Ltd, said. He said other than earnings, global cues will be important where global markets have started to do well after a period of correction. Last week, the BSE benchmark rallied 1246.89 points or 2.07 per cent. Eight of the top-10 most valued companies together added Rs 1,52,355.03 crore in market valuation last week, with HDFC Bank and SBI the biggest gainers. “Banking will be the key sector under focus in the coming days as the sector is set to kick-start its earnings season. With the expectation of a strong recovery in corporate earnings, the Indian market is positioned to continue its bull run,” said Vinod Nair, head (research) at Geojit Financial Services. “However, any deviation from market expectation may lead to short-term correction in the respective segments,” Nair said. Markets will also track the movement of the rupee, foreign institutional investors and brent crude. Policy makers at the International Monetary Fund and World Bank annual meetings have warned of supply chain woes and growing inflation concerns. Foreign portfolio investors (FPI), meanwhile, have turned net sellers in the capital markets in October so far, reversing the trend of net investments in the previous two months because of the depreciation in the rupee and global factors.  According to the depositories’ data, FPIs have pulled out Rs 1,472 crore from capital markets on a net basis in the current month so far. However Ajay Kejriwal, president at Choice Broking, said he expected a kneejerk reaction on inflation but overall it will be considered as positive by investors. Telecom show The second quarter of the fiscal is likely to be a “healthy quarter” for telecom companies, where Jio’s performance will be driven by subscriber additions, and Bharti and Vodafone Idea will benefit from tariff hikes and some recovery post-severe wave of Covid-19, according to some analysts. The urgency around tariff hikes has come down with Vodafone Idea Ltd’s near-term cash outflow significantly reduced, IIFL Securities said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
18-10-2021||India||Three dead as incessant rains lash Uttarakhand||Three labourers from Nepal died and two were injured with incessant rains lashing Uttarakhand for the second consecutive day on Monday as the authorities advised Chardham pilgrims not to proceed to the Himalayan temples till the weather improves. The labourers were staying in a tent at Samkhal near Lansdowne in Pauri district when rubble flowing down from a field above due to the rains buried them alive, District Magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande said. They had been engaged in a hotel construction work in the area. The injured were admitted to the Kotdwar base hospital, he said. Meanwhile, Chardham pilgrims who arrived in Haridwar and Rishikesh by Sunday have been asked not to proceed further till the weather improves, while operation of vehicles for the Himalayan temples has been suspended temporarily. Passenger vehicles are not being allowed to cross the Chandrabhaga bridge, Tapovan, Lakshman Jhoola and Muni-ki-Reti Bhadrakali barriers in Rishikesh. Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami visited the state disaster control room at the secretariat here to take weather updates and know the conditions of roads and highways. He appealed to the pilgrims to defer their journey for two days until the weather normalises. They are staying in safe locations spread across Haridwar, Rishikesh, Shrinagar, Tehri, Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Guptkashi, Ukhimath, Karnaprayag, Joshimath and Pandukeshwar. Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Dhami on the phone to get an update on precautionary steps being taken by the state government in view of the heavy rain alert and assured him of all possible help. It has been raining in Kedarnath since Sunday night but the Mandakini river is flowing at its normal level. A Devasthanam Board official said regular prayers at the four Himalayan temples are continuing and pilgrims staying there are safe. Pilgrims headed for Yamunotri have been asked to stay in Badkot and Jankichatti, whereas those en route to Gangotri have been asked to stay in Harsil, Bhatwari and Maneri, Uttarkashi District Magistrate Mayur Dikshit told PTI. Kedarnath and Badrinath-bound pilgrims have also been requested not to proceed on their journey till the weather clears. Most of the pilgrims on way to Badrinath are staying in Joshimath and Chamoli, Chamoli district disaster management officer N K Joshi said. Around 4,000 yatris out of a total of 6,000 in Kedarnath on Sunday have returned while the rest are lodged in safe locations. Many of them have been stopped in Linchauli and Bhimbali as a precautionary measure, Rudraprayag disaster management officer N S Singh said. The Chardham Devasthanam Board said the yatra has been temporarily halted for the sake of safety of pilgrims in view of the heavy rain alert issued by the Uttarakhand meteorological department for October 17-19. The peaks beyond Badrinath and Kedarnath received light snowfall, whereas the lower areas in Chamoli district were lashed by continuous showers. Rain continued in Uttarkashi and Dehradun as well. Dhami has asked the district administrations to provide hourly updates on the weather and the condition of roads. He also asked them to keep a minimum response time in case of a disaster. Most educational institutions across Uttarakhand remained closed on Monday, while a ban was imposed on trekking, mountaineering and camping activities in the high altitude areas of the state, including the Nanda Devi biosphere reserve and various forest divisions, till Tuesday as a precautionary measure. The district-level Khel Mahakumbh events to be held at parade and pavilion grounds in Dehradun on October 18-19 have been cancelled. They have now been rescheduled for October 24 and 25. Heavy to very heavy rains, lightning, hail storms and high speed winds (60-70 kmph) have been predicted by the Met department for all 13 districts of Uttarakhand between October 17 and 19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
18-10-2021||India||BJP slams Congress for 'vilification' of Vallabhbhai Patel at CWC meeting||The BJP on Monday accused the Congress of committing a "sin" over reports that a leader at the recent CWC meeting made critical remarks about Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on the issue of Jammu and Kashmir and asked if the party leadership will take action against him. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra cited reports that Tariq Hameed Karra, a Kashmiri leader and a permanent invitee to the Congress Working Committee, had credited Jawaharlal Nehru for Jammu and Kashmir's integration with India and had alleged that Patel wanted to keep the Valley out. Patra asked whether Congress president Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi objected when Karra "vilified" Patel and presented India's first home minister as a "villain" while praising Nehru. "Was Karra reprimanded? Will he be axed from the CWC," Patra asked, accusing the Congress of constantly insulting leaders like Subhas Chandra Bose, Patel and Hindutva ideologue Veer Savarkar. The Congress, he alleged, is reduced to being a party of a family and works to advance the family's rule. "What sort of mindset is this that one family has done everything and others have done nothing. What the CWC has done is a sin," he said. He noted that Karra also batted for Rahul Gandhi to take over as the Congress chief while lauding the contribution of the Nehru-Gandhi family and criticising Patel. "This is the height of sycophancy," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
18-10-2021||India||Lawyer shot dead in Shahjahanpur district court||A lawyer died of a gunshot wound to the head at the Shahjahanpur district court here on Monday afternoon and police are trying to ascertain if it is a case of suicide or murder. Superintendent of Police (SP) S Anand said advocate Bhupendra Singh (38) of Jalalabad tehsil had gone to the third-floor office of ACJM-I of the district court to meet a clerk in connection with some case when a gunshot was heard and he was found dead. Quoting the clerk Singh had gone to meet, the SP said an illegal 315 bore pistol was also found lying near the body. Since no one else was present on the spot, it is not immediately known if it was a murder or suicide, SP Anand said, adding that senior officials and investigating teams are on the spot. Advocates in the district, meanwhile, launched an indefinite strike, demanding the killer's immediate arrest. Political parties like the Congress, Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) attacked the state government over the incident. BSP president Mayawati said it exposed the BJP government's tall claims over law and order in the state. "The murder of a lawyer on the court premises of Shahjahanpur district of UP in broad daylight is very sad and shameful. It exposes the law and order situation under the BJP government and its claims in this regard. The question arises as to who is safe in UP. The government should pay proper attention to this," she said in a tweet in Hindi. Central Bar Association president Anant Kumar Singh told PTI that the advocates have stopped all work and started a 'dharna' at the Khirni Bagh intersection of Shahjahanpur. "District Magistrate Inder Vikram Singh and SP Anand came to the protest site and we expressed our surprise as to how an illegal firearm reached the court premises even though there is police force deployed at each gate of the complex," he said. Until the killers are arrested, all advocates will remain on strike, the bar association president said. Protesting lawyers have also demanded a compensation of Rs 1 crore to the family of the deceased, and an investigation of the case by a senior official, he said. The SP said a panel of doctors has been formed to conduct the post-mortem examination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
18-10-2021||India||Kerala rains: Dalai Lama expresses sadness over loss of lives||The Dalai Lama on Monday expressed sadness over the loss of lives and property due to the heavy rains and landslides in Kerala and offered financial assistance for the relief and rescue work there. In a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the Tibetian spiritual leader said, I offer my condolences to you, to the families who have lost loved ones and to all affected by the devastation. "I understand that the state government and concerned authorities are making every effort to provide help to those in need and that relief efforts are well underway. As a token of my sympathy, I would like to make a donation from the Dalai Lama Trust towards the rescue and relief efforts," he wrote. The death toll in incidents related to heavy rains, including landslides and flash floods, rose to 22 on Sunday. The casualties occurred on Saturday due to landslides and flash floods in the hilly areas of Kottayam and Idukki districts following heavy rains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
18-10-2021||India||Jacqueline Fernandez skips third ED summons in money laundering case||Actor Jacqueline Fernandez again skipped on Monday her appearance before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for questioning in connection with a probe into an over Rs 200 crore money-laundering case against alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekar, officials said. She is understood to have cited professional engagements as the reason for her absence. The probe agency may issue her a fresh date. This was the third time that she skipped the ED notice. Fernandez, 36, has appeared before the federal agency once in August and recorded her statement in this case under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). It is understood that the agency wants to confront her with the main accused in the case involving Chandrashekhar and his actor wife Leena Maria Paul. The agency wants to understand some trail of funds and transactions allegedly linked to Fernandez in this case, officials said. Actor and dancer Nora Fatehi, 29, recorded her statement with the ED on Thursday in this case. Fatehi's representative had said that she has been the victim in the case and being a witness, she is co-operating and helping the officers in the investigation. Chandrashekhar and Paul were recently placed under arrest by the ED while they were already lodged in jail after being held by the Delhi Police on charges of cheating high-profile individuals, including former Fortis Healthcare promoter Shivinder Mohan Singh's wife Aditi Singh. In August, the ED had raided some of Chandrashekhar's premises and seized a sea-facing bungalow in Chennai, Rs 82.5 lakh cash and over a dozen luxurious cars. It had claimed in a statement that Chandrashekhar is a "known conman" and is being probed by the Delhi Police in a case of alleged criminal conspiracy, cheating and extortion to the tune of about Rs 200 crore. "Chandrasekhar is the mastermind of this fraud. He has been part of the crime world since the age of 17. He has multiple FIRs against him and is presently lodged in Rohini jail (in connection with the Delhi Police case)," the ED had said. Despite being in jail, Chandrashekhar "did not stop conning" people, it said. "He (with a cellphone procured illegally from within the prison) with the help of technology, made spoofed calls to dupe people as the numbers displayed on the called party's phone number belonged to senior government officers." "While speaking (from the prison) to these persons, he claimed to be a government officer offering to help people for a price," the ED had claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
18-10-2021||India||'Rail roko' organised by farmers affect 130 locations in Northern Railway zone||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha's six-hour 'rail roko' protest on Monday over the Lakhimpur violence affected 130 locations in the Northern Railway zone and hindered the running of 50 trains, said its chief public relation officer (CPRO). In the North Western Railway (NWR), rail traffic was affected in some sections in Rajasthan and Haryana with two trains cancelled, 13 partially cancelled and one diverted due to the protest. The trains that have been affected in the Northern Railway zone include the Chandigarh-Ferozepur Express. Its scheduled departure from Ludhiana was 7 am, but has been stranded there due to a blockade in the Ferozpur-Ludhiana section, the official said. The New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi Express was halted near Shambu station as protesters blocked railway tracks near Sahnewal and Rajpura. "So far, 130 locations in the Northern Railway zone have been affected and operations of 50 trains hindered," the Northern Railway CPRO said. In Rajasthan, the agitation affected train movement in Hanumangarh and Sriganganagar of the Bikaner division. An NWR spokesperson said rail traffic on Bhiwani-Rewari, Sirsa-Rewari, Loharu-Hisar, Suratgarh-Bathinda, Sirsa-Bathinda, Hanumangarh-Bathinda, Rohtak-Bhiwani, Rewari-Sadulpur, Hisar-Bathinda, Hanumangarh-Sadulpur and Sri Ganganagar-Rewari sections was affected due to the agitation. The Bathinda-Rewari Special train and the Sirsa-Ludhiana Special train will remain cancelled on Monday, he said, adding the route of Ahmedabad-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Special train has also been changed. The train which departed from Ahmedabad on Saturday will run on the changed route via Rewari-Delhi-Pathankot to Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra, he said. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the Centre's three agri laws, had said "protests will be intensified until justice is secured" in the Lakhimpur Kheri case. All train traffic will be stopped from 10 am till 4 pm on Monday during the 'rail roko' protest over the demand of the dismissal and arrest of Union Minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri case, the SKM had said. Four of the eight people who died in the violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers have claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and Ajay Mishra who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. Ashish Mishra was arrested in the case on October 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
18-10-2021||India||India's Covid vaccination campaign slows down despite record production||India's vaccination campaign has slowed despite amassing record stockpiles of vaccine, health ministry data showed on Monday, as authorities maintain a wider-than-usual gap between doses in a strategy that has boosted coverage. Domestic production of the AstraZeneca vaccine, which accounts for nearly 90% of administered doses, has more than tripled since May, when a supply shortage prompted India to double the period between doses to between 12 and 16 weeks. That gap, exceeding the 8 to 12 weeks recommended by the World Health Organization, has allowed India to give at least one vaccine dose to 74% of its 944 million adults, with just 30% getting the full complement of two. The AstraZeneca vaccine, known as Covishield, accounts for 861 million doses of India's total injected figure of 977.6 million, while its other main vaccine, Covaxin has a dose interval of four to six weeks. Over the last few days, daily stocks of all COVID-19 vaccines have exceeded 100 million doses, the health ministry figures show, for states and federally controlled territories taken together. In contrast, daily vaccinations have dropped to an average of 5 million doses this month and even less in the past week, off a daily peak of 25 million last month. The ministry said it followed recommendations from a group of experts in making any changes to dosage, arrived at by weighing up "scientific and empirical" evidence. "NTAGI is actively considering the matter of dose interval between Covishield doses," its spokesperson told Reuters, referring to the ministry's National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI). However, vaccine supply alone should not determine the gap, said Chandrakant Lahariya, a physician and epidemiologist in the capital, New Delhi. "There is no scientific rationale for reducing the gap," he added. "In fact, retaining this gap has the possibility of giving stronger protection and longer-lasting immunity." Government officials have said they are trying to encourage more of those who are still unvaccinated to get inoculated. A 12-week gap was more logical and scientific for vaccinations drives such as those in India, where some studies have shown many people already had antibodies against COVID-19, Lahariya said. In July, the studies estimated that more than two-thirds of Indians already had COVID-fighting antibodies, mainly through natural infection. Monday's 13,596 new cases were India's lowest rise in 230 days, taking its tally of infections past 34 million. Deaths rose by 166 to stand at 452,290.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
18-10-2021||India||Fire in Surat packaging unit kills two||Two workers died after a massive fire broke out in a five-storey packaging unit in Gujarat's Surat district early Monday morning, officials said. Around 145 others were rescued from the unit located in Kadodara industrial area, and many of them received injuries during the rescue operation, they said. The blaze erupted in the basement of the Viva Packaging unit at around 4.30 am, officials said. Workers who were on the top floor of the unit panicked after the fire broke out and several of them tried to escape through the windows and pipes of the building, Kadodara police station's inspector Hemant Patel said. "A worker died after falling from the building's third floor while trying to climb down a pipe to escape the blaze. The body of another worker was found in the basement of the building. He died of suffocation caused by the smoke. Around 145 people were rescued," he said. All the people rescued from the building were taken to different hospitals for treatment as many of them received injuries during the rescue process, the official said. Eighteen fire tenders and two hydraulic cranes were rushed to the spot to douse the flames and rescue people trapped in the building, Surat Municipal Corporation's in-charge chief fire officer Basant Pareek said. It took around five hours to bring the blaze under control, the official said. "The five-storey building also has a basement from where the fire started and the flames went up to the third floor. The cause of the blaze is yet to be ascertained," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
18-10-2021||India||WHO to meet next week to consider emergency use listing of India's Covaxin||The WHO's technical advisory group will meet on October 26 to consider the emergency use listing of India's Covaxin which is being used in the country's nationwide anti-COVID-19 vaccination programme, according to the global health agency's chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which has developed Covaxin, had submitted EOI (Expression of Interest) to the World Health Organisation on April 19 for its vaccine. Swaminathan, the WHO's Chief Scientist, said on Twitter on Sunday that the technical advisory group will meet on October 26 to consider the Emergency Use Listing (EUL) for Covaxin. @WHO has been working closely with @BharatBiotech to complete the dossier. Our goal is to have a broad portfolio of vaccines approved for emergency use and to expand access to populations everywhere," she said in the tweet. Earlier this month, the WHO said that Bharat Biotech has been submitting data to WHO on a rolling basis and submitted additional information at the WHO's request on September 27. The WHO experts are currently reviewing this information and if it addresses all questions raised, the WHO assessment will be finalised next week." The Geneva-based WHO said it began rolling data of the vaccine on July 6. Rolling data allows the WHO to start its review right away, as information continues to come in to accelerate the overall review process. According to the WHO, submissions for pre-qualification or listing under the emergency use procedure are confidential. If a product submitted for assessment is found to meet the criteria for listing, the WHO will publish the results widely. Duration of the emergency use listing process depends on the quality of the data submitted by the vaccine manufacturer and on the data meeting the WHO's criteria, according to the agency. The indigenously-developed Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is one of the six vaccines that have received emergency use authorisation from India's drug regulator Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) and is being used in the nationwide anti-COVID-19 inoculation programme along with Covishield and Sputnik V. Bharat Biotech recently said it has submitted all data pertaining to Covaxin to the WHO for the EUL and is awaiting feedback from the global health watchdog. "#COVAXIN clinical trial data was fully compiled and available in June 2021. All Data submitted for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) Application to World Health Organization in early July. We have responded to any clarifications sought by #WHO and are awaiting further feedback," Bharat Biotech had tweeted last month. "We are diligently working with the WHO to obtain EUL at the earliest, the company had said on Tuesday. India, the world's largest producer of vaccines overall, suspended exports of COVID-19 vaccines in April to focus on inoculating its own population following a sudden spike in infections. Last month, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya announced that India will resume the supplies abroad. According to Johns Hopkins University, the coronavirus has claimed 4,897,386 lives along with 240,559,605 confirmed cases across the world so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
18-10-2021||India||Water levels rising in Kerala dams, CM chairing meet ||With water levels rising in various dams due to heavy rains in catchment areas and eastern hilly regions of the state, the Kerala government on Monday issued alerts to the public that shutters of certain dams will be raised, resulting in increase in water levels of rivers in south and central Kerala. With water level in the Idukki reservoir, one of the highest arch dams in Asia, having risen to 2,396.96 feet Monday, an Orange alert has been sounded. The full reservoir level of Idukki dam is 2,403 feet. As the water level at various dams including Sholayar, Pamba, Kakki and Idamalayar are rising, the state government has called a meeting which will be chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to take stock of the situation. An Orange alert has been issued for the Pamba dam and the Kakki dam will be opened before afternoon on Monday, state health minister Veena George, who is in charge of Pathanamthitta district, has said. The low-lying areas of Cherickal, Poozhikadu, Mudiyoorkonam and Kurambala regions near Pandalam, along the banks of Achankovil river, have been flooded. As the water level in the Achankovil has been rising, alert has been sounded along the banks near regions of Aranmula, Kidangannur and Omalloor. People have been shifted to various relief camps opened in Pathanamthitta district. The state government has appointed ADGP Vijay Sakhare as the nodal officer to coordinate the rescue and relief operations. Thrissur District Collector Haritha V Kumar has asked the public residing along the banks of Chalakudi river to remain vigilant as water level may rise as Sholayar dam may open soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
18-10-2021||India||Farmers block train traffic in Punjab as part of 'rail roko' stir over Lakhimpur incident||Farmers in Punjab and Haryana squatted on rail tracks on Monday morning as part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha's six-hour 'rail roko' protest demanding the dismissal and arrest of Union Minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The stir disrupted the movement of trains in both the states, causing inconvenience to passengers who could be seen waiting for long hours with their baggage. Protests were held at many places, including Punjab's Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Moga, Patiala and Ferozepur and Haryana's Charkhi Dadri, Sonipat, Kurukshetra, Jind, Karnal and Hisar. Protesting farmers, including women, raised slogans against the BJP-led government and demanded the arrest of Ajay Mishra. Security was deployed at railway stations in the wake of the 'rail roko' protest. Farmers sat on rail tracks in several sections including the Ferozepur-Fazilka section in Ferozepur city and the Ferozepur-Ludhiana section at Ajitwal in Moga, officials said. In a statement, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the Centre's three agri laws, had said "protests will be intensified until justice is secured" in the Lakhimpur Kheri case. During the 'rail roko' protest, all train traffic will be stopped from 10 am till 4 pm on Monday, the SKM had said. "To press for its demand for MoS Home Ajay Mishra's dismissal and arrest, so that justice can be secured in the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre, Samyukt Kisan Morcha has announced a nation-wide Rail Roko programme. "SKM put out a call to its constituents to stop rail traffic for six hours on October 18 between 10 am and 4 pm. The SKM asks for this action to be taken up peacefully, without any destruction and damage of any kind to any railway property," it had said. At Ludhiana railway station -- one of the busiest in Punjab -- a person headed for Jodhpur rued that he came to know about the protest after reaching the station. He appealed to farmer leaders to lay siege to the residences of politicians rather than harassing the common man. "They should think about the public." A man waiting for his train at Ludhiana station with his family said they have to rush for Gonda in Uttar Pradesh as one of their relatives has died. At Patiala railway station, Dinesh Joshi searched frantically for milk and hot water for his child as the train he was travelling in had stopped due to farmers' protest. A group of protests put up a banner with 'Jai Jawan Jai Kisan' written on it in front of a train forced to stop at Moga. They also carried photos of four farmers killed in the Lakhimpur violence. Demanding the arrest of Union Minister Ajay Mishra, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher on Monday said the KMSC will hold protests at 20 places in 11 districts of Punjab. Four of the eight people who died in the violence on October 3 were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers have claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and Ajay Mishra who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. Ashish Mishra was arrested in the case on October 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
18-10-2021||India||Active Covid cases lowest in 221 days||India added 13,596 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,40,81,315, while the active cases declined to 1,89,694, the lowest in 221 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,52,290 with 166 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 24 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 113 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.56 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.12 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 6,152 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 9,89,493 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 59,19,24,874. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 49 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.37 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 115 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,34,39,331, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 97.79 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 166 new fatalities include 74 from Kerala and 29 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,52,290 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,789 from Maharashtra, 37,941 from Karnataka, 35,899 from Tamil Nadu, 26,865 from Kerala, 25,089 from Delhi, 22,898 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,977 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
18-10-2021||India||Kashmir: Two Bihari labourers killed in suspected militant attack||A suspected militant attack killed two Bihari labourers and injured a third victim in Kulgam on Sunday evening, escalating what has emerged as the biggest challenge to the security establishment here since the 2019 revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. The killings, coming a day after a Bihari golgappa vendor and a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh were killed in two attacks in the Valley, have terrorised the thousands of non-local people in Kashmir, forcing most of them off the streets. About a dozen civilians, seven of them non-Muslim, have been killed since October 1 in the deadliest spurt in violence the Valley has witnessed in years. Five of the dead were migrant workers. One of the 12 civilians killed was a prominent Kashmiri Pandit businessman, Makhan Lal Bindroo. Dozens of Pandits have fled the Valley following these killings, prompting many to compare the situation with 1990 when thousands of Pandits had migrated following the outbreak of militancy. Thousands of security force personnel are guarding the streets but the attacks are showing no sign of abating. Officials said militants fired indiscriminately on migrant labourers in the Wanpoh area of Kulgam, killing two Biharis and injuring a third labourer. Police and security forces have cordoned the area off to hunt for the assailants. Mohammed Zulfiqar, an outstation labourer, said the workers were sitting in their rented rooms in a tenement when they were shot at by gunmen. Zulfiqar told reporters as he accompanied an injured labourer to hospital: “We were sitting inside rooms. They came and shot at three people.” Police sources identified the two dead labourers as Raja Reshi Dev and Joginder Reshi Dev, both from Bihar. On Saturday evening, militants had killed Arvind Kumar Sah, a golgappa seller from Bihar, and Sageer Ahmad, a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh, in back-to-back attacks in Srinagar and Pulwama. Of the 12 civilians killed in October, 11 are believed to have been slain by militants and one by the security forces. Nine soldiers and 13 militants have been killed during the month. These nine soldiers, among them two junior commissioned officers, died during a prolonged gunfight with militants in Jammu’s Pir Panjal region that entered its seventh day on Sunday. Former chief minister and Srinagar MP Farooq Abdullah on Sunday claimed that Kashmiris were not involved in the recent killings of civilians. He alleged these attacks reflected a conspiracy to defame Kashmiris and disrupt the “peaceful atmosphere” in the Union Territory. “These killings are unfortunate and were done under a conspiracy. Kashmiris are not involved in these killings. It is an attempt to defame Kashmiris,” Farooq told reporters. The attacks on non-Kashmiris began soon after Delhi scrapped the state’s special status, but they have risen sharply this month. Many in Kashmir believe that Article 370 was diluted to change the region’s Muslim-majority character, and the attacks appear to be a desperate militant effort to force non-Kashmiris out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
18-10-2021||India||Panel proposes replacing Non-NET fellowship with NET-II fellowship||A government-appointed panel has recommended replacing the Non-NET (National Eligibility Test) fellowship offered to research students at central universities with an NET-linked fellowship, dismaying academics who say this would hurt students from disadvantaged groups. Currently, PhD and MPhil students at central universities are eligible for the Junior Research Fellowship (JRF), Non-NET fellowship and a few other minor scholarships. Some 8,000 are given the JRF (Rs 31,000 a month for two years and Rs 35,000 a month for the next three years) on the basis of their NET ranks. The rest are eligible for the Non-NET fellowship, given to about 30,000 research scholars (Rs 8,000 a month for PhD students and Rs 5,000 a month for the soon-to-be-history MPhil students). Now a panel has suggested replacing the Non-NET fellowship with a “NET-II fellowship”, thus tying all research scholarships at the central universities with securing pass marks in the NET, sources in the education ministry and the University Grants Commission (UGC) confirmed independently. Academics said that if the recommendation is accepted, it will hurt poor and rural students who cannot afford or access coaching, which increases one’s chances of cracking the multiple-choice-based NET. In contrast, research scholars take subjective-type entrance tests to gain admission to central universities, thus qualifying automatically for the Non-NET fellowship. The entrance tests are conducted individually by some of the universities and as a group by the rest. The UGC had first decided to scrap the Non-NET fellowship in October 2015, citing a lack of funds. However, faced with student protests, the education (then HRD) ministry put the decision on hold and set up an expert committee under a professor, Gautam Barua, to suggest better selection guidelines. The committee was also asked to suggest whether such scholarships could be extended to state universities. However, a ministry official said the government was keen on reducing the expenditure on scholarships and therefore unofficially asked the Barua panel — which had been set a deadline of three months — to take its time. The panel took more than five years and handed in its report in June this year. It recommended the NET-II fellowship stipend be half that of the JRF, and that it be denied to MPhil students since the programme is on its way to abolition. The UGC considered the report on July 1 but did not take any decision. “The commission deferred this item with the remark that financial implication as well as the number of slots for NET-II fellowships be worked out and placed before the commission,” the minutes of the July 1 meeting say. Officials said the Barua recommendations allowed the government and the UGC the scope to work out a strict NET score cut-off for the NET-II and restrict the number of fellowships. However, they added, the government was unhappy about the proposed enhancement of the stipend. Former UGC chairperson Sukhadeo Thorat, on whose watch the Non-NET fellowship was started in 2008, said the fellowship should continue without being linked to the NET. He said that “all those getting into PhD courses” should continue to get a fellowship — a trend threatened by the Barua proposal. Besides, he said, the entrance test that research scholars at central universities crack is “more rigorous” than the NET, so the Non-NET does not necessarily mark a concession for poor-quality students. N. Sai Balaji, a research scholar at JNU, said students from disadvantaged groups “bring with them their diverse experiences that help them come up with innovative research ideas, but now that opportunity will end”. Former UGC secretary R.K. Chauhan said: “It seems the government doesn’t want to spend on research. By linking fellowships to the NET, the number may be reduced. The UGC will be free to decide the pass criterion, which will have a bearing on the number that gets the (NET-II) fellowship.” A professor at the Jamia Millia Islamia said that higher education in general seemed not to be a priority with the Centre. “When the government is charging all kinds of taxes and cess, the expectation is that it should spend on spheres of the public good like education and health. But higher education and research are gradually getting out of reach for ordinary students,” the professor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
18-10-2021||India||King cobra set to be sorted into four distinct species||The king cobra, regarded for nearly two centuries as a single species found across South and Southeast Asia, is set to be sorted into four distinct species native to specific geographical regions. Indian scientists and their collaborators have identified four independently evolving, geographically separated king cobra species they have named the Western Ghats lineage, the Indo-Chinese lineage, the Indo-Malayan lineage and the Luzon Island lineage, found in the Philippines. Their research provides the first evidence of multiple, unrecognised species of the Ophiophagus hannah, the zoological name of the king cobra. The snake was first described in 1836 by the Danish zoologist Theodore Cantor who examined three specimens caught in the Sunderbans and one caught in a jungle near Calcutta. Cantor had described the snake as a “hooded serpent with fangs and maxillar teeth” that was known locally as “sunkr choar” (shonkhochur) and frightened native snake-catchers more than the cobra. “The existence of multiple species of the king cobra is surprising because they look similar, share similar habitats, display similar behaviour,” said Kartik Shanker, an evolutionary biologist at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, and a team member. The team led by Shankar included Priyanka Swamy, S.R. Ganesh, Gunanidhi Sahoo, S.P. Vijaykumar, Shanker and Sushil Dutta from academic institutions across India and collaborators in Sweden, Malaysia and the UK. In their study, the researchers from India and their foreign collaborators analysed key genetic markers that indicated proximity or distance among 62 king cobra specimens collected from across the snake’s geographical range. They used for their genetic analyses scales from wild or captive specimens; shed skin from private breeders; liver, muscle tissue, rib bones and scales from preserved specimens at a natural history museum in France; and freshly dead specimens — road kills or snakes killed by people. Their study, published in the journal Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution, has suggested four candidate species: CS1 in the Western Ghats; CS2 (Indo-Chinese lineage) north of the Isthmus of Kra, the Eastern Ghats, the Eastern Himalayas, southern China, Vietnam, Thailand and the Andaman Islands; CS3 in the Indo-Malayan region south of the Isthmus of Kra, peninsular Malaysia, Borneo, Bali, Sumatra, Java and Mindoro; and CS4 in the Philippines’ Luzon Islands. “The overlap of genetic diversity with separate geographic regions suggests the species have been evolving separately without any gene flow between them,” said P. Gowri Shankar, the study’s lead researcher. “The findings have implications for the conservation of these species.” An abundance of earlier evidence from the plant and animal kingdoms across the world had established that geographic separation can drive speciation or the emergence of distinct species. The Western Ghats lineage, or CS1, is spatially separated from its geographically and genetically closest relative, the Indo-Chinese lineage, or CS2, by the arid regions of peninsular India. The researchers believe the king cobra dispersed across the Southeast Asian islands during glacial periods when natural land bridges connected the islands. Similar studies over the past two decades by independent research groups had identified the West African forest elephant, a kiwi species in New Zealand, the Sunda clouded leopard in Indonesia, an Orangutan in Sumatra and the Indus river dolphin as new species.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
18-10-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir: Bullets end fifteen years of trust||Golgappa seller Arvind Kumar Sah, 30, who was shot dead by terrorists in Srinagar on Saturday evening, had been running his trade in the Valley for 15 years and never thought he was in danger, his father said on Sunday. “Arvind used to praise the nature of the Kashmiri people. I think terrorists sent by Pakistan killed him,” his father Devendra Sah, a man in his 60s, said from the family’s home at Parghari village in Bihar’s Banka district. “I can’t help thinking that had we not been so poor, he would not have needed to go to Srinagar and get killed.” The wish to provide his family with a better life had taken a teenaged Arvind to Kashmir, where he ran his business from a thela — a four-wheel wooden pushcart. His family said he had never faced any problems before. But they now regret allowing him to return to Srinagar around three months ago. People gathered outside the Sah home on Sunday to express sympathy and support as wails broke out inside from time to time. Arvind’s eldest brother, a mason, had died earlier this year. With the latest death, the family has lost its two main breadwinners. Arvind had come home to participate in his brother’s last rites. He returned to Srinagar after the second wave of the pandemic subsided. “I never wanted him to go so far away to work. I would hear people talk about terrorists and would ask him not to go,” a weeping Sunaina Devi, Arvind’s mother, said. “But he would say it was necessary for the family’s betterment. He had started working for our sake at the age of 15.” Devendra was a day labourer and still does odd jobs in the village, earning paltry sums. Arvind’s three surviving brothers too are day labourers, but work has dried up because of Covid. The family has 13 mouths to feed. “He (Arvind) was fourth among my five sons. He used to send us money which helped us survive,” Devendra said. “What will we do now?” Chief minister Nitish Kumar has announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh. BJP Rajya Sabha member and former Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi said he had spoken about the killing to Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha. Sushil said the Union Territory administration would provide Rs 11 lakh to Arvind’s family. “Sinha has assured me that arrangements are being made to send Arvind’s body back,” he added. The family said it was in the dark about this. Arvind’s elder brother Mantu Sah, who had left for Srinagar to bring the body back, said he had no idea whether Kashmir officials were arranging for sending the body home. “Nobody from the government has contacted us to say when or whether they would send the body back. I have reached Delhi and will head to Srinagar,” Mantu told The Telegraph over the phone. “We are grieving. The least the government can do is smoothen the process (for the body’s return to Bihar). It failed to save my brother; it should at least make arrangements so he is cremated with dignity at our village.” Arvind is the second golgappa seller from Bihar killed in Srinagar. Earlier this month, Virendra Paswan of Bhagalpur was shot dead in a militant attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
18-10-2021||India||Death toll in rain-battered Kerala rise to 23 ||The death toll in rain-battered Kerala rose to 23 as rescue workers retrieved the bodies of more victims of landslides on Sunday in Kottayam and Idukki, two of the worst-affected districts where about half a dozen people are still missing. While four people, including a child, were confirmed dead at Kuttikkal in Kottayam district on Saturday, rescue workers unearthed more bodies on Sunday when it was confirmed that six members of a family were among those dead in a massive landslide that washed away several houses in the area. The members of the family were identified as Claramma Joseph, 65, her son Martin, 48, his wife, Sini, 37, and their daughters Sona, 11, Sneha, 13, and Sandra, 9. The bodies of Claramma, Sini and Sona were dug out on Saturday before heavy rain and darkness hindered the operation. At least four more people who lived in three houses next to Martin’s are yet to be accounted for. Four bodies were recovered on Sunday from Plapilly, adjacent to Kuttikkal, which witnessed a massive landslide on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Sony, 45, her son Alan, 8, Sarasamma, 58, and Roshni, 50. Six bodies were retrieved at Kokkayar in Idukki where a landslide washed away several houses. They have been identified as Fauzia, 28, her children Amin, 7, Amna, 6, children from their neighbouring family identified as Afzan, 8, and Ahiyan, 4, and a man named Shaji, 55. The body of a person identified as Joy, 44, was found floating in a nearby river earlier in the day. Local people had rescued 17 from the spot soon after a  landslide on Saturday. A man named Nikhil and his colleague Nima had drowned at Thodupuzha in Idukki on Saturday as their car was washed away after they accidentally drove off a bridge into a swollen river. In a big relief to the rescue work, the rain has abated and no district is under red alert. Six districts — Kottayam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Pathanamthitta — were put on red alert on Saturday as heavy rain triggered flash floods and landslides along the Western Ghats. The India Meteorological Department placed Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kozhikode and Malappuram on yellow alert for Sunday as more rain are forecast in these districts. The weather update on Sunday evening predicted more rain from Wednesday. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan cautioned people against venturing out unnecessarily as strong winds, thunder and lightning were predicted. He said in a statement that over 2,000 residents of the worst-hit areas had been moved to 105 shelters that started functioning on Sunday. They have been instructed to follow Covid protocols as the state was still grappling with the second wave. The chief minister said National Disaster Response Force teams had been deployed in Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram districts. Instructions have been issued to deploy five more teams in the affected areas. Two teams of the Indian Army, two from the Defence Security Corps, the state fire service, police and other volunteers have also been engaged in rescue and relief missions. However, rescue work remained arduous as roads to many affected areas were damaged while swollen rivers endangered small bridges and culverts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
18-10-2021||India||Odisha excluded from Centre’s 'Buddhist circuit' to boost tourism||Odisha, which is rich in Buddhist culture and history, has been excluded from the Centre’s “Buddhist circuit” to boost tourism, prompting a minister in the Narendra Modi government to call the move “unfortunate” and seek redress. Odisha is the site of the Kalinga war, which was fought on the banks of the Daya river on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar and which transformed King Ashoka into an apostle of peace and a preacher of Buddhism who spread the religion across ancient Asia. The Buddhist circuit under the “Swadesh Darshan” scheme plans to showcase India as the land of the Buddha and attract followers from all over the world to India in a bid to boost tourism. Union minister of education, skill development and entrepreneurship Dharmendra Pradhan, who hails from Odisha, has written to culture minister G. Kishan Reddy, explaining the importance of the state in Buddhist history and culture. Pradhan’s letter says: “It is learnt that under the Swadesh Darshan scheme, the tourism ministry sanctioned five projects of Rs 325.53 crore for Buddhist circuit development in the states of Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh. It is unfortunate that Odisha, even with extremely rich Buddhist traditions and shrines, has not been included in the ‘Buddhist Circuit’, nor any projects under the Scheme has been allocated to Buddhist Shrines in Odisha.” Pradhan pointed to how during the 8th to 10th century AD under the rule of the Bhaumakara dynasty, Buddhism was considered as the state religion of Odisha. “In fact, it’s believed that the first disciples of Lord Buddha were Tapasu and Bhallika who hailed from the modern-day city of Jajpur (in Odisha). Though Buddhism entered Odisha long before the Kalinga war, it took wings in the region under the patronage of Emperor Ashoka.” The minister also referred to Odisha’s most famous poet Jayadeva describing Lord Buddha as one of the incarnations of Lord Vishnu. Pradhan mentioned that the writings of Chinese traveller Hiuen Tsang had references to Odisha’s Buddhist past. “The influence of Buddhism can be found in the socio-cultural life of the people of Odisha and the rich depository of history is reflected in the Buddhist monuments of the state. Various Buddhist sites and shrines in Odisha such as Dhauligiri, Lalitgiri, Udayagiri, Ratnagiri and Jirang drew huge number of international tourists, especially from East and South-East Asia. and national tourists from the Northeast, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh etc,” Pradhan wrote. He said tourist facilities at Odisha’s Buddhist sites lacked good connectivity, accommodation and utilities. “Keeping in mind the massive potential for increasing development of tourism at these holy Buddhist places, and increasing tourist footfalls to the state, thereby increasing livelihood of the Odia people, I seek your personal intervention for inclusion of Odisha in the proposed Buddhist circuit under the Swadesh Darshan scheme,” Pradhan wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
18-10-2021||India||Ram skit at AIIMS triggers anger on social media, students apologize||A skit performed by undergraduate students at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, that claimed to give a modern and comic spin to Ramleela has triggered anger on social media, prompting the students to apologise. The AIIMS Student Association issued an apology on Sunday after video clips of the skit performed in the hostel quadrangle on the occasion of Dusshera drew widespread social media condemnation for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. “On behalf of the students, we apologise for the conduct of this skit which was not meant to hurt anyone’s sentiments,” the association tweeted. “We will ensure that no such activity takes place in the future.” A postgraduate doctor and senior resident at AIIMS said the skit was only an amateur effort by undergraduate students to have some fun on the occasion of Dusshera through what they believed was comedy. “It was enacted within the hostel premises and was never intended for public dissemination,” the senior resident said. “But someone posted it on social media and what happened thereafter reflects the times we are living in.” Many attacked the students via social media. One person tweeted that the AIIMS students had made fun of the Ramayan in a “brutal way”. Another tweeted: “Getting ranks and joining (a) reputed institute is just evidence you are studious and not evidence for your culture, upbringing…”Taking note of the matter, the AIIMS administration held a discussion with the students, an official said. “The students realised the sensitivity of the issue and apologised through a tweet. They have assured that such an incident won’t recur,” the official said. He said the skit was not part of any official activity or event of AIIMS and the students had organised it on their own.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
18-10-2021||India||Odisha vigilance carries out raids at fifteen places||The Odisha vigilance on Sunday carried out raids at 15 places in connection with its probe into disproportionate assets case against Gopalpur MLA Pradeep Kumar Panigrahy. The agency has so far found disproportionate assets worth Rs 5.05 crore belonging to the MLA who was expelled by the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) following allegations of corruption against him and anti-people activities. Panigrahy was once the blue-eyed boy of Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik and also played an important role in the politics of Ganjam, the home district of Naveen. He also took care of Naveen’s constituency — Hinjili. However, he fell out of favour following his subtle criticism of secretary to the chief minister V.K. Pandian and the government’s handling of the Covid-19 situation and constant criticism of the state bureaucracy. In December 2020, he was arrested by the state crime branch on the charges of impersonation, cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy for collecting money from people on behalf of one Akash Kumar Pathak (son of a former Indian Forest Service officer Abhay Kant Pathak) on the false promise of providing them jobs in the Tata Company. Tata has a project (industrial park) in his area in Gopalpur. Panigrahy was sent to jail and is now out on bail. “On the allegation of possession of disproportionate assets by Panigrahy, a secret verification was conducted by the Odisha Vigilance. On completion of the secret verification, as material was found regarding possession of disproportionate assets by Panigrahy, a complaint was filed before the Hon’ble Lokayukta, Odisha, Bhubaneswar on 9.12.2020. Finding material in the said complaint that Panigrahy had amassed assets disproportionate to known sources of income by resorting to corrupt practices, the Lokayukta, Odisha, Bhubaneswar vide order dated 11.12.2020 directed the Odisha Vigilance to conduct an inquiry against Panigrahy,” the Odisha vigilance said in a press release. The release said that inquiry has revealed that Panigrahy had “intentionally enriched himself illicitly during his incumbency as a public servant from 24.05.2009 to 30.11.2020 and was found in possession of disproportionate assets to the tune of Rs 5,05,04,656. The project report was submitted to Lokayukta, Odisha on May 28, 2021.” The Lokayukta, after examining the report and reply filed by Panigrahy, found that there existed a prima facie case against Panigrahy for an offence under different section of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 and directed the vigilance to carry out further investigation into the matter, officials said. “Accordingly, the vigilance has registered a case on October 4, 2021, for detailed investigation. The Lokayukta has authorised the vigilance to conduct searches in the case,” the vigilance release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Bangladesh attacks: Bengal govt asks district administrations to be on alert||The West Bengal government has alerted its district administrations, particularly those bordering Bangladesh, against the misuse of social media and circulation of fake news related to the recent spate of attacks during Durga puja in the neighbouring country, and urged them to take measures to maintain law and order, a top official said on Monday. All state agencies have been asked to be on toes to combat any attempt to create disturbances anywhere in Bengal amid the ongoing idol immersion ceremonies and observance of Fateha-Dwaz-Daham, he said. "The government has asked district administrations, especially those bordering Bangladesh, to exercise caution against fake news circulation on the violence and vandalism in the neighbouring country. All agencies have been told to keep vigil and thwart attempts to create tension," the official added. A similar word of caution was also issued to senior police officers by Additional Director General (Intelligence Branch). "Since 13.10.21, social media platforms have been flooded with posts of vandalism of Durga Puja pandals in Bangladesh. Centering these issues, districts along Indo-Bangla border have become hyper sensitive and the leaders of different Hindu fundamentalist organisations of India pro-active. "...you are requested to sensitise you, officers and men, under your control and keep sharp vigil to avoid any untoward incident," the message by the ADGP said. On Sunday, the West Bengal Police had retweeted posts by the Asansol-Durgapur police and Purba Medinipur SP, warning people with the intention of spreading misinformation of severe consequences as brawls were reported over multiple issues in the two areas. "Some people are spreading wrong information that bombs were hurled at Puja pandals and damage was done, giving (the incidents) communal colour and trying to disturb peace in the area. Strong legal action will be taken for spreading such wrong and misleading information," the tweet by the Asansol-Durgapur police said. PTI SCH RMS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
18-10-2021||West Bengal||MeT office predicts heavy rain in South Bengal districts till Tuesday||Inclement weather prevailed over most parts of south Bengal on Monday as continuous rain with one or two spells of heavy downpour caused by a low pressure system affected normal life in the city and several other places. The Met department has forecast heavy rain in all the districts of south Bengal, including Kolkata on Monday and Tuesday. The coastal districts of Purba Medinipur and South 24 Parganas will receive very heavy rainfall till Wednesday morning, while districts of Kolkata, Howrah and Hooghly are very likely to receive torrential rain on Tuesday, the weatherman said. The Met department said that the inclement weather has been caused by a low-pressure system over north Telangana and strong southeasterly wind from Bay of Bengal. The districts in north Bengal are likely to receive heavy rain from Tuesday owing to the weather system, it said, adding that the sub-Himalayan districts of Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Coochbehar and Alipurduar are very likely to receive heavier downpour. The Met department warned of rise in water level in rivers, waterlogging in low-lying areas and landslides in the hill districts of Darjeeling and Kalimpong owing to the downpour. Standing crops in the field, with paddy being almost ready for harvest in several districts of the rice-growing state, may also suffer damage, it said. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea till Tuesday. The seaside resort town of Digha received the heaviest rain in 24 hours till 8.30 am on Monday recording 117 mm rainfall, while the river port town of Canning received 108 mm rainfall, the Met said. Kolkata received 22 mm rainfall, while Dum Dum in the northern outskirts of the city recorded 53 mm rainfall during the same period, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Brown sugar seized||Police arrested a suspected drug peddler with brown sugar worth around Rs 70 lakh from Matigara, on the outskirts of Siliguri, on Saturday, police said. Sources said around 270 gram of brown sugar, a derivative of heroin, and Rs 1.70 lakh were seized from Md Imtajul, a resident of the Sutki Godown area of Matigara. He has been booked under the NDPS Act and a case has been registered at Matigara police station. Officers said this was one of the major drug and cash haul in the Siliguri Metropolitan Police area. “We are conducting frequent raids to catch drug peddlers. A number of seizures have been made and such operations will continue,” a police officer said. In another incident, a Bangladeshi resident was nabbed by a team from the 72 battalion of the Border Security Force while he was allegedly trying to enter India illegally through Mannagar of North Dinajpur on Saturday. Sheikh Abdullah, who officers said was from Thakurgaon district of Bangladesh, was later handed over to the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress collects workers’ details in north Bengal ||Trinamul leaders in Malda and North Dinajpur, the two neighbouring districts in north Bengal which have thousands of migrant workers and workers in unorganised sectors, have engaged INTTUC — the party’s workers’ front — to prepare a comprehensive database of such persons and their families and bring them under the ambit of the party’s trade union. The exercise, party insiders said, can help the Trinamul Congress galvanise its support base, particularly in the upcoming civic and rural elections. “Altogether, there are over five lakh migrant workers from these two districts who serve in other states. Also, there are others who stay here but serve in unorganised sectors and we do not have their complete details. Trinamul has felt it necessary to prepare a database of all of them, along with their families,” said Subhadeep Sanyal, the Malda district INTTUC president. According to Sanyal, detailed information about these workers would enable the party to know about their whereabouts, whether they are still employed or are sitting idle at homes after the pandemic induced lockdown of last year and more importantly, whether they are covered under the benefits of the state-run social welfare schemes. “The same is applicable for their family members. Many migrant workers have lost their jobs and we want to ensure that each family is receiving all assistance which is provided by the state through different welfare schemes,” the INTTUC leader added. The INTTUC workers engaged for this exercise have been asked to keep records of all such families who are prospective beneficiaries of government schemes but have not received the benefit so far because of some reason or other. “Even if there is one family member — for example an elderly woman — who is not receiving the old age pension, the workers will note it down. In due course, we will individually take up these cases with the administration of the block concerned through our local leaders,” said a Trinamul leader based in North Dinajpur district. A Trinamul leader said: “With the initiative, the party will have detailed information about the migrant workers and workers of the unorganised sector of each block of these districts.” “Also, our initiative to help the families of the workers in getting benefits from the state government — right from free ration to monthly financial assistance — would help us to draw their support in the upcoming elections,” the party leader added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
18-10-2021||West Bengal||‘Peddler’ arrested with brown sugar worth Rs 70 lakh in Siliguri||The Siliguri Metropolitan Police arrested a suspected drug peddler with brown sugar estimated at Rs 70 lakh from Matigara located on the outskirts of Siliguri on Saturday. Police sources said around 270 grams of brown sugar, a derivative of heroin, and Rs 1.70 lakh in cash had been seized from Md Imtajul, a resident of Sutki Godown area of Matigara. He has been booked under NDPS act and a case has been registered at Matigara police station. In another incident, a Bangladeshi resident was nabbed  by 72 battalion of the Border Security Force while he was trying to infiltrate into India  in Mannagar of North Dinajpur on Saturday. Arrested Sheikh Abdullah is a resident of Thakurgaon, Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Prod on ‘forgotten’ yoga hospital proposal in Kalyani||Officials of the West Bengal Council of Yoga and Naturopathy, a branch of the Union Ayush ministry, have requested their central counterpart, the Central Council for Research in Yoga and Naturopathy (CCRYN), to look into a 2019 proposal for setting up a 100-bed research institute and yoga hospital in Kalyani. Representatives are alleging that the project, purportedly greenlit by the Bengal government, has been caught in the crosshairs of the ongoing state-Centre political tussle. Bengal representatives of Ayush requested that the Centre “realises the optics” of stonewalling a yoga project, given the latter’s purported significance to the Narendra Modi regime. “The Bengal government, with initiative from chief minister Mamata Banerjee, allotted 10 acres of land in Kalyani’s Gopalpur free of cost towards this project, two years ago, and there has still been no action from the Centre,” said Tushar Sil, president of the state council. “This is clearly an attempt to undermine any progress in this state, even if it happens to be linked to passion projects of the BJP-run central government,” he added. “Our chief minister had allotted Rs 67 crore to set up a yoga medical college and hospital in Belur, and that is already ready.” Several officials and activists associated with yoga reminded how Prime Minister Modi showed his interest in yoga by introducing the celebration of the International Yoga Day on June 21. “The Prime Minister practises yoga in front of cameras on June 21 every year. It is ironic that construction of a yoga hospital is being neglected by the Centre in Bengal. Is it because it is a state ruled by Trinamul,” said a source. Officials referred to a letter dated October 20, 2019, from the state to the director of the central council, seeking clearances for future construction. The project had initially been proposed in response to a Lok Sabha question in July 2019, to which the Union Ayush minister had apprised the House of plans to set up Central Research Institutes of Yoga and Naturopathy, as well as hospitals, in Odisha, Bengal, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh. In September 2020, an RTI inquiry to the central Ayush ministry had yielded only the information that land had been allotted towards the seemingly forgotten project. “Incidentally, the land in question lies adjacent to the upcoming AIIMS facility here, where similar clearances have reportedly been issued,” said a source. In August this year, a Bengal Ayush team headed by Sil made a trip to meet their Delhi counterparts, and made their stance clear that the state believes political stonewalling was at play. “This is a big project, and it involves yoga, which should be beyond politics. This shouldn’t be stuck in the crosshairs of pettiness,” said Abhijit Ghosh, state secretary of the Indian Yoga Association. “We would like to thank the state government for its initiative. We have already contacted the director of CCRYN but there is no answer yet,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Ahead of bypoll on October 30, many leave saffron camp||The saffron camp had to face a setback in Dinhata, the bastion of local MP and Union minister of state for home affairs Nisith Pramanik, as around 300 BJP supporters, including some prominent faces, switched to Trinamul on Sunday, less than a fortnight ahead of the bypoll on October 30. In Dinhata, Pramanik had contested as BJP’s candidate in the Assembly polls and defeated Trinamul’s Udayan Guha by 57 votes. The BJP asked him to continue as MP, necessitating the bypoll. Trinamul has again fielded Guha for the bypoll. The BJP candidate now is former MLA Ashok Mondal. District Trinamul leaders reached Dinhata and welcomed Sudeb Karmakar, district secretary of BJP, and his associates, to Bengal’s ruling party. “We had set a target to win this seat by 57,000 votes. But now we feel the margin will be one lakh,” said  Trinamul leader Partha Pratim Roy. Karmakar fumed at Pramanik. “As a minister, he has stopped speaking to party workers. Many will vote for Trinamul this time,” he said. BJP leaders sounded unfazed at the defection. “We are confident of our support base in Dinhata,” said a district leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Truck mows down three women, injures four in Murshidabad||Three women were killed and four others seriously injured on Saturday evening when a truck ran a few feet off the Farakka-Bahadurpur road in Murshidabad and careened over the group of seven women on the road. The deceased were identified as Sumati Mandal, 45, Jyotsna Mandal, 33 and Ashalata Mandal, 55, all from Sudna village. The four injured are admitted to Jangipur sub-divisional hospital. The driver of the truck fled. SP Y. Raghuvamshi, said a case of unnatural death had been filed. Residents have demanded a speedbreaker in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 624 new cases, 634 recoveries and 14 deaths||Bengal on Sunday reported 624 new Covid-19 infections, 634 recoveries and 14 deaths. Active cases in the state fell by 24 to reach 7,421. Calcutta reported 179 new infections and four deaths on Sunday, North 24-Parganas 128 infections and three deaths. A minister said new infections being reported now is indicative of people who got infected between October 8 and 12, and figures suggest the situation is much less alarming than what was feared. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases ahead of the Puja season, on September 26. Since then, in the past 22 days, the state recorded a rise in its total of active cases for 12 days and a fall for nine days. “October 12 was Mahasaptami. We have now gone past the pre-Puja stage and entered the actual Puja days. There were a lot of adverse estimates of things going horribly wrong, on account of people’s general disregard for Covid-19 safety protocols during the revelry. These numbers encourage us to believe that the apprehensions did not materialise,” he said. The state now has over 3.9 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is fifth on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. Eleven districts reported a single-digit figure of new infections on Sunday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, while the national rate is 98.07 now. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.3 per cent on Sunday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.8 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.54 lakh recoveries and 18,977 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Hill entrepreneurs come up with new concept to sell exotic teas||Hill entrepreneurs Sparsh Agarwal and Ishaan Kanoria have teamed up with tea connoisseur Rajah Banerjee to come up with a new concept to sell exotic teas from Selim Hill, a tea estate spanning 1,000 acres named after a 19th century British planter. Sparsh said they were offering green and black teas of four flushes — first, second, monsoon and autumn — in an annual subscription mode. “Within three weeks of our launch, we found over 300 customers,” he said. A buyer can get a kilo of tea, of 250-gram packs of each flush in a year, for Rs 2,100. The brand “Dorje” derives its name from one of the origins of the word Darjeeling. The entrepreneurs have  chosen the steam loco of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR), a Unesco certified world heritage site, as the brand’s logo. Although Darjeeling tea is known worldwide for its muscatel flavour and  close to a million kilo is produced by 87 tea estates in its hills, a number of tea gardens are facing financial problems. “It is a picture of contrasts. That is why, we decided on innovation. We’re taking up a new initiative to offer teas of four different flushes to tea lovers round the year through the annual subscription mode. Our plan is to build a subscriber base of around 50,000 people who would get our exotic teas delivered at home,” said Sparsh. Banerjee,who once owned the famous Makaibari brand, has now come up with a new brand, Rimpocha. He is playing the mentor to these youths. “We need to explore new options for the revival of the Darjeeling tea industry, which include new channels to merchandise the teas,” said the septuagenarian tea connoisseur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata government allots cash aid for Kalimpong homestays||The Mamata Banerjee government, which has been putting impetus on the tourism sector that provides employment to around 10 lakh people in north Bengal, has sanctioned funds to assist over 300 homestay accommodations in Kalimpong district. Though the government is offering the aid to all 480 registered homestays in north Bengal, the sanction of funds for Kalimpong is significant as this hilly district alone has  328 such accommodations, the highest in the region. Most homestays draw tourists on a regular basis, especially since last year’s pandemic outbreak, as many people are choosing standalone properties in isolated locations instead of hotels in crowded places. R. Vimala, district magistrate of Kalimpong, said the state government is paying Rs 1.5 lakh to each homestay registered with the state tourism department to develop its infrastructure. “The aid is being paid in three installments. As of now, we have 328 registered homestays in Kalimpong and all will receive the second installment. A sum of Rs 1.64 crore has been sanctioned for this purpose,” she said. Across north Bengal, 480 homestays are registered with the state tourism department. Jyoti Ghosh, a joint director of the department in Siliguri, said Darjeeling district had 124 homestays registered with them while the rest were from  the Dooars. “We receive fresh applications for registration regularly. Homestays have opened a new avenue of income. To encourage the sector, the state has come up with a policy to provide financial aid to homestays. In Darjeeling and the Dooars, many homestays have received first and second installments,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal by-elections: BJP fishes in Bangladesh waters||The Bengal BJP has seized upon the clashes over Durga Puja in Bangladesh, sniffing the odour of a polarising plank ahead of the by-elections in four Assembly seats on October 30. The attempt to fish in troubled waters flies in the face of an appeal by Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina that India should also be vigilant to ensure that religion is not used to divide people and an acknowledgement by the Narendra Modi government that Dhaka has taken prompt action to control the situation. The Trinamul Congress too had appealed for peace in Bangladesh. Last week during Durga Puja, five people were killed and some places of worship vandalised over alleged blasphemy. Reports from Bangladesh on Sunday suggested that the situation was largely under control although nerves remained taut in areas that had witnessed the clashes. Several prominent Hindu leaders in Bangladesh had praised the Hasina government for initiating quick action — Bangladesh Border Guard troops were deployed in 22 districts to provide security to pandals and temples, and 43 people were arrested — after the attacks in Comilla and other places in the Chittagong range. But the Bengal BJP, still licking the wounds of the crushing Assembly election defeat, has emitted loud signals that the clashes in the neighbouring country will be used here to gain votes. The party’s chief spokesperson, Samik Bhattacharya, told a news conference on Sunday: “What happened in Bangladesh is not an isolated incident. This is the legacy of the ethnic cleansing that the country has witnessed…. Illegal immigration from Bangladesh has disturbed the demography of our state as well. The Union government and the people of Bengal will have to be aware of this now.” Bengal leader of Opposition and Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari raised the issue while addressing party workers in the Santipur Assembly segment on Sunday. Later, Adhikari told journalists: “Jagannath (Sarkar) babu won from Santipur with a margin of around 16,000 votes. The people of Santipur are with the BJP. They’ve seen what has happened in Bangladesh and will give a fitting reply here. The BJP will win with a margin three times bigger this time.” Ahead of the Assembly polls in the summer, scores of BJP leaders had accused Trinamul Congress chief Mamata Banerjee of turning West Bengal into “West Bangladesh”. Santipur, one of the four constituencies going to the polls on October 30, has a substantial population of Matuas, a Hindu refugee sect from Bangladesh. The BJP believes the narrative it intends to spin around the recent incidents beyond the border will appeal to this group. According to party sources, the same narrative is likely to help the BJP in Dinhata as well as it covers a locality adjacent to India’s international border with Bangladesh. Sources said the BJP intended to rekindle this issue in the civic and panchayat polls, due next year. Earlier in the day, Adhikari and former state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh had posted videos to suggest some pandals in Bengal too had come under threat. The BJP also organised rallies at several parts of the state on Sunday in protest against the clashes in Bangladesh. On Monday, similar protests will be organised at every mandal, the BJP’s smallest organisational units. Bangla fast Rana Dasgupta, the general secretary of the Hindu-Buddhist-Christian Unity Association of Bangladesh, has demanded immediate arrest of the perpetrators of the attacks there and exemplary punishment for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Forest department to purchase guns, wheels to fight crime ||The state forest department has decided to purchase sophisticated arms, as well as motorcycles and cars to intensify patrolling in reserve forests and combat crimes such as poaching and smuggling of timber and other forest produce. “We will spend around Rs 30 crore to buy the arms and vehicles. For quite some time, we have felt the need to provide sophisticated firearms to our men  engaged in patrolling and engage more vehicles to keep an intensive watch on the forest areas,” state forest minister Jyotipriyo Mallick said over phone from Calcutta. Under the plan, revolvers, pistols, SLRs, motorcycles and SUVs will be bought with this fund. Around 95 per cent of these would be allotted for the forests of north Bengal. Sources in the department said on several occasions, they have found that poachers, timber smugglers and those engaging in smuggling of animal parts and small animals use sophisticated firearms. “In contrast, our men (foresters) carry old pellet guns and .303 rifles. To prevent any crime in the forests, it is vital that they are well armed,” said a senior forest officer. The proposal, he said, was with the state finance department and as the state was undergoing an austerity drive amid the pandemic, it took time to get the approval. “We could eventually convince the government that these items are necessary for conservation of forests and for protection of wildlife in the state.” Once the purchases are made, the department plans  to approach the state home (police) department so that forest guards and other officers who work on the field are trained to use the new equipment. “They need to learn how to handle the firearms,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt to organise land mutation camps soon||The Mamata Banerjee government will set up special camps across the state after the festive season to complete pending mutation of land parcels, the decision aimed to ensure farmers get their due benefits, especially under central schemes. “We have decided to organise special camps to complete all pending mutation of land across the state as we received a huge response from common people for completing the pending process in the last few months. Special camps will be held across the state from November 16,” said a senior government official. In Bengal’s rural areas, most people traditionally have delayed the mutation of land, inherited or purchased, but this has changed somewhat in recent months. According to sources, the land and land reforms department had initiated a special drive in the past few months to update mutation of land records in the state. “About 30 lakh mutations were done in the past few months, of which over 2 lakh were completed in Duare Sarkar camps,” said an official. Rough estimates suggest  there are 25 lakh more pending mutation cases in the state. The special camps have been planned to bridge the gap. Mutation of land is important because purchase or inheritance of land parcels are two different things, said a source. “Until now, land could be bought or inherited from a person who had the title record (commonly known as dalil) of the plot. But mutation of the land or change in the title ownership sets the land record in favour of the present owner of land and this has assumed importance in today’s context,” explained the source. Now, various government schemes — particularly those intended to serve farmers — require ownership of land. As many farmers did not complete the mutation process after buying land or inheriting plots from ancestors, they faced trouble in claiming the benefits of government schemes. “Though the chief minister made rules easy to claim the benefits in absence of land ownership for state schemes, the Centre hasn't yet done that. As a result, many farmers in Bengal could not apply for the Centre’s PM-Kisan,” said an official. While nearly 62 lakh farmers get benefits from the state’s Krishakbandhu scheme, only about 35 lakh farmers were found eligible for PM-Kisan scheme. “Several exclusion criteria like getting pension and paying income tax have made many farmers ineligible for the central scheme, lack of papers to claim ownership of farmland is another reason why so many farmers could not apply for it. The state government is trying to update the records,” said a source. Another official said that mutation of residential or commercial plots is not a problem in Bengal. But mutation of farmland remains a problem. “The chief minister has made mutation of farmland free, hence people are interested,” said another official. Once the government brings down the number of pending mutation cases, more farmers will be able to apply for benefits under central schemes like PM-Kisan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
18-10-2021||West Bengal||College-goers hold awareness camp on menstrual health for women ||A group of 15 college-goers, under the banner of NGO Chandernagore Bhu-Sankalpa, held an awareness camp on menstrual health for women of the remote Parashmani Island in the Sunderbans, on a boat on Sunday. Sumanta Biswas, founder secretary of the NGO and a private tutor in Hooghly’s Chandernagore, said they had started this campaign four years ago to promote awareness among women in remote pockets of the Sunderbans, after coming to know that women in these areas were kept isolated from  their families during their periods. The group has already conducted half-a-dozen such campaigns in various islands . The students, mostly girls, distributed sanitary pads to around 30 women who came to attend the camp. A physician from a private hospital in Calcutta, Banalata Adhikari, explained to the women the importance of menstrual hygiene and warned them against the dangers of neglecting their health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
18-10-2021||West Bengal||Health department asks 23 districts to increase Covid-19 vaccination||The state health department has directed all 23 districts to increase Covid-19 vaccination to the maximum possible extent from Monday, with a daily target of 10 lakh jabs, to try and complete vaccinating all eligible people in Bengal with at least one dose within this month. “We have set a preliminary target to complete at least the first dose of vaccination for all eligible people in the state within October 31. It might take a few more days, but the deadline was set as many districts are far from that goal. Calcutta is the only district where cent per cent first dose vaccination for eligible people has been achieved,” said a senior health department official. As of 8pm on Sunday, Bengal administered over 6.65 crore doses, including nearly 1.83 crore second doses – which means 18.3 per cent of the state’s population is now fully vaccinated. Nationally, 21.1 per cent of the population is fully vaccinated. On Sunday, around 2.92 lakh doses were administered in Bengal, from 1,053 vaccination centres, 903 of them run by the state government. Health officials said in Darjeeling, East Midnapore, Howrah and Hooghly, over 85 per cent vaccination of at least a single dose of the eligible population has been achieved. Districts like Malda, North Dinajpur and Cooch Behar, however, have just about covered 50 per cent. Sources said the move to increase vaccination came after the Union health ministry sought data on districts that have completed cent per cent vaccination with at least single dose, and on districts that are yet to complete 50 per cent. Health officials said Bengal saw “rather poor” vaccination during four days of Durga Puja, followed by the weekend after Vijaya Dashami. “Even on Chaturthi (October 9), we managed to administer 13.34 lakh doses. But that fell to 2.17 lakh on Panchami (October 10). Between Mahasasthi (October 11) and Vijaya Dashami (October 15), only 11.82 lakh doses could be administered,” said an official. “On Mahashtami (October 13), there were only 8,076 doses administered in the entire state. On Mahanavami (October 14), the statewide total was 52,492. On Dashami (October 15), it was 39,731... But this was also because people were not interested in being vaccinated during puja,” he added. “Now, all districts have been given a target to vaccinate at least 3,000 people from each of the 350-odd blocks from Monday. They are free to better the target, if possible.” Senior officials said the daily target might not be met till Lakshmi Puja on Wednesday. Calcutta leads the districts in vaccination with over 74.17 lakh doses, followed by North 24-Parganas, with over 68.68 lakh doses. Districts in Jungle Mahal are among those with relatively lower numbers. At the bottom of the pile is Kalimpong, with 2.87 lakh doses. Health officials in the districts said civic bodies have fared well in vaccinating their residents. However, the main challenge remains the rural population. An official added that ground-level staff members had been working relentlessly, without leave, since the vaccination process began. “So we had to grant them holidays for the four main days of Puja. Many took leave to visit their homes elsewhere, or meet their relatives,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
18-10-2021||North East||Covid: People in Imphal can win television set if jabbed||People in Manipur's Imphal West district will get a chance to win a television set, mobile phone or blankets if they take Covid-19 vaccine in the mega vaccination camp which will be held, officials said.  To increase the vaccination coverage the Imphal West district administration has decided to hold a mega vaccination cum bumper draw programme with the slogan \"Get a shot, win a prize\" scheduled to be conducted at three centres in the district on October 24, October 31 and November 7, they said.  A notification issued by Deputy Commissioner Imphal West district Th Kirankumar, informed that those who get their vaccination at the three centres will have a chance to participate in a bumper draw and win prizes.  The first prize is a big-screen television set, the second is a mobile phone, third will be blankets along with 10 other consolation prizes, the notification said.  It informed that anyone above the age of 18 years due for for the first or second dose of Covid-19 vaccination will be eligible for participation and that the winners of the lucky draw will be decided at the three centres of GM Hall, Polo ground and Dharmasala in Imphal West district.  Imphal West district has the highest population among all the 16 districts in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
18-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Many questions||New India does not encourage questions. Answers, even when they come, are inordinately delayed too. An analysis by the Satark Nagrik Sangathan has revealed that the national backlog of cases before the state and Central information commissions has crossed 2.55 lakh, up from 2.2 lakh last year, which marked 15 years of the conception of the Right to Information Act. This rising pendency is particularly significant as these commissions are responsible for hearing appeals related to RTI pleas that have been denied, sometimes wrongfully, by government bodies. Delays obscure transparency and dilute the effectiveness of the RTI Act itself. Although the reasons behind this problem are clear — shortage of personnel and inefficient operations have been cited by the report — redressive steps remain few and far between. Even after filling four vacant positions nearly a year ago, the CIC has three vacancies left and has not functioned at the full, required strength for almost five years. Of the 29 commissions examined in the report, at least three — Tripura, Jharkhand and Meghalaya — were found to be defunct while 21 did not hold a single hearing during the first three stages of the national lockdown in 2020. The increasing backlog is, however, merely the tip of the iceberg. The infrastructure surrounding the RTI Act has been crumbling for some time. Last year, it was found that penalties for wrongful denial of RTI pleas were imposed in only 2.2 per cent of cases in spite of violations accounting for approximately 59 per cent. By downplaying the threat of serious consequences, it promotes a culture of impunity that is harmful to the very fabric of democracy. The law has been tampered with by politicians of all hues. Notwithstanding the CIC’s stand that political parties should come under the ambit of the Act, the United Progressive Alliance government amended it in 2013 to exclude them from its scope, a change that persists till date. This goes against the spirit of the Supreme Court’s ruling to bring even the office of the Chief Justice of India under the purview of the Act. In 2019, the Act was amended — this time by the Narendra Modi-led government — without public consultation to give the Centre greater say over the terms of service of information commissioners, a move that could reduce the institution’s ability to function independently. Transparency is a cornerstone of democracy. Swift redressal of the gaps in the machinery tasked with upholding this principle is essential to hold governments accountable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
18-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Rights divided||A vision divided thrives on contradictions. On the 28th anniversary of the foundation of the National Human Rights Commission, the prime minister criticized partisan attitudes displayed in protests against human rights violations by those who view them through a “political lens”. Bharatiya Janata Party leaders repeatedly accuse activists of being partial to non-BJP victims of rights abuses. Narendra Modi called this “selective outrage”, which demeans the country and endangers democracy. Yet there could have been no definable human rights without political awareness. But the prime minister was referring to the divisive politics of rival parties: observers have speculated that he may have been alluding to the fact that the death of four protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri had aroused furious criticism although two BJP workers died there too. Since the BJP has been countering criticism of the Uttar Pradesh government for Lakhimpur Kheri by suggesting that the protests were politically motivated, perhaps the prime minister gave it a philosophical twist. After having condemned the political lens, however, Mr Modi listed the ‘basic needs’ of various segments of people that his government had fulfilled so they could acquire ‘dignity’ — cooking gas, Jan Dhan accounts, toilets, housing, 26 month-long maternity leave, outlawing of oral triple talaq, and so on. To project citizens as beneficiaries of his government’s largesse, however, is not to dignify them but to suggest that they are not entitled to these. His conception of human rights is divided too. Only when people’s basic needs are met can they aspire to human rights. For Mr Modi, these are not only distinct, but also sequential. So is housing not a right because it is a basic need? Is food more ‘basic’ than justice, and not part of justice itself? Again, can a citizen whose basic needs are unfulfilled not have rights? The prime minister also emphasized — as he has done many times earlier — that the ‘flip side’ of rights was duties. Human rights could thus become conditional — and be arbitrarily granted as concessions — since the duties are not spelt out. The expressed and metaphorical divisions helped the prime minister show off his government’s achievements while suggesting that the human rights hullabaloo is a means to target his party. Or maybe he was just shy: India’s human rights record has declined sharply in the world’s perception.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
18-10-2021||Opinion||Armed for life||These days the kitchen sink is where I meditate. Just as I think that I have finished washing all the dishes, I realize that I have not been able to scrape all the tea leaves off the bottom of the teapot, and some of the ones that I had scraped out have got stuck at the sink-hole. So I switch on one more arm to clean the teapot, calmly, mindfully, and another to pick out each tea leaf, slowly, from the sink strainer. With another arm I fill the bottles at the water filter, watching over them fondly. With yet another I feed the cats. With the next, though, I quickly scratch my head. With yet another hand I place an order online for organic cold-pressed virgin coconut oil, and, as always, wonder about the description. The next hand books a cooking gas cylinder. With another I google the coal crisis, because this one is really going to hit us hard, if it happens. Is it a crisis or is it a shortage? What really happens if we do not have electricity? And if we do not have Internet? Which will be worse? We do not know, because both are now equally unimaginable. Then the bell rings, and I want to shoot out another arm to receive the packet from the delivery agent, but I cannot. I have run out of hands. You are sanctioned only ten at a time. What is good enough for a goddess should be good enough for you. And I need one more, preferably two. I have to log into an online meeting that’s on. It is a blessing that you can be virtually present when you are absent, never mind the semantic confusion about “virtual”. So I throw caution to the wind and, despite the rules, summon ten more arms. One arm goes out to fetch the packet from him, two others help me to log in, another brushes my hair, as I will switch on the video for the first few minutes, yet another brandishes the khunti and almost assassinates the fish pieces gyrating in the jhol, yet another mops the floor. The mop, which comes with a handle, looks like a hairy Cyclops, as a friend says. But it is a friendly creature to me. The remaining arms spray disinfectants. The virus can be anywhere. One more arm was required, again, to snatch the iPad away from the teenager who is practising rebellion on it and yet another to kill the mosquito that never stops buzzing around my head. Little demon. Raktabeej. Sometimes I wonder if I had ten arms only to wield mosquito bats. I would then just kill, kill, kill. Meditatively. The pandemic has blurred the lines between work and home. Work is home. I feel extremely grateful to be able to work from the security of my home, but now I also do not know when I am not working. Which is why those extra arms. And I want more. I feel tired also from staring at the screen the whole day. But I realize one thing. The ten arms of the Mother Goddess appear to have a special significance to someone like me, untrained in the ways of the gods. Here I am also reminded of A.K. Ramanujan’s essay, “Repetition in the Mahabharata”, where he reinterprets “dharma” not as a moral principle, but as an idea that illuminates life itself and gives it a structure through repetition. In the epic, a few themes are repeated endlessly through its stories, and they exist simultaneously and point to a grand design. “It is not dharma or right conduct that the Mahabharata seems to teach, but the ‘subtle’ nature of dharma — its infinite subtlety, its incalculable calculus of consequences, its endless delicacy.” The goddess’s ten arms seem to indicate to me another ‘subtle nature’ underlying things. By holding up a conch shell as she rides a lion and pierces the heart of a demon with her trident, she is saying that all the ten weapons and objects she is holding up are equal and simultaneous. She is upholding everything. Durga is someone who goes to the most difficult places. I get a glimpse of that at the kitchen sink. And I do not consider cleaning it any less purifying than reading Ramanujan. Man made that difference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
18-10-2021||Opinion||The dignity of sex workers||Gangubai Kathiawadi, an upcoming biopic, brings the sorry plight of sex workers out into the limelight. The movie is based on the life of a mafia queen who ruled her area, Kamathipura in Mumbai, with an iron fist in the 1960s. The film begins with her suitor selling her into prostitution. Eventually, Gangubai becomes the madam of the brothel and emerges as a formidable mafia queen. In Mafia Queens of Mumbai, S. Hussain Zaidi gives a vivid picture of the matriarch of Kamathipura who protected sex workers. They revered her as mother, calling her Ganguma. Sex work is seldom a chosen profession. In most cases, women are forced into sex work. Saadat Hasan Manto penned the tragic story of a young prostitute in “The Girl from Delhi”. Nasim Akhtar, a victim of Partition, wants to migrate to Pakistan. A pimp takes her to Pakistan. When they reach Pakistan, she wants to lead a pious life and gets married. But the next day, her husband sells her off to Hira Mandi, Lahore’s infamous red-light district. The stories of Gangubai and Nasim Akhtar are not imaginary; they chronicle the painful lives of sex workers who deserve empathy and not revulsion. Article 21 of the Constitution has been interpreted as the right to live with dignity by the Supreme Court. In Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India (1978), the Supreme Court gave a new dimension to Article 21. The court held that the right to live is not merely a physical right but also includes within its ambit the right to live with dignity. Another broad formulation of right to life with dignity is found in Bandhua Mukti Morcha v. Union of India (1997). Characterizing Article 21 as the heart of fundamental rights, the court expanded its interpretation. Justice Bhagwati observed: “It is the fundamental right of everyone in this country... to live with human dignity free from exploitation.” But sex workers have always been denied dignity in India. They are socially stigmatized and legally oppressed. The law itself is ambiguous on prostitution. The primary law dealing with the status of sex workers is the Suppression of Immoral Traffic in Women and Children Act, 1956. According to this law, prostitutes can practise their trade privately but cannot legally solicit customers in public. Organized prostitution — brothels, prostitution rings, pimping and so on — is illegal. As long as it is done individually and voluntarily, a woman (male prostitution is not recognized in any law in India) can use her body in exchange for material benefit. Sex workers are not protected under labour laws. In 1986, the old law was amended as the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act. In 2009, the Supreme Court ruled that prostitution should be legalized and later constituted a panel to consider amending the law. Sex workers’ rights to profession, occupation and business under Article 19 (1)(g) of the Constitution often clash with society’s hypocritical morality. In 1958, a young sex worker named Husna Bai challenged the SITA in the Allahabad High Court, contending that the legislation infringes upon her fundamental right to occupation. The court held that the State could not deny that prostitution was a trade for the purpose of Article 19 (1)(g) of the Constitution. But in practical terms, the judgment did not offer a remedy to alleviate the woes of sex workers. In July 2021, the Supreme Court said that it would not take an elitist view on the ban on begging and order the removal of all beggars from the street. Until the Indian State succeeds in fulfilling its welfare agenda enshrined in the Directive Principles of State Policy and ensures the right to live with dignity under Article 21, it has no moral authority to ban begging or prostitution. Sex work should be fully legalized and regulated, not only for women but for men and members of the LGBTQ+ community. The State should play the role of a Gangubai Kathiawadi-like figure — a benign protector — and not a Mr Bumble-like persecutor. Faisal C.K. is Under-Secretary (Law) to Government of Kerala||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
18-10-2021||Opinion||Monetizing hate||Before the advent of Facebook, the world knew that unhindered human free speech could be deeply problematic when amplified: it did not know that it could be hugely lucrative. The latter finding is what the latest whistleblower is seeking to document and underscore. That the artificial intelligence at the core of Facebook’s decision-making is programmed to stir up baser emotions which, then, get more views and more advertising. Frances Haugen’s assertion seems believable when the company’s revenue figures are scrutinized. The data scientist, who worked in the ‘civic misinformation’ section of the social media platform, has been saying that Facebook adopts the strategies it does because it helps the company make more money, actioning “no more than 3-5 per cent of the hate encountered and about 6-tenths of 1% of V & I [violence and incitement]”. Facebook was founded in 2004. Between 2010 and 2020, its revenue rose from $1,974 million to 61.9 billion, growing consistently year on year. Over 90 per cent of this revenue-generation is from its advertising business. Instagram was responsible for an estimated 28 per cent of all Facebook revenue in 2020. Other social media companies in the billion-dollar league are way behind, with LinkedIn at 8 billion and Twitter at 3.7 billion in 2020. Through the period when its revenues have grown unhindered, there has been constant controversy. There was the Cambridge Analytica scandal in 2017 when it became known that Facebook had allowed its data to be mined for political targeting by a data analytics firm that was behind Donald Trump’s 2016 election campaign and also involved in the European Union referendum. In 2018, the House Intelligence Committee Minority produced evidence regarding interference in US elections. The experience in the United States of America has shown that despite House Intelligence Committee Minority procuring evidence of how the Russian government placing advertisements on Facebook amounted to targeted interference in the 2016 elections and making it publicly available, Facebook did little to make its platform safer for the 2020 presidential election. As John Tye, the attorney of the Facebook whistleblower, Frances Haugen, told The Washington Post, Facebook staff were actually making recommendations during the elections last November, saying a flow of conspiracy theories was happening and needed to be curtailed. Zuckerberg did not agree, he says. Within days of the election, Facebook disbanded its civic responsibility team. Then came the insurrection on Capitol hill on January 6 in the run-up to which “Facebook was letting things happen.” Worrying about the ills of Facebook is for the few, not the many. For the two-billion plus who use it, it is a benign and indispensable platform. But for law-makers, journalists, and internet activists, its consequences can be malign and need to be constrained. Earlier this month, as journalists from crusading news media in Russia and the Philippines were conferred the Nobel Peace Prize, one of them, Maria Ressa, was accusing Facebook of spreading lies “laced with anger and hate”. She also said that Facebook had become the world’s largest distributor of news without facts and “yet it is biased against facts, it is biased against journalism”. As this paper has reported, Ressa has been the target of intense social-media hatred campaigns from the supporters of President Rodrigo Duterte which, she said, was aimed at destroying her and the credibility of her publication, Rappler. Rappler’s reporting included a series of investigative reports on how the government ‘weaponized’ the internet, using bloggers on its payroll. India has been described as Facebook’s biggest market by number of users. Partnering Jio’s platforms, as Mark Zuckerberg has done, makes it even more lucrative. So if it means complying with the Indian government’s intermediary guidelines announced in February this year, the company is happy to play ball. As of July, along with Google and Twitter, the compliance reports have been rolling out: how many users reported problems, how many pieces of data have been actioned proactively by Facebook, and in how many categories. But a country does not gain from such reporting unless the data are mined. How many here have begun doing data journalism that deep dives into those metrics to see what picture emerges? Are users more protected now because 2.6 million pieces of Facebook content have been ‘actioned’ in the category of adult nudity and sexual activity? Or the 324 thousand pieces related to hate speech? Who will zero in on the latter? Doing so would be crucial if we want to force the platform to dial down on hate. Back in 2018, as Zuckerberg testified before Congress, a bunch of US academics offered some disarming advice in The Conversation.com on how Facebook could reinvent itself. It could act like a media company and take responsibility for the content it published and republished. It could deploy both human and artificial intelligence to categorize and label the information on its platform. It could also start competing to provide the most accurate news instead of the most clickworthy. And, finally, if it wanted to keep making money from user data it could also consider paying users for their data — $1,000 a year for the average social media user, perhaps? After the whistleblower’s testimony earlier this month, Mark Zuckerberg was at pains to describe in his response on Facebook how both human and artificial intelligence were indeed being harnessed to scrutinize content and keep users safe. “If we wanted to ignore research, why would we create an industry-leading research program to understand these important issues in the first place?” Frances Haugen has a simple answer to that. To demonstrate concern. Then you disregard the data which emerge if they go against your business interest. As for getting Facebook to pay users for their data which his company monetizes, that is really fanciful thinking. It is also highly unlikely that Facebook will start competing to provide the most accurate news instead of the most click-worthy. That would destroy its business model. The best the world can hope at this point for is pressure on it to skew its algorithms differently. Sevanti Ninan is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
18-10-2021||Jharkhand||NHM contract workers on strike, demand HR policy||An indefinite strike of contractual workers at the Jharkhand unit of National Health Mission (NHM), demanding additional remuneration for extra services during the Covid-19 crisis and implementation of an HR policy, entered its eighth day on Monday despite assurance from officials that their demands will be met. The bone of contention, officials said, was the termination of senior contractual worker Jwala Prasad, who was allegedly involved in financial irregularities. The protestors have demanded reinstatement of the fired employee and accused senior officials of harassing him. NHM authorities, however, have stood their ground and refused to give in to any coercion for reinstating the  employee. “We have already agreed to their demand of preparing an HR policy for contractual employees. We are also open for dialogue, but for that they will have to at least come to office,” said NHM Director Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh. Another NHM official said that the government has already announced one month’s extra pay for frontline and healthcare workers who have worked during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Isn’t one month’s extra salary enough? We are doing our best to keep them happy, but we need to draw a line somewhere,” said the NHM official. About the demand of reinstating the terminated employee, the official said that a termination done as a disciplinary action cannot  revoked. “If the said employee feels cheated or wronged, he is free to knock on the door of the labour court, but we will not bow to someone found guilty of financial irregularities,” he added. The protesting contractual workers have claimed that several schemes run by the NHM have been hit due to their strike, but they were not willing to resume work until the government gives them an assurance in writing about fulfilling their demands. “They want us back because their work is getting affected. They have to give us in writing that they have agreed to all our demands,” said a contractual worker. Initially, about 140 contractual workers at NHM campus in Ranchi had gone on m strike. But gradually, contractual workers in other districts have also joined them, the protestors said. The contractual workers have also demanded a holiday on Sundays. According to NHM officials, about 40 contractual workers are drivers, about the same number of contractual employees work as computer operators and the remaining 60 are involved in “miscellaneous” activities. The contractual employees worked without  an off day for several months during the first and second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
18-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC to play 5 pre-season friendlies against ISL clubs in Goa||Jamshedpur FC will be playing 5 pre-season friendlies against Indian Super League (ISL) clubs in the run-up to the cash-rich tournament in Goa.  The Tata Steel-owned club will play the first friendly against Chennaiyin FC (October 27) followed by Bengaluru FC (October 30), Mumbai City FC (November 4) and Kerala Blasters FC (November 9 and 12). Jamshedpur open their ISL campaign versus SC East  after the pre-season friendlies against Bengal on November 21. The tournament kick-starts on November 19.  The Men of Steel started their pre-season at Don Bosco High School ground in Panjim on October 10 after an 8-day mandatory quarantine. Training is underway in the right ernest under head coach Owen Coyle.  The Scotland-born Coyle wants the players to find themselves in good rhythm, fitness and camaraderie before they begin their ISL journey.  "It's important to play friendlies before pre-season as it sets a rhythm for the players and they know where they stand in  various aspects of their game. It's good to have competitive minutes under their belt and it also gives us a chance to try and test new combinations. We are playing some good teams and I am sure the boys are looking forward to it," said Coyle.  Jamshedpur FC, who finished 6th in the last ISL season with 27 points, have never made it to the playoffs since making their ISL debut in the 2017-18 season. The club is desperate to come up with an improved show this time and try and qualify for the playoffs.  "We have a nice combination of Indian and foreign players and the club is very optimistic of making it to the playoffs this time. The players have mixed with each other before the tournament gets underway. The training is being conducted amid camaraderie and fun. We are hopeful that this would reflect on the team's performance," a team management member said from Goa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
18-10-2021||Jharkhand||Wildlife expert studies moth species in Dalma||The  Dalma hills immediately conjure images of elephant herds, given that it is home to a sprawling animal sanctuary. But few know that the hills are also home to over 300 species of moths that indicate the presence of a strong ecosystem. Raja Ghosh, who doubles up as a forester and wildlife expert, is carrying out a survey of the various species of moths in Dalma. "The presence of moths in any place reflects its environment. The cleaner the environment, the greater number of species of moths can be seen at a place. Dalma hill has over 300 species of moths, suggesting that it is among the  cleanest places in the region, " Ghosh told The Telegraph Online. The wildlife expert who is carrying out the survey has managed to identify over 250 species of moths so far. "A team from  Zoological Survey of India had come to Dalma  in 2009 for the study of moths species there.  During the team's four-day stay in the hill, its members had identified 198 species. But from my study I estimate the number of species would go beyond 300.  I have been devoting time and energy in the exercise since the past one month," Ghosh said. Ghosh, who is posted as a forester in the Dalma Wildlife Division, works primarily at night. "Unlike butterflies, most of the moths can be spotted during night time only and studying the species becomes a tiresome job, " said the forester, adding that the presence of different species of moths varies from place to place in Dalma which is spread over a 190 sq km.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
18-10-2021||Jharkhand||Cleaner ghats after Durga Puja in Jamshedpur||Jamshedpur, which hosts the largest number of Durga puja pandals in Jharkhand and witnessed over 350 immersions on Friday, had its river ghats wore a cleaner look on Saturday as compared to other years. As against puja paraphernalia, rotting flowers, idol frames clogging the river ghats along two main rivers of the city — Subernarekha and Kharkai — in earlier years, water bodies sported a cleaner look this year. “Usually we do visit the ghats the very next day of the Maha Dashami to see the ghats and coordinate with respective local urban bodies to get it clean before the Kali Puja and chhath festivities. However, Saturday we were pleasantly surprised to see most of the over 18 ghats sporting a cleaner look, barring the idol frames, there was no puja paraphernalia seen anywhere in the rivers,” said septuagenarian Rambabu Singh, patron of the Jamshedpur Kendriya Durga Puja Samity (the apex body which coordinates with administration and civic bodies during puja festivities). Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), the state-owned civic body, regulates the cleaning activity during major festivals in the company (Tata Steel) and non-company command areas in the industrial city of Jamshedpur, patted its back along with Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructures Services Limited. “We had carried out an intensive awareness campaign this year with all Durga Puja committees about the importance of segregating puja paraphernalia and other items like thermocols which are prohibited by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) from immersing in rivers. We also informed the puja samitis well in advance through posters about specially dug water pits along river banks and dropping the paraphernalia, havan materials and other decorative items used on Durga idols at the pits and only immerse the idols at the river. Our efforts seem to have yielded the results,” claimed JNAC special officer Krishna Kumar. JNAC had also deployed personnel to direct the devotees and puja committees to throw their puja items in the specially dug pits and those violating the norms were shouted upon by the volunteers. Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board member secretary Y.K. Das, however, preferred to wait for the water quality assessment report. “As per CPCB directive we had carried out samples from all major rivers across Jharkhand before immersion, on the day of immersion and after immersion. We would be tabulating the samples test report soon and only then we can say if the river water has been less polluted this year,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
