19-10-2021||Business||Market snaps 7-day winning run on profit-booking||Snapping their seven-session rising streak, equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended with marginal losses on Tuesday as investors booked profits at record levels. After touching its lifetime high of 62,245.43 during the session, the 30-share BSE Sensex settled 49.54 points or 0.08 per cent lower at 61,716.05. Similarly, the Nifty shed 58.30 points or 0.32 per cent to close at 18,418.75. It touched a new intra-day record of 18,604.45 in early deals. ITC was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, tanking over 6 per cent, followed by HUL, Titan, Tata Steel, UltraTech Cement and PowerGrid. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, L&T, Infosys, Bajaj Finserv, Kotak Bank and HDFC Bank were among the gainers. "Indices met with profit-taking even as the IT Index stood tall through the day which indeed had several bouts of volatility," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Market breadth too was weak with declines outpacing advances led by the big names of the FMCG sector as the street awaits a slew of primary market offerings in the near term, he noted, adding that the broader markets clearly witnessed profit booking in several top-performing midcap names. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading on a positive note in the afternoon session. International oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.66 per cent to USD 84.89 per barrel. The domestic currency market was closed on account of Id-E-Milad' holiday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
19-10-2021||Business||Sensex rallies nearly 400 points to soar past 62k-mark||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied nearly 400 points to soar past the 62,000-mark in opening trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC Bank, L&T and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets. Extending its record-setting run, the 30-share index touched an all-time high of 62,159.78 in opening deals. It was trading 357.88 points or 0.58 per cent higher at 62,123.47. Similarly, the Nifty surged 101.05 points or 0.55 per cent to 18,578.10. It touched a new intra-day record of 18,604.45 in early deals. L&T was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, HCL Tech, HUL, Axis Bank and Bharti Airtel. On the other hand, ITC, UltraTech Cement, Titan, PowerGrid and Kotak Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 459.64 points or 0.75 per cent higher at its new closing record of 61,765.59, and Nifty surged 138.50 points or 0.76 per cent to its all-time closing high 18,477.05. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market, as they purchased shares worth Rs 512.44 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges on Wall Street too ended largely positive in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.05 per cent to USD 84.29 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
19-10-2021||Business||Rains may disrupt coal supply||The prospect of torrential rains in some of the country’s major coal producing regions is threatening to extend the shortage of stocks at power plants. According to a Indian Meteorological Department bulletin on Monday, heavy rain is forecast over Bihar, Jharkhand, Gangetic Bengal and Odisha — all big producing states — on Tuesday, which will continue on Wednesday. The adverse weather forecast comes at a time Coal India is looking to step up its production to keep pace with the fuel demand of the thermal power plants. According to industry sources, rain on Monday has already impacted operations at Eastern Coalfields and some mines of Bharat Coking Coalfields and Central Coalfields. The major problem arising from heavy rainfall is the inundation of coal mines, given that Coal India has mostly open cast mines. While dewatering has to be done to resume operations, prolonged rainfall further complicates and delays the process. “Continuous rain makes it difficult because water keeps getting into the mines,” a source said. Coal India’s daily production has been around 14-15 lakh tones in October which is an improvement over the production of 11-12 lakh tones in mid-September. Sources said the public sector miner was looking to aggressively step up production after Durga Puja and take the production per day to beyond 16 lakh tones by the end of October to cater to the high demand. However, the adverse weather and torrential rain could play a dampener and delay the process. Coal stock at domestic power plants have gone down as demand for power surged with the economy emerging from the pandemic at a time international coal prices are surging. Power plants have utilised their already low stocks for generation to meet demand. Vedanta worry Rahul Sharma, CEO of the aluminum business of Vedanta, told CNBC TV18 on Monday that coal supplies, which were more than 90 per cent of the company’s demand in August have dropped to 30 per cent at present. He said the coal price increase will hurt the aluminium industry from the third quarter of the fiscal. Coal India had prioritised supply to the power plants by cutting down supplies to the non-power sectors such as aluminium, cement and sponge iron. As of October 15, 2021, the stock remained at critical level in 112 power plants out of the 135 plants monitored by the Central Electricity Authority. Total stock was at 7.5 million tonnes which is enough to meet the  generation requirement of only 4 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
19-10-2021||Business||Bengal govt seeks bids to build a deep sea port at Tajpur||The Mamata Banerjee-government is hoping to award the contract to build a deep sea port at Tajpur to an eligible developer by early next year. The West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation, which is the state nodal agency in port development, on Monday sought a request for qualification and proposal from interested parties. The last date of bid submission is December 20. The developer will be given the flexibility to design the port and fix the tariff, according to the guidelines laid down by the agency . While Port of Singapore Authority (PSA) and DP World of Dubai had shown interest in the past, more port developers such as Adani are anticipated to participate in the bidding, government sources said. Developing a greenfield port is always fraught with challenges. Tajpur will be no less, experts said, especially because of the location. Natural deep draft (12-16 meters) is only available 20 kilometre inside the sea, not on the shore. The operator has to decide whether to build a port facility 20 kilometre inside the sea or create a channel to navigate the large ships to the shore. While building a port inside the sea and infrastructure to bring the cargo to the shore will be a one-time large expenditure, creating a channel and maintaining it by annual dredging will be a recurring one. Moreover, the developer will also have to get at least three crucial clearances from the Modi government at the Centre. The developer will be responsible to get environment clearance, rail connectivity and possible approval from the Centre-owned Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port, Calcutta to use the river channel to bring the ships. The political equation between the state and the Centre will, thus, play a crucial part in Tajpur port development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
19-10-2021||Business||Tata Motors launches sub-compact SUV ‘Punch’||Tata Motors on Monday launched its sub-compact SUV ‘Punch’ in the country, with prices starting at Rs 5.49 lakh (ex-showroom). Designed across Tata Motors’ studios in India, the UK and Italy, the model has been developed to herald an entirely new category — the sub-compact SUV, to address a growing customer need for a small in size SUV which is big on space, safety, performance and features. Built on the company’s Agile Light Flexible Advanced (ALFA) Architecture, Punch would sit below Nexon in the company’s product line-up. It comes with a 1.2-litre petrol engine mated to both manual and automatic transmissions. According to Tata Motors, the manual trims of the model deliver an ARAI certified fuel efficiency of 18.97 kmpl while the AMT (automated manual transmission) variants offer 18.82 kmpl to a litre. The model comes with SUV attributes like tall seating, high ground clearance, 370 mm water wading capability and traction feature to aid recovery in off-road situations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
19-10-2021||Business||RBI slaps fines on State Bank of India and Standard Chartered Bank||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday imposed a monetary penalty of Rs 1 crore on the State Bank of India (SBI) and a Rs 1.95 crore fine on Standard Chartered Bank for the violation of various guidelines. The fine levied on the SBI is for non-compliance with the directions contained in ‘Reserve Bank of India (frauds classification and reporting by commercial banks and select FIs) directions 2016’, the RBI said in a statement. In a separate statement, the RBI imposed a Rs 1.95 crore penalty on Standard Chartered Bank for non-compliance of the directions issued by the RBI on ‘Customer protection – limiting liability of customers in unauthorised electronic banking transactions’, ‘cyber security framework in banks’, ‘credit card operations of banks’ and code of conduct in outsourcing of financial services by banks’ among others, the central bank said in a statement. These monetary penalties have been imposed in exercise of powers vested in the RBI under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, it said. These actions are based on the deficiencies in regulatory compliance and are not intended to pronounce upon the validity of any transaction or agreement entered into by the bank with its customers, it added. After considering replies from both banks to the notices, oral submissions made during the personal hearing, and additional submissions made by the lenders, it said the RBI came to the conclusion that the charge of contravention of/ non-compliance with various norms were valid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
19-10-2021||Business||UltraTech Cement Ltd reports net profit of Rs 1,310.34 crore||UltraTech Cement Ltd on Monday reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 1,310.34 crore for the quarter ended in September 2021 against Rs 1,310.06 crore in the year-ago quarter, which fell short of analyst estimates. The Aditya Birla company said coal and pet coke prices nearly doubled during the quarter. “The resulting impact on the company’s operations were partly offset by reduction in power consumption and continuing focus on operational efficiencies,” the company said . Revenue from operations was up 15.69 per cent to Rs 12,016.78 crore during the quarter under review against Rs 10,387.14 crore in the corresponding period of the last fiscal, which was in line with analyst estimates. The company expects to commence mining operations at its Bicharpur coal block in Madhya Pradesh during the third quarter which will help it to reduce the dependence on coal. During the quarter, UltraTech’s consolidated sales volume was at 21.64 million tonnes (mt), registering a year-on-year growth of 8 per cent. “The unexpectedly virulent second wave of Covid-19, looks to be receding almost as quickly as it was rising. Nevertheless, UltraTech continues to closely monitor the situation and the impact on its operations, while according utmost primacy to the safety and well-being of its employees and business partners,” the company said. During the quarter, the company commissioned cement capacity of 1.2mt in October at Patliputra Cement Works, Bihar and Dankuni Cement Works, Bengal. Over the outlook, UltraTech said factors such as recovery in rural housing, higher MSP (minimum support price) for kharif crop, improved food grain production in rabi harvest, a third consecutive normal monsoon and pick-up in infrastructure-led construction activity are likely to drive cement demand off-take. The company warned a “continuous increases in input costs like coal, pet coke and diesel pose a challenge for the industry”. “UltraTech is confident of weathering the storm of increase in prices of coal, diesel and other inputs, with its sustainable efficiency improvement programs, accompanied by increase in selling prices to absorb the increase in costs,” it said. Shares of UltraTech Cement Ltd on Monday closed marginally down at Rs 7,397.70 on BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
19-10-2021||Business||Benchmark indices continue rally for seventh consecutive session||Benchmark indices continued their rally for the seventh consecutive session and hit record highs, buoyed by optimism over the economy and good corporate results. While the 30-share Sensex touched a lifetime intra-day high of 61963.07, it later ended at a new closing peak of 61765.59 — a gain of 459.64 points, or 0.75 per cent, led by banking, IT and metal stocks. Records were also set on  the NSE where the Nifty rose 138.50 points, or 0.76 per cent, to its all-time closing high of 18477.05. The index hit a new intra-day record of 18543.15. These gains came despite weak global cues in the form of disappointing news from China and firm crude oil prices. Latest data showed that during the third quarter ended September, the world’s second-largest economy grew 4.9 per cent — down almost three percentage points from a GDP growth of 7.9 per cent in the second quarter. Even as the period was marked by the Evergrande crisis, and restrictions on power consumption, observers warn that the declining growth trends (GDP growth in the first quarter stood at 18.3 per cent), could adversely impact the global economy as well. Shares of PNB Housing Finance on Monday dived 5 per cent to their lower circuit limit after the company said it has aborted the Rs 4,000 crore-share sale plan to Carlyle Group and others. The stock tumbled to its lower circuit limit of Rs 607.10 on the BSE. Meanwhile, crude prices continued to remain firm with Brent futures rising 1.11 per cent to over $85.80 per barrel. A rally in base metal prices also supported metal stocks. The rupee ended 9 paise lower at 75.35 against the US dollar on Monday, tracking a stronger greenback against key rivals overseas and rising global crude oil prices. CDSL glitch Many investors were unable to execute their sell orders earlier in the day because of a technical issue with the Central Depository Services Ltd (CDSL). Investors took to social media platforms like Twitter to highlight their plight. Online brokerages such as Zerodha and Upstox later clarified that the problem was at CDSL’s end. The issue, which took around four hours to resolve, saw investors unable to authorise their brokerages to debit shares earmarked for sale from their demat account through the TPIN-a password (provided by CDSL).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
19-10-2021||Business||NCLT asks Reliance to seek creditor approval on Future acquisition||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Monday allowed two Reliance group companies to seek the approval of their creditors on the acquisition of Future group entities, brushing aside Amazon’s objections. The approval comes just three weeks after the tribunal allowed the Future group to seek the approval of its shareholders and creditors on the merger with Reliance Retail. The Mumbai bench of the NCLT, led by Suchitra Kanuparthi, allowed the application by Reliance to hold meetings of its creditors and shareholders seeking their approval for the deal. It rejected the objections by Amazon, saying it is premature in light of the Supreme Court ruling that rules out any final order by the tribunal. The order by the top court and the permission by the NCLT allow the companies to convene meetings and vote on the merger. However, the NCLT cannot give its approval to the merger till the Supreme Court gives its order. Two arms of Reliance Industries Ltd which represent its retail business — Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd and Reliance Retail & Fashion Lifestyle Ltd — can hold EGMs seeking approval of their creditors. Earlier, on a similar petition by Future Group, the NCLT had allowed the meetings of the creditors and shareholders. Various companies of the Future group are set to hold their EGMs next month seeking approval from their equity shareholders, secured and unsecured creditors for the proposed transaction with Reliance. Future Retail, Future Consumer, Future Enterprises and Future Enterprises will hold the meetings with equity shareholders on November 10, and with secured and unsecured creditors on the following day. Though there no official comment from Reliance, observers said that the two Reliance group companies may hold their meetings next month. On October 1, Reliance Retail had extended the long-stop date for the completion of its deal with the Future Group by another six months to March 2022 because of the delays ensuing from the ongoing legal battle with US-based Amazon. Long stop is a timeframe in which parties agree on which all the conditions precedent for a transaction need to be fulfiled and the transaction completed. The scheme of arrangement between Future and Reliance Retail entails the consolidation of Future Group's retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing assets into one entity — Future Enterprises Ltd — and then transferring them to Reliance Retail. The apex court had earlier ruled in favour of Amazon by holding that the award by the emergency arbitrator was valid and enforceable under Indian laws. This comes even as the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) has concluded hearing of the matter between Amazon and Future Group and has reserved its final order. After the Future group entered into a Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Industries in August last year , the US retail giant had dragged the Kishore Biyani-led group into arbitration at the SIAC. In October 2020, an interim award was passed by the emergency arbitrator in favour of Amazon. Since then Amazon and Future group had pursued the merits of the case at the Delhi high court and the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
19-10-2021||Business||Taiwan chip giants set terms for investment||The Centre plans to come out with a request for proposal (RFP) to set up semiconductor manufacturing facilities in the country at a time a raging chip crisis has derailed the production plans across sectors ranging from cars to consumer durables. Sources said the government was in talks with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, which has a 50 per cent share in the global market, and other companies in that country to set up units. India and Taiwan are keen to conclude a bilateral trade deal which would incentivise the Taiwanese companies to set up units  A trade deal could see tariff cuts on components and other raw materials. “There has been positive feedback from the firms on the trade talks and the measures that they expect the Indian government to take for setting up the units in the country,” sources said. The Taiwan side has flagged concerns on the supply of water and electricity and has suggested India should focus on chip design first before proceeding to fabs. The government is searching for locations where huge quantities of fresh water are available and also adequate manpower. A mega IT park with space for 100 Taiwanese companies has also been planned as part of the trade negotiations. The government had earlier come out with the expression of interest (EoI) for semiconductor fabs, with around 20 firms showing interest. The ongoing global chip crisis is hurting industries across sectors as electronic items are needed in every segment these days. Maruti backlog Maruti Suzuki MD Kenichi Ayukawa has said the company has pending orders of 2.6 lakh bookings — largely because of the chip shortage. Chip shortages have delayed the much anticipated launch of a smartphone by billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries that has been co-engineered with Google. India’s semiconductor demand is is expected to reach $100 billion by 2025 and the demand at present is entirely met through imports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
19-10-2021||Business||Vodafone, Airtel and Jio get October 29 deadline on 4-year moratorium||Vodafone Idea, Bharti Airtel and Reliance Jio must decide by October 29 on whether they want to opt for a four-year moratorium on their dues. In a letter to the telecom players, the department of telecom (DoT) also said the operators must decide within 90 days whether they would want to convert into equity the accrued interest during the moratorium. “The option of conversion of the interest amount into equity shares shall apply only to those instalments covered by the moratorium and not to the subsequent instalments,” the letter said. “The conversion of interest dues to equity will be a one time option to be exercised upfront. (Telcos) may opt for moratorium without opting for conversion of the interest into equity.” “In that case, the interest shall be payable along with the AGR and spectrum dues on the due dates as per the term of the moratorium,” the letter said. A copy of the letter is available with The Telegraph. Giving details of the shares, the letter said the present value of the accrued interest will be treated as a loan, which will be converted into equity. “The present value of the interest on the deferred AGR-related and spectrum auction dues during the moratorium period shall be treated as a loan to the company and then converted from loan to equity shares in the company. The equity shares would be issued by the company to the government on a preferential basis.” The relevant date for pricing of equity shares will be August 14, 2021. The price of the equity or preference shares shall be the higher of the average of the weekly high and low of the volume weighted average price of the equity shares during the last 26 weeks preceding the relevant date or the two weeks preceding the relevant date, the letter said. The DoT said “the NPV of the interest amount will be calculated as on the date of exercise of option. The interest amount will continue to be treated as a loan to the company till the completion of the equity infusion process”. The letter covers one of the most important aspects of the relief package which was announced mid-September and is expected to be a lifeline for cash-strapped Vodafone Idea. The letter made it clear that the telcos which opt for the equity conversion option must provide their historical audited financial statements.  “Listed companies would also need to provide their historical share value,” it said. Vodafone Idea and Airtel have made it clear that they would opt for the payments moratorium on their dues. The cabinet approved a blockbuster relief package for the stressed telecom sector that includes a four-year break for companies from paying statutory dues, permission to share scarce airwaves, change in the definition of revenue on which levies are paid and 100 per cent foreign investment through the automatic route. The measures, aimed at providing relief to companies such as Vodafone Idea, that have to pay thousands of crores in unprovisioned past statutory dues, also include the scrapping of spectrum usage charge for airwaves acquired in future spectrum auctions. Voda Idea owes Rs 220-230 billion in annual spectrum and AGR liabilities, which will now be spread over the next four years, brokerage UBS said. “This solves 80 per cent of its next two year’s problems. It still needs a capital infusion to address cumulative liabilities of Rs 120 billion over 2021-22 and 2022-23,” UBS said. “Of this, Rs 64 billion is towards NCD repayments in 2021-22, starting Dec 2021 and Rs 49 billion in 2022-23. For Bharti, the annual savings from spectrum and AGR deferrals will be Rs 11,000-11,500 crore," UBS said in a report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
19-10-2021||India||Anti-terror operation enters day nine in Poonch-Rajouri forest||As the counter-insurgency operation in the forest belt of Jammu and Kashmir's twin border districts of Poonch and Rajouri entered the ninth day on Tuesday, public announcements were made in Mendhar asking local residents to stay indoors for their safety, officials said. The people were alerted through the public address system in local mosques in Bhatta Durrian and adjoining areas as the security forces were preparing a final assault against the terrorists believed to be hiding in the forest area of Mendhar in Poonch district, the officials said. They said the people were asked not to venture into the forest area and also keep their livestock at their homes in view of the ongoing operation. Those who have gone outside were asked to return to their homes along with their animals, the officials said. While a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) and four other security personnel laid down their lives in a fierce gunfight during the start of the counter-insurgency operation in Surankote forest of Poonch on October 11, four other soldiers including another JCO lost their lives in another encounter in Nar Khas forest in Mendhar on Thursday evening after the security forces extended the cordon and search operation. An encounter was on in the adjoining Thanamandi forest in Rajouri district on October 11 when the security forces confronted the fleeing militants who, however, managed to escape. The entire forest belt is still under tight security cordon to neutralise the terrorists, the officials said, adding the area is mountainous and the forest is dense, making the operation difficult and dangerous. Eight suspected persons including a mother-son duo were detained for questioning from Bhatta Durrian in connection with providing logistic support to the terrorists. However, it is to be seen whether the support was given voluntarily or under duress, the officials said. Earlier on Saturday, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Rajouri-Poonch range, Vivek Gupta said the presence of terrorists in the forest area connecting Poonch and Rajouri has observed two and a half months ago and accordingly tactical operations were launched to track them down. The joint security grid was tracking different groups of terrorists but sometimes operations take time, depending on the topography of the area. The contact with the terrorists was established on three occasions during the start of the operation, based on the intelligence inputs, the officer had said, adding the terrorists are holed up and the joint forces are on the job to take the operation to the logical conclusion. The army has already deployed para-commandos and a helicopter was also seen hovering over the forest area on Saturday for surveillance. The traffic between Mendhar and Thanamandi along the Jammu-Rajouri highway remained suspended as a precautionary measure for the fifth day on Tuesday in the wake of the ongoing operation. Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine terrorists in separate encounters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
19-10-2021||India||Keep your Family Protected for the Future with Life Insurance Policy||In the event of the demise of a family member, the last thing on your mind is money. However, a solid life insurance policy is an undeniable financial tool that can help his or her loved ones get some monetary aid to move on with their lives free of undue financial burden. Buying a life insurance policy is a smart choice but also an emotional one as one is preparing to protect their loved ones after their death while they are alive. There are many types of life insurance policies that provide a large number of benefits that act as money cover and both an investment and insurance. Have an in-depth look at how you can buy one along with features to be able to make an affirmed decision on which is the best for you and your loved ones. What is a Life Insurance Policy? A life insurance policy is a financial tool that gives you a combination of savings and advantages under the same plan. A practically mandatory purchase, a life insurance policy helps provide financial help to the beneficiaries of that policy, a fool-proof plan to ensure the well-being of family members one has left behind. While it does require a payment to be made, you can get one that allows you to invest in market-linked funds and other investment opportunities. Often, in case the policyholder outlives the time of his policy's date, the final amount that he/she gets back is much higher than what was paid, acting as a good kitty for your golden years. Features of a Life Insurance Policy Mentioned below are key features of a life insurance policy in India Benefits of a Life Insurance Policy Have a look at a few main advantages that a life insurance policy will give you. How Does a Life Insurance Policy Protect Family Members While we have covered a generic idea of how a life insurance policy helps protect the financial interests of family members, the below-stated points of how it does so will help give a clearer idea. 1. Offering Financial Stability In case the policyholder is also the breadwinner of the family, his death can cause more emotional turmoil than a normal person. Family members are distraught at the loss of a loved one and are barely able to come to terms with this loss, and additional financial burden can cause further chaos. When the deceased person has a solid life insurance policy, he/she can ensure that his/her family will get paid the promised amount by the company so that they will be able to live a comfortable life – one they are accustomed to. 2. Monetary Aid for Crucial Costs One of the most prolific advantages of a life insurance policy is that it provides life coverage and offers great returns at crucial stages of life, if any. Certain plans offer a lump sum payment at the time of retirement, so you can use it when you need it the most. Others offer large payments for times of need, such as your children's educational expenses and so on. 3. Help During Difficult Times Many life insurance policies are designed to provide monetary aid during difficult times that generate undue expenses such as hospitalization due to an illness, accident, medical expenses, legal charges in case of some legal issues, funeral charges in case of death, etc. Such times are tough on family members as liquidity of funds is not easy. A life insurance policy that helps cover such expenses is a boon in disguise. 4. Loan Cover Benefits Taking loans is a common occurrence among people. There are home loans, business loans, personal loans, and so on. In case a loan borrower dies unexpectedly, the burden of repaying the loan falls on to his or her dependents. This can add to a lot of undue pressure on them. In case the borrower has a foolproof life insurance policy against his/her name, the insurer ends up paying the sum assured to his/her beneficiaries. The amount can be used to repay the borrowed loan. Anyone taking loans should keep this in mind before he/she does so. 5. Leaving an Inheritance When you name a beneficiary to your life insurance policy as an heir, that person shall receive the sum assured on the policyholder's death. In case the beneficiary does not need the money, he/she can donate it to charity. This can be done by naming the charity after you, which typically means that you will be the owner of that charity and have access to its funds along with its cash value while you are alive. You will also be eligible for charity tax deductions. In case of death, this tax exemption will not be applicable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
19-10-2021||India||aLL Plus Size Store Launches Their Fabulously Festive “Limited Edition” Collection||The festive season is the best time to bring out the fashion fever in you. In a time marred by pandemic, the festive spirit helps celebrate good times with friends and family, and this needs a new wardrobe. To ensure style and fashion is curated to everyone this festive season aLL THE PLUS SIZE STORE presents the fabulous, majestic and exquisite festive collection. The stunning new festive collection for plus size men and women have a wide range for all occasions. Ladies flaunt your curves in gorgeous Zari embroidered kurtas or Royal foil print flowy dresses and much more. And for men we have colourful kurtas, jackets, shirts and more in a mix of bright & warm hues that sets the tone for the festivities. Be it a festive lunch or a family dinner – aLL HAS IT All. The campaign has two body-positive influencers revelling in the festive glory. Being a limited edition collection, customers can immediately shop the look worn looks by shopping from aLLonlinestore.in or buy from any of the 81 aLL stores Pan India. Talking about aLL’s Fabulously Festive collection: Pawan Sarda, Group CMO- Digital, Marketing & E-commerce, Future Group said “Festive period for all of us is the time to celebrate fashion and flaunt it in style so why should the plus size not join the party. Our continuous endeavour is to romanticize the plus size fashion with unapologetic swag and be fashion first not limited to any body type. We believe all body types are beautiful and it’s time for everyone to get their fashion game on and be fabulously festive” Rajeev Singh business head, aLL: The Plus Size Store said “aLL has always believed that fashion is for everyone & beauty can never be limited to a body type. And festive period is the best time to bring your best fashion game and celebrate the true you. This season we’ve curated a festive collection that’s majestic & regal with a fun and quirk quotient ensuring our customers step out in style, all the time. To men and women in the country of all sizes, celebrate yourself every day because you are worth it. If you have got it, flaunt it and be fabulously festive. About aLL The Plus Size Store Fashion is beyond boundaries and agnostic of gender and size. With this philosophy, aLL – the plus size store was conceptualized in 2005. aLL is a dedicated plus size fashion store which gives an opportunity to every plus size individual to flaunt themselves with confidence, without any inhibitions. aLL is a one stop destination for Plus size fashion in India as it endeavors to offer the latest trends with new cuts, styles and silhouettes so that our customers always feel fashion forward. To ensure that we always serve fresh fashion, we launch a wide range of stylish collection - from classic styles to unconventional designs in casual wear, western & ethnic wear, evening & party wear, winter wear and many more! It is the largest Plus Size fashion retail brand in the country with a PAN India network of 81 Exclusive Brand Stores & serving 17,000+ pin codes through the online store - www.allonlinestore.in & mobile app. Our customers can shop from us anywhere, anytime, for any occasion! Website - https://www.allonlinestore.in/ Instagram - @allplussize Facebook - https://www.facebook.com/alltheplussizestore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
19-10-2021||India||Avani Soni opens up about her take on Social Media and Digital Auditions||Casting director Avani Soni is stepped into the entertainment industry at the mild age of 20. She has worked with three hundred plus artists since then and has done the casting for several successful Dhollywood films in her career spanning more than a decade. Some of her notable works include Luv Ni Luv Storys, Chhuti Jashe Chakka, Tamburo, and many more. She is known for introducing new talents in the industry. Avani Soni mentions that she always looks out for raw talents and never misses an opportunity to find out the "true artist". Avani recently took it to Instagram to post about the current scenario of entertainment industry. In an exclusive interview, she highlighted the points mentioned in the post about how Covid has fostered the greater use of social media and has helped attain universality. She said "Social Media has always been one of the most powerful weapons in today's age. However, Covid has made the entertainment industry use it in a more impactful manner. The increasing social media auditions over various digital platforms after physical auditions became obsolete is the first example. Actors can now audition anywhere anytime and reach the directors. They can audition for national or even international events just in the comfort of their homes. Even social media has helped to discover so many hidden talents. The followers never matter to the casting agencies but the content does. There is no substitute to Hardwork, Dedication and Perseverance." Elaborating her post, she urged the artists to connect online and never miss an opportunity to showcase their talent. "We live in a digital era, thus why not grab all the opportunities available in the digital platform? Keep in touch with Casting Agencies and keep giving auditions from home. All the best to everyone. " she concluded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
19-10-2021||India||Trak Only wishes to bring revolution in every field of sports||Trak-Only is a Kolkata-based company, co-founded by Mr. Arobinda Biswas and Mr. Debabrata Sarkar in 2008. They gradually gained popularity amongst the players from Kolkata Premier League and expanded their services to many other states and cities. Tollygunge Aggrami, F.C.I., Rainbow Sporting Club, United Sports, Southern Samity, Metro Railway, South Eastern Railway, Ordanance Factory, Peerless, Bhawanipore Football Club and the list went on. They are the offical kit sponsor of Mohammedan Sporting Club and Aryan Club. In 2017-2018, Trak Only had influenced their presence in 2 states, 12 districts, 26 outlets with only 85 staff members and now the account has come to 6 states, 30 districts, 70 outlets and 210 staff members. They are consistantly upgrading themselves while keeping booming economy and changing lifestyle in mind. They believe in enhancing true spirit of sports in every field. Recently Trak-Only have got associated with the Tamil Thalaivas, a Tamil Nadu-based top team in Pro Kabbadi League. It is indeed a new feather to the crown. "We're very excited and elated being on board with the Tamil Thalaivas, a Tamil Nadu-based top team in Pro Kabbadi League. With each passing moment, we are taking a step forward to our dreams and aspirations. These milestones assure us that we are in the correct direction and also motivate us to work harder. We wish the team all the very best for the upcoming events and we're hoping for an enthusiastic season!" said Arobinda Biswas and Debabrata Sarkar, Co-owners of Trak-Only. As a new entrant to the Pro Kabaddi League, this Kolkata-based company is committed in providing quality and comfortable sportswear for the team this year. Nikhil Bhardwaj, Director, Tamil Thalaivas and Kerala Blasters FC also said that they recognize a great cultural fit with their new partner and their fans are excited with the jersey and merchandise plans for the season. During this pre Puja celebration phase, Trak Only has emerged as the kitting partner of IFA. They will be providing sports kits to the Bengal team for next two years. They will leave no stone unturned to meet the need of the Bengal players as football is an emotion here running through the veins of sportslovers. Joydeep Mukherjee, the general secretary of IFA said ,"Bengal team will get everything when they will be on the field. They will be shinning like warriors in their armours." Mr. Arobinda Biswas, the co owner conveyed his heart-felt gratitude to  Joydeep Mukherjee for giving them the opportunity to provides kits to men's and women's team of Bengal. "We are elated to get this opportunity and we are looking forward to provide kits of international level." Trak Only has not fulfilled their dream but has also kept up to their social responsibility. After the Amphan, they stood by several families of footballers to recover their homes. They stood by cancer patients by helping them with financial aid. Trak Only stood by the players whose houses had faced the wrath of Amphan and supported them during their hard times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
19-10-2021||India||FabIndia withdraws Jashn-e-Riwaaz promo after right-wing backlash||Clothing brand FabIndia has removed a promotional capsule about its new festive line after a backlash from right-wing groups. While the brand was accused of "defacing" the Hindu festival of Diwali by naming its festive collection as Jashn-e-Riwaaz (celebration of tradition), the company insisted that it is not a Diwali collection, which will be soon launched under 'Jhilmil si Diwali' promo. FabIndia was trolled on social media for what some said was unnecessarily uplifting secularism and Muslim ideologies in a Hindu festival, saying it hurt their religious sentiments. After it put on Twitter the Jashn-e-Riwaaz collection on October 9, some social media users called for a boycott of the brand, making their campaign one of the top trends. "We at FabIndia have always stood for the celebration of India with its myriad traditions in all hues," a company spokesperson said. "Our current capsule of products under the name Jashn-e-Riwaaz is a celebration of Indian traditions. The phrase means that, literally. The capsule is not our Diwali Collection of products. Our Diwali collection is called 'Jhilmil si Diwali' is yet to be launched." Jashn-e-Riwaaz is a phrase in Urdu, a language that was born in India. The tweet, which went viral on Monday, said: "As we welcome the festival of love and light, Jashn-e-Riwaaz by Fabindia is a collection that beautifully pays homage to Indian culture". This was deleted after the backlash. BJP Yuva Morcha President Tejasvi Surya was among those who slammed the ad in a post on Twitter. "Deepavali is not Jash-e-Riwaaz. This deliberate attempt of abrahamisation of Hindu festivals, depicting models without traditional Hindu attires, must be called out. And brands like @fabindiaNews must face economic cost for such deliberate misadventures," he said on Monday afternoon. Noted Author Shefali Vaidy also slammed FabIndia for 'de-Hinduising' festivals. "Wow @FabindiaNews great job at de-Hinduising Deepawali! Call it a 'festival of love and light', title the collection 'Jashn-e-Riwaaz', take Bindis off foreheads of models but expect Hindus to buy your overpriced, mass-produced products in the name of 'homage to Indian culture'!" she tweeted. Soon hashtag #BoycottFabindia began trending. FabIndia did not say why it removed the tweet. The ethnic retail behemoth is not the first brand to face right-wing attacks and buckle under pressure. Tata Group's jewellery brand Tanishq was forced to withdraw an advertisement that showed an interfaith couple at a baby shower organised for the Hindu bride by her Muslim in-laws. It withdrew the advertisement after trolling soon spread to physical threats to company employees and stores. Clothing brand Manyavar too was at the receiving end when its advertisement featuring Bollywood actor Alia Bhatt in wedding attire, appeared to question an old tradition. Established in 1960, FabIndia sources its products from villages helping to provide and sustain rural employment in India. According to reports, the products are currently produced by over 40,000 artisans and craftspeople across India. In 2019, a Holi ad by Surf Excel had received similar flak by certain groups, as it showed children of two different religions celebrating the festival of colours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
19-10-2021||India||Incessant rain claims 11 more lives in Uttarakhand||Eleven more deaths were reported in Uttarakhand on Tuesday as incessant rains continued to lash various parts of the state, especially Kumaon region, razing houses to the ground and leaving many trapped in the debris. Nainital was cut off from the rest of the state with three roads leading to the popular tourist spot blocked due to a series of landslides. Eleven deaths in rain related-incidents were reported on Tuesday, while many people are feared trapped in rubble following cloudbursts and landslides, Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami told reporters in Dehradun. This takes the toll in rain-related incidents across Uttarakhand to 16, with five deaths reported on Monday, he said. Dhami assured that three Army helicopters will soon arrive to assist in relief and rescue operations underway in the state. Two of these helicopters will be sent to Nainital and one to the Garhwal region to rescue people stranded at different points, he said. The CM, however, asked people not to panic, saying all necessary steps are being taken to evacuate them to safety. He also reiterated his appeal to Chardham yatris to stay where they are and not to resume their journeys before the weather improved. The damage caused by the rains is being assessed, Dhami noted, admitting that farmers had been hit hard by the incessant showers. He also said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had spoken to him on the phone to take stock of the situation and assured him of all necessary help. The Mall Road in Nainital and Naina Devi temple located along the banks of Naini lake have been flooded, while a hostel building has been damaged due to landslides. The district administration is trying its best to help tourists stranded in the town, the police has been deployed to warn incoming and outgoing traffic, asking them to stay put until the wet spell is over, a report from Nainital said. Landslides have blocked the exits in the town. Around 100 people got stuck at Lemon Tree resort on Ramnagar-Ranikhet route, with water from swollen Kosi river entering the resort.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
19-10-2021||India||Army chief visits forward areas along LoC in Jammu||Army chief General M M Naravane visited forward areas along the LoC in Jammu region on Tuesday and was briefed on the ground situation in the region and ongoing counter-infiltration operations, officials said here. Naravane arrived in Jammu on a two-day visit on Monday amid a spurt in targeted attacks on civilians by terrorists in the Valley and an ongoing counter-insurgency operation in the forest belt of the twin border districts of Poonch and Rajouri, where nine soldiers have laid down their lives over the past week. "General MM Naravane #COAS (Chief of Army Staff) visited forward areas of #WhiteKnight Corps & undertook a first-hand assessment of the situation along the Line of Control. #COAS was briefed by commanders on the ground about the present situation & ongoing counter-infiltration operations," the Additional Directorate General of Public Information (ADGPI) of the Indian Army tweeted. Eleven people have lost their lives in targeted attacks by terrorists in different parts of the Kashmir valley this month. The count includes five non-local labourers, two teachers belonging to minority communities and a renowned pharmacist. Amid the spate of civilian killings, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday vowed to avenge every drop of bloodshed by hunting down the terrorists and their sympathisers. The officials said the Army chief visited the border districts of Rajouri and Poonch, where a massive operation to track down terrorists hiding in the forest areas of Mendhar, Surankote and Thanamandi has been going on since October 11. While five Army personnel were killed in an attack by terrorists in the forest area of Surankote on October 11, another four soldiers laid down their lives in a gunfight with the ultras in Mendhar last Thursday. The operation to neutralise the terrorists entered its ninth day on Tuesday. So far, eight people, including a mother-son duo, have been detained for questioning in connection with providing logistic support to the terrorists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
19-10-2021||India||Increasing activities by China in depth areas of eastern sector, says Army Commander||China has increased the intensity of carrying out military drills and deployment in its depth areas opposite the Arunachal Pradesh sector and India has correspondingly readied contingency plans to deal with any security challenges in the region, Eastern Army Commander Lt Gen Manoj Pande said on Tuesday. Giving an account of India's overall military modernisation, Lt Gen Pande also said that an in-principle approval has been given to new combat formations called the Integrated Battle Groups (IBGs) which can mobilise fast with a more effective approach. The IBGs will comprise a mix of infantry, artillery, air defence, tanks and logistics units and the new set up is expected to revamp the Army's warfighting capabilities, particularly along the borders with China and Pakistan. Lt Gen Pande added that the plan to operationalise the 17 Mountain Corp has been implemented in sync with a plan finalised in 2014. "The annual training exercise that the PLA carries out there has seen some increase in the level of activities in the depth areas. Some of the reserve formations which the PLA mobilised continue to remain in their training areas that are in the operational depth areas," he said. "Both sides are attempting to develop infrastructure closer to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that create certain issues at times," he said, adding there has been an increase in deployment of troops following the development of new infrastructure. The commander said India has taken a number of steps and the foremost among them is enhancing surveillance both close to the LAC and the depth areas by synergising all surveillance resources right from the strategic level to the tactical level. "We have adequate forces that are available in each sector to deal with any contingency that may arise. We are practising and rehearsing various contingencies that may arise," he said. Asked about the recent agreement between China and Bhutan to resolve their decades-old boundary dispute and whether it will impact India's strategic interests in the areas around Doklam tri-junction, the Army Commander did not give a direct reply but said authorities concerned in the government must have taken note of the pact. On China violating various border agreements and protocols, Lt Gen Pande indicated that the issue is being discussed at a higher level. "In terms of our larger guidance, strategic guidance in terms of dealing with situation on the LAC is to respect the mutually agreed protocols and agreements, and that has been our effort, notwithstanding what has been the action or response from the other side," he said. "Consequent to what happened and what we need to do in the future, is something I reckon is being looked into at the larger level," he said. A fourth hotline between the two sides has been activated recently, he added. As tensions increased following the eastern Ladakh row last year, India ramped up overall deployment of troops along the nearly 3,400 km LAC besides speeding up infrastructure development to gain tactical advantage. The Army is also cranking up its day and night surveillance over the LAC in the region using a fleet of remotely piloted aircraft. A sizeable fleet of Israeli-made Heron medium-altitude long-endurance drone is carrying out round-the-clock surveillance over the LAC in the mountainous terrain and sending crucial data and images to command and control centres. Along with the drones, the Indian Army's aviation wing has also been deploying the Weapon System Integrated (WSI) variant of the Advanced Light Helicopter Rudra in the region adding more teeth to its tactical missions in the region, they said. The government is also working on connecting Tawang with a railway network as part of the decision to enhance infrastructure in the region. The eastern Ladakh border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. The tension escalated following a deadly clash in Galwan Valley on June 15 last year. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in Gogra area in August and in the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in February. The last round of military talks on October 10 ended in stalemate following which both sides blamed each other for the impasse. In a strong statement after the 13th round of talks, the Indian Army said the "constructive suggestions" made by it at the negotiations were neither agreeable to the Chinese side nor Beijing could provide any "forward-looking" proposals. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
19-10-2021||India||Lowest rise in daily Covid cases in 231 days||India logged 13,058 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 231 days, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,40,94,373, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll climbed to 4,52,454 with 164 fresh fatalities, while the active cases declined to 1,83,118, the lowest in 227 days, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 25 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 114 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.54 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.14 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 6,576 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 11,81,314 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 59,31,06,188. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.11 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 50 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.36 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 116 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,34,58,801, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 98.67 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 164 new fatalities include 60 from Kerala and 27 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,52,454 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,816 from Maharashtra, 37,953 from Karnataka, 35,912 from Tamil Nadu, 26,925 from Kerala, 25,089 from Delhi, 22,898 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,989 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
19-10-2021||India||Oxygen plant at Odisha railway hospital||The East Coast Railway general manager, Vidya Bhushan, on Monday inaugurated a 600 litre capacity oxygen generation plant at the Railway Central Hospital at Mancheswar in Bhubaneswar. Divisional railway manager Khurda Road Rinkesh Ray and principal heads of the departments of ECoR and other senior officials were present on the occasion. This oxygen generation plant will make East Coast Railway Central Hospital self-sufficient for oxygen supply, required for Covid and other serious patients requiring oxygen supplement, EcoR said in a press release. Bhushan also dedicated 24 oxygen concentrators to be used at Mancheswar Central Hospital and Divisional Railway Hospitals at Khurda Road, Waltair and Sambalpur. A shortfall of medical oxygen was a major issue faced by various locations in the country during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Keeping in view of this, oxygen generation plant has been established for self sufficiency of oxygen in railway hospitals, the press release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
19-10-2021||India||Covid: One crore twin jabs in Odisha||The Odisha health department announced on Monday that over one crore people in the state have been fully vaccinated against Covid-19. “Happy to share that Odisha has achieved another milestone in Covid-19 vaccination with over one crore citizens fully vaccinated with two doses of Covid-19 vaccines,” the health department said in a tweet. According to official data, 24,306,314 people have taken the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccines. Bijay Mohapatra, director, health services, said all beneficiaries in Bhubaneswar and Berhampur cities have got the first shot. “All the 3.1 crore eligible beneficiaries will receive the first shot of the vaccine by December-end,” he said. The development comes at a time when senior IAS officer and agriculture production commissioner R.K. Sharma has been asked by the government to keep additional charge of the health and family welfare department. Sharma replaced health secretary P.K. Mohapatra who was transferred and appointed as chairman of the Odisha Forest Development Corporation (OFDC) on October 16. Health secretary Mohapatra was transferred following the high court’s critical observations about the state’s Covid management in September. The court had also expressed dissatisfaction over the affidavit filed by the health department on Covid-related deaths in the state. Later, he was asked to go on leave. After he joined duty on October 16, the government appointed him as the OFDC chairman. Though the Covid case graph has shown a consistent downward trend for the past few months, the state government is taking all possible precautions in view of the festive season. The government remains particularly worried about the situation in major cities like Bhubaneswar and Cuttack where people have been thronging markets with many of them without face masks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
19-10-2021||India||Tejashwi Yadav slams Bihar CM Nitish Kumar over Kashmir killings||The Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal attacked chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday after two more workers from Bihar were shot dead by militants in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday evening, the latest in a series of attacks on non-locals in the Union Territory. Raja Rishideo and Yogendra Rishideo, hailing from Araria district of Bihar, were killed in Kulgam on Sunday. Another labourer from the state, Chunchun Rishideo, was seriously injured in the incident. The killings came a day after a Bihari golgappa vendor and a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh were killed in two separate attacks in the Valley. Four people from Bihar have been killed in Kashmir since October 5, and the Opposition and the ruling alliance leaders fired salvos at each other over the worrisome development. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav wrote a scathing letter to Nitish on Monday, blaming him and his government squarely for the killings. “You and your incapable government are responsible for the killing of all these people of Bihar. Crores of people from the state would not have been forced to migrate had your government seriously done something to create employment in the last 16 years according to the claims of ‘good governance’…,” the RJD leader said in his letter. Tejashwi, also the leader of the Opposition in the state, suggested that the Nitish government should not only pray with folded hands before the families of the deceased workers for forgiveness, but also provide a government job and compensation of Rs 1 crore to the kin of the victims. “You and your double-engine troublemaker government are responsible for the killing of innocent Biharis by terrorists. Your government had claimed that repealing Article 370 was a historic decision that would end terrorism and supported it. May be such baseless claims influenced the labourers to go to Jammu and Kashmir,” Tejashwi wrote. The younger son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad later stressed in a post on social media that people are not able to get employment in Bihar and are killed if they go outside the state. Tejashwi also questioned the state government’s decision to give Rs 2 lakh as compensation to the families of the victims at a time when the kin of people dying from snakebites and lightning were being given Rs 4 lakh. Chief minister Nitish expressed grief and concern over the attack that could lead to an exodus of a large number of people from Bihar working in Kashmir. He also pointed out that people have the right to go and work anywhere in the country. “This is one nation. Kashmir is also a part of it. Everybody has a right to work anywhere in the country. We have been trying to ensure that people of the state stay here and work, but nobody can impose a ban on anyone so that he cannot go to any other part of the country. It is his right and he cannot be deprived of it,” Nitish said while alluding to Article 19 of the Constitution, which allows citizens to move freely throughout the territory of India and to practise any profession or to carry any occupation, trade or business, among other freedoms. Nitish said that he had called up Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha after getting information about the death of the two workers from the state. “He (Sinha) also seemed to be worried. I expressed my concerns because three such incidents happened with the people of Bihar in Kashmir. Sinha asserted that he was seeing over everything,” Nitish added. The chief minister sought action over the incidents and said: “We hope they (Jammu and Kashmir government) will stay alert and make arrangements for their security. It seems somebody is doing this to deliberately chase them (labourers) away.” Nitish also asserted that the government in Kashmir “will have to work more strongly so that nobody is able to do such things. The people and political parties there have also expressed worry over the incidents”. Senior Bihar officials are in touch with their counterparts in Jammu and Kashmir over the emerging situation. Meanwhile, Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular founder and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, who claims to be the leader of Dalits in the state, expressed grief over the incident. “I am pained over the continuous killing of our unarmed brothers from Bihar in Kashmir. I request Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah that if the situation is not improving then give the responsibility of Kashmir to the people of Bihar. We will improve it in 15 days,” Manjhi said. A pall of gloom has descended at Dah Tola under Baunsi police station and Khairuganj under Nagar police station, the native villages of Raja and Yogendra, respectively. The family members of the two slain workers were inconsolable. Officials from the local administration have informed the family members about the efforts to bring back their bodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
19-10-2021||India||Hero's welcome for Haryana man deported from Australia||A 24-year-old native of Kurukshetra in Haryana who was deported from Australia after pleading guilty to assaults on Sikhs in Sydney received a hero’s welcome on reaching home on Sunday. After Vishal Jood was deported on Saturday, Australia’s minister for immigration, citizenship, migrant services and multicultural affairs, Alex Hawke, tweeted: “Attempts to undermine Australia’s social cohesion will not be tolerated. I thank community leaders who have worked to build cross-community unity and resilience against attempts by a small minority to incite discord and disharmony, demonstrating the importance and benefit of our nation’s strong social cohesion.” Back home, a road show was organised for Jood with him standing in an open-top vehicle holding the national flag. The Right-wing ecosystem shared a video from earlier this year, showing Jood holding the Tricolour among a group of people protesting in Australia against Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the farm laws and the effort to discredit the farmers’ protest. The contention was that Jood was opposing the protesters and he had been framed by Khalistanis. Sharing a video of the road show, Ashwani Mahajan, co-convener of RSS affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch, tweeted: “An Indian student #ViahalJood (sic) who was arrested after being falsely implicated by Khalistanis, was deported. Was given overwhelming welcome in India.” According to Indian diaspora newspapers in Australia, Jood was arrested by New South Wales police in April after an investigation revealed his alleged connection to a series of targeted attacks on Sikhs. “A number of charges were levelled against him but in a plea bargain, NSW’s department of public prosecutors dropped eight charges that included racial hate crime, while Jood pleaded guilty to three charges for which he was sentenced to six months in jail,” IndianLink News said. NRI Affairs, another news portal run by the diaspora, called Jood a “Tiranga warrior” and said he had “pleaded guilty to three of the charges, including ‘assault’, ‘occasioning actual bodily harm in company of others’ and ‘armed with intention to commit indictable offence’, while the other charges were dropped by the Crown”. Jood became eligible for parole on October 15 after completing six months in jail, and was deported from Australia on the first flight out. In June, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had sought the intervention of external affairs minister S. Jaishankar for Jood’s release. Khattar had described Jood as innocent and alleged he had been arrested as part of a conspiracy by anti-national forces. Khattar had sought Jaishankar’s intervention following protests by Rors – the community Jood belongs to – seeking his return.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
19-10-2021||India||Karnataka cops turn out in saffron on Vijaya Dashami||Pictures of cops dressed in saffron for Vijaya Dashami at police stations have emerged in Karnataka, which has in recent months witnessed a surge in Sangh parivar activities. Leader of the Opposition and Congress veteran P.C. Siddaramaiah has tweeted the pictures of personnel clad in white and saffron civil attire at the Bijapur and Kaup police stations on Vijaya Dashami, which fell on Friday. Policemen at the Bijapur police station wore the white kurta-pyjamas traditional to north Karnataka, with saffron scarves around their necks or shoulders. Their counterparts at Kaup police station in Udupi, coastal Karnataka, wore white dhotis and saffron shirts, while the policewomen wore saffron saris. Siddaramaiah attacked chief minister Basavaraj Bommai in a series of tweets, suggesting the saffron clothes worn by the police had sent out a wrong message to the public. “Why did you change only their uniforms @CMofKarnataka? Give them the trishul. That way you can realise your dream of a jungle Raj,” the former chief minister tweeted in Kannada. “@BSBommai, please resign and go if you can’t govern according to the Constitution. Save Democracy,” Siddaramaiah tweeted. Siddaramaiah alleged that Sangh parivar activists and the police were engaging in moral policing by harassing couples in the name of tradition and religion, and BJP lawmakers were supporting the perpetrators. “On the one hand, there is police brutality against innocent young men and women. Then, lawmakers release the accused from the police station. And then there is the call for violence by distributing trishuls,” he tweeted. A sub-inspector from Kaup police station, Raghavendra, told reporters he had organised a similar puja last year at the Brahmavar police station, 10km away, where he was posted then. “There is nothing unusual in this (wearing saffron). It was only a Vijaya Dashami gathering of all the police station personnel, who work like a family,” he said. Udupi MLA Ragupathi Bhat of the BJP directed a question at Siddaramaiah while talking to reporters in Udupi: “Why are you scared of the saffron colour, which we have worshipped since time immemorial?” He added: “Siddaramaiah is saying all this to appease minorities and to link the colour saffron to violence. Siddaramaiah wore Tipu Sultan’s crown and wielded a sword (both replicas), and is now criticising the police for wearing saffron at a puja.” A ruling party MLA, Umanath Kotian, recently got two parivar activists released on bail from a police station in Mangalore after they were arrested for harassing young men and women from the Hindu and Muslim faiths for travelling together in a car. Last week, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad had distributed trishuls among new Bajrang Dal recruits at events held in Mangalore and Udupi. While they had justified it as “trishul deekshe (initiation)”, the development had drawn flak from Opposition parties. Karnataka, the BJP’s gateway to the south, has long been a hub of Sangh parivar outfits that engage in moral policing and attack cattle traders and transporters in the name of “gau raksha”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
19-10-2021||India||Centre stalls Calcutta HC judges' appointments||The Centre has approved 70-odd candidates for appointment as judges to the various high courts since September, acting at a frenetic pace to clear the Supreme Court collegium’s recommendations, but seems to have made an exception for Calcutta High Court. It has been sitting on all the 16 names proposed by the collegium for elevation to Calcutta High Court — eight of them recommended as far back as February and the remaining eight since September 1. Calcutta High Court — the country’s fourth largest after the High Courts of Allahabad, Bombay and Madras — now has 36 judges against a sanctioned strength of 72. Among those recommended but not cleared for Calcutta High Court is senior advocate Amitesh Banerjee, son of the former Supreme Court judge, Justice U.C. Banerjee, who headed the one-man commission that in 2006 ruled out any conspiracy behind the 2002 Sabaramati Express fire that killed 59 kar sevaks. Another is Sakya Sen, son of former Allahabad High Court Chief Justice Shyamal Sen. The apex court collegium of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana and Justices U.U. Lalit and A.M. Khanwilkar has since September recommended 106 judges for elevation to the various high courts. Prodded by Justice Ramana, the government has acted with uncharacteristic speed to clear appointments to the High Courts of Karnataka (16 new judges), Gujarat (7), Allahabad (9), Bombay (2), Patna (5), Telangana (7), Orissa (3), Kerala (6), Gauhati (8), Madras (4), Jharkhand (4), Chhattisgarh (1) and Madhya Pradesh (1). Besides Amitesh Banerjee, the collegium had on September 1 reiterated for Calcutta High Court the names of advocates Jaytosh Majumdar, Raja Basu Chowdhury and Lapita Banerji. All four had been recommended in July 2019 but the Centre had raised objections at the time. On September 1, the collegium also recommended elevating advocates R. Krishna Rao and Koyeli Bhattacharyya as judges of Calcutta High Court. On October 8, the collegium iterated the candidature of Calcutta advocate Sakya Sen, rejecting for the third time the Centre’s objections. At the same meeting, the collegium also proposed the elevation of Soubhik Mitter, advocate, as a Calcutta High Court judge. Even a September 16 recommendation by the collegium for the re-transfer of Justice Joymalya Bagchi to Calcutta High Court has not yet been approved by the government. Justice Bagchi had been transferred from Calcutta to Andhra Pradesh High Court on December 31 last year. On February 4 this year, the collegium had recommended elevating eight district judges to Calcutta High Court: Kesang Doma Bhutia, Rabindranath Samanta, Sugato Majumdar, Ananya Bandyopadhyay, Rai Chattopadhyay, Bivas Pattanayak, Subhendu Samanta and Ananda Kumar Mukherjee. None has been cleared by the government. All that Calcutta High Court has witnessed is a couple of transfers and an additional judge being made permanent. Justice Prakash Shrivastava of Madhya Pradesh High Court was recently appointed chief justice of Calcutta High Court in place of the then acting chief justice, Justice Rajesh Bindal, who has been made chief justice of Allahabad High Court. Justice T.S. Sivagnanam of Madras High Court was transferred to Calcutta High Court on October 11, while the additional judge, Justice Kausik Chanda, was made permanent on September 3. The collegium had earlier made it clear to the government that vacancies ought to be filled at the earliest. It had rejected the Centre’s objections to elevate nine new judges to the Supreme Court last month. The country’s 25 high courts have 1,098 sanctioned posts of judges, of which only 627 are occupied and 471 (nearly 43 per cent) are vacant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
19-10-2021||India||5-year jail for BJP MLA for 32-year-old forgery case||A court in Ayodhya on Monday sentenced a BJP legislator and two of his friends to five years in jail in a 32-year-old cheating and forgery case. Indra Pratap Tiwari alias Khabbu, who was elected from Gosainganj Assembly seat of Faizabad-Ayodhya in 2017, and his friends Kripa Nidhan Tiwari and Phulchand Yadav were alleged to have submitted fake Intermediate marksheets to get admission in BSc in Saket Degree College, Ayodhya, in 1988. Yaduvansh Ram Tripathi, the then principal of the college, had registered an FIR against the trio in 1989 and they were booked under IPC Sections 420 (cheating), 468, (forgery for the purpose of cheating) and 471 (fraud). Tripathi is no more but the college continued pursuing the case. The MP-MLA special court of judge Puja Singh in Ayodhya found all three guilty and sentenced them to five years in jail. The police took them to the Faizabad district jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
19-10-2021||India||WHO awaits Covaxin data for Emergency Use Listing||The World Health Organisation said on Monday it expects Bharat Biotech to provide more information on its Covid-19 vaccine in a further setback to the company’s hopes of getting an emergency-use listing for the shot. Without WHO’s nod, the two-dose Covaxin is unlikely to be accepted as a valid Covid-19 vaccine around the world. Bharat Biotech has been pursuing a WHO emergency-use listing for several months, having submitted data on a rolling basis since July. “We are aware that many people are waiting for WHO’s recommendation for (Bharat Biotech’s) Covaxin to be included in the #COVID19 Emergency Use Listing, but we cannot cut corners,” WHO said on Twitter. Bharat Biotech did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment. Covaxin is one of the three approved vaccines that have been used in India for the country’s vaccination drive for adults. Around 30 per cent of about 944 million eligible adults have been fully vaccinated so far, which includes the administration of more than 112 million doses of Covaxin. “Bharat Biotech... has been submitting data to WHO on a rolling basis and WHO experts have reviewed these data. WHO is expecting one additional piece of information from the company today,” the global health agency said on Twitter. WHO’s chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan said on Sunday the agency’s technical advisory group will meet on October 26 to consider the listing for Covaxin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
19-10-2021||India||Kerala death toll 27, more rain forecast||Kerala is bracing for more heavy rains from Wednesday even as rescue workers retrieved more bodies of landslide victims in Kottayam and Idukki, taking the official death toll to 27. Although many affected areas experienced some sunshine on Monday, the weather forecast for the next few days caused concern for people living in the high ranges that bore the brunt of the landslides triggered by cloudbursts. With the rain forecast adding to the worries of swollen rivers and dams, the state government empowered an expert committee to take the final call on releasing excess water from fast-filling dams. The decision was taken at a meeting of the state disaster management authority called by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday. Although the current situation is nowhere close to the 2018 floods that devastated the state and claimed around 480 lives, the government is cautious about releasing water as low-lying areas will get inundated. As the impact of the rain misery unfolded, hundreds of families were moved to shelters in areas where a large number of houses were washed away in landslides and flash floods. The chief minister instructed the authorities to ensure adequate facilities at the 185 shelters operational as on Monday evening. An expert committee decided to release water from Idukki dam hours after energy minister K. Krishnankutty told reporters that the authorities would be forced to do so if rain persisted. Idukki collector Sheeba George said two shutters would be lifted 50cm each at 11am on Tuesday. The authorities sounded a red alert in Idukki dam starting 6pm on Monday as water levels continued to rise. The collector said the water level could touch the upper rule level mark of 2398.86 feet by 7am on Tuesday making the opening of shutter inevitable. Ernakulam collector Jafar Malik said two shutters of the Idamalayar dam would also be opened by 80cm each at 6am on Tuesday. Although it is unlikely to flood the banks of the Periyar river in the district as the outflow would be regulated at 100 cubic metre per second, the officer urged caution. By the end of Monday, the authorities issued red alert at 9 of the 17 dams operated by the Kerala State Electricity Board and two of the 20 dams operated by the state irrigation department considering the rising water storage levels. Fisheries minister Saji Cherian told reporters that water levels would rise in Kuttanad region of Alappuzha district by Monday night. “There is no doubt water levels are going to rise in Kuttanad. So residents must move to shelters and carry all their valuables and documents,” said Cherian, whose constituency Chengannur was among the worst-hit in the 2018 floods. Sections of the Chalakudy river in Thrissur district was in spate and threatened to inundate low-lying areas as outflow from Sholayar and Peringalkuthu dams increased on Monday afternoon. This was mainly due to the water being released from Parambikulam dam in neighbouring Tamil Nadu. Chalakudy MLA Saneesh Kumar Joseph said there was already much concern about the inflow into the river. “There is a possibility that low-lying areas would get inundated once more water flows in later today. To avoid any danger, we have already moved people in those areas to shelters,” he said. He said while the situation was not comparable to the 2018 floods when large swathes of both banks of the river were flooded, the authorities did not want to take any chances. “We are urging people to cooperate with the district authorities and emergency teams and move to safer areas,” he told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
19-10-2021||India||BJP protests in bid to milk Bangla unrest, Suvendu meets envoy||The Bengal BJP’s desperation to politically exploit the clashes in Bangladesh during Durga Puja was evident on Monday as party MLA and leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Suvendu Adhikari led a delegation of MLAs to the Bangladesh deputy high commissioner’s office in Calcutta to express concern over the attacks. “We have won (the Assembly seats) with votes of Sanatanis. Nobody else voted for us. We are responsible for the Hindus,” Suvendu told the media after the meeting. “With all due respect towards India’s foreign policies, the Bangladesh PM (Sheikh Hasina) isn’t dealing with the situation with a tough hand,” Suvendu said in contrast to Narendra Modi government’s acknowledgement that the Hasina government had acted promptly to control the situation. A source in the Bangladesh deputy high commissioner’s office confirmed Suvendu met deputy high commissioner Toufique Hasan and handed over a memorandum. “Suvendu’s decision to meet Hasan was his way of sending a message ahead of the October 30 bypolls that the party was concerned about the plight of Hindus in India and outside,” said a party leader. Suvendu also visited the Dhakeshwari temple in Kumartuli where, according to BJP’s media cell, he prayed “for the safety of the oppressed Hindu minority of Bangladesh”. SFI, the students’ wing of the CPM, organised demonstrations across the state to condemn the attack on minorities in Bangladesh and in several parts of India. “From Babri to Comilla, majoritarian extremist atrocities are the same. These extremists nurture each other. This is why the likes of Suvendu Adhikari eye electoral gains when the Jamaat creates unrest beyond the borders. There is no difference between the RSS and the Jamaat. It is our duty to shun all forms of communalism and stand up for humanity,” said SFI state secretary Srijan Bhattacharya. Echoing the same spirit, members of the Bengal intelligentsia have issued a letter of protest condemning the attacks on the minorities in Bangladesh and sought immediate redressal from the Sheikh Hasina government. In Nadia’s Mayapur, monks and devotees of the Iskcon organised a congregation at its headquarters on Monday evening to condemn the alleged atrocities on its devotees in Bangladesh. They also demanded “tangible action” against them at the earliest to ensure the safety of minorities in Bangladesh. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
19-10-2021||India||Rare blood clot tied to Covishield||A private hospital has confirmed the incidence of a rare but potentially life-threatening, vaccine-induced blood clotting disorder among some Covishield recipients in India through what doctors have described as a “gold-standard” confirmatory test. The findings corroborate observations from other countries that vaccine-induced thrombosis and thrombocytopenia (VITT) is an extremely rare adverse event, but underline the need for national guidelines to raise awareness on diagnosis and treatment, the doctors said. Doctors at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, New Delhi, diagnosed VITT through an initial test that detects antibodies against a substance called platelet factor 4 (PF4), and then a confirmatory test that observes how normal platelets respond to the patient’s serum. The first patient that the SGRH doctors diagnosed as suffering from VITT was an 18-year-old boy brought to the Army Hospital, New Delhi, from Mathura in June, 17 days after he had received his first dose of Covishield. The boy, who had a persistent headache and recurrent vomiting, died in hospital. Doctors believe the boy died because of a late transfer to Delhi after seven days in hospital. Since June, the SGRH haematology department — which has set up India’s first lab to provide the confirmatory test for VITT — has received 14 additional samples among which six have tested positive for VITT, one from Delhi and five from Kerala. All six patients have survived after appropriate treatment. A vaccine policy adviser said India had administered over 868 million doses of Covishield but documented only “a few” cases of VITT, the extremely rare incidence establishing the benefits of the vaccine over the risk. The World Health Organisation had in April this year flagged reports of thrombosis (formation of blood clots in blood vessels) and thrombocytopenia (low platelet counts) as a rare adverse event following vaccination with Vazeria and Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccines produced by AstraZeneca and the Serum Institute of India, respectively. Doctors said the incidence of VITT in other countries suggested it occurred in one in 100,000 to one in 127,000 vaccine doses, making it extremely rare. But professional medical organisations in Canada, Germany and the UK have issued diagnostic and treatment guidelines. “Awareness is the key tool that will expedite diagnosis, guide treatment, and help save patients,” said Jyoti Kotwal, chair of the haematology department at SGRH. “But we’ve got six samples from Kerala and very few from north India. We need more awareness in medical circles and among vaccine recipients.” Kotwal added: “Why are we getting more from Kerala? Possibly because of greater awareness among medical professionals there. We need more awareness elsewhere too.” India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign guidelines urge recipients to look out for any unusual symptoms — including headache, vision changes, nausea or vomiting, seizures, abdominal pain, chest pain, shortness of breath or blood in stool — after receiving the doses. A senior medical adviser to the vaccination campaign told The Telegraph that thrombosis along with low platelet counts and a raised value of a blood parameter called d-dimer are sufficient for a reliable diagnosis of VITT. But, Kotwal said, this triad — thrombosis, low platelet count, and raised d-dimer — is at best only “presumptive diagnosis and not confirmed diagnosis”. While doctors may start treatment on the basis of a presumptive diagnosis, Kotwal said, they need a confirmed diagnosis to continue with appropriate treatment and for the epidemiological purpose of determining the incidence of VITT in the population. “Many western countries have referral labs doing the gold-standard platelet aggregation test to confirm all suspected cases of VITT and give the correct incidence of this adverse event,” she told this newspaper. “We now have such a lab in our hospital.” The standard treatment for VITT involves the use of an intravenous immunoglobulin concentrate that blocks the antibodies against PF4, blood thinners to treat clots and prevent new clots, and other lines of therapy. “The gold standard confirmatory diagnosis will guide appropriate treatment, especially in early cases that have thrombocytopenia with increased d-dimer but have not yet developed a clot that can be picked up by imaging,” Kotwal said. Senior health officials had asserted earlier this year that India had a robust mechanism for tracking adverse events following immunisation (AEFI), and that analyses of serious AEFIs had established that the benefits of vaccines far outweighed any extremely rare risks. Some doctors and patients’ rights advocates had earlier this year urged the Union health ministry to thoroughly investigate all cases of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, expressing concern that not all reported cases were being adequately investigated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
19-10-2021||India||Amit Shah holds meet on Kashmir security and other states||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday chaired a meeting with police chiefs of all states and directors-general of the central paramilitary forces. Sources in the security establishment said the minister reviewed the security situation across the country, including the recent killings of civilians by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir, during the closed-door meeting. About a dozen civilians, seven of them non-Muslim, have been killed since October 1 in the deadliest spurt in violence the Valley has witnessed in years. Five of the dead were migrant workers. One of the 12 civilians killed was a Kashmiri Pandit businessman, Makhan Lal Bindroo. National security adviser Ajit Doval and Intelligence Bureau director Arvind Kumar also attended the meeting besides directors-general of the BSF and ITBP. “The security situation in the wake of the latest civilian killings in Kashmir was discussed threadbare during the meeting. The situation in the Valley is very challenging,” a security official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
19-10-2021||India||Migrants jittery in Kashmir after spate of killings||A Bihar mason currently working at a construction site on Srinagar’s outskirts never thought of leaving Kashmir in the past 15 years, even during the mayhem that accompanied the three mass summer agitations this period witnessed. Not even in 2019, when a brutal clampdown following the dilution of Article 370 paralysed life for months. But a spate of killings of migrant workers over the past fortnight has left him and his colleagues jittery. Hundreds of migrant workers have been shifted to army camps overnight for their safety while hundreds others have left the Valley. The vast majority including the Bihar mason have, however, stayed back, still banking on Kashmiri hospitality. But they have their fingers crossed. “I’m praying the situation eases but we are receiving frantic calls from our families asking us to return. We got such calls in the past too but this time things here look different,” the man in his 30s told The Telegraph. His identity is being withheld for his safety. “Our hosts keep reassuring us but you naturally feel afraid when you see pictures of the slain men all over (social media). There were some killings (of non-Kashmiris) in 2019 too, but this time there’s been one attack after another. People have lost their lives even in Srinagar.” Two Bihari labourers were killed and a third worker was injured in a suspected militant attack in Kulgam on Sunday evening. A day earlier, a golgappa vendor from Bihar and a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh had been killed in Srinagar and Pulwama. Eleven civilians, including five migrant workers, have been murdered and nine soldiers killed in a gunfight in Poonch in what is being seen as the biggest militant challenge facing the security establishment since the 2019 scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. With seven of the slain civilians being non-Muslim, the killings are being construed as a militant design to force religious minorities out of the Valley. The killings have been widely condemned in the Valley, but they followed months of what many say were “not-so-cordial relations” between local people and non-Kashmiris. The Bihar mason said non-Kashmiris were seldom attacked in the past but he could smell a change after the 2019 amendment to Article 370. “Apart from earning good money, we were treated well. But something big happened in 2019,” he said. “It’s not that we were humiliated, but we could see people starting to suspect us, thinking we were up to something. We are poor and have nothing to do with politics.” Many here believe that Jammu and Kashmir’s special status was scrapped so that hordes of outsiders could be brought in to reduce Muslims to a minority in the Vally. A local engineer, who heads a construction company and employs some 150 migrant workers, said the non-local employees occasionally asked why the Kashmiris had turned a little indifferent to them. “They would complain that the old warmth in relations was missing; rather, the local people seemed to expect them to mind their own business,” he said. “Fortunately, nobody in my team has left. But around 50 of them are sitting idle and some might prefer leaving. Otherwise, too, winter has set in early and this is the time they start leaving.” The militants and their handlers across the frontier are trying to exploit the fault-lines. At Srinagar’s Tourist Reception Centre, migrant labourers were seen trickling out in groups. But most were careful not to link their departure to the killings. “We were working in the Kulan area of Ganderbal. It was getting very cold there, so we decided to return,” a group of workers from Bettiah in Bihar said. Some others said they were leaving to celebrate Diwali with their families. Pramod Gupta, a carpenter from Khushi Nagar in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, said he wouldn’t leave. He said he had never faced any problems in the past or felt scared. “I never heard about any Kashmiri killing any outsider before. I don’t know what has happened now — something has happened this time,” he said. “I was here in 2008, 2016 and 2019. I never fled.” A new pro-independence agitation had begun in 2008 after the government decided to hand over a tract of land to the Shri Amarnath Shrine Board, which many claimed was a move to settle outsiders. In 2016, the Valley was rocked by a month’s agitation over the encounter killing of Hizb poster boy Burhan Wani. Labour commissioner Abdul Rashid War said that migrant workers had traditionally been treated well in Kashmir. “In March last year, when the pandemic broke out, we had some 50,000 (non-local) workers here, of whom just 2,700 wanted to return home,” he said. “The rest stayed on and weathered the lockdown with help from the government and local people.” Lakhs of migrant workers come to Kashmir every year, forming the backbone of its construction industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
19-10-2021||India||BJP looks up to Modi for 'leadership and guidance' during state polls||The BJP on Monday sought to project the “leadership and guidance” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the principal pitch for the upcoming Assembly polls in five states, signalling its deepening dependence on one supreme leader to win elections. The party held a daylong meeting of national office-bearers to take stock of preparations for the state polls. At the end of the meeting, the BJP heaped praise on Modi for providing “leadership and guidance” for not only the growth and rise of the country but also party-ruled states. The meeting was held also to prepare for the national executive meeting early next month, the first since J.P. Nadda took over as BJP president from Amit Shah in January 2020. “Entire world is now praising India. Only yesterday, IMF lauded India’s battle against Covid. Other world institutions too have said that India’s economy was rising very fast,” BJP vice-president Baijayant Jay Panda said told reporters. “In the five states, we will go to the people under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the state leadership and pitch the BJP’s aim of giving growth and development with a double-engine government,” Panda added, speaking after the meeting. The “double-engine government” refers to having the BJP in power at the Centre and also in the states. The party uses it to try and sway the voters, stressing that the one-party government at the top and elsewhere can usher in better development. This pitch had failed in Bengal and some other states too but the party still feels that it is the best strategy. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has emerged as our tallest and most popular leader. We have seen that even in state polls he is the biggest vote-catcher,” one BJP leader said. Of the five states — Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur — going to polls early next year, the BJP heads the government in four, barring Punjab, which is ruled by the Congress. Though Uttar Pradesh would be the focus, the party wants to retain power in three other states too, to underline that Modi and the BJP’s popularity was intact despite Covid mismanagement, price rise and economic distress. After Monday’s meeting, the party sought to drum-beat the “records and milestones” being achieved by the Covid vaccination drive, seeking to bury the mess created during the second Covid wave. “Soon we will achieve the milestone of 100 crore vaccinations. It looks like a miracle given the way some people in the country and the world were saying that India won’t be able to manage the pandemic,” Panda said, crediting Prime Minister Modi. The government and the BJP have planned a big show to announce the achievement of 100 crore vaccinations, hoping it would have a favourable impact on the voters. Barring Uttar Pradesh, where chief minister Yogi Adityanath has risen as the face of the party, in all other states it would be left to Modi to sway the voters. In Uttar Pradesh, too, party insiders said, the idea was to showcase Modi as the mascot and Yogi as his follower, to ensure that a chunk of the credit goes to the Prime Minister, if the BJP manages to script a history of sorts by retaining power in the politically crucial state. The prolonged farmers’ protest and its impact on the state polls, particularly Uttar Pradesh, was also discussed at the meeting, sources said. Party leaders said measures to ensure that the protest doesn’t cast much of an impact on the polls was discussed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
19-10-2021||India||Four more arrests in Lakhimpur Kheri massacre case||Four persons were arrested by Uttar Pradesh police on Monday evening in connection with the October 3 massacre at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri. The arrested include Sumit Jaiswal Modi, photographed escaping from the Thar jeep that was leading the convoy that crushed to death four farmers and a journalist. Sumit is a councillor of Shivpuri ward in Lakhimpur Kheri and an associate of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, who owns the Thar jeep. The other three arrested and sent to judicial remand for 14 days are Satya Prakash Tripathi alias Satyam of Kaushambi district, Nandan Bisht and Shishu Pal, both from Lucknow, according to a media release issued by the special investigation team probing the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre. Besides the Thar, which was allegedly driven by Teni’s son Ashis, there was a Toyota Fortuner and a Mahindra Scorpio in the convoy, which were seen in several video clips, running at full speed on the road where the peasants had gathered. The Thar hit the farmers from behind, ploughed through them and sped off. Meanwhile, the SIT also summoned 10 farmers to the crime branch office in Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday to interrogate them. Sumit had registered an FIR against 20 unidentified farmers for allegedly lynching the minister’s driver and two BJP workers who were in the convoy. Mohammad Amaan, a counsel for the farmers, said: “The SIT will have to summon 20 farmers. It called 10 of them at its office on Monday to interrogate them and the remaining would be called in the next two days.” Police sources said that Shekhar Bharti, driver of Ankit Das, an associate of Teni and owner of the Fortuner, had claimed that Satyam was driving his SUV on October 3. Nandan was also in the Fortuner, they said. Pal was driving the Scorpio, they added. Ashis, Ankit, Shekhar and three others are already lodged in jail in connection with the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
19-10-2021||India||Congress attacks Centre for oil price ‘extortion’ ||The Congress on Monday described the savage increase in prices of petroleum products as “extortion” by the Narendra Modi government, with Rahul Gandhi alleging that the public has been betrayed because the intention was to help crony capitalists. Running a campaign under the hashtag “TaxExtortion” on social media, the Congress attacked Prime Minister Modi for selling diesel which is used by the farmers in tractors at a much higher price than aviation fuel used in aircraft. Rahul tweeted: “This is a very serious issue. People’s ordinary needs are more important than politics and vote. Their needs are not fulfilled these days. I stand with the people who have been betrayed by Modi to help his capitalist friends.” Describing petrol-diesel prices as “extortion”, Rahul had tweeted on Sunday: “Sabka vinash, mehngai ka vikas (Destruction of everyone, development of price rise).” Party’s communication chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The government was expected to fight rising prices and it started filling coffers by increasing prices. For how long will this loot continue?” The Congress has alleged that the Modi government earned Rs 23 lakh crore by taxing petroleum products alone. Party spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi also tweeted: “This blatant extortionism by the #BJP must stop. After fifth consecutive hike, now common man’s fuel, #Diesel, has touched (Rs) 100 mark. This unprecedented robbery should be discontinued if we want to project ourselves as a ‘Welfare State’ by any means.” Prices of petrol, diesel and LPG have continued to rise while crude oil prices in international markets have crashed to historic low. While the average crude price during the Manmohan Singh government was $115 per barrel, Modi had the good fortune of a much cheaper rate during the bulk of his tenure, even lower than $50 per barrel. The Congress has decided to launch an awareness campaign throughout the country from November 14 to 29 to educate people how Modi used petrol-diesel-LPG to loot them and didn’t care for prices of other essential commodities as well. Marches will be taken out in every district to highlight the scourge of surging inflation. Apart from petroleum products which kept getting costlier without a break, even prices of edible oils have reached unprecedented levels, going far beyond the reach of the poor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
19-10-2021||West Bengal|| In run-up to Bengal bypolls, exodus to Trinamul worries BJP||Bengal BJP leaders are picking their brains to find the answer to one question: Are more MLAs going to join the ruling Trinamul? That the state BJP is worried about defections in the legislature party since Mukul Roy moved out in June is reflected in the party’s choice of candidates for the forthcoming October 30 byelections in the four Assembly seats of Khardaha, Shantipur, Gosaba and Dinhata. Most Bengal BJP leaders including the leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikary are of the opinion that the party’s strategy of giving poll tickets to turncoats had backfired massively. In the 2021 Assembly polls, BJP gave tickets to as many as 173 aspirants who had embraced the saffron fold, a vast majority of these turncoats were from the BJP. The Bengal unit of the party was largely influenced by the triumvirate of national leaders, Kailash Vijaywargiya, Arvind Menon and Shiv Prakash, all pointing to the stellar result in Tripura where the entire Trinamul moved to the BJP and helped the party form the government replacing the CPM. The BJP’s national leadership expected an encore in Bengal using the same strategy. “This strategy helped us win in other states but did not work here. We made the mistake of not realising that many of the new entrants to our party were actually joining only to cling to power. That is why there has been an exodus since the results were announced,” said Dilip Ghosh, the former state unit president and Kharagpur MP. The trio of Vijaywargiya, Menon and Prakash also took inputs from Mukul Roy, who has himself deserted the BJP. Sources said  Adhikary’s ties with new state unit president Sukanto Majumdar was better than that with his predecessor Dilip Ghosh, who went his own way. Adhikary has also been able to placate BJP dissidents like Tathagata Roy. Though the BJP had won 77 seats, two of its MLAs have since resigned and four others—all coming from Trinamul--- have defected. The Trinamul has been claiming many more MLAs are keen to switch sides, and that has put the BJP leaders ill at ease. “Electorally we do not expect much of a gain from the bypolls. We would like to hold on to the two seats that we had won. But our main objective is to ensure plugging the exodus. Which is why in the selection of candidates preference was given to those who are known BJP-RSS workers in their respective constituencies,” said a BJP source. The only notable exception is Dinhata nominee Ashok Mandal, though the fact that he had joined the BJP in 2016 when it was a minor force in Bengal went in his favour. Mandal, a former Trinamul MLA from Dinhata, had defeated Udayan Guha, the current Trinamul nominee. The Santipur nominee, Niranjan Biswas, for example, has been a Sangh volunteer since 1993 and was also the organisational secretary of the BJP’s South Nadia unit. “The biggest problem we faced in the last Assembly polls was that our polling agents felt disconnected with the nominees, who were either outsiders or were rivals till a few days ago. This time we have fielded people who have spent some time with the party,” said a BJP source. Of the four seats, two (Santipur and Dinhata) fell vacant as the elected MLAs who were also MPs decided on retaining their respective Lok Sabha seats, while in Khardaha and Gosaba, the winning Trinamul candidates succumbed to Covid-19. BJP’s best chance is in retaining Santipur, of which even Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is not confident, according to those in her inner circle. Trinamul workers are unhappy with the candidate, Brajakishore Gosain. The ruling party is expected to win the rest of the seats easily. The four seats go to polls on October 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
19-10-2021||West Bengal||Babul Supriyo formally resigns as MP||Former BJP leader Babul Supriyo formally resigned as an MP on Tuesday, a month after he quit the party to join the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC. Supriyo thanked the BJP leadership for the confidence they had shown in him. "My heart is heavy as I had began my political career with the BJP. I thank the PM, party chief, and Amit Shah. They showed confidence in me. I had left politics wholeheartedly. I thought that if I am not a part of the party, I should not keep any seat for myself," he said after meeting Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. The development comes after the two-term MP from West Bengal's Asansol had on September 20 -- two days after joining the state's ruling Trinamool Congress party -- written to Birla, seeking a "brief" appointment with him to formally resign as a member of the House. The singer-turned-politician has repeatedly stressed that he did not want to continue as an MP since he was no longer a member of the party for which he won the seat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
19-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 690 new cases, 683 recoveries and 12 deaths||Bengal on Monday reported 690 new Covid-19 infections, 683 recoveries and a dozen deaths. The total of active cases fell by five to 7,416. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases ahead of the Puja season, on September 26. Since then, in the past 23 days, the state recorded a rise in active cases for 12 days, a fall for 10 days and no change on one day. A minister said the new cases being reported now is indicative of people who got infected between October 9 to 13 (Chaturthi to Saptami). Calcutta reported 194 new infections and North 24-Parganas 103. Calcutta reported two deaths and North 24-Parganas three. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas were on Monday the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths on Monday. The state now has over 4.19 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is sixth on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, while the national rate is 98.12 now. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 3 per cent on Monday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.81 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.55 lakh recoveries and 18,989 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
19-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid curbs? Travel to the Dooars for a taste of Bhutan||Want to visit Bhutan but find the compulsory paid quarantine too cumbersome? Try the Dooars instead, which has similar culture and cuisine, tour operators in north Bengal are saying. Tour operators have started promoting tiny hamlets in the eastern Dooars close to the India-Bhutan border and are offering homestay accommodations to tourists who want to visit Bhutan but can’t owing to various entry regulations of the neighbouring country amid the pandemic. “If one intends to visit Bhutan, one has to stay in paid quarantine for a fortnight and only then move around the country. That is why a considerable number of Indian tourists are feeling disinclined to visit Bhutan which otherwise is a favourite destination for Indians. In such a situation, we are offering them an alternative to stay at a location that is near the India-Bhutan border, and enjoy cuisine and culture similar to Bhutan,” said Raj Basu, convener Association for Conservation & Tourism (ACT). He said that a number of villages, especially those in eastern parts of the Dooars in Alipurduar district that also has the Buxa hills, have emerged as new destinations for tourists who seek secluded spots to enjoy the idyllic landscape of the area flanked by Bhutan hills. Among these include places like Daragaon, Buxaduar, Lalbanglow, Tanshigaon, Ochlum, Lepchakha, Khataline, Chunavati, Adma, Namna, Serubari, Fulbari and Panbari. A historian in North Bengal University said that the Dooars earlier belonged to Bhutan and so the culture and cuisine of a number of tribes in these hamlets are similar to that of the Himalayan kingdom. “The region was annexed to British India after the Sinchula Treaty of 1865. The main interest was the control on trade between the maritime and the mountain routes, where we had the 18 gateways or the Dooars. Over time, settling patterns have changed, but some people’s habits remain the same,” he said. For example, if one treks to the Buxa hills, there are villages where the Dukpas reside. Their food, clothes and even houses are similar to the residents of Bhutan. “They even celebrate the New Year according to Bhutan’s calendar. This festival is called Gyalpo Lhosar,” the academic said. “Any tourist can easily reach this region in the Dooars where they can feel like they are staying at a hamlet in Bhutan,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
19-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP faces TMC black flags in Dinhata||Leaders of the saffron camp in Dinhata where the bypoll is due on October 30 along with three other Assembly seats of the state, on Monday had to return without campaigning as hundreds of Trinamul supporters hit the streets with black flags. Trinamul leaders, including state minister and senior party leader Firhad Hakim who is camping in Cooch Behar now, campaigned extensively in Dinhata. On Monday, Ashok Mondal, the BJP candidate contesting against Trinamul’s Udayan Guha in the seat, reached Bamanhat of Dinhata with Mihir Goswami, the BJP MLA of Natabari, also Cooch Behar district. The moment they reached the local market, over 100 Trinamul supporters turned up with black flags and shouted “go back”. “Trinamul supporters stopped me from campaigning. They verbally abused me and shoved me and others. We have informed the administration,” Mondal later said. In Dinhata, BJP MP Nisith Pramanik became the MLA by a margin of only 57 votes. He stayed on as MP, necessitating the Assembly bypoll. “The abysmally low margin has made the bypoll more interesting in Dinhata and both BJP and Trinamul are putting their best efforts to win the seat. However, the saffron camp appears unnerved these days as there have been major defections during the past few days and now, the candidate has to face protests which were not seen earlier,” said a political observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
19-10-2021||West Bengal||Accidental firing killed BJP youth leader: Police||Mithun Ghosh, the North Dinajpur district vice-president of the BJP’s youth wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, was not murdered on Sunday night but died in an “accidental firing”, police said on Monday. Mithun, 32, was fatally injured by a bullet near his home in Rajgram, a locality under Itahar police station of the district on the fringes of Raiganj. His relatives rushed him to Raiganj government hospital where doctors pronounced him dead. State and district BJP leaders had accused Trinamul of orchestrating the attack. Trinamul denied the charge. Police ruled out any “political element” and said Mithun  was killed accidentally by an illegal firearm. According to the officers, Mithun had an improvised pipe gun and a 9mm pistol, both illegal, with him. On Sunday night, his friends Santosh Mohanta and Sukumar Ghosh came near his home and wanted to see the firearms, police said. While they were checking out the firearms, a round got fired from the pistol Sukumar held, and hit Mithun in his abdomen, police said, adding that as he collapsed, the duo fled. “On way to the hospital, Mithun told his nephew how he was shot by Sukumar. Our officers are searching for him. We arrested Santosh and he confirmed the incident” said Arsh Sharma, additional SP of Raiganj police district. BJP leaders, however, are insisting it is murder orchestrated by Trinamul and have called an eight-hour general strike from 6am on Tuesday across North Dinajpur. “Mithun was an active party worker and ahead of the Assembly polls had received threats. Those who shot him are Trinamul supporters. Police and administration are not acting neutrally and are trying to hide the political identities of attackers,” said Sukanta Majumdar,  state BJP chief. Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of Opposition in the state Assembly, said the same. Trinamul leaders denied the charges. “It is an unfortunate incident but police probe revealed that the BJP youth  wing leader had illegal firearms on him . The BJP is falsely trying to implicate us as it is fast losing ground in North Dinajpur district,” said Mosaraf Hossain, Trinamul MLA of Itahar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
19-10-2021||West Bengal||Nine fishermen spend nights on trees in Sunderbans||Nine fishermen from Raidighi in South 24-Parganas spent two sleepless nights on trees inside the tiger reserve of the Sunderbans to protect themselves from tigers after their boat toppled in Bidyadhari river during Saturday evening’s downpour. The fishermen were rescued on Monday afternoon after a six-hour search by villagers who found the “missing” men on trees. “We had to search extensively along the coast of the island to trace the missing fishermen who had left their homes in a boat early on Saturday,” said Yasin Gazi, a social worker in Raidighi who led the rescue operation on Monday. Gazi said the operation to look for missing fishermen began on Monday morning after one among the nine men managed to make a call from his mobile phone to inform villagers about their plight. “The phone network was very poor. He barely managed to give a faint indication of the place where they had taken shelter on trees,” said Gazi. “We launched the search after informing police. We also informed the cops after the rescue,” the social worker added. Sanatan Mistri, one of the nine rescued fishermen, said they had left their homes to catch fish in the Bidyadhari river early on Saturday. But after dusk, the weather changed with heavy rain and gusty winds. ‘We tried to take our motor boat to a safe location. However, a sudden gust of wind toppled our boat near the coast of Shakhdowani forest.” Shakhdowani forest of the island of the same name in the Sunderbans is a restricted forest under the tiger reserve. “We did not have any option apart from climbing trees. We could not retrieve food and drinking water from the boat and the strong wind made us shiver in cold. We took shelter on top of three trees and every passing hour was a nightmare,” said Mistri. Hasan Molla, another fisherman, added they saw pugmarks of tigers on the soft soil. “We knew tigers were around. We could not sleep for the fear of falling off trees. We are lucky to have been rescued.” “It is unusual for boats to overturn in a river, such things happen in the sea. The accident was triggered by wind and heavy rain,” said an official in South 24-Parganas. While the fishermen are happy to be back home in Raidighi, inclement weather has left the administration in coastal districts worried. Following the formation of a low-pressure in the Bay of Bengal, coastal districts — mainly North and South 24-Parganas — are experiencing continuous rain and winds of 30-40kmph since Saturday evening. The Indian Meteorological Department on Monday said it would continue till Wednesday. The IMD had earlier issued a warning for two days from Sunday, but its special bulletin on Monday mentions orange and yellow alerts for south Bengal districts including North and South 24-Parganas, Calcutta, Howrah, Birbhum, East and West Midnapore. These places are likely to see heavy rain till Wednesday. “There is a forecast of heavy rain in most south Bengal districts till Wednesday. Later, low-pressure area is likely to move towards north Bengal,” said a weatherman in Calcutta. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
19-10-2021||West Bengal||Outrage over Lakhimpur, Bengal unit of farmers’ unions stop trains||The Bengal unit of the All India Kisan Sabha and other farmers’ unions stopped trains at various stations across Bengal on Monday. The events were organised as a part of the Rail Roko appeal made by the Sanjukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer’s associations, which has been spearheading the farmers’ protests against the three contentious central farm laws. The protests were organised to demand the removal of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra. His son Ashish Mishra is the prime accused in the Lakhimpur incident. In Bengal, the Rail Roko was organised across the state including Burdwan, Singur, Jhitka, Jalpaiguri, Cooch Behar, Tamluk, and Birbhum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
19-10-2021||West Bengal||Residents, traders worry over BSF’s inroads||The decision by the Union home ministry to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) up to 50km from the existing 15km inside the Indian territory from the border, has resulted in anxiety across north Bengal and also Murshidabad to the right of the Ganga. In north Bengal, six of the eight districts, barring Alipurduar and Kalimpong, share borders with Bangladesh. “If we go by the decision, it is clear that the BSF will have access to almost all the district headquarters (except Darjeeling) of the remaining six districts and also most other towns of these districts. Hence if residents of these areas articulate a fear of intense vigil by the BSF, it can’t be ignored,” said a retired police officer. The BSF is a central armed police force tasked with the security of India’s borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh. A rough estimate indicates that the extension of the BSF’s jurisdiction means the force will have control in areas covered under 52 police stations in these districts. In Cooch Behar and South Dinajpur, the BSF will have access to areas under all police stations, as all come within 50km of the border. “Similarly in Siliguri sub-division, all the police stations are located within 50km of the India-Bangladesh border. The situation is no different in Malda and North Dinajpur,” said an observer. In Malda, nine of the 14 police stations are within the prescribed jurisdiction, while in North Dinajpur, eight of the nine police stations are located within 50km. On the right of the Ganga, the situation is no different. In Murshidabad, earlier the BSF had access in parts of eight of the 28 police stations, but now will have access to areas under 21 police stations. “We are worried and have sent a letter to the chief minister, requesting her to take up the issue with the Centre. We apprehend that it might have an adverse effect on the local economy as in Siliguri all major markets will come under the jurisdiction of the BSF,” said Ayush Tibrewal, the general-secretary of North Bengal Merchants’ Association. Shankar Kundu, general-secretary of West Dinajpur Chamber of Commerce, a trade body in North Dinajpur, added: “Most BSF men don’t understand local dialects too.” Trinamul leaders have also criticised the Centre’s decision. Senior state minister Firhad Hakim, in Dinhata, Cooch Behar, to campaign for the October 30 bypoll, drew parallels with a famous line of Sholay’s Gabbar Singh. “We have heard the dialogue (of Gabbar Singh) that if any child does not sleep at night, the mother says if you don’t sleep, Gabbar will come…. Now, mothers will say that if you don’t sleep, (Narendra) Modi’s BSF will come,” said Hakim. However, BJP leaders accused Trinamul of trying to politicise the issue and also claimed that the Centre’s decision would help in curbing crimes near the border. Ajay Ganguly, a district vice-president of the BJP in Malda, said: “There is no problem in any other state over the issue, but here, Trinamul is trying to politicise it. The decision was taken for national security.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
19-10-2021||West Bengal||Himalayan black bear rescued from hills||A Himalayan black bear that had sneaked into the Darjeeling town, apparently a week ago, was rescued by foresters of Darjeeling wildlife division on Monday morning. According to the foresters, during the past six-seven days, the three-year-old male bear was found wandering in localities like Hermitage Road and Lebong, which are adjacent to the Tibetan Refugees Self Help Centre. On Monday, the foresters laid a trap and managed to cage the animal. After rescuing the bear, the foresters examined the animal and later released it in the wild at a higher altitude of the hills. “We are keeping a watch in the locality from where the animal was rescued to know whether any more bears strayed into the area with it,” said Suratna Sherpa, the divisional forest officer of Darjeeling wildlife division. According to experts, the Himalayan black bear is an endangered species and normally dwells in the hilly forest tracts ,which are at a height of 10,000 feet or above. “Usually, Himalayan black bears descend downhill during winters for mating and then go into hibernation. The animal is normally reclusive by nature and avoids human population. It only strays into human habitats in search of food,” the divisional forest officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
19-10-2021||West Bengal||Kamtapur Liberation Organisation rebel surrenders in Balurghat||A trained militant of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO), a banned terror outfit, surrendered before police in Balurghat of South Dinajpur on Monday. Sudip Sarkar alias Pintu Barua Koch, who hails from Borapara area under Kumarganj police station of South Dinajpur, reached the office of Rahul Dey, the district police chief, and surrendered himself. “We appreciate his decision to surrender and return to the mainstream. We will also see that he is rehabilitated like other former militants of the organisation in the district,” Dey said. According to police sources, four former militants of the KLO — an armed outfit floated by a section of Rajbanshi youths in the late nineties which of late, is trying to regroup over the demand of separate statehood — have been provided with jobs of special home guards from the district. “In due course, Sudip Sarkar will also be provided with employment so he can run his family. It is a part of the initiative taken by the chief minister Mamata Banerjee to help these people,” said a police officer. Sudip, when asked about his decision, said it was a wrong decision to join the terror outfit. “I got disillusioned and felt it necessary to return to normal life. I have full confidence in the state government,” he added. Police sources said they are in contact with some other militants and linkmen (non-trained ones) who have expressed willingness to surrender. “Some more of them will be back into the mainstream soon,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
19-10-2021||West Bengal||Two killed after truck hits car in Suri||Two persons, including a 38-year-old medicine dealer from Haldia, were killed and three others were injured after the car in which they were travelling collided with a truck on NH14 near Suri town early on Monday. The five were travelling from Haldia to offer prayers at the Kali temple in Birbhum’s Tarapith when an unidentified truck hit the car and fled away, police said. Medical merchant Samir Samanta and driver Sheikh Matibul, 35, were declared brought dead by the doctors at Suri district hospital where Samir’s wife Moumita, 32, daughter Shreyashi, 9, and his friend Shibeswar Modak, 38, are undergoing treatment. “We are apprehending that it was a truck that hit the car and fled away. We are trying to track the vehicle,” said a police officer in Suri. As the incident happened early in the morning, police said there were no eyewitnesses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
19-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Free fall||India continues to perform poorly on global indices of progress and inclusion. A week after the Unesco report showing the precarious state of education in India came the 2021 Global Hunger Index wherein India ranked 101st out of 116 countries, far below its neighbours like Pakistan, Nepal and Bangladesh. Juxtaposing this data with the findings of the United Nations’ Food Waste Index Report 2021, which shows that 50 kilogrammes of food is wasted per person per year in India, would reveal a picture of entrenched inequality and shocking indifference. The Centre, as is its wont whenever data emerge to show it in poor light, has questioned the methodology of the GHI and claimed that the ranking does not represent the ground reality. The GHI data on deficiency in calorie intake, however, are sourced from the Food and Agriculture Organization. Had the GHI been estimated using the latest data on calorie intake usually provided by the National Sample Survey Office, things might have looked even worse given that the leaked report of 2019 indicated that consumption expenditure in India declined by 4 per cent between 2011-12 and 2017-18. The figure was worse in rural India, at about 10 per cent per annum. In its efforts to dispute facts, the government also confused undernourishment, which is a measure of the proportion of the population with inadequate access to calories, with undernutrition that is calculated by measuring weight and height — categories where India ranked as poorly. A combination of factors forces an estimated 19 crore Indians to go to bed on an empty stomach in a land that is, ironically, a food-surplus nation. They include poverty, deepening inequality, rising unemployment, agrarian stress aggravated by climate change as well as glaring leakages and corruption in India’s mammoth public distribution system. There are also newer challenges posed by the pandemic. With the closure of schools, mid-day meals were either not delivered or the dry rations for one child were shared by entire families. The National Food Security Act has been criticized for ignoring the instability of food supplies in a country vulnerable to extraneous shocks — the pandemic being one example. Food security must be aligned with not only such issues as production and quality but also people’s rights, diverse diets, environmental protection and political action. But these linkages remain invisible to a short-sighted leadership. India must reimagine policy interventions in light of concerns raised by the GHI, especially against pandemic-induced nutrition insecurity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
19-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Chennai Super Kings win IPL 2021||Glorious win Sir — The clash between the Chennai Super Kings and the Kolkata Knight Riders in this year’s Indian Premier League final made for a delightful game of cricket (“Dhoni’s Kings are kings again as Knights lose fizz in final chase”, Oct 16). The CSK victory comes after its lacklustre performance last year when it fell to the bottom of the table. The Knights must examine why they lost the match. There was a dramatic batting collapse which went from 91 for no loss in the 11th over to 125 for 8 in the 17th over. This is unacceptable. Hopefully, the KKR will be consistent in its performance next year. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee, Faridabad Sir — M.S. Dhoni has proved that he is still one of the best cricket captains by leading the CSK to victory in IPL 2021. It is incredible how the team bounced back after a disappointing season last year. The CSK, considered to be the oldest squad overall in terms of average age, performed well throughout the tournament under Dhoni’s leadership. His appointment as a mentor for the men’s national cricket team is indicative of the Board of Control for Cricket in India’s faith in him. Shashank Patil,Ujjain Sir — The CSK must be congratulated for clinching this year’s IPL. This is the team’s fourth victory after 2010, 2011 and 2018. The team, under the captaincy of M.S. Dhoni, performed consistently throughout the tournament. It was a well-deserved win. Sourish Misra,Calcutta False narrative Sir — The claim of the defence minister, Rajnath Singh, that the saffron icon, V.D. Savarkar, submitted mercy petitions to the British at the behest of Mahatma Gandhi is factually incorrect. Savarkar filed his first mercy petition in 1911 and another in 1913 while Gandhi was still in South Africa. It was not until 1920 that Gandhi advised Savarkar’s younger brother, Narayan Damodar Savarkar, to file a petition on the ground that the former’s offence was purely political. This event is now being twisted by the sangh parivar for its benefit. The bone of contention is not the petitions themselves but Savarkar’s pledge of allegiance to the British in return for his release from prison. By celebrating Savarkar, the Bharatiya Janata Party does an immense disservice to the countless Indians who laid down their lives during the struggle for freedom. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — It cannot be denied that V.D. Savarkar has left behind a questionable legacy. It is unfortunate that the sangh parivar is twisting facts to suit its narrative. Mrinal Baruah,Guwahati Sir — Even if one were to acknowledge V.D. Savarkar — BJP’s only claim to the freedom struggle — as a freedom fighter, his ideology is corrosive. Vaibhav Patil,Calcutta  Bald is beautiful Sir — At a certain age, most men and a few women begin to look at themselves in the mirror the way the world looked at Afghanistan after the Taliban took over — with mounting anxiety about what is going to happen next. Scrutiny soon confirms their worst fears — they are going bald. Yet, the world responds differently to balding men and women. One of the reasons that hair thinning and loss in women remains taboo is that it is not talked about. If women admitted to it more often and more openly, this could change. Shalini Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
19-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: In charge||Two signals emerged from the recent meeting of the Congress Working Committee. The first being that the Gandhis are by no means in a mood to yield ground to the dissenters. This is just as well since many of the leaders of the contrarian constituency — the so-called Group of 23 — that allegedly sees things differently do not wield clout or evoke confidence among dedicated Congress supporters or, indeed, India’s voters. The Congress’s rejuvenation is unlikely to begin at their hands. They would, deliberations at the CWC meeting indicate, have to be content with the concession of internal elections. By swatting away charges of indecision and absenteeism — Sonia Gandhi declared that she is a “full-time, hands-on” leader — the party president reiterated that the reins of power remain secure in her able hands. The second, equally important, signal is Ms Gandhi’s endorsement — for now — of the existing dual power arrangement. At present, even though Ms Gandhi holds office, key organizational decisions are being taken by her son, Rahul Gandhi, the former Congress president. Be it Navjot Singh Sidhu’s elevation at the expense of the old war horse, Amarinder Singh, the induction of Kanhaiya Kumar or Priyanka Gandhi Vadra leading the charge in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Mr Gandhi’s stamp of approval continues to be clear. Ms Gandhi’s nod to these changes is surely a signal to some senior leaders to fall in line. The new party president is expected to take charge by September 2022. It is unlikely to be anyone other than Mr Gandhi. The Congress, a notoriously slow mover, seems to believe that transformations are best ushered in incrementally. It could also be that the Congress’s performance in forthcoming state elections, especially in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand, would influence the passing of the sceptre at the top. The point, however, is whether this waiting period would further dent the Congress’s credibility as the principal face of the Opposition. There has been some jostling for this space within the Opposition: the Trinamul Congress, buoyed by a massive electoral mandate in Bengal, has been eager to project Mamata Banerjee as the real opponent of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Mr Gandhi, who has a decisive say in most matters, should take charge at the earliest. That would energize not only the Congress rank and file but also ensure better coordination with Opposition parties before the big test in 2024.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
19-10-2021||Opinion||When power does not empower||This Vijaya Dashami, the prime minister, Narendra Modi, said his government aims to make India the strongest military power globally on its own strength. In the preceding weeks, two reports and data sets contrasted our masculine brouhaha with what might perhaps need priority over weaponizing India. One, we slipped several notches — occupying 101st position on a list of 116 nations with sufficient data points — in the 2021 Global Hunger Index. Even Pakistan and Bangladesh are better off than India on the GHI. While the report mentions we made significant if slow progress over the last two decades in reducing hunger and malnutrition, with a score of 27.5, hunger in India remains a serious concern, with a complex set of factors, including disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, at play. Within this data set, children are hugely vulnerable. For instance, while child stunting decreased from 54.2 per cent in 1998-1999 to 34.7 per cent in 2016-2018, it is still very high. At 17.3 per cent, we have the highest child wasting rate of all countries covered in the GHI. This rate is slightly higher than it was in 1998-1999, when it was 17.1 per cent. These figures have implications. As for the second report, Unesco released its State of the Education Report for India 2021: “No Teacher, No Class”, which bares the horrific reality of schooling, pedagogy and teachers, particularly in rural India. Over a lakh or nearly 7.5 per cent of all schools are single-teacher ones; 89 per cent of those are in rural India, and both pupils and teachers have pathetic conditions to sit through in these schools. Therefore, even if we become a strong military power in, say, ten years, we shall also have large young populations that grew stunted and perhaps with minds that won’t comprehend life’s multiple challenges. This is because they remained malnourished and suffered because they went to school sans quality education. In 2020 and 2021, schools worked virtually as Covid-19 hit us and have only now begun to open for physical classes. But across tribal areas, the residential ashram shalas saw huge dropouts. Tribal students have not only lost out on education but also on critical nutrition that is at the heart of the process. In Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, stories abound of problems tribal children faced in accessing education, physically or through online means, in these two years. As the GHI explains, the stunted growth and child wasting rates are a mix of many factors, including lack of access to healthcare, nutrition and education. Particularly in rural areas, they are intertwined. At the core of ensuring nutrition, access to healthcare and education in villages is the grassroots teacher, the anganwadi worker or the accredited social health activist aka Asha, all of whom are not only contractual but also work in highly exploitative conditions. They earn meagre wages. The Unesco report rightly calls for improving teachers’ working conditions and building their capacities. In 15 years, a third of the current teachers will need to be replaced, the Unesco report says. Today, teachers are in a deficit of over a million at the current student strength. There is an urgency to make big investments in these sectors, improve quality, accountability and governance. The pandemic has driven home the important role teachers or Asha and anganwadi workers play in rural areas not just in imparting formal learning but also in ensuring that the children receive and eat at least one meal a day and in early healthcare. India might become a military powerhouse if the prime minister so desires, but our future won’t be secure if the next generations don’t grow healthy and wise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
19-10-2021||Opinion||Taiwan and the Indo-Pacific||Amidst an all-out confrontation between the United States of America and China, Taiwan is fast emerging as a critical fault-line. The delicate balancing act that the US had long maintained on the issue is increasingly becoming difficult to sustain. The Indo-Pacific is witnessing a power transition unlike any witnessed in the recent past and its implications are being felt far and wide. As China becomes bellicose and aggressive and as the US with its regional partners is undertaking a strong pushback, the pressure on the regional environment is rising with no institutional mechanisms available to mediate tensions and conflicts. The scale and the speed of transition are seemingly much faster than the ability of regional actors to manage the externalities generated by the process that are mostly negative. Recent weeks have seen strong signalling from all sides. After the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, warned that “reunification” with Taiwan “must be fulfilled”, Taiwan’s president, Tsai Ing-wen, defiantly made it clear on Taiwan’s National Day that the nation would not bow to pressure from China and would defend its democratic way of life. Tsai, whose defiance of Beijing has made her immensely popular at home, has pitched her nation as one “standing on democracy’s first line of defence”. She has effectively linked that fate of Taiwan with the future of peace and democracy in Asia. Beijing has been upping the ante on the question, trying to test Taiwanese defences as well as the red lines of the US. A record number of Chinese warplanes, including J-16 fighters and 12 H-6 bombers with nuclear capabilities, have been repeatedly entering Taiwanese air defence zone. Much like in other parts of the region, Beijing is seeking to unilaterally alter the status quo away from peace and stability even as there are renewed worries in China that Taiwan’s government is inching towards a formal declaration of independence. Heightened military manoeuvres are China’s way of warning Taiwan and its supporters that Beijing remains prepared for military action. Compared to any other time in recent decades, Taiwan today is viewed more positively in the international community, especially when compared to the loss of prestige China has seen in recent years. There are growing concerns about the future of Taiwan as Beijing’s aggressive display of military might is becoming more explicit by the day. Amidst this deteriorating environment, Xi Jinping and the US president, Joe Biden, reached out to each other and agreed to abide by the ‘Taiwan agreement’. Although this means that Washington will continue to persist with its longstanding ‘One China’ policy under which it recognizes China rather than Taiwan, it also entails the US continuing to supply weapons to Taiwan to defend itself as part of Washington’s Taiwan Relations Act. That the US has no intention of giving up on Taiwan was also made clear by the US national security adviser, Jake Sullivan, who suggested recently that the US will “stand up and speak out” over any actions that may “undermine peace and stability” across the Taiwan Strait. Relations between the US and China are being shaped by their burgeoning strategic rivalry. Even basic diplomatic engagement is becoming difficult to accomplish. Biden reportedly asked Xi for a face-to-face meeting but the Chinese president has remained non-committal, asking instead that the tone and tenor of the relationship improve first. Washington has doubled down on its Indo-Pacific policy with two leaders’-level summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue — the Quad — within six months and the announcement of the tripartite Aukus pact. For the US, these are all aimed at ensuring “that we have an open, free, interconnected and inclusive Indo Pacific”; for Beijing, this is all about containing China. Taiwan is an important test case for both the US and China. It is about America’s credibility in the Indo-Pacific in the aftermath of its withdrawal from Afghanistan. And it is about China’s age-old ambition of national reunification and Xi Jinping’s project of national rejuvenation. For Taipei, this is about preserving its democratic values and way of life. These cross-currents of history and contemporary strategic trends are shaping the actions and the counter-actions of the major actors in this unfolding drama. The implications can be potentially very serious not only for the region but also for the evolving global order. Harsh V. Pant is Professor of International Relations, King’s College London||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
19-10-2021||Opinion||Bumpy road ahead||The International Monetary Fund revealed its outlook for the world economy last week. A year and a half after the pandemic, global recovery remained reassuringly strong: the world economy is expected to grow a tad slower (10 basis points) this year at 5.9 per cent and at an unchanged pace — 4.9 per cent — next year. But the exit from the pandemic, cautions the IMF, is not unqualified. There are significant concerns, including strong inflationary pressures, raised unemployment, and more uncertainty than seen before. The recovery is also divergent because the initial differences due to vaccine access and quick, generous policy support have accentuated the divide between the high-income economies and the emerging, developing ones. In the forthcoming years, lasting injuries to the latter group are seen to be severest for Asian economies, barring China. The global picture is, thus, both encouraging and sobering; principally because all risks bear down than upwards as well as significant economic scarring from the pandemic. For India, the IMF retained its 9.5 per cent real GDP growth forecast for the current year, followed by 8.5 per cent growth in 2022-23. This is similar to that projected by the Reserve Bank of India, which reviewed its monetary policy a week before the IMF’s October World Economic Outlook. The outlook on inflation is directionally similar too. While the central bank sharply lowered its annual inflation forecast to 5.3 per cent from 5.7 per cent in August, the IMF sees it declining to 5.6 per cent followed by 4.9 per cent next year. The upholding of growth predictions by these two institutions come amidst a steady build-up of optimism in recent weeks. Significant contributors to the elated economic expectations have been the sale of Air India, the ailing public airline, which has bolstered hopes of more successful sales of public entities in the pipeline; the revision of India’s rating outlook to stable from the negative ranking earlier by rating agency, Moody’s; the uptrend in most lead economic indicators; improvements in business and consumer sentiments, albeit from abysmally low levels; robust tax collections, amongst others. Inflation anxiety also seems to be moderating compared to elevated fears a quarter ago. The highlight of India’s placement as the world’s fastest growing economy in the IMF’s individual country forecasts even overlooks that this is from one of the world’s deepest plunges last year. Are there reasons to be tentative? Will the economic rebound maintain its strength and the momentum gathered forge ahead? There is valid concern that real incomes could be dented by the upsurge in prices. For the rebound isn’t strong enough for consumption to remain unaffected. A 9.5 per cent growth will only be 1.6 per cent above the 2019-20 income level. The quarterly rebound in June was 20 per cent on annual basis, 9 per cent and 4 per cent, respectively, below the corresponding quarters of 2019 and 2018. This reveals the depth of the lost ground that is to be recovered and to be built upon. GDP growth has to be stronger and for longer to return to square up and rise further therefrom. It is a challenge with increasing prices chipping away at the income gains. It is even harder when the biggest GDP component, private final consumption, has been more severely squeezed. In April-June 2021, real aggregate consumption was an alarming 12 per cent lower than its two-year ago level (April-June, 2019) and -5.2 per cent less than that of April-June 2018. Even if aggregate consumption grew at the same pace as full-year GDP growth forecast (9.5 per cent), the restoration would still be -0.5 per cent lower than the total consumer expenditure in 2019-20. If higher price levels and unabated increases depress consumer spending in this while, the process could get stretched. Especially as fuel prices are soaring —about 18 per cent of final consumer expenditure was upon transport before the pandemic, whose long run has increased preference for personal mobility and, possibly, skewed fuel demand. The necessity of this spending could cost consumption of other goods and services. The other fallout is the building burden of higher input costs upon producers; weak demand has so far held them back from these being passed on to final prices but the margins are being compressed. The ebullience also needs to recognize that post-pandemic regains are uneven for individuals as well as firms, something not immediately visible in aggregate income growth. Listed companies, for example, have done very well; their inner financial strengths have been handsomely bolstered by lower interest costs (monetary policy support). But little is officially known about the informal, small and medium businesses. Or the four-fifths of India’s workforce engaged in informal, low-skilled, low-paying occupations that are mostly in the more-severely affected services such as travel, hotels and restaurants. There are visible signs and reports that the economic gains are unequally distributed — subdued two-wheeler sales against stronger ones for cars, sports utility and luxury vehicles; the pending return of unemployment to pre-pandemic levels; higher sales of upscale brands of durable goods, smartphones in the Navratri sales, amongst others. Such effects, or the scarring, will linger for longer. That raises the additional question of the strength of the lift-off from the peak recovery this year. Forces bearing down upon consumption are serious and several. Minus a reassuring, strong pick-up, a restoration of private investment is hard to see. Exports are expected to do some heavy lifting; seeing their robust performance this half-year, the government is going all out to help. The IMF expects world trade volumes (goods and services) to grow 9.7 per cent in 2021 after a -8.2 per cent fall last year; a 6.7 per cent performance is expected next year. Here, the dependency upon world trade in which recovering economies all over the globe are contributing remains to be tested. It may be more prudent to qualify growth optimism in this light. Expectations may be borne out in the near-term because of the past repression of demand and the festive season, which traditionally sees a rise in consumer spending. The ground realities may surface thereafter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
19-10-2021||Jharkhand||Coal-hit, power crisis cripples Adityapur industry hub||Production has been adversely affected at over 700 units at Adityapur Industrial Area near here due to the ongoing power crisis with most compelled to run their factories for barely four hours a day. Adityapur Small Industries Association (ASIA) president Santosh Khetan said the entrepreneurs have been dealing with the crisis for the past fortnight and many are contemplating shutting down their units for now. "There are over 1,400 units in  Adityapur. While half of these units have switched over to JUSCO-supplied power, the others are using power supplied by Jharkhand Bijli Vitaran Nigam Ltd (JBVNL). The ones depending on JBVNL power are badly  affected," Khetan told The Telegraph Online. The ASIA president said that ever since the electricity crisis cropped up a fortnight ago,  functionaries of the industry association are holding meetings regularly to  put pressure on  JBVNL to improve the supply situation. "As a majority of the industries are ancillary units of automobile giant Tata Motors  and have to meet precise production schedules, erratic power supply has cost them dear," Khetan pointed out. One of the executive members of the industry body observed, "After suffering a setback  for more than a year due of the pandemic, this problem of power supply  has broken the backbone of entrepreneurs." JBVNL general manager-cum-chief engineer Paritosh Kumar admitted the discom was faced with a  crisis. "We are getting very little  electricity as thermal power plants were hit due to coal  crisis. But the power supply position is expected to improve shortly, " he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
19-10-2021||Jharkhand||Diwali diyas made by special athletes a big hit already||Diwali diyas modelled and painted by students of a school for the  intellectually impaired are selling fast in the run-up to the festival of lights on November 4.  Students of Jeevika, a Jamshedpur-based NGO working for the welfare of special children and adults, have modelled and painted about 8,000 diyas. Buyers for the diyas are not only from the steel city but also from Hyderabad, New Delhi and other cities.  Jeevika founder Avtar Singh said over 40 per cent of diyas have already been sold and enquiries were pouring in every day. "Our students (read special athletes) worked hard and came up with these beautiful diyas. The diyas are being despatched from our NGO in Sonari. Some of the orders have already been packed and ready for despatch. We'll also put up stalls at our school for selling diyas," he added.  According to Singh, a seven-time national cyclist who led the India cycling team in the 1982 Asian Games in New Delhi, friends of buyers living in the steel city have been asked by their acquaintances in New Delhi and Hyderabad to collect the diyas from us and despatch them. Outstation buyers pay money through digital means," he said.  The special athletes, some of whom are national and international medal- winners, modelled and painted the diyas at their homes during the pandemic. The clay diyas were procured from a potter in Asanbani in East Singhbhum. The diyas were brought to Jeevika and were subsequently distributed to the special athletes at their home. The intellectually impaired completed varnishing and subsequently painted the diyas.  Students of Jeevika also worked on the diyas at their school (Jeevika) when the Covid situation improved. They also poured wax in the diyas, price of which range from Rs 5 to Rs 150 each.  Ganga Bai, Akash Sharma, Ankit Mukherjee, Ryan Francis and Pankaj Kumar remained busy for about four hours daily at the Jeevika centre. They are assisted by Anuradha Kumari, a temporary staffer of Jeevika.  Beside diyas, special students have also worked  on decoration pieces as well as  eco-friendly bags The diyas – in various shapes and sizes, the most unique being the turtles – are a hit among people of Jamshedpur and Ranchi. The diyas invariably get exhausted much before Diwali.  Ganga Bai, who won a gold and two silver medals at the Special Olympics International World Summer Games in Athens, Greece, in 2011, said she was happy to be working on the diyas. “Mujhe painting karna bahut pasand hai. Khush hu ki hamare  dwara banaya gaya diya ki achhi maang hai (I love painting. Happy about diyas made by us has a good demand),” she said.  Three of Ganga Bai's paintings had featured in the 2016 annual calendar of Tata Steel.  The intellectually impaired also stand a chance of getting cash from the special school after Diwali. “We have plans to recognise the toil of our students. Their hard work and patience should be recognised,” said Singh.  Jeevika is striving hard to bring special athletes to the social mainstream. Some of its students have got married and are leading a happy live. Seven of its students have landed employment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
19-10-2021||Jharkhand||Speed-sensing cameras to be operational in Ranchi soon||At least 10 speed sensing cameras, installed a year ago at various locations in and around the state capital under the Smart City project, will soon be operational and help check road accidents caused by speeding, police said on Tuesday. These cameras could not be used by the district administration for a year due to a lack of software integration between Smart City Corporation and the traffic control room of Ranchi police, DSP (Traffic) Jitwahan Oraon said. “The National Informatics Centre is developing a software through which Ranchi police will be able to slap a fine on violators caught on speed sensing cameras and take necessary action under relevant sections of the Motor Vehicles Act,” said Oraon, adding that the cameras are likely to be operational by November. Oraon said coordination between Smart City Corporation and traffic police was needed to operate the speed sensing cameras as the Smart City Corporation does not have the authority to slap fines on traffic rule violators. Even the traffic signals functioning across the state capital were installed under the smart city project. Speed sensing cameras use motion sensors to detect the speed of  vehicles, police said. The cameras can also click pictures of vehicles that cross the speed limit on a given road. These pictures can be used to send challans to offenders and also check if they were violating other traffic rules. In Ranchi,  speed sensing cameras were installed between Bagaicholi Bawanipur Chowk and Kharsi Daag Outpost, Shaheed Maidan and Dhurwa roundabout, Rampur Tiraha Ring Road and Ranchi city, Tilta Ring Road and Ranchi City, Piska More and Pandra, Satellite Colony Chowk and Dibdidh bridge, Mesra Railway Over Bridge and DPS Greater Ranchi, Kanke Ring Road and Birsa University, Ranchi College Playground and State Guest House, and on the Hinoo Airport Road. Speed sensing cameras were only placed at accident-prone locations and roads where incidents of racing and stunts by bikers and car owners were reported in the past. “Many accidents have been reported due to speeding in areas where speed sensing cameras have been installed. The cameras will not only discourage people from crossing speed limits, but also save lives of pedestrians and commuters who fall prey to the misadventure of some drivers,” said another police official. Some of the areas where these cameras have been installed fall under the jurisdiction of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), and the district administration is  in talks with it  to help use them effectively, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
19-10-2021||Jharkhand||Dams, reservoirs overflow as incessant rain batters Jharkhand||The incessant rains during the last two days have led to a rise in water level at almost all dams and water reservoirs of Damodar Valley Corporation situated in Dhanbad and its surrounding areas including Maithon and Panchet, owing to which these dams had to discharge water. As per the morning data, Maithon Dam situated on river Barakar the water was flowing at 480.64 feet, around 15 feet below the danger level of 495 feet. Panchet dam situated on river Damodar flowed at 411.85 feet around 14 feet below the danger level of 425 feet. Meanwhile, the water level of other reservoirs including Tilaiya Dam located in Koderma district on river Barakar also rose to 1215.58 feet, less than seven feet of the danger level of 1222.09 feet. The Tenughat dam situated on river Damodar in Bokaro district flowed at 852.89 feet while the water level of Konar dam situated in Hazaribagh district over Damodar river reached 1397.51 feet. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Apurba Saha, Public Relation officer of Damodar Valley Corporation at Maithon said, “Three gates of Maithon and Panchet each were opened during the last two days due to heavy rains as the cumulative release of around 42262 acre feet of water was carried out from both dams during the last twenty-four hours. “Though the situation is under control now, the inflow in Maithon yesterday was around 14423 acre feet while the outflow was 23251 acre feet” he said and added that the inflow in Panchet was 50491 acre feet while the outflow was 19011 acre feet. Meanwhile, the heavy rains also led to a rise in the water level of Topchanchi lake, a man-made lake made up of 10 water channels flowing through Parasnath Hills which overflowed at 75 feet. The rains also affected the coal production and despatch in several collieries of BCCL, ECL and CCL at a time when all efforts are being taken to replenish the dwindling stocks of different powerhouses across the district as around 14 rakes of coal were despatched yesterday from the different collieries of BCCL against the target of despatch of 18 rakes. Chanchal Goswami, Director Technical of BCCL while talking to media said, “The rains have affected coal production up to 68 to 70% yesterday but we are trying to ensure the despatch and there is no cause of concern at the moment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
19-10-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Ranchi highest contributor to spike in cases during Pujas||Ranchi continues to witness a spike in active Covid-19 cases with at least 11 fresh cases of coronavirus infection surfacing here on Monday against only four Covid recoveries, taking the count of active cases to 86, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. At least 14 fresh Covid cases against 11 Covid recoveries took the active caseload in Jharkhand to 125 on Monday. As per  a National Health Mission (NHM) bulletin, Bokaro, East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum reported one Covid case each on Monday. However, all these three districts witnessed a drop in the active caseload. Ranchi alone logged 86 cases, accounting for nearly 70 per cent of the active cases of Covid-19 in the state, and was the highest contributor to the rise in cases reported in the state during Durga Puja. The active caseload in the district had dropped below 40 before Durga Puja. Jharkhand on Monday tested swab samples of at least 31,610 residents and 0.04 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus. So far, over 3.48 lakh people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand and 98.49 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. The state on Monday vaccinated close to 85,000 residents against Covid-19, a report from the NHM highlighted. As per provisional data, the state on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine to 36,390 residents, while the second jab was administered to as many as 48,607 beneficiaries. Dhanbad vaccinated more than 10,000 residents on Monday, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, while Ranchi administered vaccines to about 9.000 beneficiaries. About 7,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated in East Singhbhum. As per government data, more than 1.42 crore residents have received at least one dose of vaccine against Covid-19 and at least 43 lakh of them have also received the booster dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
19-10-2021||Jharkhand||Course on integrated programme in management begins at IIM Ranchi ||A new course, integrated programme in management, began at the Indian Institute of Management, Ranchi, on Monday. The IPM is a full time 5-year blended course for business studies from undergraduate to postgraduate level or an integrated BBA-MBA programme and the students will be given an MBA degree on successful completion of the course. The first batch was inducted into the new programme at a function that was held in a hybrid mode and had Union minister of state for education Subhas Sarkar attended it as the chief guest. While both minister Sarkar and the students attended it virtually, IIM-R director Shailendra Kumar Singh and the faculty members were physically present on the occasion. “The IPM begins with 120 students in the first batch who were selected on the basis of their performances in the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT),” IIM-R director Singh informed, adding the institute that had begun in December 2009 with just 44 students enrolled in a single programme was now offering as many as seven attended by about a thousand students. “The young minds of India are now leading the start-up scenario globally and I hope this course will create business leaders of tomorrow,” Sarkar said on the occasion, adding the students should aim at becoming job providers, not job seekers. “The students should cultivate a culture of modern wizardry blended with traditional wisdom as that will help create innovative ideas which, in turn, will help solve complex problems,” he further said, adding that “a multi-disciplinary holistic education would work as a catalyst to promote peace and unity in our diverse society”. “Never stop learning as the real journey begins at the end of your course,” Praveen Shankar Pandya, the chairman of IIM-R board of governors, advised the students, assuring they joined a very good institute whose national ranking improved from earlier 45th to the present 21st position within just a few years. “Rest assured your children will be in good hands and you will never repent the investment you are making now,” IIM-R director Singh also assured the guardians. The curriculum was deliberately prepared to balance cognitive development with cultural growth by engaging the students both within and outside the classroom, IIM-R had earlier said about the course,  adding the programme would comprehensively cover subjects related to various aspects of management studies. The students who took admission this year were required to pay a course fee of Rs 14 lakh for the first three years of the programme while, for the rest two years, they will have to pay the same fee as would be payable by the MBA students that time, it had added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
19-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur start-up offers to ‘manufacture happiness’||Four professionals have joined hands to start a venture which claims to be the country’s first start-up for “manufacturing happiness”. The Happy Tribe, founded in early 2020 by Jamshedpur-based motivational speaker and entrepreneur Santosh Sharma and three others, claims to have benefited more than 1,000 professionals, entrepreneurs, industrialists and students. “India being ranked 144 out of 149 countries in 2020 in the UN Happiness Index (ranked 139 in the 2021 UN Happiness Index) made us think that a country which has high per capita income is not in the top 10 in the happiness index. When the idea was taking shape, I was joined by Mumbai-based Amit Jha and Saurabhi and Jamshedpur-based Milan Joshi to form The Happy Tribe,” said Sharma. Jha was heading the online initiative of Mahindra and Mahindra but resigned to join The Happy Tribe, while Saurabhi, who had worked for Infosys and Colgate, also quit the corporate world to increase “more smiles per person” and Joshi has served in Wipro. “The 21st century has taught us that we may have a big bank balance, the best of cars, houses and everything but that may not guarantee happiness. The world is becoming a more and more unhappy place to stay. Hence, The Happy Tribe aspires to manufacture happiness. We believe happiness to be both a science and an art and the most sought-after experience and emotion people will look for in the 21st century,” said Sharma, who has been giving motivational lectures in business schools across the country. “New-age consumers have seen manufacturing of steel, cement, chips but now they’ll see manufacturing of happiness. They will themselves become the manufacturer by being a smart well-being factory themselves. Consumers have seen delivery of material products like pizzas, web series, mobiles, clothing at their home. Delivery of happiness is now going to be done similarly but with a huge twist as the experience is going to enhance manifold at almost no cost when compared to the benefits. Our mission is to increase more smiles per person globally,” said Sharma. “We are both a B2B (business to business) and B2C (business to consumer) organisation increasing the happiness quotient individually and in organisations with multi-pronged benefits,” Saurabhi said. The Happy Tribe has in its research found that more than 80 per cent of unhappiness is self-created as one does not know how to receive, process and respond to situations. Because of this defective process, one exports unhappiness all around, the research found. “Money has increasing returns to scale only till our basic needs are satisfied. Once this is achieved, money has a decreasing return to scale as far as happiness is concerned. All the highs and lows of life tend to meet the baseline of happiness of any individual, organisation or country for that matter,” added Saurabhi. The Happy Tribe toolkit has natural and scientific tools that are mental, emotional, biological and psychological in nature. “Many of us are not even aware of it (happiness), forget about using it effectively. And they come naturally with us. Professionals, youth, kids, sports persons and homemakers have already started manufacturing happiness and situations that used to put them off are being handled more happily. Depressive tendency and negative energy are now being used more effectively to create chhoti-chhoti khushiyan (small moments of happiness),” said Sharma. “In the era of consumerism, we try to buy happiness like a movie ticket to beat boredom but these are short-lived. Also Internet and social media is adding to a lot of complications and superficial emotions which are making us unhappy,” said Sharma, who was invited to speak on The Happy Tribe at Symbiosis Institute of Business Management, Pune, and Arka Jain University, Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
19-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand trains hit briefly by SKM rail roko ||Farmers backed by the Left parties took part in the rail-roko agitation on Monday, as part of the six-hours pan-India call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, in protest against the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri district in Uttar Pradesh. However, the rail-blockade stir was confined primarily to Namkum near Ranchi, few stretches in the Chakradharpur railway division, Godda railway station, Sahebganj and Palamau station. “We had undertaken the stir called by the SKM, an umbrella body of farmers’ unions, which has been spearheading the farmers’ agitation since last year against the Centre’s three farm laws enacted last year to protest against the killing of four farmers by the son of Union minister of state for home at Lakhimpur Kheri. But since it is the festive season and rains, the farmers had not been able to gather at most of the station,” said Sufal Mahato, the state coordinator of the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangarsh Samanway Samity (an outfit spearheading the farmer’s agitation in the state since November 2020). The farmer leader, however, said that they had blocked the stretch near the Namkum station and near railway stations of Godda, Palamau and Sahebganj for nearly half-an-hour before police arrived and drove them away from the agitation site. “The farmers and the Left parties leaders raised slogans for sacking of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra and also repeal of the farm laws and strict punishment for all accused involved in the killing of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri. The Kharagpur-Hatia passenger train was stopped for half-an-hour after which the police cleared the track,” said Mahato. The All India Kisan Sabha (a CPI farmer’s front) state unit leader Ajay Singh and Kisan Sangram Samiti’s leader Sushanto Mukherjee said that they have already started planning for taking out protest rallies on October 26, which marks one year of the farmer’s agitation near Delhi border, across all blocks of the state. The three laws — The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 — were passed by Parliament in September last year. The farmers across the country have been seeking the repeal of the three agriculture laws. The protesting farmers along the Delhi borders have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations. The government, however, has rejected these claims stating that the laws will only give farmers more options to sell their produce. South eastern railway chief public relation officer, Niraj Kumar, said that trans services were not disrupted at any where in the railway zone during the farmer’s agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
