20-10-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 456 points to close at 61,259||The BSE Sensex slumped 456 points on Wednesday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, Infosys and ICICI Bank as market participants continued to book profits at high levels. The 30-share index ended 456.09 points or 0.74 per cent lower at 61,259.96. Similarly, the NSE Nifty dropped 152.15 points or 0.83 per cent to 18,266.60. Titan was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by HUL, NTPC, Bajaj Finserv, L&T and PowerGrid. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, SBI, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finance and Axis Bank were among the gainers. "Indices corrected quite meaningfully led by the expensive side of the market where valuations had got stretched," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Almost all sectoral indices ended in the red although PSU banks were seen bucking the trend with investors cherry-picking for value in that pocket, he noted. Further, he said the street is taking note of the cost pressures emanating from higher input costs in companies that do not possess the pricing power. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains, while Shanghai and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading mixed in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.82 per cent to USD 84.38 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
20-10-2021||Business||IMF Chief Economist Gita Gopinath to leave job and return to Harvard University||IMF's Chief Economist Gita Gopinath will leave her job in January next year and return to the prestigious Harvard University's Economics Department, according to the global financial institution. The 49-year-old prominent Indian-American economist had joined the International Monetary Fund (IMF) as the Chief Economist in January 2019. She was the John Zwaanstra Professor of International Studies and Economics at Harvard University when she joined the Washington-based global lender. IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva on Tuesday announced that the search for Gopinath's successor would begin shortly. Gita's contribution to the Fund and our membership has been truly remarkable - quite simply, her impact on the IMF's work has been tremendous, Georgieva said. Mysuru-born Gopinath is the first-ever woman Chief Economist of the IMF. She was also the Director of the Research Department of the IMF. Harvard University had extended her leave of absence on an exceptional basis by one year, which has allowed her to serve as Chief Economist at the IMF for three years. She made history as the first female Chief Economist of the Fund and we benefited immensely from her sharp intellect and deep knowledge of international finance and macroeconomics as we navigate through the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Gita also won the respect and admiration of colleagues in the Research Department across the Fund, and throughout the membership for leading analytically rigorous work and policy-relevant projects with high impact and influence, Georgieva said. The IMF said that as part of her many significant initiatives, Gopinath co-authored the Pandemic Paper on how to end the COVID-19 pandemic that set globally endorsed targets for vaccinating the world. This work led to the creation of the Multilateral Task Force made up of the leadership of the IMF, the World Bank, the World Trade Organisation and the World Health Organisation to help end the pandemic and the establishment of a working group with vaccine manufacturers to identify trade barriers, supply bottlenecks, and accelerate delivery of vaccines to low- and lower-middle-income countries, the IMF said in a statement. Among her other key accomplishments, Gopinath helped set up a Climate Change team inside the IMF to analyse, among other things, optimal climate mitigation policies. I would like to express my personal appreciation to Gita for her impressive contributions, her always wise counsel, her devotion for the mission of the Research Department and the Fund more broadly, as well as her widely recognised inclusive and accessible approach to colleagues and staff, Georgieva added. Later, in a tweet, Gopinath thanked her colleagues for making her stint at the IMF truly gratifying. "My immense gratitude to all my amazing colleagues at @IMFNews who make working at the IMF truly gratifying. I look forward to continuing working with them the next few months before my return to @Harvard," she wrote. Born in December 1971 to Malayalee parents, Gopinath had her schooling in Kolkata and graduated from the Lady Shri Ram College of Commerce in Delhi. She did Masters from the Delhi School of Economics as well as from the University of Washington. Gopinath did her Ph.D in economics from Princeton University in 2001 and she was guided by Kenneth Rogoff, Ben Bernanke and Pierre-Olivier Gourinchas. She joined the University of Chicago in 2001 as an Assistant Professor before moving to Harvard in 2005. She became a tenured Professor there in 2010. She is the third woman in the history of Harvard to be a tenured professor at its esteemed economics department and the first Indian since the Nobel laureate Amartya Sen to hold that position.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
20-10-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 200 points in opening trade on Wednesday, tracking losses in index majors TCS, Bajaj Finance and Axis Bank as market participants booked profits at higher levels. The 30-share index was trading 209.46 points or 0.34 per cent lower at 61,506.59 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty dropped 85.45 points or 0.46 per cent to 18,333.30. Bajaj Finance was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Auto, Tata Steel and Axis Bank. On the other hand, Nestle India, HUL, Bharti Airtel, Asian Paints and HCL Tech were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index settled 49.54 points or 0.08 per cent lower at 61,716.05, and Nifty shed 58.30 points or 0.32 per cent to close at 18,418.75. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 505.79 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. According to market experts, investors are booking profits at every peak, adding volatility to the market. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Shanghai and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Stock exchanges on Wall Street too ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.52 per cent to USD 84.64 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
20-10-2021||Business||Moody’s revises outlook for banks to stable from negative||Moody’s Investors Service has revised the outlook for banks to stable from negative, citing receding downside risks to the economy and the financial system. The deterioration of asset quality since the onset of the pandemic has been moderate and an improving operating environment will support asset quality. The level of problem loans for rated Indian banks has moved down to 7.1 per cent in 2020-21 from 8.5 per cent in 2018-19. Declining credit costs as a result of improving asset quality will lead to improvements in profitability and capital will remain above the pre-pandemic levels. The rating agency observed that the quality of corporate loans has improved because of provisioning for legacy problems, while  the quality of retail loans has deteriorated but to a limited degree. 9% NPA: Crisil Gross non-performing assets (NPAs) of banks are expected to increase to 8-9 per cent in the current financial year, Crisil has said in a report. This will be well below the peak of 11.2 per cent seen at the end of fiscal 2018. According to the agency, the Covid-19 relief measures such as the restructuring dispensation and the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) will help limit the rise in banks gross NPAs. With around 2 per cent of bank credit expected under restructuring by the end of this fiscal, stressed assets comprising gross NPAs and loan book under restructuring should touch 10-11 per cent this fiscal, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
20-10-2021||Business||Domestic economy may need policy support for longer period: RBI||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has said the domestic economy may need policy support for a longer period amid upbeat business expectations across capacity utilisation, demand and jobs, with improvement in financing and credit. In its monthly report on the economy, the RBI warned the recovery was  uneven and trudging through soft patches. “Looking ahead from here, the main downside to the prospects for the Indian economy, abstracting from the pandemic, is the possibility of a sudden accentuation of global risks.” “First, there are now clearer indications that the momentum of global growth is slowing, especially in the countries that were to be its key drivers,’’ the RBI said. Retail sales spending, global car sales, industrial production and world merchandise trade have moderated, with shortages widening in key sectors such as semi-conductors and shipping. Moreover, longer supplier delivery times are also holding back output in some industries, the RBI said. Calling for the continuation of support, the RBI said the choice of policy mix will need careful consideration and sensitivity, keeping in mind the employment situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
20-10-2021||Business||Hindustan Unilever Ltd reports 9% rise in standalone net profits||Hindustan Unilever Ltd (HUL) on Tuesday reported a 9 per cent rise in its standalone net profits for the quarter ended September 30, thus meeting analysts estimates. The FMCG giant posted a net profit of Rs 2,187 crore against Rs 2,009 crore in the same period of the previous year. Brokerages such as Axis Securities had forecast that the company would report net profits of around Rs 2,171 crore for the period. During the quarter, sales at HUL grew 11 per cent to Rs 12,516 crore from Rs 11,276 crore in the year ago period. However, higher raw material prices impacted its margins which came in at 25 per cent — a 40 basis points fall from 25.4 per cent in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal. According to Sanjiv Mehta, chairman & managing director, HUL, though the operating environment improved after the second wave, it has also become challenging. The HUL stock closed lower as investors were disap-pointed by the volume growth which came below the 5-7 per cent growth expected by analysts. Market circles added that profit booking was also responsible for the stock falling almost 7 per cent from the intra-day peak of Rs 2,732. Nestle profit up 5% FMCG major Nestle India Ltd on Tuesday reported a 5.15 per cent rise in net profit at Rs 617.37 crore for the third quarter ended September 2021, driven largely by a high single-digit volume and mixed growth in the domestic market across brands. The company, which follows the January-December financial year, had posted a profit of Rs 587.09 crore in the same period a year ago, Nestle India said in a BSE filing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
20-10-2021||Business||Volvo Car India launches two petrol mild-hybrid models||Volvo Car India on Tuesday launched two models — S90 and XC 60 — with petrol-mild hybrid powertrains as part of its plans to shift to the petrol-only portfolio by this year-end. The new S90 B5 Inscription sedan and XC60 B5 Inscription SUV now feature a 1,969cc petrol engine paired with a 48-volt battery. Both the Volvo S90 and the XC60 are priced at Rs 61.9 lakh, ex showroom. Audi Q5 Audi on Tuesday  started bookings for the new Audi Q5 in India. The local assembly of Q5 began in its Aurangabad plant last week. It can be booked with an upfront payment of Rs 2 lakh. Toyota Innova Toyota Kirloskar Motor on Tuesday announced the launch of Toyota Innova Crysta Limited Edition with new tech features such as Apple Car Play and Android Auto with a new display, loaded with advanced connectivity functions and a new grille.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
20-10-2021||Business||Axis AMC and Inversion to invest in underperforming companies||Axis Asset Management Company Ltd (Axis AMC) has joined hands with Inversion Advisory Services (Inversion) to invest in underperforming companies. Inversion is promoted by telecommunications veteran Akhil Gupta, who was earlier with the Bharti group, while Axis AMC is promoted by Axis Bank. Axis AMC and Inversion are planning to raise up to Rs 3,500 crore for the proposed fund under its Alternative Investment Fund registration. They aim to acquire a controlling stake primarily in pre-stressed, stressed, distressed and other underperforming assets, a statement said on Tuesday. Under the partnership, the duo are planning to take advantage of the strong fund management expertise of Axis AMC and operational and turnaround expertise of Inversion to offer a unique platform for investors. They will look to take controlling equity stakes in underperforming companies before working with them to turn them around. This is also expected to help companies with strong performance and operational capabilities, which are hampered by temporary headwinds due to special circumstances, including unsustainable debt and temporary disruptions to get on a credible turnaround path. Axis AMC added that the partnership seeks to help fill the gaping shortage of high quality equity capital in the country’s stressed company ecosystem, which has seen a number of debt offerings but lacks strong equity investors with an operational skill set.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
20-10-2021||Business||Delhi Police cyber cell busts bid to siphon money out of NRI account||Twelve persons, including three employees of HDFC Bank, have been arrested by the cyber cell of Delhi Police after they  allegedly tried to siphon money out of an NRI’s dormant account that had about Rs 200 crore . The fraudsters attempted an unauthorised withdrawal of Rs 5 crore. Initial investigation has revealed that the accused persons tried 66 times to transfer money from the dormant account to their accounts. HDFC Bank said it detected unauthorised and suspicious attempts to transact in certain accounts following which it filed an FIR. The bank said three of its employees, including a woman staff, were among those arrested. “We have suspended bank staff pending outcome of the investigation,” the lender said, adding there is zero tolerance for any misconduct, financial or otherwise, at the lender. K.P.S. Malhotra, deputy superintendent of police (DCP) (cyber cell), said as many as 66 attempts of unauthorised online transactions were made by the group on the high-value account. “The accused had fraudulently obtained a cheque book, which has been recovered. Mobile phone number identical to that of account holder’s US-based phone number was also procured by the fraudsters,” the DCP said. Attempts were also made to get an update of the mobile phone number in the KYC of the same bank account by replacing the already registered US mobile phone number with an identical Indian mobile phone number. Malhotra said raids were conducted at 20 locations across Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Of the 12 arrested, three including a woman are HDFC bank employees who were involved in issuing the cheque book, updating the mobile phone number and removing the debt freeze of the account. During interrogation, the accused told police that one of them came to know that the alleged NRI account is dormant and has huge funds. The mastermind along with his associates gathered information regarding the account and with the help of a female employee of HDFC Bank  they were issued a cheque book of the said account and also got the account changed to active. “The investigation has revealed that an HDFC Bank employee was promised Rs 10 lakh and insurance business of Rs 15 lakh (which was the target assigned to her by the bank for appraisal). In the earlier instances, there were attempts of withdrawal of money from this account,” said Malhotra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
20-10-2021||Business||Godrej and Boyce to generate 30% revenue from eco-friendly products||Godrej group flagship — Godrej and Boyce — on Tuesday said that the diversified company is aiming to generate one-third of its revenue in 2021-22 from environment friendly products. The target is part of the company’s environment, social and governance (ESG) goals in the next 10 years. Godrej and Boyce chairman Jamshyd N. Godrej said that the company has invested more than Rs 500 crore towards ESG initiatives over the last 10 years with a 16 per cent year-on-year growth. The company has invested Rs 18 crore in skilling initiatives and has facilitated green building footprints of more than 300 million square feet across projects, including manufacturing facilities and buildings of its own. “We are working relentlessly to contribute towards India’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for 2030, while simultaneously creating value for our business, the communities and the planet through our unique and scalable initiatives,” said Godrej. Among the other ESG initiatives that the company plans to follow are reduction of carbon intensity by 60 per cent by 2030, introducing recycled content up to 25 per cent in plastic product packaging and remaining water positive. Kamal Nandi, EVP and business head of Godrej Appliances, said the business uses 50 per cent renewable energy in its manufacturing facilities across the country. The company has also collected and recycled 39,900 MT of e-waste.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
20-10-2021||Business|| Indian Energy Exchange soars 20 per cent to a record high ||Indian Energy Exchange (IEX) soared 20 per cent to a record high on Tuesday, after the energy trading platform said it would consider a bonus issue of shares, adding to nearly 24 per cent of gains so far this month as demand for electricity ramps up. Increased economic activity after the second wave of the coronavirus has resulted in a shortage in coal supply and driven up electricity demand, proving a boon for New Delhi-based IEX which controls 95 per cent of the power exchange market. IEX’s plan to issue bonus shares, which will be considered at an October 21 board meeting along with its quarterly earnings, comes on the heels of a 72 per cent surge in its shares in the three months ended September 30, significantly outperforming a 16 per cent rise in the S&P BSE Power Index. “Over the next decade, with India increasingly looking at EVs (electric vehicles) and big companies like Tata Power focusing in that area, the demand for energy is going to rise, and IEX is rightly placed for this kind of outlook,” said Gaurav Garg, head of research at CapitalVia Global Research. Shares of Tata Power have risen 62 per cent this month as of last close. In its latest monthly update, IEX, which is used by power producers, distributors and corporates to buy and sell electricity, said electricity volume traded in October was 59 per cent higher than a year ago. A top court move earlier this month, which allows electricity to be traded as other commodities with forward contracts and derivatives on exchanges, would help boost volumes at power exchanges like IEX, ICICI Direct Research in a note. Power for aluminium India’s aluminium producers are drawing expensive power from the national grid and adding to pressure on utilities with low coal stock, the Aluminium Association of India (AAI) told Reuters on Tuesday as state-run Coal India has curbed supplies. A crippling shortage across the country has pushed state-run Coal India to impose temporary supply curbs to non-power consumers, including the energy-intensive aluminium industry, pushing producers to draw electricity from the grid. Indian aluminium producers such as Hindalco Industries Ltd and Vedanta Ltd largely use power generated from the so-called captive utilities — which are not connected to the national grid — where the companies generate electricity for self-use.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
20-10-2021||Business||Group to bring together state-run and private refiners||India is forming a group that brings together state-run and private refiners to seek better crude import deals, oil secretary Tarun Kapoor said on Tuesday, as the country grapples with soaring oil prices. The world’s third largest oil importer and consumer, India depends on imports for about 85 per cent of its crude and buys most of it from West Asian producers. Initially the group of refiners will meet once in a fortnight and exchange ideas on crude purchases. “The companies can form joint strategies and they can even go for joint negotiations wherever possible,” Kapoor, the top bureaucrat in the petroleum ministry, told Reuters. Indian state refiners already jointly negotiate some crude oil purchases. To date the one effort at a joint negotiation bringing together not only state-run but private refiners resulted in a deal that secured supply of Iranian oil at a deep discount. With local gasoline and gasoil prices rising to a record high amid India’s worst power crisis in years, the nation wants to redouble its efforts to buy wisely. India’s trade deficit in September surged to a record $22.6 billion, its highest in at least 14 years, driven by expensive imports. Kapoor said the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies, together known as Opec+, should raise production to bring down global oil prices. “Opec+ should realise that this is not the right approach, they must step up production. If the demand is going up and you are not increasing production, you are trying to create a gap,”  he said. “Due to this, prices are going up and that’s not fair.” Opec+ producers recently agreed to stick to a plan to increase November output by 400,000 barrels per day (bpd) as it looks to phase out output curbs of 5.8 million bpd over time. Kapoor said rising oil prices would prompt consumers to “seriously start thinking of shifting to other forms or curtail their demand for OPEC oil somehow”. “These kind of prices are not sustainable.” India is already reducing the share of Opec oil in its crude mix. High oil prices are spurring investment in upstream activities, that could lead to higher production from regions other than the Gulf, Kapoor noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
20-10-2021||Business|| Reliance to acquire majority stake in Ritu Kumar's company||Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL), the retail arm of Reliance Industries Ltd, is acquiring a majority stake in the company founded by well known fashion designer Ritu Kumar for an undisclosed sum. RRVL will acquire around 52 per cent in Ritika Pvt Ltd which owns Ritu Kumar, Label Ritu Kumar, RI Ritu Kumar, aarké and Ritu Kumar Home and Living. A statement from RRVL said the acquisition in Ritika includes the buyout of  private equity firm Everstone’s 35 per cent stake in the company. The Ritu Kumar business includes four fashion brand portfolios which retail out of 151 point of sales globally. The classical ‘‘Ritu Kumar’’ brand is  symbolic of how the contemporary Indian woman dresses since 1970’s. Label Ritu Kumar, launched in 2002, is for a younger, global consumer of western pret, RRVL said. The third RI Ritu Kumar is a luxury bridal couture and occasion wear line, while latest addition aarké is meant to reach a larger consumer base. Ritu Kumar Home & Living is a category extension that aims to define comfortable luxury for homes. ‘‘We are delighted to partner Ritu Kumar, who possesses strong brand recognition, potential for scale and innovation in fashion and retail – all key ingredients to build a complete lifestyle brand,” Isha Ambani, director, RRVL, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
20-10-2021||Business||Equity benchmarks close with modest losses on Tuesday||Equity benchmarks closed with modest losses on Tuesday after a seven-session winning streak as investors opted to pocket some gains at record levels. FMCG counters led the losses after Hindustan Unilever’s Q2 earnings missed estimates, while IT and private bank stocks stood tall. After scaling the 62000-mark for the first time, the 30-share BSE Sensex succumbed to selling pressure at the fag-end of trade to close 49.54 points or 0.08 per cent lower at 61716.05. The Nifty shed 58.30 points or 0.32 per cent to close at 18418.75. It touched a new intra-day record of 18604.45 in early deals. ITC was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, followed by HUL at 4.06 per cent. Titan, Tata Steel, UltraTech Cement and PowerGrid were among the other losers. Tech Mahindra, L&T, Bajaj Finserv, Infosys, HDFC Bank and Kotak Bank were among the gainers, spurting up to 4.12 per cent. “The stretched rally booked some gains by the end of the trading day. The IT sector continued to hold the gains while the rest of the recent performers like realty, PSU banks and auto went into a sell-off,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. “Our advice is to transform personal equity portfolios into a balanced basket with high weightage on defensive stocks. The Indian market is expected to get more stocks and sector specific as parameters are extremely stretched,” he said. RIL downgrade A foreign brokerage has downgraded Reliance Industries Ltd just days ahead of its second quarter earnings report citing rich valuations. Anil Sharma and Aditya Bansal, analysts at Nomura, cut RIL’s rating to neutral from buy, though they lifted the target price to Rs 2,850 from Rs 2,400. RIL shares on Tuesday closed at Rs 2731.50 — a gain of 0.91 per cent over the previous close. Over the past three months, the scrip has inched up 28 per cent, outperforming the benchmark Nifty, which was up 12 per cent. “Apart from the improving outlook for its operating business, we believe the recent strength has also been coming from investors taking Reliance’s recent forays into new energy and new materials businesses a lot more positively… There is still limited clarity on RIL’s new energy plans, overall capex, returns’’, the brokerage said. Nomura said that though the outlook for each of its key operating business has been improving, valuations have become expensive after the recent strong upward movement. “We downgrade RIL to Neutral on our expectation of limited near-term upside,’’ the analysts added. Tobacco tanks Tobacco stocks fell on Tuesday on news the Centre has formed a panel to suggest a future taxation policy on tobacco from a public health perspective. The ITC stock fell over 6.32 per cent to end the day at Rs 245.95. Godfrey Phillip was down 0.93 per cent to Rs 1,302.55, VST 2.64 per cent to Rs 3,703.95 and Golden Tobacco 0.93 per cent to Rs 153.65. The panel will analyse the existing tax structure for all forms of tobacco — smoking and smokeless — and develop a road map for taxation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
20-10-2021||India||India signs agreements for mutual recognition of vaccines with 11 nations||The Union health ministry said on Wednesday that India has signed agreements for mutual recognition of nationally or WHO recognised Covid-19 vaccines with 11 countries including the UK, France and Germany and fully vaccinated travellers coming from these countries shall be allowed to leave the airport and need not undergo home quarantine and testing.  Revised guidelines for international arrivals were released on Wednesday. These fresh rules supersede all guidelines issued on the subject on and after February 17, 2021, the ministry said.  The list of countries with which the government has agreement for mutual recognition vaccination certificate for individuals fully vaccinated with nationally recognised or WHO recognised COVID-19 vaccine and those exempting Indian citizens fully vaccinated with nationally or WHO recognised vaccines are the UK, France, Germany, Nepal, Belarus, Lebanon, Armenia, Ukraine, Belgium, Hungary and Serbia.  "If travellers fully vaccinated and coming from a country with which India has reciprocal arrangements for mutual acceptance of WHO approved COVID-19 vaccines, they shall be allowed to leave the airport and need not undergo home quarantine and testing," said the revised guidelines. They will, however, need to produce a negative RT-PCR report.  "They shall self monitor their health for 14 days post arrival," according to the revised guidelines.  If partially or not vaccinated, the travellers need to undertake measures which includes submission of sample for post-arrival COVID-19 test at the point of arrival after which they will be allowed to leave the airport, home quarantine for seven days, re-test on the eighth day of arrival in India and if negative, further selfmonitor of their health for next seven days.  The list of countries from where travellers would need to follow additional measures on arrival in India, including post-arrival testing (countries at-risk) are South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe and countries in Europe including the UK.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
20-10-2021||India||Southwest Monsoon likely to withdraw from country by October 26||The southwest monsoon will withdraw completely from the entire country around October 26, paving the way for the commencement of the northeast monsoon, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. After its late withdrawal from northwest India, the southwest monsoon remains active over some parts of the country. The southwest monsoon withdrawal line currently passes through Kohima, Silchar, Krishnanagar, Baripada, Malkangiri, Nalgonda, Bagalkote, and Vengurla. Conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from remaining parts of northeast India, the entire north Bay of Bengal, remaining parts of West Bengal and Odisha, some parts of the central Bay of Bengal, parts of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, entire Goa, some more parts of Karnataka and some more parts of central Arabian Sea around October 23, the IMD said. With likely setting in of northeasterly winds in the lower tropospheric levels over the Bay of Bengal and extreme south Peninsular India, the Southwest Monsoon is likely to withdraw from the entire country around 26th October 2021. Simultaneously, the Northeast Monsoon rains are also likely to commence over Southeast Peninsular India from around 26th October 2021, the Met department said. The northeast monsoon brings rains over Tamil Nadu, parts of Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Puducherry and Andhra Pradesh. The withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from northwest India commenced on October 6. The retreat was the second-most delayed withdrawal of the southwest monsoon since 1975. The southwest monsoon withdrawal from northwest India in 2019 started on October 9. The withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from northwest India usually begins on September 17. However, the southwest monsoon remains active over several parts of the country. The IMD said a cyclonic circulation lies over Bihar and neighbouring areas. Under its influence, fairly widespread to widespread, light to moderate rainfall with isolated heavy fall and thunderstorms and lightning is very likely over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya, Tripura, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim on October 20 and 21 and over Gangetic West Bengal and Bihar on October 20 and (it will) reduce thereafter. Isolated extremely heavy falls are also likely over the sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim on October 20 and very heavy falls over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya on the same day, it added. There will be rainfall activity over Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, coastal and south interior Karnataka during October 20-24, the IMD said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
20-10-2021||India||Cruise drugs case: Special court refuses bail to Aryan Khan||A special court here on Wednesday refused to grant bail to Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, and two others in connection with the case of seizure of banned drugs on board a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Special Judge V V Patil, designated to hear cases related to the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, rejected the bail pleas of Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and fashion model Munmun Dhamecha. They will now have to approach the Bombay High Court for bail. When the matter was called out for order in the afternoon, special judge Patil said, "Rejected." The trio was arrested on October 3 by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for alleged conspiracy, possession, consumption, purchase and trafficking of drugs. Aryan Khan and the others have been booked for offences under Sections 8(c), 20(b), 27, 28, 29 and 35 of the NDPS Act. The trio is presently in judicial custody. While Aryan Khan and Merchant are lodged at the Arthur Road prison in Mumbai, Dhamecha is lodged at the Byculla women's prison here. Aryan Khan had in his bail plea said the NCB's contention that he was involved in conspiracy and illicit drug trafficking was absurd, and pointed out that there was no recovery of drugs made from him. The NCB, however, opposed the bail plea and said Aryan Khan had been consuming drugs for a few years now and was in touch with some persons who appear to be a part of an international drug network for procurement of drugs. The agency was relying on WhatsApp chats of Aryan Khan, which they claim point towards procurement of bulk quantities of drugs. The NCB had argued that although there was no recovery from Aryan Khan, the recovery of six grams of Charas from his friend Arbaaz Merchant points to conscious possession by Aryan Khan. So far, 20 people have been arrested in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
20-10-2021||India||Petrol, diesel prices hiked again||After two days of lull, petrol and diesel prices on Wednesday were again hiked by 35 paise per litre each, pushing rates to new highs across the country. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 106.19 a litre and Rs 112.11 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 102.89 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 94.92. The rate hike comes after two days of no changes. Prior to that, for four straight days prices were hiked by 35 paise per litre each. With this rise, petrol is now at Rs 100-a-litre mark or more in all state capitals while diesel has touched the level in over a dozen states. Diesel crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Panaji and Ranchi. The costliest fuel is in the border town of Ganganagar in Rajasthan where petrol comes for Rs 118.23 a litre and diesel for Rs 109.04. Since ending of a three-week-long hiatus in rate revision in the last week of September, this is the 17th increase in petrol price and the 20th time that diesel rates have gone up. While petrol price in most of the country is already above Rs 100-a-litre mark, diesel rates have crossed that level in over a dozen states/UT including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Kerala, Karnataka, Jharkhand, Goa and Ladakh. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. International benchmark Brent crude is trading at USD 84.43 per barrel on Wednesday for the first time in seven years. A month back, Brent was trading at USD 73.92. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rate revision on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rate has gone up by Rs 6.50 per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 5. Prior to that, petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
20-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur: SC asks Uttar Pradesh govt to record statements of remaining witnesses||The Supreme Court on Wednesday came down hard on the Uttar Pradesh government for its ongoing probe into the sensational Lakhimpur Kheri case, saying it thought police are dragging feet and they are required to dispel that impression and ensure recording of statements of witnesses before magistrates and their protection. "We think you are dragging your feet, please dispel that impression," observed the top court, adding that the probe should not be an unending story and red-flagged the issue of non-recording of statements of nearly 40 prosecution witnesses, of the total 44, before judicial magistrates under section 164 of the CrPC. "Please ask them to immediately take steps to record section 164 statements. That is the most important thing...protection to the victims as well as the witnesses," said the bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. Statements under section 164 of the CrPC (Code of Criminal Procedure) are recorded before a judicial magistrate and they have evidentiary value. The apex court, hearing a matter about the October 3 violence in Lakhimpur Kheri in which eight persons including four farmers were killed during a farmers' protest, was told by the state government that statements of four out of the 44 witnesses have been recorded by the judicial magistrate. Ten people, including Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, have been arrested so far in connection with the case. The bench raised the issue of filing of status report on the day of hearing with the CJI observing, "We waited till 1 AM last night for any filing. But we received nothing ." Senior advocate Harish Salve, who appeared along with advocate Garima Prasad for the state government, said the status report has been filed in a sealed cover on Wednesday because of the impression that it was for the perusal of the court only. "No that was not required and we have just received it now...we never said anything about sealed covers," the bench said while declining the request to hear the matter on Friday. It listed the next hearing on October 26. "Mr Salve, you said that you (police) have examined 44 witnesses and out of them, four witnesses' statements have been recorded under section 164 (before a judicial magistrate) of CrPC. Why have you not recorded the statements of other witnesses under 164?" It asked. "It is going on. The process is going on my Lordships," Salve said, adding that earlier the concern was that it appeared that police were going a little soft on the accused and now they all have been arrested and now everybody is in jail. He said there were two crimes and in the first one, the accused drove into the farmers and in the second FIR, three of the accused, who drove into the farmers, were lynched. In the lynching case, the probe is little difficult as who did what is difficult to ascertain given the big crowd of farmers, he said. The bench said it was asking questions about the first FIR and sought to know the number of accused and their status in the probe. "Today, how many of them are in judicial custody and how many of them are in police custody... Because, until or unless they are interrogated you may not get any information," the bench asked. :Total 10 accused have been arrested and out of them, four are in police custody and the remaining six have been sent to jail in judicial custody," the lawyer said. "What happened to the remaining six accused? Did you apply to seek their police custody or they were straightway sent to judicial custody?" the court asked. "They were in police custody and as you did not seek their police remand so they were sent to judicial custody. What is the situation in this case? We just want the facts to be clarified. There are situations where the police demand the custody of the accused and the court declines and send the accused to judicial custody and there are cases in which police says that the accused is no longer required in police custody and therefore, the court has no choice but to send the accused to police custody. What is the situation in this case," it said. The state counsel said that the accused were interrogated in police custody for three days before being sent to jail. "I am given to understand that the statements have been recorded and a lot of videos have been received and they all have been sent to forensic labs and once they (reports) come, it will be pretty clear. They may not be needed for interrogation here," Salve said. "Mr Salve, This should not be the unending story, the bench said and raised the issue of witness protection saying that the SIT is best suited to identify those who are the most vulnerable witnesses or who can be browbeaten tomorrow...influenced." On the recording of statements, Salve said they were being recorded and would begin as the courts have reopened after vacation. Criminal courts closed for Dussehra vacations, the bench said. On being told that police reconstructed the crime scene, it said, it was something different and the recording of statements under section 164 was different and such statements have the evidentiary value unlike the statements given to police as they will not lead anywhere . "I have seen the areas of concern of my lords and please have it next week. Your lordship will see where we are, Salve said, adding that the state will make a proper witness protection programme in this case and present them before the court," Salve said||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
20-10-2021||India||Ensure no safe havens anywhere for those who betray India, PM tells CVC, CBI||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday directed officials of the Central Vigilance Commission and the Central Bureau of Investigation to ensure there are no safe havens anywhere in the world for those who betray the country. Virtually addressing a joint conference of the CVC and the CBI at Kevadia in Gujarat, Modi said no matter how powerful a person may be, stern action should be taken against those who work against the interest of the nation or its people. The statement comes at a time when the central government is engaged in legal proceedings to bring back alleged economic offenders like Vijjay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Chowksi, who have taken refuge in foreign countries. "You have to remember that your partnership is with this 'mitti' (soil), with Maa Bharti (Mother India). There should not be any safe havens anywhere in the world for those who betray the country or its people," the PM said addressing the conference. However powerful one may be, stern action should be taken against those who work contrary to the national interest or of our people. We should continue our work in the national interest, he said. Modi said due to the hard work of his government in the last six-seven years, a faith has been established among people that corruption can be stopped. "In the last six-seven years, we have been able to establish a faith among people that it is possible to stop corruption in the country. People of the country have faith today that they will get benefits of government schemes without any give and take or without any middlemen, he said. "Corruption, big or small, takes away the rights of common people. It is a hindrance in the progress of the country and affects our collective energy," he added. Modi said the previous government lacked the will to control corruption. "The way the earlier government functioned, it lacked the political and administrative will to fight corruption. Today, there is a political will and administrative reforms are also being carried out to achieve the goal," he said. He said after independence, the mindset of the governments was to keep everything under their control. Those governments kept maximum control with themselves and due to it, the system witnessed many wrong practices, he said. "Maximum control, be it at home, in family or in the country, causes maximum damage, Modi said. We started as a mission to simplify the life of people by reducing controls, we believe in minimum government and maximum governance, he said. The prime minister listed various initiatives taken by his government to curb corruption in the last seven years by using technology and trusting people. You all are witnessing how we used trust and technology to make people free which has stopped corruption in many ways, he said. Modi asked officials to work to prevent corruption, instead of just focusing on ways to detect crime after a fraud takes place. He also asked officials of the CBI and CVC to brainstorm on how to find ways to save people from cyber frauds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
20-10-2021||India||Two LeT militants killed in encounter in JK's Shopian||Two Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) militants were killed and three security personnel injured in an encounter in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, officials said. One of the slain ultras has been identified as Adil Wani, who was involved in the killing of a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh's Saharanpur, three days back, IGP, Kashmir zone, Vijay Kumar, said. Officials said security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Dragad area of Shopian district following information about presence of militants there. The search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire on the security forces who retaliated. The officials said two ultras of The Resistance Front (TRF) , a shadow outfit of Lashkar-e-Toiba, have been killed. Three security force personnel sustained injuries in the operation, the officials said. In a tweet, the IGP said, "One of the killed #terrorists has been #identified as Adil Ah Wani, active since 7/2020... So far, 15 terrorists have been #neutralised in 2 weeks". "Killed #terrorist Adil Wani was #involved in #killing of a poor carpenter namely Sakir Ah Wani S/O Gulam Kadir Wani R/O Saharanpur UP. Adil Wani was District Commander Shopian of proscribed #terror outfit LeT(TRF)," Kumar tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
20-10-2021||India||Modi inaugurates Kushinagar international airport in UP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday inaugurated a new international airport at Kushinagar in Uttar Pradesh and said his government has taken a number of steps to instil new energy in the aviation sector. Kushinagar is the final resting place of Gautama Buddha where he attained Mahaparinirvana after his death and is among the most important pilgrim spots for Buddhists. The new airport, built at an estimated cost of Rs 260 crore, is part of the government's endeavour to connect Buddhist pilgrimage sites around the world. After inaugurating the airport, Modi said it will boost connectivity and tourism, while also helping develop an entire economic ecosystem in the region and create new job opportunities. He said the government's special attention to the development of places associated with Lord Buddha and developing Kushinagar are among the top priority areas for the UP and central governments. Referring to the recent decision to privatise Air India, Modi said the country has taken a big step related to Air India so that its aviation sector should run professionally, and convenience and safety should be given priority. "This step will give new energy to the aviation sector of India," the prime minister said and also referred to the reforms related to the opening of defence airspace for civil use. On the newly launched 'PM Gatishakti- National Master Plan', Modi said this will not only improve the governance, but it will also be ensured that whether it is road, rail, or plane, they support each other and increase each other's capacity. On the UDAN scheme, he said more than 900 new routes have been approved in the last few years, out of which air service has started on more than 350. Besides, more than 50 new airports or those which were not in service earlier have been made operational, he added. The new Kushinagar airport's terminal building is spread across 3,600 square metres. It has been developed by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) in association with the Uttar Pradesh government. The new terminal can handle 300 passengers during peak hours. The airport will help in attracting more followers of Buddhism from home and abroad to Kushinagar and will enhance the development of a Buddhist theme-based circuit, according to the aviation ministry. "Journey of Lumbini, Bodhgaya, Sarnath, Kushinagar, Shravasti, Rajgir, Sankisa and Vaishali of Buddhist circuit will be covered in lesser time," the civil aviation ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
20-10-2021||India||Active Covid cases in country lowest in 229 days||India logged 14,623 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,41,08,996, while the active cases declined to 1,78,098, the lowest in 229 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,52,651 with 197 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 26 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 115 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.52 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.15 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 5,020 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 13,23,702 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 59,44,29,890. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.10 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 51 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.34 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 117 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,34,78,247, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 99.12 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 197 new fatalities include 77 from Kerala and 49 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,52,651 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,865 from Maharashtra, 37,967 from Karnataka, 35,928 from Tamil Nadu, 27,002 from Kerala, 25,090 from Delhi, 22,898 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,998 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
20-10-2021||India||UP Assembly polls 2022: Priyanka proposes 40% seats for women||Ten women attended the fourth session of the Congress in Bombay in 1889. Since then, the rise in women’s participation in politics has been progressing at a glacial pace with barely 10-15 per cent presence in Parliament, much less in Assemblies, even though India had a woman Prime Minister, a woman President and several women chief ministers. Of the 10 in 1889, the majority were from Bengal, including Swarnakumari Devi, the poet and Rabindranath Tagore’s sister, and Kadambini Ganguly, one of the first two women graduates from Calcutta University and the first woman doctor of Bengal. Annie Besant became the first woman Congress president in 1917, followed by Sarojini Naidu in 1925, and Mahatma Gandhi later revolutionised mass movements by encouraging the participation of women. On Tuesday, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra introduced the big idea of giving 40 per cent tickets to women in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. Political scientist Zoya Hasan told The Telegraph: “This is an innovative, radical idea whose time has come. Giving tickets to woman candidates is one way of increasing representation of women in the political process.” Hasan, however, did not shy away from pointing out that “I am not sure if this wonderful idea will work. The caste and community issues are so deep-rooted in Uttar Pradesh that introducing gender at this late stage may be a risky gamble. But there should be no dispute on the need for drastically increasing women’s participation in politics.” Willy-nilly, Priyanka’s move brings back into focus the freedom movement’s glorious legacy of supporting the concept of gender equality — and the dismal picture in contemporary India. In 1920, Sarojini Naidu led a delegation of the Women’s India Association to England to lobby for voting rights for women. In 1931, at the Karachi session, the Congress passed a resolution to formally grant equal rights to women in all aspects as the stalwarts of the freedom movement felt that women should not suffer any legal infirmity that a man does not face. India’s Constitution gave women the right to vote at the very outset; women were allowed to vote in America only after a struggle of over 100 years. Given the sound footing that India started on, the progress has been pathetic. In 2019, a report placed India towards the bottom of the chart in terms of percentage of women members in Parliament. While Rwanda topped the table with 61 per cent, followed by Mexico (48.2 per cent), Sweden (47.3 per cent) and the US (23.6 per cent), India was behind Pakistan (20.2 per cent) with barely 12.6 per cent members. The maximum number of women till now (78) was elected in the 2019 parliamentary election. Even now, Priyanka’s bold decision was received with dismay by many Congress leaders. They privately argued that there are not many woman candidates and such gambles should not be undertaken without sufficient preparation. Nobody wanted to speak on record but the majority of these Congress leaders felt that the decision would create space for the party in the public discourse and invent a powerful narrative like the Nyay scheme did in 2019, but may not yield immediate electoral dividends. Preventing women from contesting elections only on the yardstick of perceived “winnability” (as men are more entrenched with money and muscle power) has only strengthened the traditional hierarchies. But some leaders do believe this move will shake up the electoral pot and seriously challenge the presumption that men are better placed to win. “Right kind of messaging can trigger unexpected reactions from a society which has faced horrors like Unnao and Hathras,” contended Congress Rajya Sabha MP Kumar Ketkar, insisting that all the big ideas witnessed by the Indian polity have been the product of the Congress mind. Ketkar reeled off a list. “It began with the Avadi resolution piloted by Jawaharlal Nehru in 1955, which gave a decisive socialist turn to Indian politics. Land reforms were badly needed at that time. The dowry prohibition act in 1961, then Indira Gandhi’s bank nationalisation, abolition of the privy purse…. “In 1971, she legalised abortion when it was blasphemy to talk about it in America. In 1972, at the Stockholm earth conference, she made a radical proposal for environmental protection. The Tiger project was entirely her idea. The linguistic reorganisation of states, panchayati raj, economic liberalisation, telecom revolution… the Congress continued to change India.” Ketkar added: “Don’t forget the historic rights-based legislations by the UPA. Could the Narendra Modi government have brought in the RTI? They are killing the RTI Act. The women’s reservation bill, MGNREGA, the Food Security Act, Right to Education, the Land Acquisition Act… and now 40 per cent reservation for women in tickets. This will change India’s political landscape.” If the Congress sticks to the plan irrespective of abnormal pressure of realpolitik, a new beginning may indeed be made with far-reaching consequences.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
20-10-2021||India||Govt entity, and patients’ rights group oppose Covid drug patent||An Indian government entity and a patients’ rights group have independently opposed a patent application in India by the US company Merck for molnupiravir, the first oral antiviral agent shown to reduce by 50 per cent Covid hospitalisation or death. The Entrepreneurship Development Centre (EDC), a unit of the Union science ministry’s department of scientific and industrial research, and the Cancer Patients’ Aid Association (CPAA), have both argued that molnupiravir lacks novelty and inventive features and thus does not qualify for a patent. Indian law allows pre-grant opposition against patent applications. Health activists say the pre-grant oppositions — four so far — to Merck’s patent plea in India have raised hopes that inexpensive generic versions of the drug will be available to middle-income countries. The activists say that several middle-income countries have been left out of a Merck production pact with five Indian manufacturers. “The opposition, especially from a government agency, is encouraging — we anticipate a large global demand best met through inexpensive generic versions,” said Leena Menghaney, a lawyer focused on access to medicines with the international humanitarian agency Medicins Sans Frontieres. The US drug regulatory authority is currently evaluating an emergency use authorisation application for molnupiravir. Clinical trials have found that 7.3 per cent of Covid-19 patients who received molnupiravir were hospitalised compared with 14.1 per cent patients on placebo who were hospitalised or who died. A Reuters report had earlier this month quoted Amesh Adalja, a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Centre for Health Security in the US, as saying that an oral antiviral that can impact hospitalisation risk to such a degree “would be game-changing”. Merck, which has said it expects to produce 10 million courses of treatment by the end of 2021, had in April this year announced voluntary licensing pacts with five Indian drug makers to allow them to make molnupiravir for India and over 100 low- and middle-income countries. A query sent by this newspaper to one of the partner drug makers asking about the status of molnupiravir in India, planned production and the likely cost in the country has not evoked a response. A Merck spokesperson was not immediately available for a response. Reuters reported earlier this month that the US government is buying 1.7 million courses of treatment at $700 per course, but health activists believe the drug’s generic versions from Merck’s Indian partners will be priced at or below $20 (Rs 1,502) per course. But Menghaney and others believe that Merck’s voluntary licences with Indian drug makers will be insufficient to meet the anticipated global demand. Under the pact, the Indian partners — Cipla, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, Emcure Pharmaceuticals, Hetero Labs and Sun Pharmaceuticals — can supply the drug to 104 countries. Brook Baker, professor of law at Northeastern University in the US and policy analyst with Health Gap, an international advocacy organisation ensuring access to life-saving medicines, said middle-income countries excluded from the licensing pact had 30 million infections in the first half of 2021. “Even if the Indian generics make it to market and can satisfy this demand in (their) licensed territories, Merck will be unable to meet the remaining 70 per cent of global need,” Baker wrote earlier this month in a Health Gap report analysing the challenges for global supply of molnupiravir. Argentina, Brazil, central Asian countries and eastern Europe are not covered by the licences. “This is why the opposition to the patent in India becomes critical,” Menghaney said. “Plus, the opposition is in line with the Indian government’s own submission to the World Trade Organisation seeking waiver of intellectual property on Covid-19-related diagnostics, treatment and vaccines.” Health activists believe the opposition to the molnupiravir patent will encourage other Indian generic producers to make their own versions of the medicine for India and other countries. The Entrepreneurship Development Centre in its opposition has said it serves as a “nerve centre” supporting the activities of an Indian government task force for repurposing drugs for Covid-19 created by the principal scientific adviser to the Centre. The Cancer Patients’ Aid Association had eight years ago successfully challenged a Novartis patent on a drug used in the treatment of blood cancer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
20-10-2021||India||Fake videos being used to create communal tension: Bangladesh home minister||Bangladesh home minister Asaduzzaman Khan on Tuesday said that a group with “vested interests” was circulating fake videos on social media to create communal tension in the country following the attacks on Hindus during Durga Puja. Khan cited the example of a video showing a gruesome murder in Dhaka being projected as footage of the killing of Jatan Kumar Saha in Noakhali during last week’s communal clashes. The minister, who was interacting with reporters at a programme titled “Technological Modernisation of Rab (Rapid Action Battalion)”, confined his comments to how the misleading video had gone viral in Bangladesh. Across the border, a strikingly similar video clip was doing the rounds in Bengal. The clip has a tagline saying how Jatan Saha, a Hindu Grand Alliance activist, was murdered in a temple at Noakhali. Several BJP leaders, such as Debdas Mondal, general secretary, Bongaon Organisational district of the party, shared the video on Monday, seeking justice for the deceased. In Bangladesh, minister Khan explained that the 30-second clip he was referring to was of a May 16 incident in Dhaka’s Pallabi area over a property dispute. “But a group with vested interests is circulating it, calling it the footage of the killing of Jatan Kumar Saha in Noakhali, who died in the recent clashes.… This is being done with the intention of creating communal tension. We condemn such actions,” Khan said. Biplob Borua, office secretary of the Bangladesh Awami League and a special assistant to Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, said the footage showed the murder of one Shahin, in his forties, who was hacked to death by a machete-wielding duo over the property dispute. Borua said: “This video had gone viral even when the incident had taken place.… The law-enforcement agencies had arrested the people involved in the murder and all of them are still behind bars. The attempt to pass off the same video as that of a killing inside a temple is nothing but a sinister plan to create communal disharmony,” Borua said. In Calcutta, Samik Bhattacharya, the chief spokesperson of the state BJP, was asked to comment on the veracity of the video that some party leaders had been sharing on social media. Bhattacharya said: “This is one of the dark sides of social media. It wasn’t shared to propagate hate. People here are scared and hence must have shared this video, which anyway has originated from Bangladesh. However, one must be very cautious and careful about sharing such videos.” According to Borua, the investigative agencies have begun a probe to find out the people who had brought out the old video and circulated it in Bangladesh. Police sources in Dhaka said the preliminary investigations by Rab indicated the involvement of some IDs in Calcutta. “We are trying to trace the Bangladeshis who made the video go viral after it was uploaded by some people in Calcutta,” said a source. The situation in Bangladesh remained calm on Tuesday as no major incident of attack on minorities was reported. Prime Minister Hasina took stock of the situation at a cabinet meeting and asserted that the people behind the attacks on the minorities would not be spared.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
20-10-2021||India||Maha minister urges CJI for judicial probe into Aryan Khan drug case||A Maharashtra minister has urged the Chief Justice of India to order a judicial probe into the manner in which a narcotics officer has been functioning and has levelled explosive charges against the backdrop of the arrest of Aryan Khan, the son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, in a drugs case. In a letter to Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, minister and senior Shiv Sena leader Kishor Tiwari has alleged that the unnamed NCB officer had been acting against filmstars and models because the investigator’s wife “is in direct competition” with them. Tiwari has urged Justice Ramana to protect the fundamental rights of Aryan, who has been in custody since October 2. Aryan’s lawyers have repeatedly said that no drugs had been found on him. Aryan was among 20 people arrested from a rave party on a cruise ship bound for Goa on October 2 by an undercover NCB team. Tiwari wrote: “I most respectfully pray to take suo motu cognisance on top priority to protect the fundamental human rights of Mr Aryan Shah Rukh Khan, an accused under the crime registered by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Mumbai, under the Ministry of Home Affairs, Govt of India, New Delhi, and also order judicial enquiry and investigation into the mala fide role and vendetta-style of working of NCB officer whose wife is in competition with other film celebrity/ model against whom NDPS Act action (has been) taken by this biased NCB officer.” “It is painful to note that it’s incredible that someone remains inside (jail) for so many days without seizure of drugs or any other proof. No medical report of consumption, so no consumption. I am very much surprised that how can Aryan be held in custody, when the maximum sentence would be one year, even assuming that he has taken drugs, but his fundamental rights… are to be protected till his conviction…,” Tiwari added. Tiwari said the detention of Aryan, 23, was contrary to Supreme Court judgments that “bail is a right and jail an exception”. “The mala fide, autocratic style, approach & dirty vendetta affairs of NCB officer at Mumbai, targeting select film celebrity & a few models since last two years is also a matter of big concern, given the fact that the officer’s wife at Mumbai is also a film celebrity having direct competition with the models & film celebrities against whom her husband NCB official is taking action under the NDPS Act,” Tiwari alleged in the letter. “… I would like to request your honour to institute a special judicial investigation & enquiry to unearth the role of the NCB official whose wife is said to be instrumental in crafting cases against competitor film celebrity,” the letter added. Last year, the NCB had summoned several actors in connection with a drugs probe in the aftermath of the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Sushant’s friend, actress Rhea Chakraborty, had been arrested against the backdrop of an unprecedented smear campaign. Tiwari has raised the following issues for the consideration of the CJI: ⚫ The NCB officer whom Tiwari has not named is acting out of vendetta against select film celebrities and models. ⚫ The officer’s wife is a Marathi actress, who apparently has not been able to make it big in Bollywood. So, the ongoing probe seems guided by personal vendetta. ⚫In the past 15-18 months, why have only film personalities and their families, national and international models, producers and directors been targeted? ⚫ The alleged NCB seizures from the cruise ship are “miniscule” compared to the seizure of 3,000kg of contraband from the Mundra port in Gujarat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
20-10-2021||India||Supreme Court set to resume physical hearings on Wednesday||The Supreme Court is set to resume physical hearings on Wednesday, over a year and a half after the Covid lockdown forced its closure in March 2020, with the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre and the Pegasus snooping cases attracting attention. The Lakhimpur Kheri incident where a car owned by a Union minister and with his son allegedly in it mowed down four farmers and a journalist on October 3, is among the cases that is scheduled to be taken up for physical hearing on Wednesday. As many as 14 benches will hear various cases on the opening day. A record 33 judges — the entire strength — will be simultaneously in action in the apex court on Wednesday. However, physical hearings will be held only on Wednesdays and Thursdays. A mix of offline and online hearings will be conducted on Tuesdays. On Mondays and Fridays the apex court will continue to hold virtual hearings. The quality of hearings had been significantly affected because of patchy Internet connectivity disturbing the proceedings, court sources said. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana had pulled up the court registry several times over inconsistent Net connectivity. Online hearings had also given an undue advantage to senior and prominent lawyers who have been appearing in several cases across the country virtually from one location, affecting the incomes of local lawyers, the sources said. The physical hearings will be held adhering to Covid protocol. All entries will be closely monitored and visitors, including lawyers and journalists, will have to undergo thermal screening and wear masks. The court halls will be sanitised between hearings. The decision to resume physical hearings on at least three days a week was taken by CJI Ramana following representations from various lawyers’ associations, including Supreme Court Bar Association president Vikas Singh. Lakhimpur massacre A bench of CJI Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli will hear the Lakhimpur case in person on Wednesday. The bench had earlier expressed its displeasure at the tardy handling of the matter by the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh. After sustained grilling by the CJI, the Adityanath government arrested Ashis Mishra, son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, seven days after a Thar jeep ploughed through protesting farmers. At the last hearing on October 8, the Supreme Court had come down heavily on the state government for failing to arrest Ashis, with CJI Ramana wondering if similar privileges would be extended to all other murder accused in the country. Expressing dissatisfaction with the investigation conducted by the Adityanath government, the court had said the police officers involved should no longer be associated with the probe and that the court would explore the possibility of constituting an independent team as even the CBI could not be relied on in this case. Senior advocate Harish Salve had assured the court that he would convey its anguish and suggestions to the government. On Wednesday, the Uttar Pradesh government is expected to inform the court about whether it would set up an independent special investigation team, and its composition and other details, failing which the court could pass orders. Pegasus snooping During the course of the week, the CJI is expected to constitute an independent team to investigate the allegations that the Centre had used the Israeli spyware Pegasus to snoop on judges, journalists, activists, politicians and others. Several petitions have been filed by members of the civil society alleging violation of the fundamental right to privacy. Justice Ramana is said to be in the process of eliciting the consent of certain independent personalities, some of whom had expressed their inability to be part of an SIT proposed by the apex court citing “personal reasons”. The court had earlier decided to set up the SIT after the Narendra Modi government refused to either admit or deny the espionage charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
20-10-2021||India||India, Israel, US and UAE to set up forum for economic cooperation||India, Israel, the US and the UAE on Monday decided to set up an international forum for economic cooperation with special attention to joint infrastructure projects and maritime security during their first meeting in this Jerusalem-initiated process that is being billed by some observers as another Quad. The meeting was held in the virtual format and coincided with external affairs minister S. Jaishankar’s ongoing visit to Israel. While Jaishankar and his host, Israeli Alternate Prime Minister and foreign minister Yair Lapid, sat in on the meeting together, US secretary of state Antony Blinken and UAE’s foreign minister Abdullah bin Zayed joined through video link. The meeting comes at a time when Israel and the UAE — both long-standing allies of the US — have deepened their engagement with China. This quadrilateral format for cooperation between the four like-minded countries was proposed by Lapid during his recent visit to Washington to mark the first anniversary of the Abraham Accords along with his UAE counterpart. The Accords — seen by some foreign policy experts as an effort by the US to break the momentum of the growing partnership between Israel and China under former Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s watch — normalised diplomatic relations between Israel and the UAE, and paved the way for Emirati capital to enter Israel. In a readout on the meeting, the Israeli foreign ministry quoted Lapid as saying: “Around this virtual table — there is a unique set of capabilities, knowledge, and experience that can be used to create the network that we all want to see created. I think the word we’re looking for here is synergy, because this is what we’re going to try and create starting with this meeting. Synergy that will help us work together on infrastructure, digital infrastructure, transport, maritime security and other things that preoccupy us all.” Elaborating on what he has in mind, Lapid said: “The key to success is how quickly can we move from ‘government-to-government’ to ‘business-to-business’. How quickly can we turn this into a working process that will put boots on the ground, changing infrastructure around the world.”  During the meeting, the four ministers — who plan to hold an in-person meeting during the ongoing Dubai Expo — explored possibilities for joint infrastructure projects in the fields of transportation, technology, maritime security, and economics and trade. They agreed to appoint senior-level professionals to a joint working group that will formulate options for cooperation in the shortlisted areas. In a separate readout, US state department spokesman Ned Price said the four ministers discussed expanding economic and political cooperation in West Asia and rest of Asia, including through trade, combating climate change, energy cooperation, and increasing maritime security. Also on the table are people-to-people ties in technology and science, and how to support global public health in relation to the Covid-19 pandemic. There was no Indian readout on the meeting. The only official word came from Jaishankar through a tweet: “A fruitful first meeting with Israeli APM and FM @YairLapid, UAE FM @ABZayed and US Secretary of State @SecBlinken this evening. Discussed working together more closely on economic growth and global issues. Agreed on expeditious follow-up.’’  While none of the official readouts mentioned China, the plan to have joint infrastructure projects and cooperate on maritime security indicate an effort to pool resources and counter the growing Chinese footprint in West Asia and rest of the continent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
20-10-2021||India||UP Assembly polls 2022: Priyanka to field 40 per cent women candidates||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday said the decision to field 40 per cent women candidates in the Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh is for “every woman who wants to bring change and expects justice and unity”. “We have decided that the Congress party in Uttar Pradesh will give 40 per cent tickets to women in the coming Assembly election,” Priyanka, who is the Congress in-charge of the state, said at a news conference in Lucknow. Replying to a question whether the Congress would give tickets to women from families of its own leaders, she said: “I don’t see anything wrong in doing so. The women grow after joining politics.” “We pledge that women would participate well in the politics of Uttar Pradesh,” she added. Explaining why the party took this decision, she said: “Some girl students of Allahabad University had met me when I had come to Uttar Pradesh to campaign in the (Lok Sabha) election in 2019 and they told me how the rules of the university and the hostels were different for them and the male students. This decision is for them.” “I have taken this decision for the woman who during the Ganga Yatra (March 2019) told me that while she wanted to educate her children, there was no school in her village. “This decision is for Paro, a girl of Prayagraj (Allahabad) who held my hand and said that she wants to be a leader,” the Congress leader said. Priyanka said the decision was for the Unnao rape survivor, the mother of the Hathras gang rape and murder victim, and for Vaishnavi, the daughter of journalist Raman Kashyap who was killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage on October 3, who told her she “wants to be a doctor”. “Another girl I met in Lakhimpur Kheri (last week) told me she wants to become the Prime Minister,” the Congress leader said. “This decision is also for the women constables Madhu and Puja who took me to the PAC guesthouse in Sitapur (when she was arrested on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri on October 7 to meet the families of the massacre victims) and were on duty at 4am.” Priyanka said that while she had wished to reserve 50 per cent tickets for women in Uttar Pradesh, she went by the decision of the state Congress committee. “The Congress units of other states may follow this if they wish,” she said. “Women have to come forward if we want to pull the country out from the politics of religion and caste and take it on the path of politics of development, equality and participation.” Priyanka said the party has sought applications from women candidates in every Assembly constituency till November 15 and called them to come forward. With this decision, the Congress is expected to give 160 tickets to women out of the total 403 Assembly seats. Observers believe it would be a difficult decision for the party to follow as Priyanka has already said in the past that she was not averse to an alliance with anti-BJP outfits. In that case, practical coordination in each seat wouldn’t be easy. Priu Priyanka side-stepped a question whether she would be the chief ministerial candidate of the party in the Assembly election and said it will be announced at an appropriate time. Asked how she would deal with family politics within the Congress, she said: “It is true that people put forward their wives, daughters in election but there is nothing wrong in it. They become efficient after joining politics. I remember there was a pradhan (village chief) in a committee who fielded his wife (in the panchayat poll). After a few years, he came to me and complained that she takes her own decisions and doesn’t listen to him. It is the beginning of a process.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
20-10-2021||India||VHP activists barge into all-faith prayer hall run by a Lingayat man||Activists of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad allegedly barged into an all-faith prayer hall run by a Lingayat man in central Karnataka who believes in Jesus Christ and sang bhajans after accusing him of being a pastor engaged in forced conversions. Somu Avaradhi, who runs the Prayer House for All People’s Church in Hubli, 400km from Bangalore, has been arrested after a local lodged a police complaint accusing him of trying to forcibly convert him. No action has, however, been taken against the VHP activists who forcibly entered the prayer hall on Sunday and were also accused of roughing up some people. In a video clip that has been widely shared on social media, the VHP activists can be seen chanting “Shri Ram, Jai Ram, Jai Jai Ram”. Hubli deputy commissioner of police K. Ramarajan told The Telegraph on Tuesday that Avaradhi has been booked under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. “He is accused of speaking ill of Scheduled Caste people,” the officer said. Asked if the VHP members would be arrested for trespass and creating communal tension, Ramarajan said: “There is no complaint (against the activists), but we are investigating the matter.” In a video clip that emerged on Tuesday, Avaradhi is seen telling the VHP activists that he had neither embraced Christianity nor had he been instrumental in converting anyone. “I did not change my name, caste or religion. Even today my certificate shows I am a Lingayat,” he said, responding to the allegation that he was a pastor. While government records describe the Lingayats as a community within the fold of Hinduism, it was formed as a separate religion by the 12th-century social reformer Basaveshwara. A sizeable chunk of the community still considers themselves as members of a separate religion. “A pastor gave me a copy of the Bible when I was battling for my life in 2000. Since then I became a follower of Jesus Christ and have been praying at my home,” Avaradhi is seen telling the VHP activists in the video. It is not clear what had happened to him two decades ago. A local man who regularly prays at the hall said VHP activists rushed in chanting Jai Shri Ram and began singing bhajans. The man, who declined to be named, said Vishwanath, who has accused Avaradhi of trying to convert him, had never been seen at the prayer hall. The man said the VHP activists assaulted some of those at the prayer hall. He alleged that the local police station did not accept his complaint on the ground that the inspector was not available. Karnataka VHP convener Raghu Sakleshpura claimed before reporters that Avaradhi was a pastor and had tried to convert Vishwanath, a Dalit, to Christianity. “We went to protest after Vishwanath complained against the pastor for trying to convert him. We only sang bhajans and did not do anything wrong,” Sakleshpura said. Some Christians in Hubli met Congress leader P.C. Siddaramaiah late on Monday in the city to apprise him about the incident. They plan to hold a protest in case the police fail to act against the VHP activists. BJP-ruled Karnataka has been witnessing a surge in communal incidents in the past few months. The Sangh parivar wields considerable influence in the southern state. Last week, a Karnataka legislative committee dominated by the BJP ordered a survey on churches and the functioning of Christian missionaries, triggering fears that it would be used as an excuse to harass the minority community. Bangalore South Lok Sabha member and BJP Yuva Morcha president Tejasvi Surya had on Monday sparked off a boycott call against apparel retailer Fabindia for its Deepavali-themed advertisement with a Urdu catchphrase. “Deepavali is not Jash-e-Riwaaz,” he had tweeted, misspelling Jashn-E-Riwaaz that had been used in the Fabindia ad. “This deliberate attempt of abrahamisation of Hindu festivals, depicting models without traditional Hindu attires, must be called out,” Surya had tweeted, instantly triggering a social media outrage against the company that eventually pulled down the ad. In a video that has been circulating on social media, Sree Ram Sene chief Pramod Muthalik is seen exhorting his followers to start an Ayodhya-style agitation against the Juma Masjid in Gadag, north Karnataka, on Sunday. “We had to fight for 72 years to get the Ram temple (in Ayodhya). After 72 years, the dream of a Ram temple has been fulfilled by demolishing the Babri Masjid. In the same way, the Juma Masjid in Gadag is Venkateshwara devasthana (temple), and I am saying with full confidence that it should be razed,” Muthalik is seen telling a Sene meeting in Kannada. He went on to assert that he had proof to substantiate his claim. “There is proof that the Babri Masjid was built over a temple. We have proof that the Venkateshwara temple was demolished during Tipu Sultan’s rule and the Juma Masjid was built there,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
20-10-2021||India||Indian Army chief visits Line of Control with Pakistan||Indian Army chief General M.M. Naravane on Tuesday visited some forward areas along the Line of Control with Pakistan in the Jammu region amid the deadliest spurt in violence the Valley has witnessed in years. About a dozen civilians, seven of them non-Muslim, have been killed since October 1. Five of the dead were migrant workers. One was a prominent Kashmiri Pandit businessman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
20-10-2021||India||Indian Army to deploy additional cameras on LAC in Arunachal||The Indian Army is deploying additional cameras and using satellite imagery to monitor “aggressive” Chinese troops deployment along the Line of Actual Control in the eastern sector following the latest transgression in Arunachal Pradesh earlier in October, sources in India’s defence ministry said. “Additional digital cameras have been installed and satellite imagery is being used to watch Chinese movements along the LAC in the eastern sector. Recently, we have noticed aggressive patrolling by the Chinese troops in the eastern sector,” a ministry official told The Telegraph. Of the 3,488km undemarcated LAC, 1,346km falls in the eastern sector. The eastern army commander, Lt Gen. Manoj Pande, said on Tuesday that there had been “marginal increase” in Chinese patrols in the eastern sector. Talking to reporters in Arunachal Pradesh, he said China had deployed a large number of reserve troops along the LAC in the eastern sector and also ramped up military exercises in the aftermath of the border standoff with India in eastern Ladakh since last May. Lt Gen. Pande said both India and China were trying to develop infrastructure closer to the LAC. Underlining that the presence of additional troops in Chinese operational depth areas was a matter of concern, he said India had also heightened its capacity. He said some of the reserve formations mobilised by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) also continued to remain in the depth areas. “As far as activities on the other side of the LAC are concerned, there has been some increase in the level of activity in the depth areas along the LAC by the PLA, especially during their annual training exercises,” Pande said. Lt Gen. Pande is the senior-most officer who is in line to take over as the next army chief after the incumbent Gen. M.M. Naravane retires in April next year. Pande said the Eastern Command had beefed up deployment in certain vulnerable areas along the LAC. According to him, the Eastern Command was trying to maximise technology for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance. Explaining the measures taken by the army to deal with the situation along the LAC, Lt Gen. Pande said the first step was to increase surveillance both close to the LAC and in the depth areas. Earlier this month Indian and Chinese troops had been locked in a “face-off” for a few hours at the Tawang sector in Arunachal Pradesh after nearly 200 soldiers from the neighbouring country crossed over, sources in the defence ministry had said. The latest incursion took place a month after about 100 Chinese soldiers had transgressed 5km across the LAC in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand on August 30 and damaged a wooden bridge before retreating. Neither India’s defence ministry nor its army has yet made any official disclosure about the Uttarakhand and Arunachal transgressions, prompting veterans to suggest that silence may now be the official policy. On June 19 last year, four days after a clash in the Galwan Valley had killed 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said no one had entered Indian territory or occupied Indian posts. The comment prompted Beijing to immediately claim ownership of all the areas it held within India-claimed lines. In eastern Ladakh, the Chinese are estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
20-10-2021||India||Kerala braces for another heavy downpour along with strong winds||The brief respite in rain in Kerala is set to give way to another heavy downpour accompanied by strong winds for four days from Wednesday, while the state government released excess water from its dams in central and southern districts. The Indian Meteorological Department sounded an orange alert for 11 of the 14 districts for Wednesday and 12 districts for Thursday when heavy to extremely heavy rain is expected. While Kasaragod, Kollam and Alappuzha have been put on yellow alert for Wednesday, all other districts will be under orange alert. Only Kannur and Kasaragod will be under yellow alert on Thursday leaving all other districts under orange alert. While a red alert is for extremely heavy rainfall of 200mm in 24 hours, orange alert denotes very heavy rain between 60mm and 200mm in 24hours, and yellow alert indicates 60mm to 110mm of rainfall. The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority said that 38 people had died in rain-related incidents between October 12 and 18. While 24 of them died in landslides in Kottayam and Idukki, most of the other people drowned. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan urged immense caution in high ranges and low-lying areas due to the adverse weather forecast from October 20 to 23. “There are possibilities of landslides and overflowing rivers. There is also the possibility of flash floods due to very heavy rains,” he said, urging people to heed the instructions of emergency services. He also urged the people and officials not to be overconfident due to the brief spells of good weather. “Just because there is a respite in rain during the day time, neither the people nor officials should be overconfident. There could be changes or even mistakes in the weather forecast. So everyone must follow the instructions until the disaster management authority withdraws them,” he added. Shutters of Idukki, Idamalayar, Kakki and Pampa dams were opened on Tuesday to release excess water considering the weather forecast that predicted more rain and the possibility of increased storage. The catchment areas of the dams had received abundant rainfall in the last few days. With lakhs of litres being released every second from each of the dams, the authorities had evacuated more than 200 people from 64 families residing along the banks of the Periyar river as a safety measure. Fishermen rushed to Aluva in Ernakulam with their boats to join the rescue mission in case the water flowing from the Idukki reservoir causes flooding like 2018 when the state faced one of the worst floods in a century that killed around 480 people. They had rescued thousands of people, their livestock and pets from the flooded areas three years ago. This was only the fourth time the shutters were opened at the Idukki dam that was commissioned in 1973, the three shutters being opened one by one at an interval of 30 minutes starting 11am. The shutters were last opened in 2018. Irrigation minister Roshi Augustine said the regulated opening of dam shutters was part of the management of water storage in the reservoirs considering the weather forecast. “The most important thing is to regulate the water levels in the dams. What is being done is a water storage management to avoid any emergency even in case we experience heavy rainfall in the next few days as enough water is being let out,” said Augustine. But unlike 2018, the authorities have already said there was no major risk of the Periyar or any other river breaking banks due to the outflow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
20-10-2021||India||Telangana to buy 125kg gold for Yadadri temple||The Telangana government will buy 125kg  gold from the Reserve Bank of India for gold-plating the “Vimana Gopuram” (temple tower) of Yadadri, the upcoming integrated temple city, chief minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao said on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters after visiting the temple town, Rao said the government needs Rs 60-65 crore to buy the gold and the temple authorities are in touch with the experts who carried out a similar task at Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam to execute the job. “We will complete the fund raising and buy the gold from the RBI so that we get pure gold,” Rao said. He said as the first donor he will donate an amount for 1.16kg of gold on his family’s behalf and similarly several ministers and MLAs have come forward to take part in the effort. As part of the Yadadri tour, the chief minister went around the Giri Pradhakshina steps road, construction taking place at the temple tower (gopuram) and gave suggestions and changes to the final works, a media release from the chief minister’s office said. He later inspected the works of integrated temple city construction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
20-10-2021||India||42 die in a day as rain batters Uttarakhand||At least 42 people were killed in Uttarakhand’s Kumaon region on Tuesday as several houses collapsed following incessant downpour, taking the toll due to rain-related incidents in the state to 47. With 42 new fatalities, the toll in the disaster has risen to 47 as five deaths were reported on Monday. “The number of casualties in the Kumaon region alone has crossed 40,” deputy inspector-general of police Nilesh Anand Bharne told PTI. Twenty-eight people were killed in Nainital district, six each in Almora and Champawat, and one each in Pithoragarh and Udham Singh Nagar districts, he said. Connectivity to Nainital, cut off from the rest of the state for the second day, was restored in the evening, officials said. Chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami undertook an aerial survey of the rain-hit areas and also interacted with the affected people. DIG Bharne said despite bad weather and continuing showers, the blocked roads in Nainital were cleared of rubble and connectivity to the tourist spot was restored. Around 100 people stranded at the Lemon Tree resort on the Ramnagar-Ranikhet route after water from a swollen Kosi river entered the resort were evacuated to safety. Dhami said the meteorological department has predicted an improvement in weather conditions from Tuesday evening onwards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
20-10-2021||India|| Covid test mandatory for visitors during Diwali and Chhath festivals||The Bihar government has made Covid-19 test mandatory for those coming from other states during Diwali and Chhath festivals, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said on Monday.  Talking to reporters on the sidelines of his weekly public interaction programme 'Janata Ke Durbar Mein Mukhyamantri', Kumar said, health department officials will maintain special vigil on people arriving from other states at all railway stations, bus stands and interstate border check posts, and also make necessary arrangements for Covid-19 test at all these places. If people reaching Bihar are not found vaccinated, the government will make arrangements for their inoculation, he said, underscoring the need to be more vigilant during the festival season.  The state police force has also been directed to remain alert, he said. "Security forces as well as the people of the state must remain vigilant during the ongoing festival season to prevent anti-national forces from succeeding in their nefarious designs. I have also been taking regular review meetings for better coordination between the civil administration and police," he said. When asked about the implementation of the Crime and Criminal Tracking Networks and Systems (CCTNS), the chief minister said, the project aimed at comprehensive policing is being executed very effectively. The CCTNS is a Government of India project for creating a comprehensive and integrated system for effective policing through e-governance. The project is being executed by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). It seeks to integrate all data and records of crime into a Core Application Software (CAS), covering all states and union territories.  A total of 894 police stations in Bihar have already been brought under CCTNS and around 202 more will be covered by the end of this year, a senior state police official said. The project was launched after the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
20-10-2021||India||Cry to sack Odisha minister ||Odisha Congress workers on Tuesday hurled eggs at the official residence of the state’s minister of state for home Captain Dibya Shanakar Mishra and burnt his effigies, alleging that one of his close associates was involved in the murder of a lady schoolteacher in Kalahandi district. The minister hails from Kalahandi. Police on Tuesday also recovered a half charred decomposed body from an under-construction stadium in Kalahandi. Though locals and relatives pointed out that the body was that of the missing schoolteacher after seeing the gold chain and pair of anklets recovered from the spot, police are yet to make an official declaration and sent the remnants of the body to a lab for DNA test. The official announcement will be made after the DNA report is available with the police, officials said. It was alleged that Captain Mishra’s close associate, the president of the school management committee, Gobinda Sahu, where the teacher 24-year-old Mamita Meher was working (Sunshine English Medium School at Mahaling under Golamunda block), had perpetrated the crime. Sahu has been arrested. It was alleged that Mamita was kidnapped by the president and later murdered. The family members alleged that Mamita had got specific proof on how a sex racket was going on the school premises at the behest of the president and even had threatened to reveal it. Sahu’s school ran classes from one to 12 and also had a college on its campus. Though the police had taken main suspect Sahu into custody four days ago, he had managed to flee from the police barack on Sunday night. A video has gone viral in which Mishra was seen praising Sahu at a recent function. The Opposition alleged that the escape drama was enacted to give Mishra a clean chit. As pressure mounted following the Opposition hitting the street, police on Tuesday morning announced Rs 1 lakh for any one who gave any clue on Sahu’s whereabouts. It has also put posters on various places in Kalahandi and adjoining Bolangir. Sahu was finally arrested on Tuesday. Both the Opposition Congress and the BJP upped the ante and demanded the immediate resignation of the minister. The Congress workers too organised a demonstration at Bhawanipatna, the district headquarters of Kalahandi, burnt the effigies of Capt Mishra and chief minister Naveen Patnaik and demanded the immediate resignation of the minister. The family members of Mamita said she was asked by Sahu on October 8 to come to school for some work. Mamita, who hails from Turekela of Bolangir, the neighbouring district, took a bus to reach the school. But on the way, she was kidnapped and has been missing since then. “The police had assured us to bring our daughter back alive. We suspect some heinous crime was done. We want our daughter back. The president of the school management committee Gobinda Sahu should be immediately arrested,” said missing girl’s uncle Kaushik Meher. Demanding a CBI probe, senior Congress MLA Santosh Singh Saluja: “A sex racket was going on the school premises. The minister used to visit the school premises and we do have proof. It was the minister who was giving patronage to the school management committee’s president.” The ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) vice-president Debi Prasad Mishra said: “Just levelling allegations won’t prove one guilty. Law will follow its own course. Culprit will be definitely punished.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Incessant rain causes landslides in north Bengal||Normal life in parts of north Bengal was affected on Wednesday as heavy rain in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Jalpaiguri districts triggered landslides and caused damage to roads and bridges, restricting vehicular movement in various places, officials said. The Meteorological department issued a 'red' alert for Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Alipurduar, forecasting "extremely heavy rain at one or two places" in these districts till Thursday morning. Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar are likely to receive heavy to very heavy rain during the period, it said. Road connectivity in several places of Kalimpong district, linking Kalimpong town with several hamlets such as Pedong, Lava and Algara, was snapped owing to landslides, the officials said. Water from the overflowing Teesta river submerged the National Highway 10 that connects Siliguri with Sikkim capital Gangtok at Teesta Bazar area, disrupting vehicular movement, they said. A bridge on the Balason river at Matigara on the outskirts of Siliguri in Darjeeling district also got damaged. Siliguri Police Commissioner Gaurav Sharma said vehicles have been diverted to another route owing to the damage to the bridge, while motorcyclists and pedestrians have been allowed to use it. "We are urging people to make plans for long travel to reach their destinations owing to the diversion," he told reporters. Hundreds of tourists, who have thronged the hills during the Durga Puja season, are facing difficulties in travelling to their next destination or reaching railway stations or the Bagdogra airport to return home, owing to the incessant rain and landslides, the officials said. Several low-lying areas in the Jalpaiguri district have been flooded owing to a rise in the water level of Teesta and Jaldhaka rivers. People from these areas were being moved to safe places for shelter. Darjeeling received 233.8 mm rainfall, the highest in the state in the 24 hours till 8.30 am on Wednesday, followed by Kalimpong (199 mm), Jalpaiguri (151 mm) and Cooch Behar (60.9 mm). Water levels in Torsa and some other rivers in the region have started rising owing to the torrential rain. The Met department said the inclement weather condition will prevail in the sub-Himalayan districts till Thursday morning. Weather in West Bengal's southern districts, which received heavy rain since October 17 owing to a low-pressure system, improved considerably on Wednesday, though the Met department said thunderstorms with lightning at one or two places are likely in the region during the day. Dry weather will prevail in the southern parts of the state from Thursday, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leader accused of beating up schoolteacher in Malda||A local Trinamul leader and former councillor of Englishbazar municipality in Malda district and his alleged henchmen have been accused of assaulting a tribal schoolteacher after accusing him of stealing a bicycle in Malda town on Friday. Sudip Tudu, the schoolteacher in his mid-thirties, has suffered serious injuries and is under treatment at Malda Medical College and Hospital. The matter came into light on Monday after Tudu’s kin filed a complaint with Englishbazar police. Leaders of various political parties, including some from Trinamul, have protested, prompting Paritosh Choudhury, the former Trinamul councillor, to go into hiding. Police are searching for him. Sources said Tudu, who stays in Habibpur block of the district, had been to Malda to meet his relatives at Krishnapally in ward 3 of the town. On Friday, after he left his relatives’ place, some local residents allegedly accosted him. “They started thrashing me. I had no idea why. One of them, who introduced himself as the former councillor of the ward, called me a thief. I had done nothing,” Tudu said from the hospital bed. He added that his relatives took him to the hospital. As the news spread, the Left and the BJP demanded Choudhury’s arrest. “The Trinamul leader intercepted and thrashed a schoolteacher in broad daylight without any reason. Shameful. Stringent steps should be taken against all the accused,” said Gobinda Mandal, the district BJP chief. On Tuesday, representatives of All Bengal Teachers’ Association, the teachers’ front of CPM, met Tudu in the hospital. They threatened a movement if Choudhury was not arrested immediately. District Trinamul leaders, when questioned about the attack on the school teacher, tried to distance themselves. “Paritosh Choudhury is a former CPM worker and later joined Trinamul. Earlier, some other allegations were made against him but this time, he has crossed all the limits. The party will never stand by him and we want the law to take its own course,” said Krishnendu Choudhury, a state general secretary of Trinamul based in Malda. Police officers of Englishbazar police station said they are in search of him. “We are working on certain inputs and hope to locate him soon,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
20-10-2021||West Bengal||PF-Aadhaar link extended to December 31||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has extended the date of linking Aadhaar cards with UAN (Universal Account Number) of provident fund holders associated with different plantation sectors to December 31 this year, much to the relief of thousands of workers associated with tea and cinchona plantations in north Bengal. “This is a major relief for the tea workers and tea companies as the seeding process of most of the three lakh odd workers who are employed in the tea estates of north Bengal is yet to be completed. We have time and again raised this issue at concerned quarters and it is good that finally, an extension has been given. We hope the authorities of EPFO and UIDAI will see that the work is done in due course,” said Prabir Bhattacharjee, secretary general, Tea Association of India. It may be mentioned that in June this year, the EPFO had issued an order for their staff, mentioning that the ECR (electronic challan-cum-receipt) for deposition of provident fund would be allowed only for those members or beneficiaries of the provident fund whose Aadhaar numbers are seeded and verified with their UAN numbers. “This had led to a major problem as the Aadhaar details of thousands of tea workers did not match with their records with the EPFO. Thus, those needed to be amended. Also, because of the direction and the mismatch, tea companies could not deposit the workers’ provident fund as no ECR would be generated. That is why, the extension was sought,” elaborated a tea planter in Siliguri. The order for seeding and verification was made compulsory through a notification made by the Union labour ministry on May 3 as per the Social Security Code that was passed on last year by the Parliament. The extension, sources said, is also applicable for workers engage in other plantations sectors, which include cardamom, jute, pepper, rubber and cashew nut.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Lakshmi Puja lesson for ‘those playing communal card’||Secular forces in Bangladesh putting up a concerted protest against divisive violence during Durga Puja in their country can take heart from a village across the border, some 100km from Calcutta. Around 190 Hindu families and 60 Muslim families from Dharmadanga village in East Burdwan’s Kalna are all set to continue with a 43-year-old tradition where Hindus and Muslims team up to celebrate Lakshmi Puja. “We were very sad on receiving the news of the attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh and protests and politics over the issue here in Bengal. We were discussing among ourselves how harmoniously people of both communities live in our village. Every year we celebrate Lakshmi Puja, where Muslims are an integral part of the festivities,” said Tarak Das, secretary of the Lakshmi Puja committee of Dharmadanga village. “I am not very educated but I can’t forget the lines penned by poet Kazi Nazrul Islam, Mora ek brinte duti kusum... Hindu Musalman (we are two buds of one stalk — Hindu and Muslims). We never differentiated among Hindus and Muslims,” said Das, also the secretary of the Pallishri Sangha in Dharamadanga, the club behind the puja set up in 1979. He added: “I am a school dropout.” On Tuesday, Muslim youths of the village and their Hindu neighbours cleaned up the puja pandal. A few Muslim youths were among those who brought the Lakshmi idol from Kalna town. Saifuddin Sheikh, 30, who on Tuesday was among those to bring the 10-foot-high Lakshmi idol to the pandal, said: “It is our festival. It is our duty to take part in the puja. Before me, my uncle and father used to do the task that I am doing now. There is no question of Hindu or Muslim among us.” Elders said the idea to include Muslim families had happened without deliberation. “People here first set up the club for farmers to discuss how to increase their produce or how to minimise damage to crops,” recalled a septuagenarian. “It was a sudden decision over 40 years ago. I was very young. Someone told us that as we all are farmers we should organise a Lakshmi Puja. It was spontaneous and our Muslim friends immediately agreed to be a part of it. We never thought who is Hindu or Muslim,” said Arun Mondal, one of the founders of the puja. Old -timers said Dharmadanga village was an “example and lesson” for those playing the communal card in Bengal. “Kings of Burdwan had always ruled the area with a message of communal harmony and Muslims and Hindus were integral parts in their court. Kings used to gift camels to Muslim dignitaries before Id,” said Sarbajit Jash, a local historian. “The tradition of harmony that started in the 19th century here is still alive in the district. The village is teaching a lessonto all at a time when certain communal forces are trying to break the harmony that we have.” the historian added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Babul resigns as MP from Asansol ||Former Union junior minister Babul Supriyo resigned as the MP from Asansol on Tuesday. Supriyo met Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla at his residence and tendered his resignation around a month after quitting the BJP to join the Trinamul Congress. On September 20, two days after joining Trinamul, Supriyo had written to Birla seeking an appointment to formally resign as a parliamentarian. He was finally asked to meet the Speaker on Tuesday. “I won from Asansol as a BJP candidate. To me it is unethical to remain an MP from that seat after I quit the party,” Supriyo told journalists after tendering his resignation. Asked if he would contest from Asansol in the ensuing bypoll on a Trinamul ticket , Supriyo said: “No. This I can tell you clearly.” In his resignation letter, the singer-turned-politician also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and added that he would remain indebted to his former party. “It has been a very fulfilling seven years that I have spent in the Parliament and I shall always remain indebted to my now ex-party BJP and Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modiji, Hon’ble Shri Amit Shahji & respected Shri JP Naddaji for giving me the opportunity to serve my country,” Supriyo wrote. Supriyo “quit politics” after being dropped as junior minister in a reshuffle in July. He had taken to Facebook to announce his decision and expressed his discontent over him being dropped as a minister. However, he had also said he wouldn’t join any other party. On September 18, however, Supriyo joined Trinamul in Calcutta. On Tuesday, he again said that his decision to join Trinamul was a “simple” issue and there was nothing much to read into it. “I had whole-heartedly resigned from politics. Didi (Mamata Banerjee) told me that I had done good work in public life and won for a second time…Hence I shouldn’t resign,” Supriyo said. He also added that Asansol will always hold a special place for him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Chief secretary asks districts to increase Covid-19 tests||Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi on Tuesday asked districts to increase Covid-19 tests across the state with positive cases showing a rise after Durga Puja. He also asked district officials to be prepared in case the third wave of pandemic hits the state. The chief secretary held a videoconference with district authorities, including officials of Calcutta Municipal Corporation, with a PowerPoint presentation to show how Covid-19 cases were on the rise after Durga Puja. According to Dwivedi’s data, positivity rate of almost all districts have increased significantly between October 12 and 18 compared to what was reported between October 5 and 11. These districts include Calcutta, and the North and South Parganas. In Calcutta, positivity rate was 3.65 per cent between October 12 and 18 and 3.11 per cent between October 5 and 11. “Overall, Bengal’s positivity rate was 2.09 per cent between October 5 and 11 but it jumped to 2.53 per cent between October 12 and 18. It’s a cause for concern,” an official who attended the meeting on Tuesday said. He added that the chief secretary asked officials to be ready with infrastructure for tests and treatment as well as vaccination. Active cases rise Bengal on Tuesday reported 726 new Covid-19 infections, 705 recoveries and nine deaths. The total of active cases rose by 12 to 7,428. A minister said new infections being reported now is indicative of people that got infected in the October 10 to 14 (Panchami to Navami). Calcutta reported 183 new infections and two deaths on Tuesday, and North 24-Parganas 106 new cases and two deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Cash crunch compels fresh infrastructure project screening||Several infrastructure project proposals including bridges and roads, which have been submitted or are set to be submitted for administrative approval, may face a roadblock as the state public works department has decided to access the necessity and importance of all such projects. All the engineers of the PWD have been asked to submit reports pointing out why the projects, sent or to be sent for administrative approval and financial sanction, are a necessity and important. The development is considered to be significant as the department has been taking up only necessary projects in the past 18 months in the wake of the finance department order asking all the state departments to go for an austerity drive in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic since April 2020. Sources in the government said that only those projects considered to be extremely necessary are being sent for administrative approval these days. In light of this, a further scrutiny of such projects would lead a critical situation. “This (new development) makes it clear that the government is in a mood to conduct a scrutiny of those projects which have already been considered absolutely necessary. Already projects worth about Rs 8,000 crore are pending for administrative approval and some more were supposed to be sent for seeking the required approval. It seems all projects have now hit a roadblock," said a senior official. The official explained that these projects were considered necessary because these include 45 to 50 bridges across the state planned to replace the old and existing ones. “All bridges planned to be replaced are very vulnerable. If new bridges are not approved, old ones may collapse in near future,” he added. Some officials said the government is trying to ensure only unavoidable projects get administrative nod amid the stressed financial condition of the Bengal government. “If administrative approval is given and projects don’t take off, it does not look good. So, only those projects which are unavoidable will be carried out,” said a source. Some officials said that the state government was forced to review new projects as it is facing trouble to arrange funds for Lakshmir Bhandar scheme which will kick off from October-end. “The scheme requires Rs 18,000 crore annually.. The government has to cut down expenditure on infrastructure heavily to run it,” said a source. A senior PWD official, however, said the decision to review all projects was linked to the finance department’s austerity drive where a new project worth more than Rs 30 lakh must wait for approval. But others said the austerity measures are in place since April, 2020 but reviewing all new projects already considered a necessity clearly hints at more budget cuts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Floods hit puja paddy husk supply in East Midnapore||Devotees in East Midnapore shopping for Lakshmi Puja essentials are facing a low supply of paddy husk, among the most vital items of the ritual, as prolonged rainfall has destroyed over 2.1 lakh hectares of the 2.4 lakh hectares of cultivated land in the coastal district. “Around 2,819 of 3,199 mouzas of land have been inundated in this district over the past month, and in places like Potashpur, one can still see sea-like stretches,” said an official in the agriculture department of East Midnapore district. He estimated damages in farming because of the rain and floods in East Midnapore alone to be Rs 1,500 crore. At Amra Kajan Youth club in Bhagabanpur, which shares a fate similar to Potashpur, club president Prabir Adak said the most “surprising and humbling” fact was that the Lakshmi Puja dhan would come from Nadia. “Usually our district sends dhan elsewhere,” he said. District officials said the cultivation of vegetables and betel leaf has not been spared, with losses pegged at nearly Rs 200 crore. Flower vendors in the district too have had to sell their produce at “unimaginably high” prices because of flood damage. “Rajnigandha and bel are selling at 10 times their prices compared to last year. This harms the wholesale buyer and customer,” said Bengal flower vendors’ association secretary Narayan Naik. District deputy director of agriculture (plant protection), Mrinal Kanti Bera, concurred that paddy season in East Midnapore this year had been “lost to the prolonged monsoon” and that there was “no possibility of winter harvest”. Elsewhere in south Bengal, rain has left vegetable fields under water and caused prices to soar. “While a kilo of brinjal, which cam for Rs 40 before the flood, is now Rs 80 per kilo, lady’s finger, which was earlier priced at Rs 20 per kilo, now comes for Rs 60-70 per kilo,” said Tamluk resident Sujit Dutta. State agriculture department officials said they were yet to estimate the quantum of loss across south Bengal but admitted the worst-hit crop would be paddy as it was almost ready for harvest when the rain and floods arrived. “The rain damaged ripe paddy. The sum of damage is yet to be calculated,” said Jagannath Chattopadhyay, deputy director of agriculture in East Burdwan. Speaking to The Telegraph, Pradip Mazumdar, who is the agriculture adviser to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, said: “According to primary estimates, the situation is so bad that there will be much to worry about. However, we apprehend some loss to vegetables.” Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Heavy rain triggers floods, landslides in Kalimpong||Landslide occurred in Kalimpong on Tuesday after a low-pressure area hovering over sub-Himalayan Bengal and the neighbouring states of Sikkim and Bihar resulted in incessant downpour since Monday evening. The rain triggered landslides and flooding in several places. Multiple landslides were reported from Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts in Bengal and also the neighbouring state of Sikkim. At least one person died and six were injured owing to the slides in the region. Weather officials indicated inclement conditions would persist for at least another 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Niti Aayog team to meet tea growers in north Bengal ||A Niti Aayog team is set to come on a three-day visit to north Bengal next week for talks with stakeholders of the tea industry. In recent years, this is the first time that the Narendra Modi government is sending such a high-level team to north Bengal. According to officials of the Tea Board of India, the team from the Development Monitoring and Evaluation Office (DMEO), a wing of the Niti Aayog, will reach here on October 27 and will meet representatives of tea associations, small tea growers and others belonging to the tea sector that even today provides employment to around 10 lakhs people in the region in a direct and indirect manner. The DMEO, sources said, is tasked with the responsibility to monitor and evaluate the implementation of schemes, programmes and initiatives of the Centre and come up with policies and recommendations. “They will meet officials of the tea board and the tea board’s quality control laboratory (at the tea park in New Jalpaiguri). They will attend meetings with representatives of tea planters’ associations based in the Terai and owners of bought-leaf factories. On October 28, they will visit Jalpaiguri,” said a source in the tea board. In Jalpaiguri, the team will meet small tea growers and tea planters’ associations based in the Dooars. On the third day, they will visit a site in Ghoshpukur (on the outskirts of Siliguri) where there is a self-help group of small tea growers. In the past seven years, that is, since 2014, the BJP has managed to consolidate its support base in the tea belt. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the party could win all the parliament ary seats that cover the tea estates. In the Assembly elections, the saffron party could manage to win most of the seats in the tea belt. Political observers, when asked to comment on the sudden visit of the Niti Aayog team, said this might be the Centre’s attempt to placate tea workers and their families as an undercurrent of discontent can be seen among them these days. “Even though they had voted for the BJP, the Narendra Modi government at the Centre has not done much for them. Earlier this year, a sum of Rs 1,000 crore was allocated for the development of women and children in tea estates of Assam and Bengal but not a penny has come to these people so far. The upcoming visit by a Niti Aayog team hints that the Centre has something in mind for them,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Nisith defends ministry’s decision to extend BSF jurisdiction||Union minister of state for home affairs Nisith Pramanik defended his ministry’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) up to 50km from 15km into Indian territory from the India-Bangladesh border in the states of Bengal, Assam and Punjab. Pramanik, also the Cooch Behar MP, dubbed Trinamul’s criticism of the decision “detrimental” to national security. Last week, the Centre decided to expand the BSF’s jurisdiction, paving the way for it to conduct raids, make seizures and arrests within a 50km ambit like the state police. The decision led to anxiety in north Bengal, where it was found that areas spread under 50 police stations will now be within the BSF’s ambit. Trinamul leader Firhad Hakim on Monday drew the analogy of Gabbar Singh from Sholay to say it would scare people. Pramanik on Tuesday said “there was no reason for wrong fears”. “It is a matter of national security and Trinamul is unnecessarily trying to politicise it,” said Pramanik. Pramanik, who was on his way to Delhi from Bagdogra, underscored the importance of the north Bengal in terms of national security. “All of us know that north Bengal is located in chicken’s neck (the area where the width of the Indian sub-continent is the thinnest and perched between Nepal and Bangladesh). We have four international borders here and this decision (of extending BSF’s jurisdiction) can help in bolstering security of the region,” said Pramanik. Though the Union minister of state tried to drive home the message that people dwelling here will not face any problems with this decision, apprehension, however, continues to linger among people. Prasenjit Ghosh, the secretary of Mahadipur Exporters’ Association – Mahadipur in Malda district is one of the major land ports in north Bengal through which bilateral trade is carried out with Bangladesh – sounded perturbed. “We are apprehensive that the trade might get affected if the BSF imposes fresh restrictions across its new jurisdiction. Thousands of trucks bound for Bangladesh are parked within this area of 50 kilometres and hundreds of small traders, who depend on the border trade, run their shops along the route that leads to the border. Such restrictions can also affect them,” he said. The decision has also nudged the agents associated with export. Bhupati Haldar, secretary of the Mahadipur Clearing & Forwarding Agents’ Association, said they will soon hold a meeting with their members. “Our members want to find out what can be ramifications of this decision. We would then sit for a discussion and if required, we will sent letters to the central government, seeking necessary steps so no fresh constraint comes up in the way of border trade,” said Haldar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Man with family stuck  in Kedarnath slide with little food and water||A 50-year-old man, his wife and daughter, are stuck in Uttarakhand’s Kedarnath since Saturday with very little  food and water following heavy rain and landslide in the northern state. Biswajit Roy, 50, an employee of Chinsurah Municipality left his home on October 11 with his wife Chumki, 45, and 19-year-old daughter Answesha for Kedarnath and few other places in north India. When they reached Kedarnath on October 16, the weather had started turning bad. Sources said the Uttarakhand government had issued a red alert on Monday, October 18, following the forecast of heavy rain, and stopped at least 20,000 tourists from visiting Gouri Kund and Kedarnath. However, those like the Roys who had already reached Kedarnath were stuck. “We are staying here (at a government guest house) but desperately need food and water. We are surviving on a few packets of biscuits left with us. All shops are closed amid heavy rain,” said Roy over phone from Kedarnath. “We did not have any idea that the situation would turn so bad. We heard the road down from Kedarnath was blocked due to a landslide. It is not possible for us to get down,” the worried man added. According to him, he and his family tried to catch a chopper on Sunday and leave Kedarnath but bad weather made it risky. He added that his parents and relatives in Hooghly were worried and praying for their safe return. “My son and his family are stuck in Kedarnath. We are worried and anxiously waiting for their return,” said septuagenarian Supriya Roy, Roy’s mother.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
20-10-2021||West Bengal||Saffron party politicising Bangla unrest, says Trinamul Congress||Trinamul on Tuesday attacked the BJP for its reported bid to politicise in Bengal the communal unrest in Bangladesh, and while condemning last week’s attacks on Hindu minorities in the neighbouring country, lauded the Sheikh Hasina government and civil society there and questioned Narendra Modi’s silence on the matter. Mamata Banerjee’s party ended its silence on the BJP’s attempts to polarise the electorate in Bengal by misusing the Bangladesh clashes in a strongly worded article on the front page of Trinamul mouthpiece Jago Bangla, named Shokuneyr rajniti BJP’r (Politics of vultures of the BJP). Jago Bangla also carried an editorial titled Bangladesheyr hridoy hotey (From the heart of Bangladesh). “The question… remains – who stands to gain from the attacks in Bangladesh?” it asked in its frontpage lead article. “In various countries, religions of fundamentalist forces can be different, but in terms of their interest in the business of elections in the name of religion, they complement each other,” its editorial said. Since last week’s Durga Puja, at least six people have been killed and some places of worship vandalised in Bangladesh. Several prominent Hindu leaders there however have praised the Hasina government for quick and incisive action after the attacks. Her Awami League accused the Opposition alliance of the BNP and the Jamaat-e-Islami of masterminding the attacks to create communal tension in Bangladesh. The Bengal BJP, licking the wounds of the Assembly poll and bypoll defeats, has emitted loud signals that the Bangladesh clashes will be used here to gain votes in the upcoming bypolls to four Assembly seats on October 30. “It can be seen that two forces stand to gain from this – a) Those who want to foment unrest in Bangladesh b) The BJP here, who want to sacrifice some Hindus in Bangladesh to seek votes on the basis of Hindu sentiments here. Which Suvendu Adhikari has already said,” the Jago Bangla frontpage lead said. “The question from the political circles is that those who repeatedly seek votes in the name of Hindus; the one who goes to offer prayers in a Bangladesh temple ahead of the (Bengal) Assembly elections to attract votes, why doesn’t that Prime Minister Narendra Modi talk when there are problems there?” asked the front page piece. “Now, practising vulturous politics, the BJP’s opportunist Suvendu Adhikari is saying: ‘Bangladesh’s incidents will result in an increase in votes for the BJP here’,” it added. In the editorial, Jago Bangla asserted that what happened during Durga Puja in Bangladesh was wrong, but it was a conspiracy that had nothing to do with the common “While it is a fact that it caused fear among minorities there, it is also a fact that the Hasina government has been taking stern measures,” read the editorial. “What is even more heartening is that in Bangladesh itself, there are meetings, rallies, and mega-rallies in protest against these attacks. Multiple Muslim organisations have come forward in protest. Seeing some of these rallies gives us hope, reassurance. This is the heart of Bangladesh,” it added, apparently referring to Dhaka’s iconic Shahbag Square, where on Monday thousands cutting across religious lines raised their voice against the attacks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
20-10-2021||North East||Assam cabinet nod to improve power connectivity in the state||The Assam cabinet on Tuesday gave its nod to various measures for improving power connectivity in the state, including expansion of the electrification network, an official statement said. The cabinet approved the electrification of 4,80,249 households, mainly under on-grid mode, and sanctioned Rs 1718.18 crore for the purpose. The cabinet also approved electrification of 48,231 anganwadi centres and 13,120 primary schools at the cost of Rs 161.42 crore. It decided to install 9,000 distribution transformers, 70 pre-fabricated compact sub-stations and 11 power transformers, besides repairing 4,200 damaged transformers for Rs 250.08 crore for improving voltage stability and reducing power distribution losses, the statement said. Approval was also given for installing 6,20,100 smart meters to improve billing process and energy accounting, thereby reducing commercial losses. Administrative approval was given to estimate for project preparation and implementation of an Asian Infrastructure Bank-aided project to improve secondary roads of the state. The cabinet further decided to release Rs 120 crore as grant-in-aid to Moitri Society under the Mission for Overall Improvement of Thana for Responsive Image (Moitri) scheme for 2021-22, according to the statement. Under Moitri schemes, police stations of the state are being revamped with better infrastructural facilities. Reviewing its earlier decision of closing fair price shops having 50 or fewer beneficiaries, the cabinet resolved to allow such ration shops run by widows or specially-abled persons to continue operation. In case of others, the ration cards will be transferred to nearby fair price shops. The cabinet also approved the creation of a directorate of Indigenous and Tribal Faith and Culture and its subordinate offices. The creation of Sissi Tangani tribal belt in Dhemaji district with 89 revenue villages also got the Cabinet nod.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
20-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Novel approach||Credit must be given where it is due. In an innovative move, the Centre’s apex farm research body, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, has devised a scheme to encourage farmers to adopt sustainable farm practices by awarding them carbon credits. These can be traded with emissions-heavy industries, providing farmers with an alternative revenue stream. The primary objectives are to arrest biomass burning and encourage crop diversification. This timely intervention could also help reduce air pollution in the national capital region — smoke from stubble burning can account for as much as 42 per cent of air pollution in the area in winter. But while the move is well-intentioned, it needs to be backed with extensive support. Stubble burning has been a persistent problem in India. Legal deterrents — burning crop residue was banned in states like Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab by the National Green Tribunal in 2015 and, last year, a new commission was set up to enforce a punitive ordinance — have not been effective. Neither has distribution of subsidized, even free, farming equipment. Thus, simply adding the promise of another financial reward to the years-old carrot-and-stick approach may not suffice. A methodical outlook is key. For many farmers, stubble burning is a traditional exercise. It is important to sensitize this constituency on the adverse impact of the practice on soil fertility — an issue that affects their livelihoods directly — rather than harping on the risk of air pollution in the capital. For others, it is a convenient way of stubble disposal before the new sowing season. Accessible technological solutions — for instance, the use of bio-decomposers — could make a difference in this context. Further, greater investment in subsidies is necessary to offset plummeting farming income — a recent study found that most small and marginal agricultural households now depend on wage work to cope with financial distress. An innovative solution like carbon credits seems promising — diverting private capital to support farmers through trading platforms could help tackle the paucity of funds in the sector. But it must be instituted in an equitable manner so as to include sharecroppers and small farmers. Oversight and regulated exchange rates could ensure that carbon credit trading does not become yet another way in which marginal farmers are exploited. The government should also focus on long-term solutions — investment in infrastructure to convert crop residue into biofuel could be profitable for a country with a robust agricultural sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
20-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Violence on minorities in Bangladesh||Stand together Sir — The volatile situation in Bangladesh following the vandalization of temples and Durga Puja pandals — at least six people have been killed in communal violence so far — is unfortunate (“BJP fishes in Bangla waters”, Oct 18). The rising attacks on the minority community in the nation must be condemned unequivocally. But, for an Indian, it is shameful that political leaders in this country are trying to milk such incidents for electoral benefits. The Bharatiya Janata Party leader, Suvendu Adhikari, has even declared that his party will win the Santipur elections by three times the margin by which it won last time on account of the attacks in Bangladesh. Did the BJP need to stoop this low? Deepjyoti Sinha,Calcutta Sir — The vandalization of temples and Durga Puja pandals in Bangladesh by unidentified miscreants has raised concerns in India. Bangladesh is a secular country. People have always celebrated festivals like Durga Puja together. It is unfortunate that some are trying to disrupt this tradition. The situation is likely to deteriorate further if there is truth to the alleged call by local extremist outfits to mount such attacks. M.R. Jayanthy,Mumbai Sir — The recent incidents in Bangladesh are disturbing. Some bigoted people have targeted the peace not only in Bangladesh but also in India to fragment society along religious lines. But people who fan communal hatred cannot have a place in any religion. They are just miscreants. Their activities serve only vested interests who would try to win votes from the majority community by fomenting the issue at the time of elections. Raghunath Pramanik,Howrah Against all odds Sir — Journalism is often confronted with threats from autocratic regimes. As such, it is significant that Maria Ressa of the Philippines and Dmitry Muratov of Russia have been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize 2021 for their efforts to safeguard freedom of expression, which is the bedrock of democracy (“Truth triumphs”, Oct 13). That this honour has been bestowed upon the fourth estate for the first time since 1935 is a grim reminder of the rising trend of autocratic and divisive forces. Another problem facing journalism is the excess of information, especially on social media. This has led to a proliferation of unreliable information and the neglect of traditional media which usually go through several checks and balances to report the truth. At such times, the acknowledgement of the courage of journalists is particularly encouraging. Vijay Singh Adhikari,Nainital, Uttarakhand Sir — The Nobel committee’s decision to honour two independent journalists is praiseworthy. This highlights the importance of press freedom and acknowledges the bravery of journalists who speak up against the ruling regimes of their respective countries. In the 120-year history of the prize, this is only the third time that journalists have been honoured. Journalists across the world must take pride in this. There could not have been a better time to honour the work of the fraternity of journalists. This will boost the morale of those working under the most difficult circumstances. Ramesh G. Jethwani,Bangalore Sir — This year’s Nobel Peace prize is meant to send an unequivocal message to people around the world about the way to keep democracy alive — by ensuring the freedom of the press. Sneha Singh,Calcutta Fading charm Sir — October used to be the month which ushered in winter. The fog or the nip in the air made one feel that winter is not far away. The October I knew and cherished as a child feels like a stranger this year. With temperatures soaring above 37 degrees Celsius in this part of the country, something seems lost from what used to be my favourite month. We cannot be oblivious to the changes that global warming is bringing not only to the climate but also in our lives. Perhaps it is not too late to revive October’s former charm. Swift action must be taken to check climate change. Noopur Baruah,Tezpur  Move on Sir — How often has the tattooed name of a former partner aggravated the pain of heartbreak or a youthful decision to get inked been an impediment to a corporate promotion? A company based in New York is now gaining attention for freeing the act of getting a tattoo from the scope of retrospective regret — it has engineered a body ink that disappears in 15 months or less. This, many would argue, defeats the purpose of this style of body art — a tattoo usually reflects a lifelong commitment to an idea. But perhaps this captures the temperament of a generation that is ever ready to ‘move on’? Raina Chowdhury,Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
20-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Evil fire||Shahbag Square in Dhaka is roaring, once again. The spontaneous demonstration by thousands of people cutting across religious lines against the spate of vandalism targeting Hindus in Bangladesh during the Durga Puja on alleged charges of blasphemy is reassuring. It goes to show that unlike some of its bigger neighbours, Bangladesh’s civil society has the spine to take on the mischief of fundamentalist forces consistently. The prime minister, Sheikh Hasina Wajed, who recently stated that India should remain vigilant so as to ensure that religion is not used to divide citizens, must use this public momentum to crack down against the perpetrators. Ms Wajed’s government has arrested several miscreants and deployed the Border Guard Bangladesh  in as many as 22 districts after violence and vandalism shattered the peace in several places in the Chittagong range. Yet, sporadic cases of communal tensions continue to be reported. For instance, minority-owned temples and shops bore the brunt of vandalism in Feni on Saturday. Ms Wajed must ensure that such events are not repeated. The administration must get to the root of the crisis to identify the shadowy patrons and then punish these instigators. There are two compelling reasons for this. First, Bangladesh, which has taken giant economic strides and, consequently, progressed on social indicators in recent times, should not fritter away these gains to predatorial majoritarianism. Second, a tepid response would encourage rabid Islamist forces that have a history of unleashing unrest in that country. The Narendra Modi government, while expressing concern, has also been appreciative of the steps taken by Ms Wajed to control the situation. Strangely, leaders of the Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party remain unconvinced unlike their bosses in Delhi. A prominent state party leader met the Bangladesh envoy in a bid to rake up the issue. The intentions are clear. The BJP would like to milk the disturbances in Bangladesh for electoral benefit in the upcoming by-elections in Bengal. After all, polarization has yielded rich dividends to the party in electoral contests. Bengal, admittedly, rebuffed this strategy of the BJP during the assembly elections. Those who resisted the BJP’s divisive policy — civil society activists, students, political opponents and an overwhelming number of ordinary citizens — must continue to be on guard on this side of Bengal and douse efforts to kindle communal flames. Eternal vigilance is the price for not only sustaining liberty but also snuffing out religious discord.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
20-10-2021||Opinion||Flow with the times: The Farakka water treaty||Five-sixth of the time has elapsed for the treaty between Bangladesh and India on sharing of the waters of the Ganges at Farakka. It will expire on December 12, 2026. The treaty was necessitated by the commissioning of the Farakka barrage in 1975 to divert water from the Ganges to the moribund Hooghly, ostensibly to maintain the navigability of the Calcutta port. Bangladesh and India have had differences over the entitlement to water flows ever since. In 1996, the treaty on the sharing of the Ganges waters at Farakka was intended to end the differences between Bangladesh and India. Its principal objective was to determine the amount of water to be released by India. The earlier agreement of 1977 for five years was not significantly different, except for the formula of water-sharing that replaced the absolute flow figures over 10n-day periods between January 1 and May 31 every year. Additionally, the treaty guarantees 35,000 cusecs of water in alternate three 10-day periods to Bangladesh and India during the period of March 11 through to May 10. Interestingly, when the first arrangement was signed on November 5, 1977, the leadership in both the countries was relatively new. The Indian prime minister, Morarji Desai, had been sworn in on March 24, 1977, while Major-General Ziaur Rahman assumed  the Bangladesh presidency a month later. At the time of the signing of the second arrangement on December 12, 1996, the two prime ministers, Sheikh Hasina and H.D. Deve Gowda, had been in office for only six months. Is it a coincidence that unstable governments under tentative leaderships can pull off crucial bilateral arrangements? Or is it that well-meaning, astute diplomats can get their way before political leadership are well-entrenched? Political leadership in the two countries is currently well-entrenched. Will the treaty be renewed by mutual consent, or can we expect an improvement over the current arrangement that is in tune with the advancement in water governance and one that factors in the rapid environmental changes underway? The prevailing political situation may or may not persist over the next five years, but it is time to start thinking of an arrangement beyond 2026. The current arrangement must be allowed to expire. Its imminent expiry presents opportunities for exploring the appropriate mechanisms for governing flows in river basins. There are studies that show that post-treaty (1997-2016), Bangladesh did not receive its guaranteed share during critical dry periods about 65 per cent of the time. In any case, the distribution of waters based on volumetric allocation misses the multidimensionality of flow. In the reductionist perspective, the flow is quantified as the volume of water passing by a specific point per unit of time along that course, Farakka in this case. This approach jeopardizes the ecosystem services offered by the flows in the Ganges. The ecosystem services offered by the flows in the Ganges can be secured if the complexity of river flows is understood as the intricate dynamics of water, energy, biodiversity and sediments, very elegantly described by Professor Jayanta Bandyopadhyay as WEBS. “The synergy of water, energy and sediments are basic and closely related identities of flows and changes in the status of one directly impact on the other two. Their systemic link supports the diverse habitats in the basin and related biodiversity.” Given that biodiversity is a function of flows in rivers, it should form a crucial element for their governance. More so since the two countries are joint custodians of the largest delta in the world. The delta is densely populated but unique owing to its biodiversity and adversely impacted by global climate change. To sustain the various habitats for biodiversity that provide sustenance to a multitude, Bangladesh and India must make an effort to understand what flows are, what they have been doing over the geological past and what is likely in the rapidly changing world, and reflect that understanding in the future arrangement between the two countries. Bangladesh and India should start exploring a basin-wide agreement to secure the Sunderbans and everything else upstream rather than concluding water-sharing treaties/agreements for all common rivers in line with the Article – IX of the extant treaty. This will be more efficient in terms of time, ecologically sound, and allow participation of all Indian riparian states. Anamitra Anurag Danda is an environmentalist currently serving as Director, Sundarbans Programme, WWF-India and Senior Visiting Fellow, ORF||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
20-10-2021||Opinion||Man and myth||I recall the collective gasp of dismay that ricocheted around Islamabad in early February 2004 when A.Q. Khan appeared on television, confessing that he had acted against Pakistan’s interests in proliferating nuclear weapons technology. Reactions in public were, however, muted: Pakistan was then a military dictatorship. A public debunking of an established national icon, which A.Q. Khan then was, is never easy. But General Pervez Musharraf appeared to have put it behind him reasonably effortlessly for he was at the peak of his powers. A major initiative with India had just concluded successfully with Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s visit to Islamabad a month earlier, which had led to the forging of a peace and dialogue process. Musharraf was quite literally the master of all that he surveyed. Khan was pardoned by Musharraf after the confession but we heard, as time went by, that the house arrest he was in was for real, with visitors not allowed at all or very closely monitored, and that both he and his Dutch wife were in depression. In private, many Pakistanis expressed deep anguish but all was quiet otherwise. Similarly, in private conversations, Musharraf’s acolytes would hint at pressures from the United States of America and how, by acting as he did, Musharraf had both saved Khan and also safeguarded Pakistan’s nuclear arsenal and secrets. Certainly by 2005 and 2006, the A.Q. Khan chapter in Pakistan’s history appeared to have been laid to rest. Musharraf had apparently satisfied the Americans that proliferation was a thing of the past. Incidentally, in his autobiography published in 2006, he had said about the past proliferation that “the show was completely and entirely AQ’s and he did it all for money.” This was obviously not wholly true and the more discerning suggested that A.Q. Khan had acted with the full backing of the military and the Pakistan State in dealings with North Korea and Iran. But towards the end of the 1990s, he had also done some freelancing, possibly for personal gain, using the proliferation networks set up earlier by manipulating such internal safeguards that may have existed and using the cloak of secrecy that surrounded Pakistan’s nuclear bomb. Old heroes are never forgotten and Musharraf’s star was ebbing by 2007. Anti-American sentiment was widespread in Pakistan and democratic politicians on the comeback trail found the A.Q. Khan saga another stick to lampoon the military with. That he was made to fall on his sword was something heard frequently. After Musharraf’s exit, A.Q. Khan negotiated a new deal whereby he could move around more freely but agreed to keep mum on nuclear-related issues. There is a deep-rooted belief in Pakistan that the US’s ultimate aim is to defang Pakistan of its nuclear weapons and the protective cloak of public opinion, more than anything else, now draped itself around A.Q. Khan. He recanted his earlier confession claiming, “I saved the country for the first time when I made Pakistan a nuclear nation and saved it again when I confessed and took the whole blame on myself.” There were many takers for this in Pakistan. When I returned to Pakistan in mid-2013, A.Q. Khan was frequently in the news. He was often invoked as a hero of Pakistan in public meetings — not in the same league as M.A. Jinnah, of course, but just a few notches below him. Amongst the loony right-wing, he was particularly significant. The glowing obituaries that have come after his death recently are, however, from some of Pakistan’s most enlightened persons and show the quiet support that had always existed for him. He was to be seen occasionally on TV and was also a regular columnist in the national newspapers. These columns were a curious mix. They were preponderantly focused on a life of piety and on how to be a good Muslim but they also brought out his great love for reading. Occasionally, he would mix this with comments about his memories of Bhopal and on Pakistan’s history. I recall one in which he spoke about his life in Bhopal before moving to Pakistan — “In Bhopal we had Muslim ladies ruling for hundreds of years. Though a minority we were not in such a dreadful position.” Another much cited comment was one made during a TV talk show — again about Bhopal, but as he remembered it: “We Bhopalis have never produced a traitor and we have also never produced a Ahmedia.” Even more curious was a long, three-part column on Maulana Abul Kalam Azad based on a 1946 interview but which was published after the creation of Bangladesh. This interview has frequently been denounced by many in Pakistan as never having taken place and a fraud. In the interview itself — A.Q. Khan quoted large chunks in his column — Maulana Azad had given many warnings about the future of Pakistan: “Pakistan, when it comes into existence, will face conflicts of a religious nature”; “despite the role of the Ulema, religion will lose its sheen in Pakistan”; “I feel that it will not be possible for East Pakistan to stay with West Pakistan for any length of time”; “Right from its inception Pakistan will face some very serious problems — incompetent political leadership will pave the way for military dictatorships” and so on. A.Q. Khan resurrecting this otherwise forgotten interview obviously reflected his disillusionment with the state of affairs in Pakistan but it also converged with the general mood then and reinforced perceptions of him as the great leader pointing to present-day drawbacks. A.Q. Khan will remain in the hearts and minds of most Pakistanis as the person who gave Pakistan its ultimate security against India. It is ironic how General Musharraf also contributed to this by seeking to cut Khan down to size. There is no greater aid to mythology-making than of a ‘great man’ wronged in his own lifetime and Khan’s life story followed this script to the full. T.C.A. Raghavan is a former High Commissioner to Pakistan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
20-10-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant promises a bonanza for hockey cradle Simdega||Chief minister Hemant Soren laid the foundation stone for an international hockey stadium complex, a 50-bed hostel and a host of other facilities together worth over Rs 27 crore in Simdega while inaugurating the 11th Junior National Women's Hockey Championship on  Wednesday. The chief minister also inaugurated various welfare schemes worth Rs 32 crore and distributed assets to the tune of Rs 28 crore to beneficiaries. As many as 79 youths were also given appointment letters. In all, as many as 26 teams from various states are taking part in the tournament which will pave the way for promising players to find a place in the junior women's national squad. Hosts Jharkhand started well, beating Tamil Nadu  8-1. In other matches, Karnataka beat Bengal 16-0, Assam beat Rajasthan 6-0 and Punjab won against Puducherry 18-0. Simdega, considered to be a nursery for hockey in Jharkhand, is hosting a national championship for the second time this year after the sub-junior national meet for women in March. Hemant spoke highly of Simdega's  reputation as a hockey hub, pointing out how it has been churning out excellent players all along. In the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics, Salima Tete from the district was part of the Indian team which put up a spirited show despite losing out on a medal. Referring to the ongoing championship, Hemant said, "Such events will further boost the game and players prospects not just in Simdega but for entire Jharkhand. Whenever there is a possibility, the Jharkhand government will happily step in to host such competitions." The chief minister also reiterated his commitment towards players, saying that the state government was working continuously to provide jobs for players as per a new sports policy. He said that a few months back, the government provided employment to about 39 players. Hockey India president Gyanendro Ningombam, officials of the sports department and the Simdega district administration were also present at the opening ceremony held at SS Balika High School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
20-10-2021||Jharkhand||Health workers' stir spreads, may derail Covid vaccination drive||The termination of a contract worker by the Jharkhand unit of National Health Mission (NHM) has triggered a widespread agitation that may soon impact the ongoing immunisation drive against Covid-19 in the state where healthcare is largely dependent on such a workforce. It all started with the termination of one Jwala Prasad, a state programme manager in NHM, over alleged financial irregularities earlier this month. Soon,  Jharkhand Health Employee Welfare Association (JHEWA), an umbrella body for contractual healthcare workers in the state, called an indefinite strike demanding reinstatement of Prasad. The strike which started on October 10 fast spread to the districts and blocks of Jharkhand, and now, even some of the Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANM) associations have agreed to hold a meeting with the striking contract employees on Thursday to decide whether to join the strike or not. The immunisation drive will be adversely affected if the ANMs join the strike. Paramedic staff, block-level programme management staff and Ayush doctors from different districts joined the strike at NHM campus in Namkum on Wednesday. These healthcare workers have also stopped reporting daily vaccination data and other health-related details, one of the protestors said. “We do not want the immunisation programme to suffer because of our movement, but the government authorities will leave us with no other option if they continue nto be adamant,” said a contractual healthcare worker, who refused to reveal his name fearing blacklisting by the authorities. However, Jwala Prasad, the man for whom several hundred contractual workers have joined hands against the authorities, did not shy away from sharing his side of the story with The Telegraph Online. According to Prasad, he had forwarded the requisition of an NGO for funds worth Rs 5.75 lakh for running a welfare campaign in the state to higher officials in NHM. While his letter only requested the higher authorities to consider the request of the  NGO, some of the officials at NHM accused him of financial irregularities and favouritism, and slapped a showcause notice on him followed by a termination letter, he added. “How can they accuse me of financial irregularities when no financial transaction happened? This is only a conspiracy to get rid of me because I speak for the rights of contractual workers, many of whom have been working without pay for several months,” said Prasad. According to the JHEWA, there are close to 8,000 contractual workers, including nurses and healthcare professionals, working under NHM in Jharkhand. If all the contractual workers join the strike, then the immunisation drive will come to a standstill in many parts of the state, said the protestors. While the protesting contract healthcare workers have also demanded the implementation of an HR policy and paid leave in exchange of the additional services they provided during the Covid-19 crisis, they clarified on Wednesday that reinstating Jwala Prasad was their first and foremost demand. NHM Director Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh, however, refused to entertain the demand of reinstating Prasad. He said that NHM authorities will agree to all the demands of contract workers, but not have a dialogue over reinstatement of a “tainted” employee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
20-10-2021||Jharkhand||After rain, IMD now warns of fog across Jharkhand ||After the rain brace for fog and mist. On Wednesday, IMD's Ranchi weather office issued an alert of fog and mist in several districts of Jharkhand during the next 24 hours. "The prevailing low-pressure and  associated cyclonic circulation has left much moisture in the air. This will trigger fog and mist in the next 24 hours in several parts of the state. The fog would result in poor visibility early in the morning, " said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Met Centre. He said dry weather with mainly clear sky would prevail for the next 72 hours, and ruled out  the possibility of rain till Sunday, October 24. Various weather models, including satellite pictures, indicated no significant system which might impact Jharkhand's weather in the next three to four days. The low-pressure area moved to  Bihar and has become weak. The associated cyclonic circulation was also hovering over Bihar extending upto 1.5km above  mean sea level. Met statistics revealed that  light to moderate rain occurred at many places and very heavy rain at one or two places over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours. The highest amount of rainfall, 130 mm, was recorded at Khusiyari in Dumka district. Sahibganj also recorded very heavy rainfall of 118 mm. Ranchi, Jamshedpur and several other places in Kolhan region recorded light rain below 5 mm in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
20-10-2021||Jharkhand||Government schoolteacher in Jharkhand teaches charity||A government schoolteacher in Jharkhand teaches charity through his deeds to students. A school teacher in an upgraded government school in once rebel-affected Patamda block of East Singhbhum district uses the bulk of her salary in the distribution of garments and blankets to the poor in villages close to her school. The 43-year-old Harprit Kaur, a resident of Gurudwara Road in Mango, Jamshedpur since being deputed as a Hindi teacher in Upgraded High School Gobarghusi, Patamda in 2019 has so far distributed new and used garments (including woollen clothes during winter) and blankets in nearly six villages namely Gobarghusi, Ladaidungri, Dwaridih, Sabar Basti, Ghorabandha and Dhusra which are situated within 7km radius of the school and nearly 150km from the state’s capital Ranchi. “Usually my students act as my informers. They inform me about needy persons in villages and then I go along with students and meet the gram pradhan (village head) during school hours and after arranging clothes (used and new) during weekdays I usually distribute it at the targeted villages on Sundays. I ensure that my social activity does not affect my professional assignments,” said Harprit. Significantly, Patamda and Bodam were once under Maoist dominated areas situated close to the Barrabazar, Bandwan areas of Purulia district of Bengal. The school hour during Covid times are between 8 am and 12 noon (though school teachers have to stay in school till 2 pm). She draws energy from the happiness seen on the faces of the poor villagers and draws inspiration from her father a retired railwayman. “Usually, the poor villagers ask me if I am selling the clothes for some amount and get pleasantly surprised when I inform that I am distributing it for free. The happiness on their faces gives me energy to continue with this endeavour of arranging clothes, collecting them from friends and driving (a car) all the way to villages on inaccessible terrains. I get motivated from my father who was a retired railway locomotive pilot and used to do similar work during his off-days,” said Harprit. She is already preparing her children to carry the mantle. “I ask my daughter (an eighth-grader) and son (doing graduation in commerce) if they are willing to accompany me. Fortunately, they have always been with me during the clothes distribution work. I hope that they would continue similar work wherever they are settled in life,” added Harprit. The clothes are given by friends, well-wishers and relatives. “Initially, I used to purchase new ones and also distribute used clothes in good conditions. But gradually my colleagues in schools, friends and relatives knowing my endeavour supported me with clothes (usually used clothes) and blankets,” said Harprit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
20-10-2021||Jharkhand||Witch-hunt charge against BJP leader in Giridih||A relative of a local BJP leader has lodged a police complaint against him for assaulting her for allegedly practising witchcraft in Giridih district of Jharkhand. An FIR has been lodged with Giridih Mufassil police station on October 15 night by the 42-year-old woman (name withheld on request), who is related  to BJP leader and Giridih Zilla Parishad vice-chairperson Kameshwar Paswan. According to the FIR, the main accused, along with his wife Nirjala Devi, brother Mukesh Paswan, his father Badri Paswan and mother Devanti Devi, forcibly entered her house in the morning. The area is around 189km from state capital Ranchi. “They started assaulting me and threatened to tonsure my head and cut off my tongue for practising witchcraft. They blamed me for the disease afflicting their family members. Nirjala Devi and Devanti tried to cut her hair and when her son Ajit Kumar opposed he too was assaulted and was dragged out of the house near a Kali temple,” the FIR states. The FIR further alleged that the attackers only left after neighbours started gathering at the spot but while going away they snatched a silver coin tied around her neck and also threatened her of dire consequences if the matter was reported to police. Giridih Sadar sub-divisional police officer Anil Kumar Singh confirmed the registration of the FIR. “We have received the FIR and a case has been lodged against Kameshwar Paswan and others in the Mufassil police station under case number 209/21 and Sections 341, 323, 379, 504, 34, 3 and 4 of the IPC. The police are investigating the case and legal action will be taken against the culprits only after a probe,” he said. Kameshwar, an influential coal trader of the area, rubbished the allegations as baseless. “She stays in our neighbourhood and is our relative. She had been making such baseless allegations to tarnish my public image as I had opposed her for encroaching a public thoroughfare. I am ready to face any probe from the police. She had earlier too made such false allegations,” he said. The woman, however, said she had proof of injury marks from the attack and eyewitnesses to corroborate the incident. She alleged the accused had earlier also tried to intimidate her to leave her house as they are eying her property. The woman’s husband passed away in 2010 due to liver cirrhosis. According to the National Crime Records Bureau data for 2019, Jharkhand was ranked third in witch-hunting cases and recorded 15 murders related to the crime. Chhattisgarh with 22 witch-hunting deaths tops the list. According to the Free Legal Aid Committee, an organisation working for awareness on witch-hunting in Jharkhand, the state witnesses nearly 45 cases of death and assault due to witch-hunting annually. Committee member Prem Chand said that mostly women are targeted in rural areas by vested interests and relatives by branding them witches taking advantage of superstition prevalent in the people in order to grab their property.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
20-10-2021||Jharkhand||JMM MLA claims bid to destabilise UPA government in Jharkhand||A ruling JMM legislator has lodged an FIR against a former office-bearer of the party and a businessman for allegedly offering him money to destabilise the UPA government in Jharkhand. Ghatsila (in East Singhbhum district) MLA Ramdas Soren in an FIR lodged with Dhurwa police station in Ranchi on October 12 has accused former JMM treasurer Ravi Kejriwal and businessman Ashok Agarwal of offering him money at his Ranchi residence to leave the JMM so that they can start a new party and form the government along with the BJP in Jharkhand and also offered him the post of cabinet minister. Ramdas has also alleged that Kejriwal had contacted him on mobile phone two-three times seeking to know the amount of money he needed to leave the JMM and join hands to form a new party. The FIR alleges that there is a conspiracy to topple the elected government in the state. According to sources in the JMM, Kejriwal was the treasurer of the party’s central committee and was considered close to both party chief Shibu Soren and chief minister Hemant Soren. Kejriwal was expelled from the party in August 2020 after complaints of financial irregularities. Kejriwal also faced accusations of raising funds for the Soren family during the erstwhile Raghubar Das-led BJP government. Ranchi senior superintendent of police Surendra Kumar Jha confirmed the registration of the FIR. “An FIR has been registered and police are carrying out a probe. Hatia SP Vineet Kumar is investigating the case,” he said. State drinking water and sanitation minister and JMM lawmaker Mithilesh Thakur said that such attempts by vested interests would not be able to topple their government. “We are in absolute majority and all the MLAs of constituent parties (JMM, Congress, RJD) are in perfect coordination and would not fall victim to allurement by any party,” said Thakur. Rajya Sabha MP and Jharkhand BJP unit president Deepak Prakash termed it as an internal matter of the JMM. “It is purely an internal JMM matter and the BJP has got nothing to do with this issue,” said Prakash. This is the second such allegation to surface in the last three months. Congress legislator from Bermo Anup Singh alias Jaimangal had lodged a complaint at the Kotwali police station on July 22 against some people trying to lure ruling party MLAs to topple the government, who were staying in Ranchi hotels. Following the complaint, the special branch of the state police carried out raids in several hotels and arrested three persons from a hotel along Lake Tank Road in Ranchi. The arrested accused Abhishek Dubey from Palamau, Amit Singh and Niwaran Prasad Mahato (both from Bokaro) were charged with luring MLAs of the Congress with cash and hatching a conspiracy to topple the JMM-led UPA government. A case had been registered against the accused under Sections 419, 420, 124A, 120B and 34 of the IPC, Section 171 of the Representation of the People Act and Sections 8 and 9 of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The Ranchi SSP said the police are still continuing their investigation into the July case. In the 81-member Jharkhand Assembly, JMM has 30 MLAs, Congress 18 and RJD 1, which makes the ruling UPA tally 49. The Opposition BJP has 26 MLAs while its ally Ajsu has 2. The majority mark is 41.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
